 It's important to wash the rice beforehand, otherwise you may end up with residue on your rice or dirty water. Once washed, place it directly into a microwave-safe bowl so you don't have to switch out bowls later.


The bowl needs to be big enough to hold 1 cup of rice and 2 cups of water, in addition to extra room for stirring.;
, Whenever you're making rice, always add double the amount of liquid. You can also use chicken, beef, or vegetable stock instead to give it a richer flavor.


If you soak your rice beforehand, you may want to use a tablespoon or two less water.
 The longer you let it soak, the better. You could skip this step if you're in a rush, but you will be sacrificing taste. Soaking the rice allows the rice to open up, expand, and separate. Some say it allows the grains to "bloom."

, After the rice has soaked, now is the time to add any flavors you'd like to see in your rice. A splash of oil (vegetable, olive, etc.) is wise as that will give your basmati rice its glossy look. Here are a few other ideas:


Salt
Cumin
Cardamom
Cinnamon
Onion
Turmeric

, This is the easiest method as you can watch your rice cooking if you'd like. Initially, it should be uncovered. Brown and white rice vary in how long they need cooked:


Brown rice: 15-18 minutes
White rice: 10-12 minutes

, You can use a thin cloth or a couple of paper towels. Every microwave is a little bit different, so towards the end, keep an eye on it. When no liquid is on top, it's done. Here's how long it should be cooked when covered:


Brown rice: 5-7 minutes
White rice: 7-10 minutes

, The rice continues the cooking process and will steam and soften if you leave the cover on. Give it 10-15 minutes to sit and soak up the steam.


The fewer times you uncover the rice, the better. Covering and uncovering it can lead to the rice hardening.
 Keep the rice covered as much as possible to keep it warm. Fluff it with a fork to give it that restaurant appeal. Then serve as an addition to your table, or just chow down! It's delicious enough to eat on its own.

