 If your teenage daughter or son seems hypersexual and has advanced knowledge of sex that’s abnormal for their age, watch them closely. Victims of sexual abuse tend to fall into one of two categories in terms of sexual behavior.Some adolescents who suffer from childhood sexual abuse go on to avoid sexual contact because they see it as “dirty.” On the contrary, other victims of abuse react by engaging in excessive sexual activity simply because they view it as the only thing they are worthy of.
Their self-esteem has become intertwined with sexual desirability. Therefore, they engage in sex to feel good about themselves and feel valued as a person.If you are unclear about what is age-appropriate behavior, consult with a counselor or therapist. They can let you know if your teen's sexual interest or activity is normal or if it indicates abuse or another issue.
 A teen who has been molested or assaulted may show signs of physical pain in their genitalia or anus. Your teen may walk differently or demonstrate discomfort when sitting., A survivor of sexual abuse may internalize feelings of guilt or shame, which is why many sufferers never speak out about abuse. The aftermath of sexual abuse varies among victims, but many will experience intense bouts of depression and may even consider taking their own lives.Signs of depression in victims of sexual abuse may show up as withdrawing from loved ones, feeling sad or “blue”, making self-loathing statements, being exceptionally hard on themselves, experiencing changes in eating or sleeping habits, and having thoughts of suicide.It can also show up in ways you might not expect depression to present, such as rage, unexplained irritability, or aggressive behavior.
If your teen shows signs of depression, you need to get them to a mental health professional such as a psychologist or psychiatrist right away. If you think your teen is at risk of suicide, call a suicide hotline such as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK., Substance abuse is highly linked to the experience of sexual abuse. In an effort to numb self-blame, shame, or guilt, your teen may develop a problem with drugs or alcohol.


If you notice sudden changes in your teen’s social group, an increased need for money, theft or missing items in your household, decreased performance at school or work, and loss of interest in activities they once enjoyed, your teen may be using substances., Another prominent indicator of sexual abuse in adolescents is the onset of self-injury. If you have recently discovered your child has been burning, scratching, cutting or engaging in some other form of self-injury, you need to get them help as soon as possible.Self-injury is incredibly common in teens with depression or other psychiatric illness. Self-harm alone may not necessarily point to sexual abuse, but when coupled with other signs it’s a strong indicator for abuse.

