 Get your garden tools and remove all plants from the area you’ll be putting in your beach. Once the area is clear, use your tape measure to determine its length and width.

It may be easiest to use a shovel to remove the top layer of plants or till the greenery under the surface of the soil.If you plan on hanging a traditional hammock, this is the perfect time to dig some postholes and sink a sturdy wooden 4x4 board.;
, Gravel will form the base of your beach area and can be shaped to add a dune-like contour. The amount you’ll need will depend on the amount of contour you desire. Where sand’s concerned, you’ll need enough to cover the entire area at least 6 in (15.2 cm) deep.


Beach or mortar sand work best and are widely available. Decomposed granite can also work as your base and is easy to mold into dunes.
If you’re unsure how much sand you’ll need, input the length, width, and depth of your planned beach area into an online sand calculator. This number is usually in cubic yards or meters., If you don’t put down a liner, over time plants will invade your beach area, even if you were really careful when weeding. You can pull these up as they push through the sand, but a plastic liner will make plant invasions all but nonexistent., If you want a level beach area, rake an even layer of gravel onto the plastic liner. Heap up small hills so that when it’s covered with sand it looks like sand dunes. When you’ve got the contour just right, spray it liberally with water and let it sit overnight.

Hosing down the gravel base will harden it, making it more stable. To prevent too much sand from falling into gaps in the gravel, use a little potting soil to fill gaps and holes after the gravel dries., Spread sand evenly over the entire area, though you may want to add some extra to high traffic areas or play areas. This will prevent the gravel from being exposed and make your backyard beach more realistic.

If you haven’t plugged holes with potting soil, at first it may seem like sand is simply disappearing into the gravel. Keep layering it on until the sand is at least 6 in (15.2 cm) deep.
Keep a rake set off to the side of your beach area so you can redistribute sand when necessary and keep a healthy layer over top the gravel beneath.

