 Use a headband or ponytail holder to keep hair out of your face.;
, Use your fingertips to massage a gentle cleanser, such as Dove or Cetaphil, into your skin using gentle, circular motions for about a minute. Rinse your face thoroughly.


Use lukewarm water; hot water can damage sensitive skin.
Pat your face dry using a clean towel. Don’t rub or scrub!
You can also choose a plant-oil based cleaner. Grapeseed and sunflower oils are common bases for these cleaners, and can help absorb and dissolve the extra oil from your skin.
 Some people have allergies or sensitivities to essential oils, so before you put any essential oil into your steam cleanse, test it on your skin.Mix together three drops of essential oil with ½ teaspoon of a carrier oil, such as sunflower oil.
Apply a few drops to the pad of an adhesive bandage and put the bandage on the inside of your forearm. Leave for 48 hours.
If your skin is red, itchy, swollen, or develops a rash, do not use that essential oil for your steam cleanse.
Thyme, oregano, clove, and cinnamon oil can cause skin irritation in some people. Many citrus oils can cause burning on your skin if it is exposed to sunlight after application.
 Bring the water to a boil and let it boil for a minute or two.
 Several essential herbal oils have antibacterial or antiseptic properties, allowing them to kill the bacteria and other microorganisms on your skin that can promote acne. You should never ingest essential oils, as many are toxic or cause unpleasant side effects when consumed. Here are some good options:


Spearmint or peppermint. Add one drop per quart of water; you can increase this if necessary. Both peppermint and spearmint oil contain menthol, which has antiseptic properties.Thyme. Thyme has antibacterial properties and increases blood circulation by opening up blood vessels.Calendula. Calendula has antimicrobial properties and can help accelerate skin healing.Lavender. In addition to being very soothing, lavender oil has antibacterial properties.Rosemary. Rosemary is naturally antibacterial and is especially effective against P. acnes.Oregano. Oregano oil is antibacterial and anti-inflammatory.Avoid tea tree oil for steam baths, as it is highly toxic when consumed.
You can substitute ½ teaspoon of the dried herb for essential oil if you can’t find the essential oil.
 After you have added the herbs and boiled for one minute, remove the pot from the heat. Move it to a stable, comfortable area, such as a countertop or table.


You may want to place the hot pot on a trivet or cloth.
 Place your face over the steaming pot. Close your eyes.


Keep your face at least 12 inches from the water. The steam will dilate your blood vessels and open up your pores, but getting too close to the hot water could damage or even burn your skin.
 Try to relax and take even, calming breaths. Keep your face over the steam for 10 minutes.


If you begin to feel uncomfortable before the 10 minutes is up, move away from the steam.
 Use lukewarm water to rinse your face, and then pat it dry with a clean towel. Don’t rub your skin.
 You can use a brand of moisturizer that will not block pores, such as Olay, Neutrogena, or Clinique. You can also make your own acne-fighting moisturizer using natural oils.


Check the labels of store-brand moisturizers. Choose one that states that it will not clog pores (noncomedogenic) and is oil-free.
 You can safely use this steam cleanse up to twice a day: once in the morning and once at night. After two weeks, you should see improvement in your acne.


Once you see improvement, you can go down to once a day.

