 Before beginning, make sure to collect all the supplies you need. This includes the catheter, a towelette or other cleaning wipe, lubricant, and a container for urine, if needed.Go ahead and open the catheter so it is ready to use. Make sure to touch only the end of the catheter that will be outside your body.
 After gathering all the supplies, wash your hands with soap and water. This ensures you don’t contaminate anything or cause an infection., Before touching the catheter or yourself, you need to put on disposable gloves. This keeps the environment sterile and reduces the risk of infection. You can use latex or non-latex., Wash the tip of your penis with a towelette, soap and water, or baby wipes. Don’t use alcohol to clean off the tip of your penis. Alcohol can be very drying.Push back the foreskin of your penis before you wash if you are uncircumcised. Make sure to keep the foreskin back during the whole catheterization process.
 After cleaning, apply a small amount of the lubricant to the tip and the first two inches of the catheter. Some catheters may come pre-lubricated, so you may not have to apply lubricant to the catheter.Make sure the lubricant is water soluble.
 Hold your penis straight out from your body, stretching it so that it is at a 90 degree angle (right angle) to your body. Take a deep breath, and using your other hand, insert the catheter using firm, gentle pressure. Exhale as you insert it. Do not push hard on the catheter, and do not force it. Twist the catheter slightly one way and the other to “thread it” through the urethra. The male urethra is quite long; you will not push it too far, though it may look as if a very long part of the catheter has disappeared into you. Don’t worry, you won’t be able to push it through your bladder.Insertion isn’t usually painful, but it can be quite uncomfortable. Breathing can help. If the catheter is not sliding in, try to relax, breathe deeply, and try again.
Use a mirror placed so that you can see what you are doing, especially the first few times.
Some men prefer to gently squeeze the end of the penis to open up the urethra just as they begin to insert the catheter
Pulling the penis straight out straightens out the urethra and allows the catheter to follow the straightest path to the bladder.
 Once the catheter enters the bladder, the release of urine will be immediate. Be prepared for this by either having the external end in the toilet or a drainage bag. Keep the drainage bag as low as possible, allowing gravity to do its part. When the urine begins to flow, push the catheter in about two more inches., Remove the catheter with a gentle and even pull. Removing it is much easier than inserting it. After you remove it, dispose the urine and all other materials. Wash and dry your penis, and then you are finished.If you have a disposable catheter, you can dispose of it at this stage as well.
 Wash the catheter with soap and water. You can also wash it with antiseptic. Rinse the catheter thoroughly with water. Folding it in a towel and hanging it up to air dry. After it is dry, place it in a plastic bag.