 Being perfectly put together is a quality many people will envy. Start by cleaning your room to perfection, and making sure there is a place for everything and everything has its place. Also be sure to get rid of things you know you don't need. Minimizing your "stuff" will help you find things quicker and easier.;
, Start exercising every day or every other day. Go running, do a workout video, bike, swim, play a sport. Get out and do something! Also, remember that you are what you eat. If what you eat is greasy, fake, and fattening, that is exactly what you will be. On the other hand, if what you eat is fresh, tasteful, and healthful, it will show. Not only does healthy eating and exercise make you look better, but you feel better and more energetic, too.#

, Shower daily, wear deodorant and a little perfume, wash your face and teeth, and keep your hair and face nice. Don't overdo it, though. A ton of hairspray and makeup is OBVIOUS and definitely not attractive. Keep your nail looking fresh with clear nail polish or a color of your choice. Don't wear anything crazy like bright orange or olive green, or yellow. Wear makeup like tinted moisturizer, mascara, eyeshadow, bronzer, blush and lip gloss. If you have bad acne or pimples use concealer.
 If you are unintelligent, people won't want to hang around you, let alone be like you, because you will be empty-- like a pretty package with absolutely nothing inside. On the other hand, beauty and brains is VERY admirable and attractive, and people will look up to you and wonder how you do it. So listen in class, take notes, do your homework, and set aside some time for studying every day. You will have straight A's and no worries in no time!

, People who know who they are and are proud of it are extremely sought after. You will have many friends and people who like you and admire you if you have good posture, smile, and speak clearly. Don't be afraid to be yourself, it is a quality few people have, and they will love you for it!

, If you are a rude, stuck up brat, all of this will be in vain. No one likes a snob. So be nice to everyone, forgive and forget, and don't start stuff. That is just immature.
 There are many places to shop that have great prices and amazing clothes. Aeropostale, Tilly's, Wet Seal, Forever21, Macy's, Charlotte Russe, Papaya, Kohls, and Marshalls are just a few. Try not to buy clothes with store name on them, though, unless it is like a sweatshirt or something. You will just look like a walking advertisement, and that comes of as pretty shallow. Things like V-necks, Daisy Dukes (wear them comfortably), gladiator sandals, blazers, nice jeans, short jean skirt (make them look comfortable), Hollister or Aeropostale T-shirts, and accessories are acceptable. Get tips from Seventeen, Teen Vogue, or Cosmo Girl. Do not dress out of your comfort zone when it comes to heels, showing skin, makeup, jewelry etc. If you are 13 or older, don't wear shirts with words (Princess, Angel, Happy Bunny, etc....) or those screen shirts with the silly phrases on them. You're kind of too old for that. Be tasteful, and wear clean, nice, yet laid back clothes. Again, be yourself.
 People will see RIGHT through your act and they will just think you're weird.

