 Although all carbohydrates break down into glucose, a simple sugar, complex carbohydrates take longer for your body to process. Choose low-glycemic foods like whole-grains, vegetables, and fruits with the peels. Avoid high-glycemic foods that break down quickly into sugars, causing your blood sugar to spike.Try to avoid potatoes, white rice, sugary drinks, and processed foods usually made with white flour.;
, Some people aren't sensitive to caffeine while others notice a rapid increase in blood sugar levels. Be aware of how your body reacts to caffeine and reduce your intake if you find that your blood sugar spikes.Studies haven't tied caffeine to changes in blood sugar levels. Sensitivity to caffeine seems to be unique to each person.
 While more research is needed to determine the effect artificial sweeteners have on blood sugar levels, artificial sweeteners may disrupt your body's blood sugar balance. Since sugar-free foods still contain carbohydrates that break down into sugars, sugar-free foods can still cause your blood sugar to spike. Try to cut back on artificial sweeteners if you notice you're affected by them.You should also pay attention to how sugar alcohols (like sorbitol and xylitol) affect your blood sugar since these may sometimes convert into sugar.
 Eating just a few big meals during the day can cause your blood sugar to peak immediately after eating and fall if there's a long period of time between meals. Maintain your blood sugar levels by eating several smaller meals throughout the day. Just be sure to cut back on portion sizes.You should also avoid eating high-fat foods since these can elevate your blood sugar levels for a long period of time. Also, avoid eating dried fruits or foods that concentrate sugar into small amounts like dried fruit or fruit leather.
 Although you can't avoid catching a cold or getting the flu, you can try to eat balanced meals. Choose lean proteins, eat more fruits and vegetables, eat low-fat dairy and continue to monitor your blood sugar levels. If you're sick, work with your doctor to adjust any medications you're taking to control blood sugar.When you're sick, your blood sugars can spike since your body's hormones are adjusting to fight the illness.
 You should be drinking at least 6 to 8 eight-ounce glasses of water a day. If you're experiencing high blood sugar levels, you might need to drink more water to fight your thirst. Try to choose water or beverages that don't contain sugar. For example, avoid sports drinks. While these contain carbohydrates for energy, your body quickly turns them into sugar.In addition to water, you can drink herbal teas or fruit-infused water.
 Don't make big changes to your diet before talking with your doctor. Some diets (like a vegetarian or vegan diet) can lower your blood sugar. If you'd like to choose a vegetarian or vegan diet, make gradual dietary changes. These can help your blood sugar adjust instead of drop quickly.Switching to a vegetarian or vegan diet can actually help your body become more responsive to insulin. This can eventually help your body regulate blood sugar levels more effectively., Your blood sugar levels may drop as you exercise if you're not already in shape. This is because your body uses sugar as fuel during exercise. It's also why people with diabetes are often told to exercise. Track your blood sugar levels while you exercise and avoid extreme exercises that cause rapid swings.Intense exercise can make your blood sugar drop for hours so you should continue to track your blood sugar even after you're done exercising.
 Your blood sugar can drop while you're sleeping. This can make you feel tired or lethargic the next day. If you experience this, snack to keep your blood sugar higher before you go to bed.Choose a snack with complex carbohydrates before you go to sleep. You could eat something like popcorn, a handful of nuts, or a bowl of oatmeal.
 Several prescription medications can cause cause blood sugar swings. If you're on any medications, ask your doctor about taking an alternative medication or a lower dose. Medications that may raise or lower blood sugar levels include:Corticosteroids (like prednisone or hydrocortisone)
Diuretics (water pills)
Antidepressants
Cold medicines that contain pseudoephedrine or phenylephrine
Some oral contraceptives
Some antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, gatifloxacin or moxifloxacin

, Alcohol contains sugars and carbohydrates that can cause your blood sugar to spike. Once you've finished drinking, your blood sugar could then drop to dangerous levels. To avoid this swinging, try to avoid alcohol as much as possible.If you find it hard to stop drinking alcohol, try to cut back on how much you drink or ask your doctor about resources to quit drinking.
 Changes in temperature can cause rapid rises and falls in your blood sugar. It's a good idea to wear clothing in layers. This way you can add or remove layers to adjust to different temperatures.


If you're having a blood sugar spike, you may feel warmer and want to remove layers.
 While it's normal to feel a bit of a sugar rush after eating dessert, if you think that you're frequently sensitive to sugar highs or lows, talk with your doctor. You may have prediabetes or even undiagnosed diabetes. Your doctor will do blood work to determine if your blood sugar levels are normal or high enough to diagnose diabetes.If you realize that your blood sugar levels change drastically during your menstrual cycle, ask your doctor about using hormone therapy. Regulating your hormones can prevent rapid swings in blood sugars.
 Mental, physical, or emotional stress can make your blood sugar levels rise. As your body tries to deal with the stress, it releases blood sugar to supply energy. Yoga has been shown to help combat stress and lower blood sugar levels. You could also try:Avoiding stressors
Meditation
Deep breathing
Progressive muscle relaxation

