 You'll need to uninstall the AVG Secure Search software from Windows before you start removing it from your browsers. You should be able to uninstall it like you would most programs.


You can open the Control Panel from the Start menu. If you're using Windows 8, press ⊞ Win+X and select "Control Panel.";
, This will open a list of all of the programs installed on your computer. It may take a few moments for the list to load.
 It will usually be towards the top of the list.
 Follow the prompts to uninstall the AVG Secure Search program.
 Even if you don't use Internet Explorer on a regular basis, you'll still want to reset it. This is because Internet Explorer is used for several Windows functions.
 If you don't see the menu bar, press Alt.
 This will open a new window with the Internet Explorer settings.
 This will start the browser reset process, which will remove any extensions (such as the AVG Secure Search).
 This will disable the AVG Secure Search extension, and reset your home page and search engine.
 If you have Google Chrome, you'll need to reset it as well. If you don't have Chrome, move on to the next section.
 This will open a new tab with your Chrome settings.
 This will expand the list to show more settings.
 This will open a new window.
 Your extensions will be disabled, and your home page will be reset. Your search engine settings will be returned to their default.
 If you use Firefox, you'll want to reset it to remove AVG Secure Search. If you don't have Firefox, move on to the next section.
 You can find this on the bottom of the menu.
 This will open a new tab.
 Click "Refresh Firefox" to confirm. This will remove all of your extensions, reset your home page, and return your search engine settings to default.
 This folder contains a JavaScript file that will keep AVG Secure Search installed in Firefox. Use an Explorer window to open this folder.


If you are using a 64-bit system, the location may be "C:\Program Files (x86)\Mozilla Firefox\browser\components".
 This will remove the JavaScript file that keeps AVG Safe Search installed.


This is essential if you want to completely remove Secure Search from Firefox.
 If you use a different browser than the ones outlined above, perform a rest for that browser as well. The reset process for most browsers is usually similar to the reset processes described above.
 This free tool scans for and removes malware on your computer. It can find and remove any lingering AVG Secure Search files.


You can download AdwCleaner for free from here


, Make sure that all of your browser windows are closed before starting the scan.
 The scan will usually take about 15-20 minutes to complete.
 AdwCleaner will remove all of the files that it found during the scan. Your computer will reboot during the cleaning process, so make sure you save any open documents.At this point, AVG Secure Search should be completely removed from your computer. Open a browser to test if the removal was successful.

