 Slinger is currently only available for iPhones. It is technically available for iPads as well, but is optimized for iPhone screens.;
, You'll be taken to the Sign Up screen.
 Your username will need to be unique. Pick a name that aligns with your other social media services to help your followers find you.
 This email address will be used to recover your account if you can't remember your password later, so make sure you can access it.
 You'll need to enter the password twice to confirm it.
 This picture will appear to other Slinger users. You can either use a picture from your iPhone's camera roll, or you can take a new picture.


You can resize the image after taking it to crop it. Only the part in the circle will be viewable.
 This is similar to cover and header images from Facebook and Twitter. Again, you'll be able to select an image from your iPhone or take a new one.
 You can drag the photo up and down or adjust the zoom until just the right part is showing.
 Slinger will suggest several colors to appear at the bottom of the banner based on the colors in the picture. You can also tap the paint can button to select any color.


Use the Blur slider to adjust the amount of blur in the color below the banner.
Tap the checkmark when you're satisfied with your banner. You can always tap your banner again to make adjustments.
 This will appear at the top of your profile page, above your Slinger username.
 After creating your profile, you'll be shown some suggested Slingers to follow. If you want to follow any, tap the "+" button next to their profile name.


Following other Slingers allows you to easily find new videos when they upload them.
 This is the first screen that you'll see after creating your profile. The Discover screen is identified by the Heart icon at the bottom of the screen, and is broken into four categories:


Popular - These are videos that are currently trending with other Slingers.
Rising - These are videos that are quickly gaining views and likes.
New - These are the latest videos posted by Slingers.
★ (Editor's Pick) - These are videos curated by the Slinger staff.
 All of the latest videos from the Slingers you follow can be found on your Home screen.
 You can check your notifications by tapping the Bell button on your Slinger Home screen. You'll receive notifications when someone follows you or likes a video you've uploaded.
 Tap the magnifying glass tab at the bottom of the app to open the Search screen.


Use the search field at the top to search for a specific Slinger user. You can type in a full or partial username.
The "Slingers" tab will list Slingers by the number of followers they have. This allows you to quickly find the most popular Slingers.
The "Rising" tab will display Slingers that are becoming popular and gaining followers.
The "Channels" tab lists branded and official content.
 When you select a Slinger's profile from a search, you'll be taken to their Profile page. Their banner will be displayed at the top, and all of their latest uploads will be listed below.


You can tap "Follow" to add the Slinger to your list. Their new videos will appear on your Home screen.
You can swipe the Slinger's banner to view more detailed information, such as who they are following and how many video's they've posted.
 This screen will display your profile as seen by anyone on Slinger. You'll see your stats on your banner, and your latest videos listed below.


The "Plays" icon in the banner indicates how many times your videos have been watched.
The "Heart" icon indicates how many times your videos have been liked.
The "Profile" icon indicates how many people are following you.
 You can edit any of your profile information in one of two ways:


Press and hold something in your profile to change it. For example, to change your profile image, press and hold it, then select your new image.
Tap the Edit (Pencil) button in the upper-left corner of your profile to edit all of your profile information at once.
 You can use the Settings menu to change your notification options, view the terms and conditions, and more.
 Whenever you see a video you want to watch, just tap it to start playing.
 This will let the uploader know you liked it. You'll find the Heart button at the bottom of the video as it's playing.
 If you want to show the video to someone that isn't using Slinger, you can tap the Share button in the lower-left corner. You can then share it like you would anything in iOS, using Mail, Message, or other social media apps.


You can also tap the ⋮ button to get a link that you can paste anywhere.
 Tap anywhere on the video to pause it. At the top of the screen, you'll see the total number of times the video has been viewed, the number of likes it has, and the total number of seconds viewed.


Drag the scrubber at the bottom of the screen to fast forward and rewind.
 You won't be actually recording your videos in Slinger. Instead, you can select from any vertical (or square) videos that you've recorded using your iPhone's Camera app.
 Tapping this button will take you to the Select Video screen, where all of your iPhone's vertical videos will be displayed. Tap the video that you want to upload.
 When you select a video to be uploaded, you'll be able to select the frame you want to use for the banner:


Slide your finger left and right to track through the video until you find the frame you want. You can also tap the arrow buttons to move frame by frame.
 Move the frame up or down on the image using your finger. This will set the visible area of the banner. Use it to frame the perfect shot and grab your followers' attention.
 Give your video a short, descriptive title. Try to hook your followers into wanting to learn more by watching your video.
 Tap the "Upload" button once you are satisfied with the banner and title. Your video will be uploaded and any followers you have will be notified.


The time the video takes to upload depends on your connection speed and the length of the video.

