 If the bully is nearby, leave the situation right away. Don’t react, and don’t let them continue to talk to you. Go somewhere they won’t follow you. Get to a public place where others are present. Walking away is one of the best ways to defuse the bullying situation.For instance, if you’re being bullied at school, go and stand with your friends or return to your classroom. Don’t retreat to the bathroom by yourself, where the bully might follow you.;
, Avoid getting visibly upset, even if you feel angry or hurt. The bully wants to get a reaction from you, and if you raise your voice or cry, you’ll only encourage them to keep picking on you.Do your best to ignore the bullying by pretending not to hear, or keeping a straight face and not even reacting to their taunting behaviors. The more reaction they will see coming from you, the more encouraging it is for them to keep bullying.
Do not get into a physical fight with the bully, no matter how angry you are. You don’t want to be the one who gets in trouble.
 Write down the date of any incidents, what happened, and who saw it happen. If someone is bullying you online, save any texts or screenshots that show what is going on., Respond to rumors by keeping your chin up and working hard. Be polite and friendly to everyone you interact with. Do your best at work or in class. Nasty rumors may blow over by themselves if you make it obvious that they’re not rooted in reality., It can help you to talk to someone you trust when coping with bullying or rumors. Sharing your experience with a friend can help you feel better. Your loved one may also offer comfort and support during this challenging time.You might say, "This may come as a surprise, but I have been bullied. These kids at my school make up names and tease me."

, The only way bullying may stop is by going to a higher-up and informing them about the situation. If you are in school, it’s a good idea to let a parent, teacher, or coach know about the bullying. If you’re experiencing bullying in your workplace, consider talking to your supervisor or HR department about it.Show a trusted adult, your boss, or your HR department the evidence you’ve gathered. Stay professional and objective when you present your evidence.
 In some cases, the person you go to for help may be biased or may choose not to take action. If you think your teacher, boss or HR department may side with the bully, tell someone who is impartial to the situation. Have them accompany you to the meeting as an advocate. Bring along any evidence you have.You may have to file a complaint against the person if they refuse to take action. This may involve contacting their boss, or writing a letter to a local activist group who can represent your interests.