 If you're syringe feeding a rat medication, make sure you read the directions on the medications carefully. You want to make sure you get the dosage correct. Medications may also come with other special instructions. For example, some medication may need to be administered at room temperature.


Call your vet if you're unsure about any directions. You do not want to accidentally hurt your rat when attempting to medicate him.;
, You should prepare the syringe before disturbing your rat. If you have your rat out, it may be hard to get the syringe ready. Rats may feel nervous when being syringe fed or medicated and you will not be able to tamper with your syringe while keeping your rat calm.


If you don't have a syringe, you can purchase one at your vet's office. You may also be able to get a syringe at a drugstore or supermarket if your vet's office is closed.
If your rat is dehydrated, you can syringe feed him water, soy milk, or a rehydration product supplied by your vet. If you're using anything medical, use the instructions on the bottle. If you're using water or soy milk, use a small amount at first. See how much your rat drinks. If he seems to want more, you can refill the syringe.When using medicine, always feed your rat the amount instructed on the bottle or follow your vet's instructions.
Rinse out the syringe with warm water a few times to make sure it's clean. Then, place the tip of the syringe in the liquid you're using. Pull the plunger upward until the syringe is at the proper level. Syringes have labels on the side that allow you to measure how much is in the syringe, usually in milliliters.
 Rats may take medication, foods, or liquids administered by syringe willingly. Medications are often flavored and rats may actually enjoy the taste. You can simply allow your rat to lick the tip while slowly pressing down on the plunger. If your rat is willing to take the medication without being forced, this is the least stressful and most effective means to syringe feed him.