 Newborn cavies can be rejected by their mothers if they are handled by humans, as your smell will end up on their coats. Newborn cavies can also become easily distressed when away from their mothers, leading to a very difficult time trying to examine their genital area.Many baby guinea pigs can get cold quickly and may become too cold during the examination. If you feel you need to examine a baby guinea pig that is three weeks or younger, you should try to do it quickly and gently.;
, It’s a good idea to wear medical gloves when handling your guinea pig. Guinea pigs can carry a range of diseases that can affect humans and other guinea pigs.You should also wear medical gloves if you know your guinea pig has medical issues such as scaly skin, skin sores, hair loss, respiratory disease, or diarrhea. Wear medical gloves if the cavy is under three weeks old as this can prevent your smell from getting on the cavy.
 Cavies are often squeamish about being picked up and held in place for a long period of time. Put a soft clean towel on a low, stable service, like a low table or the floor in preparation for the exam so your guinea pig is protected and comfortable.
 Guinea pigs are easily scared and will often struggle when frightened. Avoid freaking out your cavy by holding the cavy firmly but gently around the chest and shoulders. Place the guinea pig on the back or the rump, so the stomach and genital area are facing you and cradle the cavy’s back with one hand. This will make it easier for you to examine the cavy’s genitalia.Cavies dislike being on their backs for a long period of time. Try to do the examination quickly and efficiently. You may want to ask someone to help you hold the cavy while you conduct the examination to speed up the process.
 Start by looking for the cavy’s anus, which is a vertical opening that is often gray or brown colored. The anus will be located underneath the cavy’s genitalia.Once you have distinguished between the cavy’s anus and the cavy’s genitals, you can look at the distance between the cavy’s anus and the cavy’s genitals. Female guinea pigs have a shorter amount of space between their vulva and their anus. Often, the vulva sits right above the anus in female cavies. Male guinea pigs have a larger amount of space between their penis and their anus, about 2-3 inches of space between the penis and the anus.
 Look closely at the cavy’s genital opening. Female guinea pigs usually have a smooth swelling over their genital area. Use your fingers to part the genital opening gently. If the genital area forms a “Y” shape, this means the cavy is female.Male cavies have a genital opening that is shaped like a small circular dot with a penis raised above the level of the surrounding skin.
Male guinea pigs have a bulge to their genital and anal areas. The bulge appears due to the presence of the guinea pig’s testicles, which are just under the skin along the anus and the penis. You should also check if there is a donut shape around the cavy’s anus, as this is where a male cavy’s testicles will sit.
 Sometimes it can be difficult to see the penis, especially in heavy older male cavies. To make the penis protrude, use your finger to gently press just about the guinea pig’s genital area. The penis should show itself.You can also use your finger to gently press and rub just over the genital area. If you feel a “ridge” just over the genital area, you are feeling the inner part of cavy’s shaft. This is a clear sign the cavy is male.
 It is notoriously difficult to confirm the sex of guinea pigs, even with a careful and thorough examination at home. If you are not 100 percent certain of your guinea pig’s sex, you may want to bring your guinea pig to the vet for an examination. Go to a vet you trust and/or a vet who has examined your guinea pig before, as even knowledgeable vets can missex a guinea pig.You may also want to bring your guinea pig to the vet if your guinea pig appears distressed during the examination or reacts poorly to the exam. It may be difficult to get an accurate reading of the cavy’s sex if the cavy is stressed out or moving around a lot during the home exam.

