 After 1-2 seconds the screen will flash indicated a screenshot was taken.

For phones that have a Home button, like Samsung Galaxy models, you will need to press and hold the Home and Power buttons simultaneously.;
, Your screenshot is saved to this location by default.,, This button is located in the bottom toolbar of the app and will bring up a toolbar with editing options. By default, the “Levels” option is selected., This button is on the left side of the Levels toolbar.

“Reset” will replace “Auto” once auto changes are activated and can be pressed to undo the changes.
 Dragging the slider to the right will make the picture brighter, and to the left, darker.

You can tap “X” below the slider to undo any changes to the lighting.
 Dragging the slider to the right will make the colors more intense, while dragging to the left will make the picture more monochromatic.

You can tap “X” below the slider to undo any changes to the color.
 Dragging the slider to the right will increase the difference in dark and light areas, and to the left will decrease.

You can tap “X” below the slider to undo any changes to the ‘pop’.
 Dragging the slider to the right will increase the size and intensity of the border, while dragging to the left will decrease it.

You can tap “X” below the slider to undo any changes to the vignette.
 This button is indicated by a box is a star inside and is located to the right of the “Levels” icon in the bottom toolbar.

The color filters range from ‘warm’ to ‘cool’, which is indicated by the color palette displayed with the name.
The intensity of a color filter can be adjust with a slider at the bottom of the screen.
 This icon is located on the right of the bottom toolbar.

Tap and drag the corners of the picture space to crop the picture.
Adjust the slider to manually rotate the photo or press the “Rotate” icon to automatically rotate 90 degrees.
Reverse pinch the photo to zoom.
 This button appears in the upper right corner after changes have been made.

You can discard all changes at once by tapping “X” in the upper left corner and selecting “Discard”. This must be done before saving any changes.

