 White balance refers to the cast or glow that white areas and subjects appear in photography. Unless you what to do a special color effect like Sepia (brownish cast) you need to set the White Balance on the camera settings to match the light temperature of the light source. You know this when you see the pure white, pure blacks or pure gray on the viewfinder(if there is any item in these colors).


The main white balance settings on most cameras are

Daylight (on a sunny day),

Cloudy (spread out light softening colors,

Incandescent (warm yellowish light )

Fluorescent ( cool bluish white).

Halogen (pure white without any colors)

Candlelight (warmest light that can appear orange)
If your camera doesn't have some the settings listed on the options screen already it may be hidden in the "shooting mode" or "scene" options under different names like"romantic", "dusk or dawn", "snow". Some cameras the color temperature setting chart is a series of colored squares or temperatures. Some cameras have smart portrait settings that let you adjust the color temps by skin, eye, make-up or foundation color. Check your product's manual.
 Color temperatures refers to how cool (blue) or how warm (red) in the light of the photograph's setting. Under neutral color temperature green grass is green as you see it with your own eyes. Move the color temperature to the setting into the reds and the grass turns to brownish color (olive or lime). Move it towards the blue and the green turns bluish (teal or aquamarine). Be careful when selecting the color temperature to make sure the subjects stay their natural colors.
 The actual color accessories are available in many camera stores and websites but may get too expensive. You always make your own by finding non reflective white, gray or black colored boards, papers in the stores or using paint swatch boards in the hardware store.
 Use the cool ones in waterfall setting to enhance the relaxing feeling of the sound of running water. Use the warm settings in romantic or Christmas settings.
 Adding more the dominating color will in most cases cause everything in the picture to be that specific hue or very similar to it. Choosing a opposite color temperature setting can help balance out that strong hue and give other colors some oomph.

