 You can set reasonable and healthy guidelines for your children’s technology use by looking to the experts. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that parents should avoid allowing infants and toddlers less than 18 months of age from interacting with or watching TV, smartphones, or tablets. The only exception for this rule is video conferencing, which experts view as a healthy form of media usage.For kids ages 2 to 5, the AAP recommends that parents limit media consumption to an hour per day of high-quality programming. In these cases, you should also be sure to view the programming with your child. If you must keep your young child occupied while you handle chores or errands, choose to let them listen to pre-recorded stories on a CD.
For kids over 5, the organization allows parents to decide for themselves what they deem most appropriate.
Make extra effort to enforce age-based guidelines in households with children of different ages. It may take some creativity and supervision if a toddler and teenager are living together.
 If you have children over five, you will need to decide what rules you would like to implement in terms of how much screen time they are allotted. Older children may be mature enough to work with you on setting healthy limits for screen time. So, involve them so that they understand what you are doing and why it’s important.


You might say, “We’ve learned that too much screen time can lead to violence, risky behaviors, and obesity in kids. We want to restrict screen time so that everyone is healthy. What devices do you enjoy using the most? How much screen time per day do you think is fair?”If you are co-parenting, you might listen to your children’s suggestions, before sitting down alone together and working out a schedule that meets your family’s needs. Be sure to consider the unique needs of each child. For example, an 8-year old may not have a need for excess screen time, while a teen may need the computer to conduct school-related research. Set your rules accordingly.
 After you have decided on a schedule the suits your family, be clear about these guidelines with your kids. It may help to post a schedule in the common area of your home like near the TV or computer.


Say, for instance, “I have posted our weekly schedule for screen time. As you can see, during the week, screen time is restricted to homework-related usage with one hour of entertainment of your choice. On the weekends, there is a little more flexibility. If anyone has any questions, I’ll be happy to answer them.”, Set parental monitors on your TVs, smart phones, tablets, and computers that prevent your child from accessing inappropriate content. It may also help to recommend games, movies, or TV shows for your adolescent to consume. To ensure that your children are visiting positive websites and watching/playing age-appropriate films and games, you should inform them that you will be monitoring their internet and TV habits.


Give them a head's up so they can't complain when you check their usage. You might simply say, "I will be checking your devices every now and then to make sure you are using them appropriately. I just want to be sure you are safe when online."Nonetheless, you won’t be able to control everything your adolescent views. Take the time to chat with your older child or teens about different idea or beliefs presented in the media. For example, you might say in response to a TV ad, “These ads are designed to make you want to buy a certain product, but they are often misleading. If you buy this pill, do you really believe it will make you this woman’s size?”

, Since kids hate to lose their beloved video game or TV show access, you can ensure that household chores or academic responsibilities are obliged by using screen time to reward or punish.


For example, if your child’s grades are falling, you might reduce weekly screen time to that needed to complete homework only until grades are satisfactory again.
In addition, if you find that media use has a negative consequence on your kids, you may need to make further cuts on screen time or limit certain types of media.

