 This is the most important part of being like Applejack. She is the Element of Honesty, after all. She is truthful and tells things how they are. Sometimes, this gets her into trouble. Being honest is a good thing, but some people have troubles hearing the truth. If you have a friend who values honesty, but is also very sensitive, you may have to learn how to say things in a kinder way. For example:


Your friend is about to buy a dress, and it is very ugly. She wants your opinion of it. Instead of saying that it is ugly, you could say: I don't think pink is your color—but what about this blue dress? It'll help bring out your eyes, and the cut is great for you.;
, Applejack, and the rest of the Apple family, are all very close and family-oriented. They spend time with each other, and help one another out. Even if they get into fights, they are quick to make up and forgive. Family often comes first for Applejack.


The Apple family values their traditions, and tries to keep them alive.
 Applejack is always competing against Rainbow Dash, but in a friendly sort of way. She also tries to keep her competitions as fair and honest as possible. When you get the chance to compete for something you are good at, don't back down. Just remember: be a good sport about it, and play it fair. Don't ever cheat.
 Applejack is known for her skill for "bucking" apples off a tree, but this might not be possible for everyone. Instead, why don't you try in signing up for sports that test your strength and endurance, such as basketball, track, or swimming?

, Applejack is not a cake decorator like Pinkie Pie, but she does know a thing or two about baking—especially when it comes to apple-related goods. Try learning and perfecting some popular apple-based treats, such as apple pie and apple strudel.Family traditions are important to Applejack. If your family has some special recipes, try learning them.
 Applejack lives in a farm. Unfortunately, not everyone can do that, so a small garden will be the closest thing for some people. Ask your parents if you can have a plot in the backyard, and grow some vegetables, such as carrots, cucumbers, lettuce, and tomatoes. You can also try your hand on herbs, such as basil, mint, and thyme.


If you live in an apartment, start an herb garden in a flower pot.
 Applejack values hard, honest work. She'd rather work hard, take her time, and do a good job than take the easy way out, and end up with something sloppy. She is also the type of gal who'd fix her own things when they break, and not cringe if she gets mud on her.


Applejack also loves the outdoors and going camping. She'd be the first to help pitch the tent and gather wood for the campfire.
 These are some of Applejack's flaws, and they're not ones you'd want to copy. Applejack is proud, and very stubborn. She wants to do everything on her own, and often ends up overworking herself. Many of her episodes end in Applejack learning that it's okay to ask for help, such as "Applebuck Season," from season 1.It's okay to know what you want, but you shouldn't reject your friends when they offer to help.
Don't pile too much on your plate. Applejack tends to this too often, and almost always regrets it.
 This is Applejack's trademark accessory. She wears one even to formal events, much to Rarity's shock and dismay. Look for something made from felt, leather, or straw.
 Applejack lives on a farm, so she can't wear many pretty, fancy things. She wears mostly "work duds," as she likes to call them. If you'd like to give off the Applejack vibes, choose clothes that you can work in, and that you won't mind getting dirty. For example:


Cowboy hats and boots
Bandanas tied around the neck
Jeans and jean skirts
Plaid or cotton button up blouses
Vests

, Orange is Applejack's body color, but many of her outfits include the colors red and green. To keep yourself from looking too Christmasy, however, try to use a more orangey red, and a lighter, yellow-toned green.
 Applejack is a tomboy. She works hard on the farm all day, and doesn't have time to put makeup. She's also not interested in impressing anyone with her looks. If you must wear makeup, go for a natural, barely-there look with neutral colors, such as creams and browns.
 Applejack is an easy going gal, so a low ponytail is enough for her. It keeps her hair out of the way while she works. Most importantly of all, it does not get in the way of her beloved cowboy hat.


If you want to look more like Applejack, straighten your hair. Both her human and pony versions have straight hair/mane/tail.
If you want to be like Applejack, then keep your natural hair texture. Applejack is a simple pony, and doesn't have the time to get fancy and straighten her hair.
Consider dyeing your hair blonde or getting a wig if this is for a costume.
 Red or green apples will do. Applejack's cutie mark is three red apples, but many of her outfits also feature green apples. Try adding an apple-shaped patch to your jeans, vest, or backpack.

