 If the root structure of your grass or other vegetation is so thick that it’s preventing the soil from absorbing the water, use a lawn aerator to break through the barrier. Punch holes through the ground with the aerator’s spikes or tines so the water can reach deeper sooner. Choose from a variety of models (from aerators you can wear under your shoes while walking to others that you push like a lawn mower) based on the size of your affected area.All models are generally divided into two classifications: spike and core aerators. Core aerators are widely considered the most effective.
Aerating your lawn will also attract more worm activity. Worms will create even more pathways for water to travel into and through the soil.
 If a soil test reveals that your lawn is primarily clay, add new elements that will promote water absorption. Use a till or landscaping rake to loosen and remove at least 6 inches (15 cm) of topsoil from the affected area. After removing that, rake the bed of your hole again to loosen the underlying soil so it mixes well with the 6-inch (15-cm) layer of organic materials that you’re about to add. Then rake in a mix of compost, dead leaves, wood chips, tree bark, and horticultural sand.The new organic material will be lighter and more permeable than clay.
It will also promote plant life, which in turn will absorb more water through its roots.
Worms will also be drawn to the richer soil, and the holes they create will increase drainage.
Gypsum and limestone are also effective at breaking up clay for more permeability.
 Plant landscaping trees, shrubs, or plants that are particularly thirsty in or near the affected area. Note how much sun or shade it receives where your drainage problems occur. Choose local vegetation that will thrive in your specific yard. If your soil is mostly clay, be sure to choose plants well adapted to that soil.Ideal plants for clay: (trees) birch, blue spruce, crabapple, douglas fir, eastern hemlock, eucalyptus, Japanese maple, juneberry, Norway spruce, western red cedar; (shrubs) barberry, butterfly bush, hydrangea, rose, viburnum; (plants) bigleaf periwinkle, common juniper, creeping juniper, creeping raspberry, elephant’s ears, geranium., If your soil isn’t clay, but you still experience poor drainage, go a step further and turn the affected area into a rain garden. Dig a hole in the center of that area. Make it deep and wide enough for all of the surrounding runoff or standing water to collect in. Create a planting mix that is 60% sand, 20% compost, and 20% topsoil to fill the hole. Select plants that are native to your area and thrive in water to plant in your new garden.Keep your rain garden at least 10 feet (3 m) from the house and at least 50 feet (15.2 m) from a septic system. In the U.S., call 811 to make sure underground utilities aren't in the way.Ideally, all the water in your rain garden should be absorbed within a day of rainfall. This is partly why creating a rain garden in clay soil isn’t a solution, since water has a tougher time draining through clay.
A rain garden is a great endpoint for gutter drains and dry creek beds to get rid of runoff from roofs, driveways, and patios.

