 Exercise may be the last thing you feel like doing if you are sad.While it may be difficult to get started, the results will be worth it. Exercise, among other benefits, has a direct effect on your mood by increasing endorphins and other mood boosting chemicals in your body.Exercising can also be a great way to get out and distract yourself from your sadness, in order to give yourself a small break from the emotion. Try the following.


Go for a run.
Play a sport.
Dance.
Workout.
 Similar to the effect music has on mood, singing combines the effects of music with the effects of physical movement to battle your sadness.If you feel embarrassed, then sing your heart out in your car or your bathroom. The more physically active you are while you are singing the greater the benefit to your mood. If you enjoy singing, then consider joining a choir or attending karaoke., Even if you do not want to participate in any physical activity, the simple act of being outside for 10 to 15 minutes can improve your mood. Being outside provides you with natural Vitamin D from the sun, known to increase mood as well as improve bone growth and reduce inflammation.Try to have your time outside spent somewhere that is soothing and calming to you such as by water or somewhere with trees. Try the following.


Get out in nature such as a park or by a lake.Take a walk, even if it is just around your block.Do some work outside with your laptop., When you are battling sadness during a difficult time, it is not uncommon to forget to take care of yourself or your surroundings. It may be difficult to find the energy to do so or it just may not feel very important to you at the time. Spending time taking care of yourself can help you deal with the sadness and feel better. Try to make sure you are taking care of yourself in the following basic ways.


Sleep an adequate amount so that your body can recover and rest.Eat healthy; try not to skip meals and make sure you are getting enough fruits, vegetables, and omega-3 fatty acids in your diet.
Make sure you are getting dressed and maintaining your hygiene. You may not have the energy to do it right away, but you will feel better when you do.Pamper yourself with a long bath, shower, or massage.