 If you take an iron supplement as directed by your doctor, you should be able to improve your iron levels over time, which may treat anemia caused by iron deficiency. There are some side effects from iron supplementation, including dark stools, stomach upset, heartburn, and constipation. If your anemia is mild, your doctor may just recommend that you eat more iron-rich foods. The following are good sources of iron:Red meat (beef and liver)
Poultry (chicken and turkey)
Seafood
Cereals and breads fortified with iron
Legumes (peas; lentils; white, red, and baked beans; soybeans; and chickpeas)
Tofu
Dried fruits (prunes, raisins, and apricots)
Spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables
Prune juice
Vitamin C helps your body absorb iron, so your doctor will likely recommend that you drink a glass of orange juice or consume foods high in vitamin C along with your iron supplement.;
, If your anemia is caused by a vitamin deficiency, take a vitamin B12 supplement if your doctor recommends it. Most likely, your doctor will give you a vitamin B12 injection or pill once a month.This will allow your doctor to monitor your red blood levels and determine how long treatment is needed. You can also get vitamin B12 from food. Foods high in vitamin B12 include:Eggs
Milk
Cheese
Meat
Fish
Shellfish
Poultry
Foods fortified with vitamin B12 (like soy beverages and vegetarian burgers), Folic acid is another B vitamin that is needed for proper blood cell growth. A folate deficiency can cause anemia, so your doctor will most likely recommend a supplement dosage to treat your condition. If your symptoms are moderate to severe, you may be given folate injections or pills for at least 2 to 3 months.You can also get folate from your diet. Foods with high levels of folic acid include:Bread, pasta, and rice fortified with folic acid
Spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables
Black-eyed peas and dried beans
Beef liver
Eggs
Bananas, oranges, orange juice, and some other fruits and juices

, Alcohol can keep your body from producing blood cells, create defective red blood cells, and prematurely destroy your blood cells. While an occasional drink won't do any lasting damage, repeated or heavy drinking can cause anemia.If you're already anemic, take care to limit your alcoholic intake, since it will only make your condition worse.
The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism recommends no more than 1 drink per day for women and no more than 2 drinks per day for men as "moderate" consumption.