 Before you can treat chlamydiosis in cockatiels, you need to make sure that you are treating the right thing. Watch the bird for symptoms of the disease, and if you notice any, schedule a vet visit to get a laboratory diagnosis. Symptoms may include:Lethargy or depression
Fluffed feathers
Loss of appetite and weight loss
Green droppings or diarrhea
Difficulty breathing
Discharge from the eye or around the face
Seizures
Chewing their feathers or bodies
Unusual head positions;
, Symptoms can help give you an idea of what’s wrong, but most symptoms for chlamydiosis aren’t exclusive to the disease. If you think your bird may be suffering from chlamydiosis, take them to a vet that specializes in birds or small animals. The vet can request an antigen or antibody test to get an official diagnosis for your cockatiel.Test results may take up to two weeks depending upon your vet and your bird’s condition.
 If you suspect chlamydiosis, isolate your bird from other birds immediately. Cockatiels are particularly susceptible to infection, so it is important to move your bird into a cage separate from any other birds you may have.The cage should be comfortable and supplied with the same items as the bird’s home cage or perch, but kept separate from any other birds. Clean the cage regularly to help minimize the risk of spreading the infection, but keep your contact with the infected bird to a minimum.If diagnosis comes back positive, your bird may need to remain in isolation during treatment.
 The most effective form of treatment against chlamydiosis in cockatiels is a course of antibiotics called doxycycline that is provided over the course of up to 45 days. Your vet will prescribe either oral medication or a once-weekly shot, depending upon what works for you and what is best for your bird’s condition.Either your vet or the prescription packaging will tell you how much medication you need to give your cockatiel and when. Follow these instructions as precisely as possible to help ensure the medication is most effective.
If you opt for injectable treatments, which can be beneficial for birds showing severe symptoms, make sure you or someone you trust is available to take the bird to the vet every five to seven days.
 Antibiotics can be harsh on your bird’s system, so it’s important to make sure their environment is comfortable and that they are eating while they undergo treatment. This may involve feeding and providing fluids using a feeding syringe every six or so hours.If your bird is not eating or drinking on its own, talk to your vet. They will be able to provide you with a feeding schedule and recommendations for the proper food based on your bird’s condition.
You may want to provide a heat lamp to make sure they get a consistent temperature and that you don’t shock their system with temperature fluctuations, as well., Remove all mineral blocks and stop providing any other mineral supplements while your bird receives treatment. Calcium, in particular, can interfere with antibiotic course. If your bird is on a supplement for a medical reason such as deficiency, consult your vet to figure out what action you should take., If your cockatiel is receiving treatment for chlamydiosis, it is important to keep the bird isolated for the full course of the treatment. It is also important that you avoid interacting with the bird unless completely necessary, such as when you’re giving it food or medication.Chlamydiosis is transmittable to humans, and birds don’t develop immunity after being exposed, so it’s important to do all you can to keep yourself from becoming a carrier for the disease. That way, your bird won’t become sick again after treatment.
 Clean and disinfect your bird’s cage regularly during treatment. This will help prevent the bird from being re-exposed to the disease, and keep it from passing onto you or other birds. You can buy bird-safe disinfectant from most pet stores. Be sure to use a bird-safe brand.Be sure to wet any cage paper with disinfectant before removing it from the cage. After removing the paper, spritz the whole cage down with a bird-safe disinfectant and then rinse with a wet paper towel. Allow the cage to dry completely before returning the bird.Do not disinfect dishes with water and food still in them. Remove the excess food or water, and wash them with disinfectant, followed by hot water and soap. Allow them to fully dry before returning them to the cage.
 The best way to prevent chlamydiosis in your cockatiel is to prevent any exposure. Avoid buying underweight or sickly birds, and quarantine all new birds that you bring into your home until you are able to get them tested for the disease.Not all birds will show symptoms of chlamydiosis. Some are simply carriers. That is why it’s important to get all birds tested, even those not showing symptoms.
 Since chlamydiosis is spread through droppings and feather dust, it’s important to make sure that you thoroughly clean your bird’s cage or other living space regularly. This means cleaning items like dishes and toys daily, and sanitized every one to two weeks., Stress weakens your bird’s natural immunity, making it more difficult for them to fight off infection.Work to keep your cockatiel calm by providing it with proper stimulation, company, food, and a routine that it can rely on.Keep your bird away from windows and loud noises, and make sure it's cage is fully stocked. Try to avoid stressful situations such as moving the bird's environment more than necessary. Avoid handling the bird if it does not like to be touched.