 While using distraction as a bipolar coping mechanism can be useful as an occasional and temporary solution, it doesn’t replace sticking to an effective treatment plan.Continue participating in your treatment and doing things like taking your medication to ensure that you are managing your bipolar disorder as well as possible.


Make a note of how often you need to use distraction when you are taking your medication.
Use your notes to help evaluate how well your medication is working. For example, if you notice that you need to distract yourself more frequently, it may be a sign that your medication needs adjusting.
Talk to your mental health provider if you feel your medication isn’t working. You might say, “I’ve had to distract myself a lot more over the past month. I think we might need to adjust my medication.”

, A professional can help you use distraction as coping skill for your bipolar disorder in several ways. They can offer specific strategies and techniques for distracting yourself, offer encouragement, and help you manage your bipolar disorder in general.You might say, “Could we talk about some ways that I can use distraction as a coping technique?”
Your therapist can help you monitor how well your distraction strategies are working. You could ask, “Is there a way for us to track how effective I am at distracting myself?”

, Spending time with other people who have bipolar disorder can help you in a number of different ways. The people in the support group may be able to offer you encouragement and a sense of connectedness.Joining a support group can also help because the other members may be able to suggest ways that you can use distraction as a coping skill.


The National Alliance of Mental Illness (NAMI) provides information about support groups at https://www.nami.org/Find-Support. The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance(DBSA) also provides a support group directory on their webpage http://www.dbsalliance.org/site/PageServer?pagename=peer_support_group_locator.
Ask your mental health provider about support groups in your area. You could say, “I’d like to join a support group. Could you recommend some in the area?”
You can also join an online support group or online forum if you can’t attend an in-person support group.
 Your loved ones can do a lot to help distract you when needed as well as help you manage your bipolar disorder in general.Let the people that care about you know that you might need them to distract you from time to time.


You might ask someone close to you to distract you if you start showing any signs of stress or a bipolar episode. For example, you might say, “Could you distract me if I get grumpy and super lazy?”
Contact family and friends when you need to distract yourself. For instance, calling your best friend is a great way to distract yourself when you notice you’re having negative thoughts.
It’s okay to ask someone to come just be with you if you’re feeling out of sorts. You might say, “Can you come over and just hang with me? I don’t want to do anything, but I need a distraction.”

