 As a native to Chile, the gevuina is habituated to growing under temperate oceanic conditions, in cool, wet areas. It tolerates cold winters and hot summers, often a feature of oceanic countryside in Pacific countries, such as New Zealand, where they are being grown in the hill country of the South Island.


The tree grows best at 35º to 45º latitude.The gevuina likes the cool temperate climate. It can tolerate temperatures to minus 10 degrees but only with protection, as it tends to be damaged from around minus 6 degrees.Grower experience has shown that too low a temperature will kill the tree.;
, The gevuina grows best in full sun but doesn't like wind exposure.


It can be grown in semi-shade but you'll find the fruit isn't as prolific.
 The soil should be fertile, moist, and well-drained. A little wetness is tolerated.


Stone filled or clay-like soils are okay. However, it seems that good quality soil is the best bet for crop gevuina growing.
Gevuinas like slightly acidic soil conditions, pH range 4.5-6.5 (not alkaline)., The less leaves and the larger the root system, the better, to prevent water stress.
 Autumn and early winter are the best planting seasons, although the tree may need frost protection as a young sapling. If frost is a problem where you are, plant in spring.Protect young trees individually from frost.


Space 2 to 3 meters (6.6 to 9.8 ft) apart if you have more than one tree.
If preferred, plant in a container or a large tub. They will grow well provided they are watered well.
 Gevuinas need constant moisture and will even tolerate some water-logging of their roots.Hot, dry weather can dry out the soil and cause the leaves to desiccate. This is a form of stress that can kill the tree.
Mulch really well and add a thick layer of well-rotted compost.
 Prune using the vase system rather than a single-leader.Remove the tip of the leader to allow laterals to form.


You may need to remove older leaves to expose new tips to the light that encourages them to grow.
 This can be touch and go. You may find that you can grow the seedlings to about 10 centimeter (3.9 in) high with no problems, only to have them keel over when planted.Cuttings seem to be the healthiest and most successful means for propagating the plant.


Seeds don't tend to do well; there appears to be a symbiotic fungus-root relationship needed to boost growth; if you do try seeds, also add some soil from the base of a mature gevuina., If you don't, it'll be hard to collect the gevuina nuts.
 Demand is exceeding supply – these nuts are nutritious and delicious. It will be about 7 years before you get a decent harvest from a single tree, with the first crop appearing after about 4 years.


The fruit changes colour from green, to deep red, and then to black as the fruit matures. The fruit sits in clusters.
The nut takes a year to ripen. Next year's flowers will appear as the nut is ripening.
A smooth shell forms around the nuts. It is much easier to remove than macadamia shells.
The flowers don't wilt, and so are beloved by florists. This makes them another possible harvest product if wished.
 The nuts are amazing - they can be eaten roasted, dipped in chocolate, made into an oil similar to olive oil, or used as a coffee substitute.

