 There are different sizes in inch height of the prongs, as well as open versus zipper binders. Zipper binders are very useful if you wish to carry scissors, other notes, whole inserts, store circulars, pens, etc. It also keeps your coupons intact in case the binder falls. The bigger and higher quality the binder is, the more expensive it would be.
 There are several ways to organize it - it really depends on you and your shopping styles.

Divide coupons by alphabetical order (B for bread and bacon or M for milk and margarine)
Divide coupons by product type (dairy, cleaning supplies, meat, etc)
Divide coupons by aisle (if you want to keep small binders for different stores, it's easy to flip through when you walk around)
Divide coupons according to the expiration dates (placing the soonest expiring coupons in front and latest in the back). Majority of the coupons distributed usually expires on the first, 15th, and last day of each month.
 Having your "category names" on the side makes it easier and faster to swipe through a huge binder. Your personal organization choosing will determine how many dividers you will need. If you are going with the alphabetical order, you will need at least 26 dividers (more for extra categories). If you are going with the expiration dates, you can divide them into 2 week blocks. The product type method may change from time to time, as it depends how thin or thick your variety is. You can have one divider for a "Personal Hygiene" category or several dividers for sub-categories, such as "Hair Care", "Skin Care", "Makeup", etc., You can find these at discount or sporting stores. The most common is nine sleeves (3 x 3) on each page. There is a strong preference amongst couponers to invest in different size sleeves. The 3 x 3 sleeve pages can hold regular square inserts, however, to avoid folding long ones, coupons you get in the mail, or internet printed coupons, page width sleeves are the best., You can always adjust the amount per category depending on your needs and how much the binder can hold., The main point of a coupon binder is organization throughout the entire process, so make sure it's updated and discard the expired ones (if your store doesn't accept them). Always try to find ways to send expired coupons to military overseas, as they can use them six months up to from the expiration date.