 Using a vacuum equipped with a HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) filter will ensure that you're sucking up as much dust as possible. Vacuum all the carpeting in your home, focusing especially on high-traffic areas. You can also vacuum other flooring. Vacuuming frequently really cuts down on how much dust is able to build up under furniture and in corners - you'll probably notice a difference right away.Be sure to change your vacuum filter frequently.
Make sure your vacuum is in good working order. A broken vacuum will just spit the dust back into the air, making the problem worse.
 Using a broom and dustpan to get rid of the dust on the floors you don't vacuum is another great way to reduce your household dust. Sweep frequently in areas that tend to have a lot of dust, like doorways, hallways and the kitchen floor. Toss out the dust in your garbage can to make sure it doesn't reenter your household.
 Going over your flooring with a wet mop is a great way to collect the dust you missed while sweeping. If you mop frequently, you'll be able to get the dust under control. Letting it go too long will make it a lot more difficult to clean up all the dust and dirt, and you may need to do some scrubbing.
 Not all dusting cloths are made alike. If dust is an issue in your house, it might be time to spring for a microfiber dusting cloth. This fabric is designed to trap dust and hold it. Using an old t-shirt or towel tends to move the dust around rather than actually getting rid of it. Same goes for feather dusters - your furniture will look cleaner, but the dust particles have simply moved into the air.


Use microfiber cloths to dust all surfaces where dust tends to accumulate, like the top of your mantel, desk, side tables, and so on. Wet cloths tend to collect dust better than dry cloths, so when you're dusting furniture that isn't wooden, try wetting the cloth first.
Wash microfiber cloths immediately after dusting to get rid of everything the cloth collected. Don't use dryer sheets when you run them through the dryer, though; fabric softener reduces the cloths' capacity to hold the dust.
 Sheets, blankets, comforters and pillows are places where dust tends to accumulate, often causing people to wake up with stuffy noses from breathing dusty air all night. Every time you get in or out of bed, you unknowingly send swirls of dust into the air. The solution is to wash your bedding often, especially if you or your family members have dry skin, or if your pets sleep with you in the bed.


Wash sheets and pillowcases about once a week if you have a high-dust household.
Wash other bedding and blankets once every three or four weeks.
 Like your bedding, your furniture cushions and your rugs have a tendency to pick up a lot of dust over time. Every time you sit on your couch or walk on your rug, you're sending dust into the air. Every 3 months, take your cushions and rugs outside for a few whacks and eliminate as much dust as you can.


An old broom handle is a great tool to use for beating rugs and cushions.
Beat them all over, not just in the same place.
Keep beating rugs and cushions until you don't see dust particles flying into the air with every whack.
 Every few months, when your house is due for a deep cleaning, go over the walls, trim and baseboards with microfiber cloths. Clean the top of the walls first, making your way down to the bottom. That way you'll be able to collect all the dust that falls down as you clean.

