 Yet, many wars are fought to bring peace -- in your land or your allies' lands -- against an invading enemy force which is committing atrocities, killing and pillaging your or your allies' cities and homes, as a famous saying sets the scene,"If you want peace, be prepared for war". "Blessed be the LORD my strength, who trains my hands for the battle and my fingers for the war..." (Psalm 144:1) The peace God's son offers begins with human beings who are at war... not against flesh and blood, but against evil and darkness in high places. And many, also, desperately make war against the knowledge of God Himself. The Hebrew Scriptures speak to the fact that God wants to rain down Love, compassion, beauty and light upon us. But, man's sins and our hardhearted nature as "rebels", brings down God's judgment as well as the consequences of our own actions. Isaiah 48:22 “There is no peace for the wicked,” says the Lord. Peace, true peace, comes by the acceptance of Jesus' redemptive death as the innocent victim who died as a willing hostage to and in payment for our sins. No Prince of Peace in the affairs of man -- no peace.;
, 
"Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy." (Matthew 5:7)

, for yourselves, but that such things belonged to the nation (government), house of God, and to God.


Submit to authority to include all lawful orders: 
"13 Submit yourselves for the Lord’s sake to every human institution, whether to a king as the one in authority, 14 or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do right." (1 Peter 2:13-14)

, (Romans 12:18). But, that is and must be "as much as possible"--not an absolute. Not being a murderer is clear, but God allows obeying the lawful commands of military for killing the enemy in war or in honest police work!


Consider using deadly force as required at all levels: Locally, state or international level to prevent the enemy from killing, or to protect your armed forces and/or come to the aid of others, such as ones allies and the weak.
 He was saying that his followers should not argue and fight like ruffians. Also, Christians read the Bible and see words to the effect of glorify God and:


"Give your shirt to one that asks only for your coat;" (Luke 6:29)"Give to whomever asks of you and ask nothing in return;" (Luke 6:30)"If you are only demanded (by authorities and soldiers) to go the one customary mile; go the second mile,". (Matthew 5:41)

, from the New to Old Testament... God is never-changing in His truth and perfection. Noah, Abraham and Moses all found grace through faith. He is full of grace for those who trust Him--but for those who fight Him, and His, there are reasons to fear eternal judgment and even expect destruction here and now, on this earth.
 (Luke 22:49)"If my Kingdom were of this world then my followers would fight to save me from being handed over to the . But now my Kingdom is not from here." (John 18:36), This is taught in New Testament! How--


Jesus said, "Render to Caesar that which is Caesar's..." (Mark 12:17) which was in answer to being ask about paying taxes, and
Jesus paid taxes with a coin; (Matthew 17:27)
"Render to all what is due them: tax to whom tax is due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honor to whom honor", written by Apostle Paul. (Romans 13:7)Generalizing these events: Christians are commanded to obey the law and to "pay taxes for government's processes." Rome was a militaristic, conquering nations (to say the least) and Jesus (and the Apostle Paul agreeing) said render (pay) the tax that is due.
 No matter what people may say: No! He hates situations when wars are fought the wrong way, and for the wrong reasons (for greed, mere conquest, unnecessary control...). He had always, in the Old Testament, authorized His people to go into a nation and decimate its people and then to make peace and also to:



Accept outsiders with hospitality,
Entertain strangers and travelers and to allow them to go their way in peace (if they will go peacefully),
Enlarge their tents to accept people who would ally with the nation, believe truth/and God, honor and follow the law, and bring offerings to the House of God (to the storehouse), worship God.
 God does! Do you not believe in having altogether thousands of armed state troopers (highway patrol), state "rangers," city police officers, county sheriff deputies, port authorities, customs agents, corrections officers (prison guards)--plus marshals, constables, and bailiffs as officers of the courts in a city, state or nation:


There is a war on law breaking, though somewhat defensive, often it is offensive: going out to capture and arrest people, usually with force (even deadly force) to prevent the accused from harming others. (Imagine if a sniper was left alone on the street...)
"For the authorities are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you like to live without being afraid of the authorities? Then do what is right, and you will receive their approval." (Romans 13:3) , are forms of "international police power" among nations. Their duty is often largely defensive, but not just that.


"Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, government officials. Believers should obey them and be ready to help with any good work." (Titus 3:1)

Make sure to have a clear message, as if it's a "clear trumpet call". Be clear about what you stand for/believe: For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle? (I Corinthians 14:8)

, This man, Cornelius the converted Roman centurion, along with his Roman household, became believers, and "they received the Holy Spirit like as we, and who can say they should not be baptized" as the Bible said that they received the witness/mark of the Spirit and received water baptism in the book of Acts (A Roman centurion was an army captain - a commander of a company of 100 soldiers, including lieutenants, sergeants, foot soldiers.)

, (Matthew 8:22) Jesus said, and "Hate your life..." (Luke 14:26) Jesus said that meaning to make no excuses, but give your whole life to God, and that is not saying worry a lot about your own life generally.
 , where Christians expect to go... The body is a temple of clay, but also a "fragile" vessel of clay and although it is a dwelling place for the Holy Spirit, it is not the ultimate for the Christian. You as a Christian will have a new home and a new body.

