 Gas ovens are fueled by gas and thus emit more fumes than electric ones. Provide proper ventilation, such as keeping a window open.
 If you store baking tins inside your oven, you will need to pull them out and set them aside.
 Some recipes will require you to change the position of the racks in your oven as doing so will determine the evenness of the baking. Refer to your recipe and adjust the racks accordingly. Simply pull them out and reinsert them into the oven. The oven should have shallow ledges inside for the racks to sit on.


Items, such as casseroles and lasagnas, need to be browned and crispy at top. They are generally placed towards the top of the oven.
Cakes, cookies, and cupcakes need to be baked evenly, and are usually placed in the middle rack, unless the recipe states otherwise.
Items, such as flat breads and pizzas, need to get brown and crispy at the bottom. They are usually baked in the bottom level of the oven.
 How your oven ignites will determine how you turn it on and set the temperature. Most older stoves will use a pilot light, while newer ones will rely on electricity to ignite. Here is how you can determine what sort of ignition your oven has:


If your oven has a pilot-based ignition, you may notice a constantly burning flame that increases or decreases in size depending on the temperature
If your oven has an electric-based ignition, you will not see the flames until you turn on the oven and set the temperature.
 You may have to press on the dial lightly before turning it.


If the oven uses gas marks instead of Celsius or Fahrenheit, you will need to convert the mark. You will need to go on the internet and use an online conversion tool.
Sometimes, the pilot light goes out or needs to be ignited before each use. If this happens, make sure that the temperature dials are set to "off" and locate the pilot light. Light a match and hold the flame next to the pilot hole. If the pilot light ignites, remove the match. If the pilot light does not ignite, turn the temperature up slightly., Use the up and down arrows on the pad to adjust the temperature. Once you have set the temperature, hit "Start." The numbers on the screen will change—this is the current temperature inside the oven. Wait as the temperature rises and reaches the original temperature you set., Gas ovens heat up much faster than electric ones, so your oven should reach the proper temperature in 5 to 10 minutes.


Keep the oven door closed, unless the recipe states otherwise. Do not open the oven door and peek at your food, as this will cause the heat inside the oven to escape and prolong baking times.
If you have a lot of baking to do and are planning on both racks, do not put too many dishes on the bottom rack. This may prevent the heat from reaching the food on the upper rack.
 If you smell gas while baking, you may have a gas leak.Turn the oven off immediately. Do NOT use any electrical appliances. Doing so may cause an explosion. Open a window and evacuate the house. Contact emergency services using either a neighbor's phone or a cell phone. Do not use your cellphone inside the house.