 A jockstrap is recommended for any sport that requires running, such as track and field or basketball.For contact sports or sports involving fast-moving balls, a cup is also recommended.;
, You will want to consider waist size and pouch comfort. The jockstrap should be tight enough to lift and hold the penis and testicles close to the body, out of the way during movement. but not too tight, as chafing can contribute to jock itch., A cup is a hard molded piece of plastic or metal that fits inside of a pouch in the jock strap.They are recommended for any sport involving contact or speeding projectiles, such as hockey, soccer, baseball, football, or mixed martial arts. Some men wear a cup-jockstrap in daily wear, not just when playing sports, to augment their masculine appearance.Many athletes are reluctant to wear cups, particularly in football,but consider that more than half of all testicular injuries occur during sports and testicular torsion and testicular rupture can lead to losing a testicle.
 Many cups are sport specific, so you’ll need to know the sport you are going to use it for.You will want to consider both comfort and the degree of protection the cup offers.


For a cup to work, it must fit tightly against the body. You will want to make sure your jockstrap is tight enough to prevent the cup from rolling or twisting.
Look for cups with cushioned edges. A hard edge will just transfer the force of the blow to the pelvic area. A soft edge provides better cushioning during impact.For really fast moving sports like lacrosse or baseball, consider a titanium cup., Compression shorts offer similar support as a jockstrap, and some compression shorts come with a pouch designed to hold a protective cup, but many compression shorts that have a pouch do not hold the cup tight against the body. It is better to wear a cup in a cup-jockstrap and then wear tight fitting compression shorts over the cup-jockstrap to hold the cup firmly in place and tight against the body. In many sports such as football, compression shorts are now preferred by many athletes. But remember always that the cup must be held firmly in place and tight against the body for it function properly.