 Garen is manaless, with health regen and lots of attack damage. Garen's Passive allows lots of health regen while out of combat for 8 seconds. This allows you to dive the enemy, then when you get out, after 8 seconds you start to regenerate all the health you lost. The enemy champion will be wondering how you're full health; since he just put a beating on you.;
, This is crucial to land first in fights, as the silence will keep your opponent from casting spells, while you beat on him mercilessly.
 A good strategy is before a fight., If you're attacking only one enemy, it will 33% more damage. This is usually used right after your Q, allowing lots of damage while the silence is still active.
 It is just beautiful. A huge sword coming shooting down out of the sky, damaging the enemy for about 250 dmg. It will usually execute the enemy.
 Garen usually takes Flash + Teleport. Flash allows you to go forward to land those Qs, and teleport to get to lane faster. Ignite/Exhaust are an option, but teleport/flash are recommended.
 Garen usually starts with Doran's Shield and a couple of health potions. The shield is good for health and armor, and is my most recommended starting item. Don't buy too many health potions, however, because you have your passive to give you health regen.
 Use the reliable combo, Q --> E --> Ult. The Q for silence, the E for lots of damage, and the R to finish them off.
 Garen relies on the ability to do huge amount of damage, take lots of damage, and get out in time to heal it all back. Farm to get lots gold, to buy items. You want to build a Black Cleaver, a Spirit Visage, Sunfire Cape, and/or Warmog's Armor. This will give you a good combination of damage, health, health regen, armor, and magic resist.


Infinity Edges are a nice bit a damage, but only buy one.
There are several YouTube videos on 5 Infinity Edge Garen; while it is a huge amount of damage, he got mowed down easily due to lack of health. Stick to the normal mix.
 Teleport should not only be used to get to lane faster, but also to teleport to other lanes. Teleport spell can be used to get to Jungle objective, like Baron or Dragon, teleport into teamfights, or surprise the enemy from their backlines. For more about teleporting, see the guide How to Play Top Lane in League of Legends., Garen is a very aggressive toplaner, due to his huge amount of damage and his tankiness. Also, since he is manaless he is a endless threat to the enemy. Q your lane opponent whenever you can, but be careful. He may surprise you after the silence wears off with a barrage of spells.
 Especially if you have build armor/health and use W, you can soak up about 4-6 turret shots before your health really starts dropping. Usually your combo will finish off the enemy laner before you die from turret shots or him.

