 You can have an entire section of your writer’s notebook dedicated to quickly sketched notes. While these short impressions may not take up much room on the page at first, they will quickly accumulate as you find more things to describe day after day.These will make great details to use in a short story or essay.

Note things like: how a tree looks when it loses its leaves, how fresh baked foods smell, or how you feel at the end of a long day.
Make notes of what you have seen in the past such as the author/artist and write any description of your inspiration in the start of the book.
 Try listening in on someone’s conversation, write it down, and write your imaginary ending to the conversation.This is a useful trick for learning to write dialogue in a story or novel—listen to the conversations of family, friends, and strangers around you, then imitate how they speak in your own writing.

You can also try this by listening to someone’s conversation on the phone. You won’t be able to hear the other side of the conversation, but that is the fun part, because you can imagine what the other person is saying and incorporate that into your writing.
 You can do this by making character pages, where you map out things about a character for a book or story that you are going to write. To practice, take notes on a real person, or make up a character resembling one in an existing book. If you’re writing fiction or a personal essay, draw on real-life experiences that you’ve had with your friends and family., Words are one of the most fun parts of writing, and can be explored through synonyms and antonyms, rhymes, and other word tricks. Try making word pages, where you look up descriptive words in the dictionary, and write the definitions down in your writer’s notebook.

Try taking words you’ve already used in your writing, and looking up their synonyms in a thesaurus.
This will help you to use more descriptive words in your writing, making it more interesting and more detailed. It will also help you to expand your vocabulary.
 Use all five of your senses, and watch an elaborate sunset, stare at the mountains, sit in a field of waving grass—or do something simple like describing a cafe as you sit down and drink your hot chocolate, or munch on a muffin. Drawing from real-life observation is a powerful tool that many professional writers use to enhance their own descriptions and imagery.If you take your journal with you everywhere you go, you’ll be able to jot down impressions, observations, or phrases that you see or overhear throughout the day.