 All good writers write about what they know.;
,, Here is a list of tools, and things you will need to know to get started selling on the internet:


Keywords- Search engines find websites by relevant keywords. When someone visits a search engine and types in “car models”, it's results show all the sites that are most relevant to “car models”. It's free, yet most people do not properly use this powerful tool.
If you want to sell custom model car videos, include these keywords in your domain name, the title of your web page, in the site description, and one of the two keywords (yes, only two) you should put in your sites “meta tags”.
Put variations of this phrase in every 6th or 7th line your main page text, and at least once in your image alt tags. Just don't overdo it, or the search engines will penalize your site. Find the right balance, and your website will rank very well.

Note: The top three search engines: Google, Yahoo, and MSN scan the web automatically, so there is no need to submit your site to those engines.
 The second best is writing articles about your keywords, putting them ON YOUR SITE FIRST, and then making subtle changes to them and submitting them to article directories like:


Article Dashboard http://www.articledashboard.com/

Article City http://www.articlecity.com/


, If you get really good at this, you could write your own ticket for more than just videos. People will buy on emotion, not on the facts. If you focus on “what's in it for them” (your customer), you might be surprised with your results.
 If it's a video, selling without a photo of it could kill your sales. It's been proven by the experts that product photos have increased sales and visitor actions up to 300%. If it's videos you're selling, try searching for “DVD Cover Design”, and see what you come up with for starters.
 There are other alternatives like WordPress or Blogger, Minisite templates, and BlinkWeb. If you graduated from the School of the Technically Declined, your best bet is using a pre-made template. Those tools make it easy for you to make a website. If you have a little more creative savvy, consider a free webpage editor like Dreamweaver to create the pages yourself.
 It's just another name for getting your files from your hard drive, to your website directory. You'll need a domain name and a host before you get a:

, The search engines will like your site a lot better if you do this right, and it will look more appealing in the search results, when someone is trying to find your website via a search engine like Google, Yahoo, or MSN Search.


Note: If you're new to the web, you might want to get your domain & hosting with the same company to make things easier for you.
 You will need them so you can compress your video package before uploading it to your website.
 When you use a payment script, you automate the order placement process so you don't need to constantly monitor your email inbox, and manually send out download links to the people who bought your product. The payment script, like DLGuard, or LinkLok PayPal, works in-between the buy button on your website, and the payment processor:

, There is no need to get a full blown merchant account when you're just starting out. PayPal, 2CheckOut, and ClickBank do a great job without the hassles and expenses of a merchant account. Not only can you receive money, but you can send people money as well.

