 There's a good story to read for anyone. Think about what sort of stories you like and go read such a book. If you don't have any fun books at home, search the internet. Lots of stories and/or books can be easily found on the internet for free.;
, You can watch anywhere you like: in your bed, on the couch, in a comfy chair and so on.
 It doesn't have to be knitting but something like a scrapbook or a collage would do nicely. Especially scrapbooking, collage making or drawing can be fun activities, and you can easily decide how many or how little time to spend on it.
 Take a relaxing (cold) shower or bath, do something fun with your hair, trim your nails, anything to help you feel fresh and clean during summer.
 If you have a tent, ask your parents if you can set up the tent in your back or front yard to spend one or two summer nights there. Invite a friend over to share in the fun.
 Use a garden hose or sprinklers to get yourself all wet and cooled off without having to go swimming anywhere. Just try not to raise the water bill too much.
 You can easily make your own Slip 'n Slide using a smooth piece of tarp. Lay down the tarp, make it slippery with a safe detergent or some smooth soap and hose it down every now and then to keep it slippery. Have fun sliding down the tarp!

, Simply sit or lie down on the grass, use a picnic blanket to sit or lie more comfortably if you like, and watch the skies. At night, do some stargazing.
 Practice any subjects you failed or didn't do so well in prior to summer. Perhaps use the school's website to find out which teachers you're dealing with next year and what sorts of content will be in your upcoming subjects.
 New notebooks and pencils are often needed.
 Is there anything you'd like to change? Go ahead and rearrange your furniture a bit.
 There's lots of fun things to do together.
, Bake cookies, cakes or perhaps something you've never baked before. Just make sure you have all the ingredients you need before starting the baking project.
 There are lots of delicious meals to make using summer products.
 Sort out any stuff you don't want or need anymore, set a price (you can always negotiate with buyers if you're not sure) for everything and earn some money while making people happy with their wonderful secondhand stuff.
 If there's any stuff they want to get rid of, suggest you sell it. They might expect a part of the profit though, as it used to be their stuff which they once bought.

