 This can be difficult, depending upon the region in which you live. Melaleuca alternifolia grows in USDA hardiness zones 8 through 11 and it is available for purchase. Other tropical areas may also be able to find the small tree at gardening centers or through magazines.

For people in cooler climates, it will be much harder to track down the raw materials needed to make this oil yourself. It is easier and less expensive to buy bottles of pre-made tea tree oil from reputable sources. If you buy tea tree leaves, make sure they are dried so that the oil remains inside the leaves.;
, You can buy a small set from suppliers on Amazon.com or you can borrow one from a chemistry lab. Some home brew operations allow people to rent small stills for a short period of time.

Glass and stainless steel are the best choices for stills; however, these materials can be expensive.
 Make sure you have a flat surface, near an outlet, but in a safe area where children and pets cannot reach. Keep a fire extinguisher and wastebasket nearby., Essential oils are strong and can be dangerous to touch or breathe in. The concentration of ingredients makes them more potent., It needs to be between 30 and 75 percent full during the entire process. Reconnect it to the distillation unit., You can buy non-Teflon boiling stones at Internet market places when you are buying your distillation set. This keeps the water from bursting through the distillation set and ruining the process when it is boiling., Do not cut the leaves, because that will initiate a loss of oil. The leaves should be packed fairly tightly, but leave enough room for steam to pass through.

You may need to experiment with the amount of leaves you use to find out the right number for your distillation set.
 This will allow the oil to flow into the tube.,, They will start to shrink in the container., The majority of the oil should be removed and distributed to the container at the other end in the first 30 minutes. Turn the hot plate off when you are finished distilling., They should separate fairly easily.,,