 If you want to connect your laptop to your TV, you'll need to determine what connection ports your laptop has. This will help you figure out what cables you need, and if it is even possible. If you have the ability to use any of the above methods, you'll likely have a better experience using that instead.

Most newer laptops have an HDMI output along the back or side. This is the easiest way to connect your laptop to your TV, as long as your TV has HDMI as well, and only requires a single HDMI cable.
Your laptop may have a DVI output on the back. This looks like an older monitor port, with a line or "+" on the right side. If your TV also has a DVI port, you can use a DVI-to-DVI cable. If your TV doesn't have a DVI port, you'll need an adapter that will convert the DVI to HDMI. You'll also need a separate audio cable.
If your laptop has a blue VGA port, you may be able to connect to a VGA port on your TV. Many newer TVs do not have VGA ports. VGA will result in a blurry image, especially on newer HDTVs. You'll also need a separate audio cable.
If you're using a Macbook, you'll likely need an adapter in order to connect to an HDMI TV. Most Macbooks come with a Thunderbolt port which you can convert into an HDMI signal.;
, Once you've determined how to best connect your laptop, connect it to an open port on your TV.

If you're connecting via DVI or VGA, you should start with your laptop and TV turned off. This isn't an issue if you're using HDMI.
 If you're connecting using DVI or VGA, you'll need a separate audio cable to get audio from your laptop to your TV. The audio input port on your TV will have the same label as the DVI or VGA port that you connected the laptop to. You'll need a cable that splits the single output of the laptop's headphones port to the stereo input on your TV., Select the input that your laptop is connected to., Depending on your laptop's settings, you may see the image appear automatically when you log into Windows., If you don't see an image on your TV, you can tell your laptop to output to your TV.

Windows - Press ⊞ Win+P and select "Duplicate" or "Second screen only." You should see your desktop appear on the TV. If you don't see your desktop appear, ensure that you have select the correct output.
Mac - Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences." Click the "Display" option and then click the "Arrangement" tab. Check the "Mirror Displays" box to duplicate your Macbook's display on the TV.
 Usually your sound output will automatically change to the TV's speakers, but you may have to do this manually.

Windows - Right-click the Speaker button in the System Tray and select "Playback devices." Select your TV from the list of available devices and click "Set Default."
Mac - Open the System Preferences menu and select "Sound." Click the "Output" tab and select "HDMI" from the list of available outputs.
 Once everything is properly connected, you can load Netflix on your browser. Sign in with your Netflix account to access the streaming library. You'll need to have a subscription plan that supports streaming video., Click a video in the Netflix library to begin playing it. If everything is connected properly, you should be able to watch it on your TV with sound.