 Cholesterol is an essential part of a balanced diet but too high cholesterol levels can impact your health negatively and contribute to heart disease. But not all cholesterol is the same:Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, also known as the "bad" cholesterol, tends to accumulate in plaques inside the cardiac arteries, contributing to heart disease.High-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, also known as the “good” cholesterol, helps reduce the amount of LDL cholesterol in the body and may also contribute to a decreased risk of heart disease and stroke.;
, Most of the cholesterol you need is made by your body. However, food products contain additional cholesterol which contributes to increased levels in your body.Reduce your intake of animal-source foods that are high in cholesterol, including red meats, shellfish, eggs, butter, cheese, and milk.
In addition, you should avoid foods that contain saturated or trans fats as these increase the levels of LDL cholesterol as well.Build your diet around fresh produce, vegetable-sources of fat and protein and high-fiber foods.
 Fats are an important part of a balanced diet, but you need to moderate how much you eat and what types of fats you include in your diet. Polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats are considered to be the good, heart-healthy fats, while saturated and trans fats are considered unhealthy..


Polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats help lower LDL cholesterol, which is why you should eat more healthy sources of fat in order to decrease your risk of developing heart disease and stroke.Foods high in healthy fats include tofu, fish (such as salmon, mackerel, and river trout), avocado, nuts (such as walnuts, hazelnuts, and macadamia nuts), beans (such as kidney beans, soybeans, and navy beans), and vegetable oils (such as olive, safflower, and flaxseed oil).
Saturated fats and trans fats increase your levels of LDL cholesterol, contributing to plaque-development inside your arteries.
Avoid foods that are fried and highly processed, and make sure that you moderate your intake of foods that are full of unhealthy fats, such as fried chicken, cookies, crackers, and full-fat dairy.
In addition, you should limit your intake of cholesterol from food to less than 300 mg a day. If your cholesterol is high, the recommended amount is less than 200 mg per day.
 Butter contains saturated fats that can raise LDL cholesterol. In contrast, olive oil contains antioxidants that can lower your LDL cholesterol without changing your HDL cholesterol.The FDA recommends about 2 tablespoons, or 23 grams, of olive oil a day to benefit from its heart-healthy benefits. Some research suggests that the cholesterol-lowering effects of olive oil are even better if you choose extra-virgin olive oil.
 Fiber is an essential part of a healthy diet that helps contribute to your heart health. Soluble fiber helps lower your cholesterol by binding with LDL cholesterol while it is still in your digestive system, keeping it from being absorbed in your bloodstream.Soluble fiber can be found from a variety of sources, including whole grain oatmeal, beans, nuts, and apples.Insoluble fiber is also an important for your diet. Although it does not help lower cholesterol like soluble fiber, it does add bulk to stool and promotes better digestive system health. Sources of insoluble fiber include wheat bran and whole grains., Complex carbohydrates are rich in nutrients, such as vitamins, minerals, and fiber but they also help lower your cholesterol levels. In contrast, food high in simple sugars have been linked to elevated LDL cholesterol levels.Good sources of complex carbohydrates include oat bran, legumes, cabbage, whole grain pasta, and corn.
Many studies have shown a link between high consumption of sugars with increased cholesterol and plasma lipid levels. Limit your intake of sweets and baked goods., Fish contain heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids that do not contribute to LDL cholesterol levels. Dietary guidelines recommend having at least two servings of fish each week.The highest levels of omega-3 fatty acid are found in mackerel, lake trout, herring, sardines, albacore tuna, and salmon.Red meat is high in LDL cholesterol and saturated fats. When choosing beef, opt for leaner cuts (such as top and bottom round roast, top sirloin and sirloin tip side steak) or choose a white-meat protein source, such as turkey or chicken, whenever possible to help manage your cholesterol level., Avocados and nuts are good vegetarian sources of monounsaturated fats that help lower LDL cholesterol levels. They are also packed with other healthy nutrients, such as protein, vitamins, and minerals.However, avocados and especially nuts are relatively high in calories and thus you should eat them in moderation. Consuming too many calories can make you overweight and being overweight puts you at higher risk for heart disease. A handful of nuts and/or one avocado a day are enough.
 Whey protein is derived from dairy and is shown to be effective at lowering levels of LDL cholesterol in the bloodstream.Whey protein is often offered in vanilla and chocolate flavors and can be added to a shake, oatmeal, or yogurt.
Caution: too much protein might not be good for you. Monitor your intake and limit your protein consumption to 15-25% of total daily calories per day or 0.8-1.2 grams per kilogram of body weight. This translates to approximately 53 grams for a 140-lbs woman who does not exercise.If you exercise, are pregnant, or breastfeeding, your protein consumption is higher. If you are unsure how much to take, consult your doctor.
 Plant sterols help you manage your cholesterol level by blocking your body’s ability to absorb it, lowering LDL cholesterol levels by 6-15% without affecting the HDL cholesterol levels. Eating foods rich in plant sterols may be a good way to reduce your LDL cholesterol level and improve your heart health.Consuming sterols in recommended quantities of 2gm per day can lead to lowering LDL to that rate.
Sterols occur naturally in grains, fruits, legumes, vegetables, nuts, and seeds.
Sterols are also added to many different kinds of foods, including orange juice, and yogurt.
 A clinical study indicated that drinking green tea may help lower your cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Green tea also prevents your intestines from absorbing cholesterol and thus facilitates its excretion from your body. Green tea also has other health benefits and is thought to boost the immune system and decrease inflammation.Replace soda, juices, and other drinks with ice-cold green tea flavored with lime or sugar-free sweeteners.
 A British study showed that those eating six small meals a day resulted in significantly lower cholesterol than those eating two meals a day—despite the fact that those eating the six small meals actually consumed more calories and fat.


Break your daily calories between five or six meals. This will help keep you satisfied throughout the day and reduce unhealthy cravings.

