 As with most other letters of consolation, a letter of general support should acknowledge the reason you're lending someone support. You don't have to necessarily address the issue by name if it's a painful or sensitive topic, but you should at least acknowledge in your letter that the individual is going through a difficult time.


Use your discretion when deciding whether to address the specifics of the issue or to name the issue. For example, a violent death or other types of assault would be painful and inappropriate for the recipient to have to read.
 If someone you're being supportive of has gone through a difficult or traumatic event, their life may feel like it's been turned upside down. During such a period, having some sense of normalcy can make things easier to cope with.Don't be preachy, and don't try to give advice.
Offer the encouragement for normalcy as a suggestion.
For example, you might say, "I know things are very difficult right now, but I've heard that trying to maintain a normal schedule/routine can make it easier to get through this."

, Practicing good self-care during difficult periods can make a world of difference. It helps people who have been hurt to heal and it allows people who are stressed to unwind. This can require some delicate phrasing, though, as you don't want to come across as being preachy or prescriptive (much like with telling someone to maintain normalcy).Gently encourage the recipient to do something relaxing or enjoyable, even if they don't feel capable of feeling good.
Yoga, meditation, and tai chi are all great ways of relieving stress.
Arts and crafts, playing games with friends, going to see a movie with friends, or going to a food or music festival are all great ways to have fun and disengage from stressful life events.
 Letting the recipient know that you're available to get together and generally lend support will be tremendously meaningful. You can offer your support in a number of ways, depending on how comfortable you feel with that individual.


Make yourself available to get together for coffee, a meal, or a drink (if you're both of legal drinking age).
Offer to join the individual in doing something they normally like to do, like attending a class or going on an outing.
Don't make a vague and easily-forgotten offer; give concrete details and make plans.
For example, you might tell the recipient, "I'm free next week and I know you love going to yoga every morning. I'd really like to join you, and maybe we can get coffee afterward."

