 Typically a software-based invention is categorized as a process, which is one of the four categories of subject matter invention that are eligible for patent protection.As you look at how your software will be used – for example, whether it will be incorporated directly into a computer or distributed separately from the hardware that runs it – you'll gain an understanding of what unique parts of your software must be protected from competitors. These processes are typically the inventions that need patent protection. In most cases they solve a problem. For example, suppose you create software that when installed in a washing machine turns the machine off if it is about to overflow. Your patent will protect your process of detecting an imminent overflow and shutting down the machine.;
, To be patentable, you must have an invention within your software that is new and non-obvious.Additionally, your invention must be tied to a machine. This essentially means that the invented process requires a machine to complete essential steps. To return to the washing machine example, your invention clearly is tied to the machine in that if your software is not installed in the on-board computer of a washing machine, it doesn't do anything.
Your claims cannot be based on abstract ideas or concepts to be eligible for patent protection.In other words, you can't patent a mathematical formula, but you could patent a particular application of that formula.For example, suppose you've found an equation enabling a computer to navigate a space craft to specific coordinates in space. You would not be able to patent the equation, but you could patent the software you designed to be installed in, let's say, the space shuttle. , Before you file for your patent, you must complete a prior art search to be sure that no one else has patented an identical or similar invention. If you've never performed a patent search, the USPTO recommends hiring a registered attorney or agent to help you conduct your search. If you have limited resources, you may be able to find an attorney to work for you for free or at a drastically reduced cost. If you want to conduct the search yourself, you may do so using the USPTO's Patent Full Text Database, which contains all patent applications and granted patents from 1976 to the present. Your patent search will also enable you to determine that your invention has never been declared to be "obvious." To be patentable, your invention must be "non-obvious" from the viewpoint of someone who is skilled in software development and has knowledge of all pre-existing software., A non-provisional application takes a lot of time to complete and process, but a provisional application gives you the benefit of patent protection at an earlier effective date. Provisional applications are cheaper than non-provisional applications and do not require many of the complications of the longer, non-provisional applications.
Your provisional application allows you to use the words "patent pending" in relation to your invention for 12 months while you work on your non-provisional application. You may file a provisional application anytime within 12 months of the first public disclosure of your invention. , It must include a complete written description of the invention along with the names of all inventors.


To be complete, your provisional application must be accompanied by the filing fee and a cover sheet that identifies the application as a provisional patent application and lists the names and addresses of all inventors, the title of the invention, the name and registration number of any attorneys or agents who worked with you to prepare your application, and the address you intend to use for correspondence with the USPTO. , Once you've completed your provisional application, you can file it using the USPTO's electronic filing system. If you prefer to use the mail, you can send a hard copy of your application along with the filing fee to: Commissioner for Patents, P.O. Box 1450, Alexandria, VA 22313-1450. , Non-provisional patent applications are extremely complex, and patent examiners expect the application to be written and compiled in a specific way. The USPTO recommends you hire someone with experience to help you draw up your non-provisional application, so you don't waste time and money on an incomplete or incorrect application. , Your application will include a number of required forms. While you may find forms elsewhere, the USPTO recommends you use the forms it provides to make sure everything is correct. The application transmittal and fee transmittal forms provide a list of the elements of your application and the fees being submitted. You must sign each of these forms after filling them out and include them with your application. The application data sheet is similar to the cover sheet included with the provisional application and must be filed to claim the benefit of the prior-filed provisional application. Your specification includes documents that describe your invention in full, clear, and exact terms, including how your invention is made and/or used. A software patent application approaches the software's use from an end-user's perspective. It also discusses its use and structure from a systems point of view and the computer's point of view.The specification includes a number of documents, such as the background and summary of your invention, a detailed description including drawings, and a list of the claims you are making with respect to your invention. Your application will close with the inventor's oath or declaration, in which you declare that you made the application and that you are the original inventor of the invention claimed in the application. If you make an oath, it must be signed in the presence of a notary public. A declaration does not require a notary or any other witness but must be signed. , Before you file your non-provisional application, you must determine how much the processing fees will be for your application and apply for a customer number and digital certificate. Your processing fees will depend on the number of claims you have. The total amount is reduced if you qualify as a small entity or a micro entity. Small entities generally are individuals or small businesses with fewer than 500 employees. Micro entities are small entities with fewer than four non-provisional utility patents and income less than three times the median household income. For example, in 2014, the applicant would have to have earned less than $155,817 to qualify as a micro entity.If you claim small or micro entity status, you must fill out an additional form certifying that status and include it with your application. , Once you've completed all the forms in the packet, you can submit them along with your filing fee using the USPTO's filing system. , It provides a calculator on its website that you can use to estimate how long it will take to receive the first office action on your patent. , Your patent examiner will review your patent application and any claims you make. You may argue the patentability of those claims, but you cannot alter your patent application once it's filed.
 If the patent examiner raises any objections and you are able to overcome them, you'll have your patent issued as soon as you pay the required fees. , To keep patent protection, you must pay maintenance fees 3.5, 7.5, and 11.5 years after your patent is granted. As with other USPTO fees, you will pay lower maintenance fees if you qualify as a small entity or a micro entity. USPTO fees change occasionally, so you'll need to check the fee schedule to find out how much you owe. Recently the fees for a small entity were $800 after 3.5 years, $1,800 after 7.5 years, and $3,700 after 11.5 years. , Copyright protects the particular expression of your process, while a patent protects the process itself. Copyright generally is simpler, in that it begins from the moment your software is created and lasts many years after your death. A patent, on the other hand, lasts only around 20 years. Copyright registration is easy, inexpensive, and can be completed on your own, while a full patent application typically requires legal assistance. Some countries do not recognize patents of software-related inventions. This can be a problem if you plan to sell your program globally. Keep in mind that the law does not technically require any code to be written for the software in order for it to be patentable. If you have written basic code for the software, a registered copyright can provide a layer of protection for your invention while you complete the patent application process, if you decide to do so.
Also keep in mind that when you register a claim to a copyright, you are making a public record, so if you do plan on filing a patent application you should at least file a provisional application within 12 months of the date you file your copyright registration. , Because applying for patents is much more expensive and time-consuming than applying for copyrights, you should make a realistic projection of how much money you expect to make with your software before you jump into the application process.
 You may register your copyright either by using the eCO electronic system or by filling out a paper form and mailing it to the Copyright Office along with a check for your fees and copies of your software. The Copyright Office recommends using the electronic system, which is faster and allows you to monitor the status of your registration online. If you are registering with a paper form, you should either fill it in on your computer or write in your information by hand using a black pen. , When you file for copyright you must send your application, the filing fee, and two copies of your software for deposit with the Library of Congress.The filing fee is $55 if you use the online system and $85 if you mail a paper application. Paper applications should be accompanied by your deposit materials and a nonrefundable filing fee in the form of a check or money order payable to the Register of Copyrights. Mail these items to the Library of Congress, Copyright Office-TX, 101 Independence Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20559. 