 Laser tattoo removal is one of the few methods of tattoo removal that does not involve cutting into the skin and instead uses pulses of light at a very high concentration to remove the tattoo.Your dermatologist or cosmetic surgeon will have an initial consultation with you to discuss your treatment options, including how many laser session will be required to remove your tattoo.Thought considered one of the most effective and safest ways to remove a tattoo, laser tattoo removal can cause scarring, blisters or scabbing, as well as pain in the lasered area.Patients are normally given a local anesthetic gel prior to undergoing the laser treatment.
Keep in mind professional tattoo removal is considered a cosmetic procedure and will likely not be covered by medical insurance.;
, In this procedure, your skin will be sprayed with a numbing solution and then sanded down to reveal the unblemished layers of skin underneath the tattoo.This will also allow the tattoo ink to leach out of your skin.You will be given a local anesthetic for this procedure. Bleeding usually occurs and the process can be painful.
This method will also set you back upwards of $1000, depending on the size of your tattoo.You'll be sore for a little over a week (or 10 days) after the procedure and will likely be given an ointment to treat the affected area. Keep in mind that like laser removal, dermabrasion may not completely remove the tattoo.This procedure is not recommended if you are prone to scarring or hypo-pigmentation., If your tattoo is small, you may be able to actually remove it (and the skin) entirely.During this procedure, your doctor will take a scalpel and remove it, cinching the edges of the skin together, forming a small scar.
If your tattoo is large, this is still an option, but it will take several treatments and possibly a skin graft to remove it., In cryosurgery, the tattoo is frozen and burned off with liquid nitrogen. Chemical peels are similar in that they are applied to the skin, causing it to blister, and subsequently peel off.Be aware that cryosurgery and chemical peels may not remove the tattoo completely, and can be very painful procedures. As well, they are not as effective as laser treatment., The effectiveness of any professional method is dependent on the abilities of the professional, your skin type and color, your tattoo, and your tattoo artist. Before you go into any procedure, it's important to collect as much information as possible about the best removal option for your specific tattoo.


All of these methods will most like result in a scar. But, a scar may be preferable to the tattoo.
It may be worth saving your money and investing in professional tattoo removal to ensure you get the best removal results and lessen the risk of scarring or damage to your skin.
 They must be a licensed professional and have good references and referrals. If possible, ask your family doctor to refer you to a dermatologist or cosmetic surgeon who specializes in tattoo removal.