 Measure the length and width of the cushion stuffing and cut the front and back of the cushion to size. To do this, use a chalk and mark the size before cutting it. Remember to leave some extra bits so it can be sewed together.;
, Then pin the covers together and place it under the presser foot of the machine. Lower the presser foot and begin sewing. Do this for all the sides- except for one side where you will sew the buttons later on. After sewing it, cut off all the extra bits with pinking shears to prevent fraying edges.
 Using chalk, lightly draw the design on the front of your cushion. Ensure that before doing this; make sure that you have planned it out on paper first so that you don’t stuff it up in the process of completing it.
 After planning, sew on the bits and pieces you have chosen to use. This is done by hand sewing. For my cushion, I had little flower-like gold motifs as well as small orange heart-shaped motifs. My material was checkered, which was helpful in the layout of my motifs.
 This, also, is done by hand sewing. This part applies for my cushion because I also chose to bead my cushion cover. This is not compulsory, but it was part of my design. I used gold beads and beaded a diamond-shaped pattern linking some of my motifs in the process.
 The buttons that would be easier to use are the little clip ones (they fit into each other to fasten). To make the job easier, you may want to use chalk to mark the places where you want to put the buttons. This will ensure that they will fit into each other properly. Sew the buttons on by hand.
 Usually stuffing comes with a lining already made. Sometimes, however, they come without a lining and it is preferable to make a lining so that when you put it in the cushion cover, it does not appear lumpy. You do this in the same way as the actual cushion cover- but you can use scrap material as long as it is the right size. If the lining is already there, just insert it into the cushion cover, fasten the buttons and there you have it - your own hand-made cushion.
