 You should probably visit websites like Bulbapedia or Pokedb.net to see what a Pokémon's shiny counterpart looks like. Some Pokémon are completely different in shiny form such as Charizard, Lapras, and Beldum, but be aware some shines look very the same. Such as Glalie, who's eyes are red instead of blue or Garchomp who's just a shade lighter. Many Pokémon aren't that much different, which is why planning ahead is a good idea to avoid disappointment. For this article will be using an American Munna and Japanese Ditto to breed for a shiny Munna.;
, The parents must be in the same egg groups. They also both have to be opposite genders or else you won't get an egg. So for example a female Mienshao and a male Meowth will produce an egg because they are in the same egg group. But a female Mienshao and a female Mienshao will not. Also, a female Clefairy and male Vulpix will not produce an egg. If the Pokémon you want to breed is genderless then breed it with a ditto. Dittos will breed with any Pokémon in any egg group (Except Undiscovered) regardless of the gender because ditto is in it's own egg group. Dittos also come in handy when you only have one parent. To get a ditto you can either trade for one, find them in normal friend safari, or in the Pokémon Village.
 For the Masuda method to work each parents have to be from a different region. To know if your Pokémon is from a different region look on it's summary page. On the same line as the Name and Level, on the right side there may be a black box with an abbreviation like, "JPN," "FRE," "SPA" or "GER." (These are not all, just a few examples.) If there is no abbreviation then the Pokémon was caught/breed in your region. To find foreign Pokémon you can search the species on GTS. You can also find PLENTY of foreign Pokémon on wonder trade. So once you find your parents then it is time to put them in the day care!

, Located on Route 7, you can drop off two Pokémon and ride around until they produce an egg. To know if there is an egg, the guy standing outside will face outward, if there is no egg he will have his back to you. When you see him facing out talk to him and he will ask if you want the egg after you say yes you can either put it in your PC or bike around and hatch it. Some people like to fill up a couple PC boxes of egg to hatch later, some take a party full to Lumiose City to bike around the Prism Tower or you can just ride up and down Route 7 hatching and collecting eggs. So just keep hatching and collecting and eventually you will get a shiny!

