 Thicker, rugged towels are better for cleaning and dusting. Thin, smooth towels are better for polishing surfaces.;
, Microfiber towels are specially designed for a number of uses, including car polishing, electronics dusting and cleaning homes. The following are considerations to make when you are choosing microfiber towels:


For car detailing uses, the thicker the towel, the more effective it will be. It also should be a tight weave and a short nap. Microfiber can soak up to 7 lbs. (3.75 kg.) of water per square foot (30 cm) and they can replace more expensive chamois towels. Auto-glass towels should be thinner and more pliant.
For home cleaning purposes, microfiber absorbs oil and dust, and it also picks up approximately 99 percent of bacteria. You want both thick and thin towels, so that you can pick up dust and polish glass.
For electronics or lens cleaning, only use thin, looser knit microfiber cloths. Grit and particles can become easily trapped inside thicker towels, making it easier to scratch sensitive surfaces. Electronics towels should be high in electrostatic properties, so check the label before buying.
 In general, the higher the towel's weight in grams, the better value the towel will be. Towels that are made of 100 percent nylon, a polyamide, are often better quality and more expensive.
 These towels are perfect for car detailing or home dusting. They can also be used to wipe down showers, in order to avoid hard water stains.
 Bath towels can be thick, or very thin so that they pack into small spaces. These towels are more rare and expensive, but they can be found on Amazon.com, REI or through a search on Nexttag.com.
 An office supply store will likely offer a multi-pack for a lower price. You can also find these towels for less money on online marketplaces like Amazon.com.
 Stores like Target or Walmart will offer a large variety of price and quality, as well as microfiber mops and dusters. Remember that the lowest price is unlikely to offer you the best cleaning properties.
 You may be able to find lens spray for special use with microfiber cloths.
 These are likely to be more expensive and lower quality than other outlets.
 Some use for bathing, some use at beaches, some use for cleaning and detailing, some use for their shops, some use for kitchens. As there are different styles and techniques.

