 It's best to pick whichever teacher you feel most comfortable with.


Don't worry if you don't feel close with any of your teachers, or even like any of them. In this situation it isn't about who likes who, it's about you being a victim of bullying and the teacher will put any disputes they have with you aside in this situation. It's their job to be responsible for students and do whatever they can to ensure all students have the best possible experience whilst in education. Without bullying.;
, Make sure you know your teacher is going to be in, and that other students aren't going to be around. Perhaps after school/college/university, after a lesson, before break/lunch, etc.  


You don't want other students to hear otherwise this could cause gossip and other un-wanted situations, so it's best to do it in private.
 Is your friend being bullied too? Then it's best they go with you as this will make it easier.


Discuss the situation with your friend and persuade them to raise the issue with your chosen teacher with you. Assure them it will be worth the outcome.
Whether your friend is being bullied or not, still ask them to go with you if you feel comfortable enough to talk about it with them present. Having support will make the situation a lot less nerve-wrecking for you.
If you still feel too nervous, perhaps ask your friend to do the talking for you until you feel comfortable enough to speak for yourself.
Don't worry if you don't have a friend to go with. Having a friend is not necessary and the teacher will treat you and the situation no differently.
 If you suffer from anxiety and/ or other similar conditions, maybe confronting your teacher is still out of the question. Find out the school/college/university number and contact them when possible.


Make sure to check whether they are open at the time you plan on ringing them.
When you've phoned up, simply ask to speak to the teacher you wish to and hopefully something can be arranged when your teacher is available to speak over the phone.
 Try to give the teacher the best description you can about the bullies as the teacher may not know who they are. For instance:


How old they are/What age group they're in.
Are there various different bullies, or just one/group of people?

, Try to think of all the issue's occurring that you want to mention to your teacher. Write a list to help you remember, as talking on the spot to your teacher may make it easy to forget things (optional). These are some common examples of bullying that you might need to mention:


Racism
Hate crime
Slander (Rumours)
Sexism
Stalking
Harassment (Towards people of disabilities, etc)
Sexual Harassment
Religious beliefs
Social Status (some people, sadly, get picked on for being less wealthy than their peers)

, How have your bully/bullies been bullying you? Try to describe what's been happening the best way you can. Give your teacher an example of a recent event that has happened with the bully/bullies. For instance, "Last night I received constant text's from *Insert name*..." and so on. Answer to yourself the following bullet points and inform your teacher whichever one's are relevant to you:


Is there a main culprit? Or are the bullies all equally as bad as each other?
What type(s) of bullying has been going on? (Verbal, physical, social, cyber, etc)
When and where does it happen? Is it off school/college grounds, after class, at lunch/break? etc. All of these things matter as changes need to be made to prevent the bullying from continuing. So informing your teacher when and where issues have been taking place is necessary.
 Has bullying caused other personal issues for you? Make sure to tell your teacher as they may be able to give you the help you need, or advice on what to do, such as going to the doctors. Here's a list of common issues that occur to victims of bullying:


Mental health/emotional problems (Being depressed, anxiety, etc)
Anti-social
Physical Injuries
Low self-esteem
Addiction
Relationship troubles

