 Some kinds of pain, particularly back and stomach pain, may worsen with stress and anxiety, causing a vicious cycle of worrying about the pain while the pain gets more intense. Pain can also be caused by, not just exacerbated by, anxiety and stress.The way the body responds to stress is similar to how it responds to pain. Both create faster heartbeat and breathing and make your muscles tense up. Stress causes more cortisol, the stress hormone, to be released into the blood, which can make you more vulnerable to feeling pain.Try out mind-body therapies. These include meditation, guided imagery, hypnosis and biofeedback. The last two require a doctor’s help, but you can do the others on your own., Meditation has been shown to be an effective treatment for chronic pain.There are different ways to meditate, but the objective is to calm your mind and slow down your autonomic processes, like breathing and your heartbeat. You can just sit quietly and try not to think about anything, or use guided imagery to focus your attention on positive ideas.


Lie or sit comfortably and pay attention to your breathing. Don’t try to control it, just notice the pattern and sensation of air going through your body. When thoughts or pain surfaces, think of them like a cloud passing over the sky quickly, acknowledge them, and watch them fade into the distance.For guided imagery, imagine blocking off the pain physically, like putting it behind glass.Or, sit and breathe deeply for at least 10 minutes a day while imagining a tranquil scene. Picture it as completely as you can, with sounds, sights, smells, etc., so you can imagine you are actually there.Use foursquare breathing. Breathe in deeply into your abdomen, inhaling for four seconds, holding for four seconds, and exhaling for four seconds. Hold for a count of four before repeating. Repeat ten times total., This means replacing your negative thoughts with positive ones. Rather than thinking to yourself, “My back is killing me! I can’t do anything today,” correct yourself and think, “I can break down my task into smaller ones and do one thing at a time. I can certainly do at least the first step now, despite the mild pain I feel.” , Gaming has been shown to reduce stress and help with problem solving abilities.It is better to choose a game that is not particularly violent. Both violent and non-violent gamers have reduced stress, but there are competing ideas about whether violent games distort one’s vision of the world around them., This is a form of helping through distraction. People with chronic pain have reported having less pain after listening to music for an hour every day.It doesn’t matter what kind it is, as long as it causes you to relax, not be agitated.
Everyone’s taste in music is different, but generally consonant harmonies are more pleasing to most people (as opposed to clashing tones or chords). If your first choice isn’t relaxing you, try a different musician or type of music.The best pain relief has been associated with music that has a positive message, is lower tempo and low in intensity., Laughing increases oxygen circulation and lowers your blood pressure.It also triggers the body to release endorphins, which act like painkillers.Laughing therefore offers stress relief and promotes happiness, which can help you focus less on your pain. Watch a funny movie or TV show.
Download your favorite comic routine to your phone or iPod.
Call a friend or family member and reminisce about the good times.
 Having unexplained pain can be a lonely, frustrating experience, so it is important for you to maintain and develop your social circles during this time. Joining a support group for people who are dealing with similar types of pain will give you a chance to talk through your struggles and gain insight from other people's experiences.


Look for groups in your area that meet in person or check out online forums.

