 For example, do you bleed profusely from a small cut? You may need to confirm that you do not have a bleeding disorder by having some laboratory tests (PT, PTT, INR) done to determine your bleeding time and clotting time. This will ensure that your kidney does not bleed unusually during the procedure. The kidney is a highly vascular organ and is at risk of bleeding from minor injury.Bleeding disorders can increase the risks associated with the biopsy.
Common bleeding disorders include hemophilia A and B, which are disorders in factor VIII and IX, respectively.;
, Some drugs increase the risk of bleeding so you must stop taking them before the procedure. By informing your doctor of all the drugs and supplements you are taking they can instruct you on which ones to stop taking prior to the biopsy. As a general rule you should avoid:Blood thinning drugs such as warfarin which you should stop taking 7 to 10 days before the biopsy.
Drugs that prevent blood clot formation, such as aspirin and other over the counter pain medications (ex. Ibuprofen, Advil, Motrin).Herbal supplements like ginkgo, garlic and fish oil because they can cause blood thinning., Pregnant women have high blood pressure that increases the risk of bleeding after the procedure. Additionally, pregnancy itself alters kidney structures and makes it difficult to properly diagnose diseases through a biopsy.


Before the biopsy your doctor may ask you to arrange one or two units of cross matched blood as a precautionary measure.
Your doctor may also ask you to defer the procedure until after delivery. After delivery the effect of pregnancy on your kidney structure will wane and the actual problem will be revealed.
 The anesthesiologist is the doctor who administers medication to keep you comfortable during the kidney biopsy. You will need to provide information regarding:Family history: The anesthesiologist will need to know if you, or anyone in your immediate family, has had any problems with anesthesia in the past. This helps the anesthesiologist order the correct medicine to use during the procedure.
Allergies and reactions to medications: Tell the anesthesiologist about any allergies you have or reactions to medications you’ve had in the past.
Medical history: Make sure to tell the anesthesiologist if you have a history of bleeding or if you are on blood thinners, known as anticoagulants such as Coumadin or Aspirin. Other medications that cause bleeding are Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAID) such as Advil, Ibuprofen, Motrin and others. You’ll be asked to stop these medications a few days before surgery.
 In order to make sure that you are fully prepared for the procedure it is best to have a clear understanding of what a kidney biopsy entails, any risks associated with the biopsy, what the potential results could mean, and how long the recovery will take.