 Studies show that regular exercise can help produce endorphins and increase neurotransmitters that may help with symptoms of depression.Try to exercise for approximately thirty minutes each day.
 A healthy diet can help improve your overall health. In particular, omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to help as an adjunctive therapy for depression.


Omega-3- fatty acids are contained in foods such as kale, spinach, soybean or canola oil, flaxseeds, walnuts, and fatty fish such as salmon. They are also available over the counter, usually as fish oil gelatin capsules.
Studies that showed benefit of omega-3 fatty acids in mood disorders included doses between 1 – 9 grams; however, more evidence supports the lower doses in that range., Sleep is often disturbed by depression. It is important to follow good sleep hygiene to ensure you are getting proper rest. Good sleep hygiene includes:Going to bed and getting up the same time each day
Avoiding stimulation before sleeping, such as exercise, watching TV, or doing computer work
Avoiding alcohol and caffeine before bed
Avoiding eating large meals and drinking large amounts of liquid within a few hours of bedtime
Sleeping in a cool, dark and quiet room
Associating your bed with sleep as opposed to reading or doing other work

, There is not a consensus on how much exposure you need to help symptoms of depression; however, researchers agree some types of depression, such as seasonal affective disorder, may benefit from getting more exposure to sunlight. Research also suggests sunlight can affect your levels of serotonin.


Generally, there isn’t a maximum amount of exposure for sunlight. Make sure you do wear sunscreen if you are going to be in the sun longer than 15 minutes., Throughout the process, stay in touch with your doctor and let your doctor know about your status, feelings, or symptoms. Keep a relative or close friend involved as well. They may be able to provide emotional support or recognize signs of relapse., An analysis of different studies found that people who undergo psychotherapy while discontinuing an antidepressant are less likely to have a relapse.Psychotherapy is a way to help people with mental disorders by teaching them ways to deal with unhealthy thoughts and behaviors. It gives people tools and strategies to manage their stress, anxieties, thoughts, and behaviors. There are different types of psychotherapy. Treatment plans depend on the individual, the disorder, severity of disorder, and numerous other factors such as if you are on medications.Cognitive behavioral therapy’s (CBT) goal is help a person think more positively and influence behavior. It focuses on current problems and solutions to those problems. A therapist helps the person identify unhelpful thinking and change inaccurate beliefs, thus aiding a change in behavior. CBT is particularly effective for depression.
Other therapies — such as interpersonal therapy, which focuses on improving communication patterns; family-focused therapy, which helps by resolving family conflicts that may be influencing the patient’s illness; or psychodynamic therapy, which focuses on helping people gain self-awareness — are also available options.
 A Johns Hopkins analysis of previous studies suggests that thirty minutes of daily meditation may improve symptoms of depression and anxiety.Practical ways you can practice meditation are repeating a mantra, prayer, taking time to focus on breathing, or reflecting on what you have read.Aspects of medication include:


Focus — Focusing on a specific object, image, or breathing can free your mind of worry and stress.

Relaxed breathing — Slow, deep, diaphragmatic breathing (breathing that makes your belly rise when you inhale, not your chest) activates your parasympathetic nervous system, which has a calming effect
Quiet setting — This is an important aspect to meditation, especially for beginners, so that you have fewer distractions.

