 If outdoor cats are coming around your yard, it's because they're looking for food and probably finding it somewhere. If you have pets, make sure their food is indoors and impossible to get to, and that there is no extra food lying around where strays can get at it. It's also a good idea to make sure mice haven't taken up residence in your porch or foundation, or you might end up welcoming the extra feline security.


Check all your trashcans for security, making sure the lids are secure and no food scraps are hanging out or easy to reach. Keep your trash pile manageable and secure so that no cats will come sniffing around the scent those tuna cans.
Talk politely to the neighbors to find out if they've been feeding cats. If one person starts laying out food, it makes it very difficult to keep the cats away. It's also a recipe for overfeeding, which ends up negatively affecting the cats' health in the long run.
 Cats, even feral ones, really don't like water. Place motion-activated water sprinklers in strategic spots where you see cats regularly, and where you'd like them to avoid. Place them in areas where you know cats enter the yard, and in several other spots, as well, so you get good coverage.


After a couple days, change the location up slightly so the cats will be sure to get scared off and won't be able to learn the new pattern. It shouldn't take many water scare-offs before the cats leave your yard alone.
 There are a variety of plants that look attractive in your yard, but are really unattractive to cats. Specifically, planting the herb rue in and around your garden will make cats stay far away. In the fall, you can harvest and dry rue to store it during winter and use as cat repellent. In the spring, sprinkle it in the garden to keep cats away from your starts.


Other nice plants known for their cat repellent properties include citronella, lemongrass, eucalyptus and lavender. These are pleasant scents for people and attractive looking plants to have in your yard, but cats hate them with a passion., You can mulch the surface of your garden, as well as between outdoor plants, bird feeders, and other places you'd like to keep cats away, using citrus fruit peels, coffee grounds or pipe tobacco. All are known cat deterrents, and have nitrogen-fixing properties for the soil, making them excellent for the environment and for scaring cats off.
 If you've got real cat problems and no pets of your own, you may not want to play nice anymore. Without being cruel to the cats you want to keep away, you can invest in more reliable and effective methods sure to keep cats away, including commercial cat repellent sprays and sonic devices designed to irritate animals.


Try a commercially sold cat repellent. Usually, these are made of synthesized or collected predator urine, and a small amount around the perimeter of your yard should do a lot to keep cats and other animals away. Follow the manufacturer's instructions and make sure the substance won't harm the animals.Install an ultrasonic pet repellent designed to repel cats. These devices create high-pitched audio transmissions that humans and most other animals do not hear, driving them away enthusiastically. Do not use these repellents if you have pets of your own. You may also want to talk to your neighbors to find out whether or not they have pets if you want to use one of these devices.
 If you've got a budding garden and want to keep cats and other pests away from your vegetables and plants, you can create barriers that will make it physically difficult for anything to get in. Close off the entrance to sheds, porches or other areas that cats might enjoy sleeping or urinating in. Taking away their shelter may keep them out of your yard entirely.


Put small rocks in the garden where there is exposed dirt to prevent cats from digging. You can also cut plastic carpet runners to fit between garden rows or any other area where a large amount of dirt is exposed. Lay them in the garden with the spoke side pointing up and then lightly cover them with soil. These spokes won't injure the cats' paws, but will deter them from stepping there. You can find plastic carpet runners at most office supply stores and carpet stores. They can be a bit expensive, but once you customize them for your garden, you can use them year after year.
Lay chicken wire flat on the soil between rows as an inexpensive alternative to carpet runners. Use rocks or ground spikes to anchor the ends of the pieces and cover the chicken wire with soil.
 If you make the cat's usual haunts less attractive, you might want to provide them with an out-of-the-way area in your yard to decrease the chances of them returning to the forbidden zones. This is an especially good idea if it's your cat, or if you enjoy the cat's presence, but want them to stay out of your sugar-snap peas.


Plant catnip in the opposite corner of the yard from where you want the cats, and allow the grass to grow significantly taller. Add a tall perch or two from an old bar stool or bench if there is not a tree, fence or other high spot available for the cat to survey its domain.
You can provide outdoor cats a litter box by tilling the soil in a designated area or putting sand on the ground in that spot. Clean the area regularly to encourage them to keep using it.
 Recently, the ASPCA has promoted a policy called Trap-Neuter-Return (TNR) as a way of controlling feral populations. If you've got a serious problem with stray cats in your neighborhood, consider helping to control the population and help the animals in your neighborhood stay healthy by having them neutered and releasing them again.

