 There are several rules surrounding who can get married in Ontario. You need to be of the right age and marital status before getting married. You must be at least 16 years old to marry in Ontario.If you are 16 or 17, you must have the written consent of both of your parents.


You may get married in Ontario if you are from another province or country as long as you meet Ontario's marriage requirements.
If you were previously married and divorced in Canada, you must have a court-certified divorce decree in the form of either a final decree, a final judgment, or a certificate of divorce.
If you became divorced in another country, you must obtain authorization from ServiceOntario -- the government agency which administers health cards, birth certificates, and marriage licenses -- before applying for a marriage license. You’ll need to fill out a marriage license application form and a statement of sole responsibility. You will also have to obtain a legal opinion letter from an Ontario lawyer stating why the divorce should be recognized in Ontario, and a court-certified divorce decree or annulment. Call 1-800-461-2156 for further information.;
, There are two types of marriages available to individuals marrying in Ontario.First, there is a religious marriage. In this type of marriage, a recognized religious official marries you. A religious official is a pastor, priest, or other leader within a religious community. The other type of marriage is a civil marriage. In this type of marriage, a judge, justice of the peace, or other civil servant marries you at the local city hall.


Consult the dataset at https://www.ontario.ca/data/registered-religious-officials to find a registered religious official to marry you in Ontario.
Consult the list of Ontario municipalities at http://www.mah.gov.on.ca/Page1591.aspx to find more information about having a civil ceremony in your location.
 Before marrying you need either a marriage license or a banns form from your church. The marriage license application must be submitted to the Office of the Registrar General for validation.


You can only get a banns form published by your house of worship if you and your betrothed has not been married before. If either of you have, you’ll need to apply for a marriage license instead.
To get a marriage license, you and your partner must appear together at your local town hall, and each of you must bring two forms of ID.There you’ll fill out the Marriage License Application Form. Acceptable forms of ID include a valid passport, a record of immigrant landing, a driver’s license, or an Ontario Photo Card.
A list of municipal offices can be found online at http://www.mah.gov.on.ca/Page1591.aspx.
You may need to pay a marriage license fee. Confirm the amount to be paid with the municipal office that you intend to visit.
The Marriage License Application Form is available online at http://www.forms.ssb.gov.on.ca/mbs/ssb/forms/ssbforms.nsf/AttachDocsPublish/007-11018E~1/$File/11018E.pdf.
 Consult your partner about how much you two are willing to collectively spend. Factor in your families’ contributions, if applicable.


In advance of your wedding, start a wedding fund so that you have enough money to expand your wedding if you later want to.
Allocate money for each expense and deduct it from the total amount you want to spend. For instance, you might deduct costs associated with the catering or food, the DJ services, and the hall or church rental. Your wedding rings are also expenses, don’t forget to include them in your budget.
 Think about who your closest family and friends are and send them invitations. Try to keep this list short. Omit acquaintances and coworkers who you are not close to. Remember, the longer the guest list, the more expensive your wedding will be.
 Wedding planners are professionals who offer advice on how to have the best wedding you can. They may have relationships with certain vendors, and can advise you on where to sit guests, how long each portion of the wedding ceremony should last, and what kind of entertainment to provide. Even if you don’t turn the entire wedding over to a professional planner, it might be good to consult with one for an hour or so about your plans and hear what kind of input they have for you.
 Don’t get married in the wrong place. Discuss with your partner where they would like to get married. Offer your own suggestions and compromise to find the best location. If there is a place you both think would be a good location to be wed, plan on having the wedding there. For instance, if you both attend the same church, that church would be a good place to have the wedding.


Consider the weather and season when choosing a wedding venue. For instance, if you want to get married in your tiny hundred-year old church without air conditioning in July, you might find you and your guests are uncomfortable being cooped up in such a stuff environment for the duration of the wedding service. Look for alternatives, like a wedding in the church’s adjacent yard or green space.
Some of the top wedding destinations within Ontario include:

Stonefields Heritage Farm, a historic property in Beckwith featuring rustic barns and beautiful green space.Arowhon Pines, a rustic Huntsville lodge ideal for summer marriages. Close proximity to canoeing and hiking make it a good choice for outdoorsy types.Old Mill in Toronto, a hotel designed in the manner of an old English village. A florist and wedding chapel are on-site to make your marriage convenient.Estates of Sunnybrook in Toronto, a historic property spread over 40 acres. The ballroom epitomizes class without being ostentatious., A marriage certificate is a document which validates that the marriage occurred. It is not the same as the marriage license which you obtained before getting married, and is also not the same as the Record of Solemnization of Marriage, which the religious official who married you and your partner may have given you.


The official who married you must forward the marriage license to the Office of the Registrar General. Your marriage will be registered in up to ten weeks.
Only after your marriage has been registered can you obtain a marriage certificate. Order a certificate online at https://www.orgforms.gov.on.ca/eForms/start.do?lang=en&_ga=1.165972926.122684159.1462303672. You’ll need to include when and where you got married, as well as your and your partner’s names.It takes about 20 minutes to fill out the marriage certificate application.
 If you want to change your last name to your spouse’s last name, you do not need to formally change your legal name. This makes it easy to return to your unmarried name if you later need to because it will not change your birth certificate. Take your marriage certificate, your current photo health card, and your driver’s license to a Service Ontario office to start the name change process.Search for your local Service Ontario location online at http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/tbsc-fsco/sc-lst.jsp?lang=eng&prov=ON.
There is no cost for assuming a married name.
Assuming a married name is not the same as legally changing it. If you wish to return to using your maiden name at any time, you can do so for free and will retain your original birth certificate.You should not use your maiden name and assumed married name at the same time, as this can cause confusion for financial or government agencies, and may result in difficulty for you.



If you get a formal name change within 90 days of your marriage, there is no cost; if applying for a formal name change after 90 days of marriage, you’ll be charged $25.
You will need a number of other documents to legally change your name. Assuming you were born in Canada, you’ll need to send:all original birth certificates or certified copies of birth registrations
photocopies of all change of name certificates (if you’ve changed your name before)
all court-certified copies of court orders (if applicable)


If you were born outside of Canada, or are a landed immigrant/permanent resident you’ll need to enclose:

a photocopy of your Canadian Citizenship Card (both sides) or Immigrant Landing/Permanent Resident Card (both sides)
a photocopy of your original birth certificate or photocopy of certified copy of birth registration from your country of birth
photocopies of all change of name certificates (if you’ve changed your name before
all court-certified copies of court orders (if applicable)


Download the Application to Change an Adult’s Name at http://www.forms.ssb.gov.on.ca/mbs/ssb/forms/ssbforms.nsf/FormDetail?OpenForm&ACT=RDR&TAB=PROFILE&SRCH=1&ENV=WWE&TIT=name+change&NO=007-11155E or call ServiceOntario to get the forms delivered to you. They can be reached at 416-325-8305 and 1-800-461-2156.

Submit the documents by mail to Office of the Registrar General, P.O. Box 3000, 189 Red River Rd, 3rd Floor, Thunder Bay, ON, P7B 5W0.
You can submit the documents in person at Service Ontario, 47 Sheppard Avenue East, Unit 417, 4th Floor, Toronto, ON, M2N 5N1.
 Change your driver’s license and Ontario Health Card first, then use the revised versions to change your name on your other documents.

