 It should be somewhere big enough to fit a lot of people in, but cheap enough to hire that you don't risk making a loss.;
, If you do, make sure you apply for this on time.
 Ask if they would like to feature their designs at your fashion show, it is likely that many of them would appreciate the opportunity to get their designs seen and people will be more likely to turn up to an event with local designers than they will to one just featuring clothes of the high street.
 You don't need to spend a fortune on professional models, put out some adverts and hold auditions. Give the designers the chance to be at the auditions if they wish, they may have a particular look in mind for their clothes.
 You don't need professional hairdressers and make up artists, try advertising at a local college which offers hairdressing and beauty courses, you will find at least a couple of students who would appreciate the experience.
 How much you can charge will depend on the type of show you are doing. If the proceeds are going to charity, people may be willing to pay more than they would otherwise.
 While the clothes and models are important, you can't hold a fashion show if there's no audience. Advertise your fashion show well and send out invitations, you want to fill the venue you have booked.
 Do the with all of the models so that they know what to do at the real show. This way it's less likely someone will mess up. The rehearsal doesn't have to take place at the actual venue.
 The catwalk doesn't need to be an elevated platform, just a strip of floor with the chairs arranged around it will do, this is what many smaller fashion shows do.
 Keep these simple, anything complicated will distract people from looking at the clothes.
 You will need people to sell tickets and help behind the scenes to make sure everything runs smoothly.
 You don't want people running around not sure of what to do, make sure everyone knows where they should be and what they should be doing at any given time.

