 You will make enough pasta to feed 4 to 6 people. If this is too much for you, you can cut the recipe in half. You can also store any leftovers in the fridge. Cheesy pasta will last about a week.


If you want to add extras to your cheesy pasta, like ham or peas, you might want to start heating those up now. Any extras should already be cooked by the time you add them in at the end.;
, You can save some time by starting to prepare your cheesy sauce. If you cook the sauce and the pasta together at the same time, your meal will be ready sooner.
 You can use any type you want, but textured shaped (such as corkscrews) will hold the sauce better. You might want to add in 1 to 2 teaspoons of some sort of cooking oil. This will help keep the pasta from sticking.
 Most packages will tell you how long this will take. It can be as little as 8 minutes, to as long as 12.
 Take the pot off the stove, and carry it over the sink. Pour the water and pasta through a colander or strainer.
 Once you have drained the pasta, keep it in the strainer, and run it under cold water for a few seconds. This will stop the pasta from cooking and turning mushy. Give the strainer a jiggle to get rid of any excess water, then set the pasta aside.
 You will be adding the rest of the milk later.
 In a separate cup, whisk together the remaining milk with the flour. Keep whisking until there are no clumps left.
 Wait until the heating milk starts to form tendrils of steam. When it does, pour in the flour-milk, and stir it with a whisk.
 You are looking for a heavy, cream-like consistency. This will take about 3 to 4 minutes.
 You can use any type of shredded cheese you like. Cheddar, Colby, and Monterey Jack are popular flavors. If you are using a hard cheese, such as Romano or Parmesan, make sure that it is finely-grated. This will help it melt better.
 For more flavor, add a dash of pepper, garlic powder, or some dried herbs (such as oregano or basil).
 At this point, you can give your sauce a taste, and make any adjustments, if needed.
 You are now ready to mix it into your pasta.
 Choose a bowl that is a little bit larger than you think it needs to be. This will make mixing the pasta and sauce a lot easier. It will help prevent any bits of pasta from escaping.
 You will be adding the rest of the sauce later. It is easier to mix in small amounts of sauce at a time.
 Use a large spoon or spatula. Try to use a rolling motion, where you bring the pasta from the bottom of the bowl to the top.
 Use that same rolling motion as before, where you scooped the pasta from the bottom of the bowl to the top.
 At this point, you can add in some extras to give your pasta some extra flavor. What ever you choose to add in should already be cooked and cut into small, bite-sized pieces (or smaller). Here are some ideas for popular add-ins:Bacon or ham
Broccoli
Cauliflower
Mushrooms and onions
Peas and carrots
Peppers

, This sort of dish is best served warm. The longer it sits, the more greasy and oily it will become.

