 Sinusitis generally presents itself with the same basic symptoms. Symptoms of acute sinusitis often worsen after 5-7 days. Symptoms of chronic sinusitis may be milder, but are more long-lasting.Headache
Pressure or tenderness around the eyes
Nasal congestion
Runny nose
Sore throat and post-nasal drip (the sensation of “dripping” or running mucus at the back of your throat)Fatigue
Cough
Bad breath
Fever;
, Sinusitis can be acute (lasting less than four weeks) or chronic (lasting longer than twelve weeks).Having symptoms for a long time does not necessarily mean your sinusitis is more severe or dangerous.









Acute sinusitis can be caused by many things, but viral infection is the most common cause (90-98% of cases).You may get acute sinusitis after having a cold. Acute sinusitis due to a viral infection will usually improve within 7-14 days.
Allergies are the most common cause of chronic sinusitis. You may also be more susceptible to chronic sinusitis if you have asthma, nasal polyps, or if you smoke.
 Allergic sinusitis usually is not associated with a fever. Sinusitis caused by an infection, such as the common cold, may present with a fever.








A high fever (over 102F) is often a sign of bacterial sinus infection. If you have a fever above 102F, consult with your doctor.
 Dark yellow or green mucus with a bad smell or taste may be a sign of bacterial sinus infection. If you think you have a bacterial sinus infection, consult with your doctor. S








Physicians will often wait for further observation before prescribing an antibiotic. Many cases of bacterial sinusitis improve without antibiotic treatment. Doctors try to avoid prescribing antibiotics unless truly necessary, because too much antibiotic use can increase your risk of developing an antibiotic-resistant infection.Antibiotics will only help to treat bacterial sinusitis. They will not help other types of sinus infection.
Only 2-10% of acute sinusitis is caused by bacterial infection., In addition to high fever and dark yellow or green mucus, there are other symptoms that signal you should see a doctor. A doctor will evaluate you and determine whether a bacterial infection is likely and whether antibiotics are needed. If you have any of the following symptoms, consult with your physician to determine what treatment she recommends:









Symptoms that last longer than 7-10 days
Symptoms such as headache that do not respond to over-the-counter medicationsProductive cough with dark yellow, green, or bloody mucus
Shortness of breath, heaviness of your chest, or chest pain
Stiff neck or severe neck pain
Ear pain
Vision changes, redness, or swelling around the eyes
Development of an allergic reaction to any medication. Symptoms may include hives, swelling of the lips or face, and/or shortness of breath
Worsening of asthma symptoms in individuals with asthma
If you have been suffering from chronic sinusitis, it’s a good idea to see a doctor. S/he can help you treat long-term sinusitis. S/he may also refer you to an allergist or otolaryngologist (Ear-Nose-Throat doctor) to help determine the possible causes.

