 There's plenty to eat raw asides from the obvious fruits and vegetables. Most of the vegetables you eat cooked can also be eaten raw, such as broccoli which stalk, when eaten raw, has more vitamin C than an orange and a grapefruit combined (see video);
, Depending on where you live, you can take a tour of a neighbor's plantation, look around town or sites nearby or even the local market/grocery store. If you can't find any of these, go to your local supermarket. Asides from the obvious fruit and vegetable lane, there might be something new in a gourmet section or health section: maybe a tropical fruit, an unusual vegetable, a new treat. You can even make a list of your favorite choices or if you don't want to leave home research Wikipedia to see what kind of edibles do well on your climate. You can even plant them in your backyard!

, Obviously scratch everything that absolutely can't be eaten raw or that you can't ea for any reason (braces, allergies, etc.) and then start scratching everything you know you don't like. You'll end up with a rather large list, hopefully, of items you can add to your diet.
 You can now get started. If you don't write a food diary already, also buy a tiny notebook (unless you already have one, let's not be wasteful).
 Fresh is best; otherwise the only thing to do with overripe veggies is to cook, compost, or discard them.


Buy non-perishables in bulk to save time and effort and so that you always have them around for munching. Nuts, peanuts, almonds, hazelnuts and so forth. Stone pine seeds are also very good for you.
 The best way to get started is to add one more raw a day and then progress t at least one raw item per meal.
 Add a raw fruit (or a handful if they're small like berries or walnuts) to your breakfast to start with. Even if you're in a rush to go to work/school, that's no excuse: you can always put a raw fruit on your handbag or take it with you to eat on the go. The next day you can take another fruit to work/school to enjoy as a morning snack. Have a little bit of salad with your lunch, with or without salsa. Then add a fruit to you afternoon snack. You can now indiscriminately add fruits and salads to your diet!


Although not exactly raw, canned vegetables and fruit can be nice if you're going away for a while or if you're feeling lazy. Just please don't forget to drain the canning liquid and fill the can with water (immerse the veggies) to wash away the preservatives. This is important with vegetables but fruit is preserved in a sugary water that can even be drank and it tastes kind of good. Just beware as it is full of sugar.

