 Make phone calls to several of the nearest music stores. Let them know that you are a new piano instructor and inform them that you are looking for a good store to send your students to. When faced with the prospect of getting new customers, most music stores will be interested in building a good relationship with you. Determine which store seems to suit your needs best and let them know of your intention to direct students there. Then, ask them if you can leave business cards or pamphlets with them.;
, If you can prove that you have a legitimate business, do not have a criminal record, and have the qualifications to teach piano, many schools will be willing to send a flyer home with their students. You can contact both public and private schools at all grade levels. Make sure that the flyer looks professional and includes all necessary contact information.
 If you have a place of worship and they have a bulletin board, ask permission to place a flyer there. If your church does not have a bulletin board but does have a weekly bulletin, ask about the possibility of putting a short announcement or insert in there. Many places of worship are very eager to help their members.
 With as crowded as bulletin boards and traditional places of advertisement can be, advertising in an area that is not over-crowded with advertisements is an effective way to make your advertisement stand out. You may not reach many potential customers that way, but the ones you do reach will certainly remember you.
 Blogging can be an effective marketing tool as long as you know how to do it right. Learn how to optimize your blog for search engines. Make sure that your posts are informative and interesting, and be active enough in the blogging community to draw others to your own blog.
 An online video, posted to a popular online video community, can be a strong promotional tool. Get creative. The funnier or more interesting you can make the video, the more attention it will get. Your video does not need to go viral, but it helps to make it enough of an attention-grabber to attract a large number of hits.
 Start a Facebook page and Twitter account for your business. Be active on the social media sites you use, continually updating your pages and commenting on others' pages. The more attention you can attract, the more opportunity you have to advertise your lessons.

