 Cleaning oil-contaminated birds carries health and safety training.


Get proper training as a volunteer from the rescue organization that you have joined. Washing and cleaning birds can kill them, so you must know how to wash them in a way that minimizes the chances of stressing them excessively. ;
, Oil contaminated birds will appear blackened, sticky, and they will be trying to remove the oil by preening, if they have energy left.


Oil contaminated birds will preen constantly to the point of forgetting to drink and eat.As a result, oil affected birds will appear dehydrated and emaciated., Oil is as toxic to you as it is to the birds. As well, the birds will be very stressed. Only persons with specific training in handling both hazardous materials and wildlife handling should collect oil-contaminated birds for taking to the care and washing facilities., Oiled birds are very stressed already, without having human handlers coming into the equation.


Distressed birds require calming before washing. This treatment and intensive care should be provided by a qualified veterinarian over a minimum 48 hour period.
 Once the veterinary team has determined that the bird is capable of withstanding the washing process (the bird has been stabilized, has had medical treatments, shows proper weight gain, has excellent blood values, and is behaving normally), the preparation for washing can commence.


Dress appropriately. You will get very wet, you may be inadvertently injured by a panicking bird, and you need to avoid contaminating the bird or yourself. To protect both yourself and the bird, therefore, wear long rubber/latex gloves, a suitable apron or gown, and waterproof boots. Long waterproof sleeve pull-ons are ideal to protect your arms. If you have long hair, pull it back and tie it in place. Wear a waterproof cap to protect head and hair if wished. Expect to get wet!
Work as a pair (at a minimum). Throughout the process, keep monitoring the bird for signs of stress. If the bird appears overly stressed or exhausted, the vet overseeing the wash will probably require the washing to cease.
Use a gentle dishwashing liquid. Add 1%of dishwashing solution to warm water in a suitably sized tub. The warmth should equate to the bird's internal body temperature., One person should be responsible for this, and for gently holding the bird in place.
 This is the job of the second person in the pair.


Use a Waterpik® dental water jetor a spray bottle filled with the dishwashing/water solution to clean the head.
Use a very soft toothbrush and cotton swabs to gently work away dried oil from around the eye and head areas.
 Be aware that you might need to shift the bird as many as 10–15 times, so a third person might be needed to be continuously scrubbing and refilling tubs if you don't have enough available. The washing process needs to be completed in one go, to minimize the stress to the bird.


The bird is considered clean once the water in the tub stays clean.
 Detergent has its own drawbacks on a bird's feathers (removing the waterproofing ability), so all of it needs to be removed. A professional cleaning operation will have spa nozzles on hand to remove all traces of detergent. This part is usually left to specially trained rinsers, so if you wish to do this, you will need additional training with highly trained specialists.



Place the bird in a net-bottomed pen.
Use a pet grooming dryer only. Personal hair dryers are too hot for aquatic birds and can burn their skin.
Expect the bird to start preening. This preening will do most of the job of rearranging the feathers into their correct waterproofing alignment.
 Keep monitoring the bird's recovery process.


The vet/medical team or a qualified volunteer will often tube feed the bird after a wash. Again, if you wish to do this, you will need appropriate training, as well as knowledge of the right food, vitamins, and medications that the bird should receive.
 This is done by placing the bird into a warm therapy pool.


Watch for signs of preening.
Watch its ability to swim and float.
Watch for alertness and dexterity.
Check for wet spots under the feathers over the next few days; these indicate the need for further cleaning and drying.

