 It is essential to drink plenty of fluids while going through chemotherapy. Added fluids can also prevent constipation. Aim to drink eight 8-oz. glasses of water each day, or more if you exercise, are sweating a lot, or if it is very hot outside. If you desire, add mint or fruit to your water to flavor it., Fiber-rich foods will add bulk to your stool, which helps keep it moving along your digestive tract. Many fiber-rich foods also fall into the low-sugar, low-fat category that will make them more appetizing while combating nausea. Foods that are high in fiber include:

Whole grain Breads: Bran flakes, wheat bread, and rye.
Fruit: Prunes, apples, mangoes, pears, raspberries, strawberries, and blackberries.
Legumes: Pinto beans, kidney beans, lentils, and black beans.
Nuts: Almonds, pistachios, pecans, walnuts, and peanuts.
Vegetables: Artichokes, brussel sprouts, winter squash, broccoli, soybeans, peas, spinach, okra, and carrots.
 In addition to helping to fight fatigue, physical activity also helps to keep your digestive system active.Even if you can’t exercise vigorously, try to go for at least one walk each day.
 A wide array of stool softeners are available both over the counter and with a prescription if you are struggling with constipation.Speak to your doctor for suggestions specific to the type of chemotherapy regimen you are on.
 While some people experience constipation due to chemotherapy, others experience diarrhea. Uncontrolled diarrhea can lead to dehydration and dangerously low levels of potassium, which your body needs to function. Consult your doctor if your symptoms persist for more than a day or two.Choose high protein well cooked foods such as lean meat, fish, eggs, poultry instead of fried or fatty foods.
Choose cooked vegetables instead of raw ones.
Choose fresh fruits without the skin or canned fruit (except prunes).
If you have only occasional mild diarrhea, drink extra water to stay hydrated.
Severe diarrhea warrants seeing a physician, and may require a dose reduction in your chemotherapy treatments.