 Professional training can be a great way to improve your dog’s behavior. Group classes have many advantages, and are often more than sufficient to help teach a dog basic commands, as well as proper behavior around other dogs.The best choice for an initial group training class, especially if your dog is largely untrained, is a group obedience class.
 Young puppies benefit from socialization with other dogs immensely. While dogs of any age can benefit from group training, this is especially true for puppies. If your dog is between two and five months old, group puppy classes are ideal.Hold off on group classes until your puppy has received their full set of vaccinations. Talk to your vet to see what vaccinations your puppy needs.
 If you’re looking to correct a specific behavioral problem through training, a private training with a professional is a good option. Issues that can be corrected with training include over-protectiveness of food or toys, poor behavior on a leash, separation anxiety, and aggressiveness.Make sure any professional trainer working with your dog on these issues is trained specifically in behavioral therapy for dogs.
Other issues, like potty-training, excessive barking, and chewing can often be corrected in group classes.
 Don’t simply sign your dog up for a class wherever. Always ensure that anyone training and caring for your dog does so with compassion and genuine interest in improving the dog’s behavior. Never assume that membership in a dog trainer association means that someone is fully qualified to train your dog, especially in terms of behavioral therapy.Look for professional trainers through recommendations. Ask your vet, your local humane society, or your dog groomer about experienced trainers near you.
 Important things to consider are how much experience a trainer has, as well as the training methods they employ. These are both good things to ask a prospective trainer. Further, ask about talking to others who have completed a program.For instance, “Do you have an references of people who have completed the same class or program with their dog?”
If you’re considering a group class, ask if you can sit in on a class before signing up your dog. Look for signs that the trainer enjoys what they are doing and only ever treats both dogs and people with patience and respect.
 Depending on where you live, what types of training your dog needs, and the type of class you're looking for, prices can range from affordable to extremely expensive. Generally, private lessons are priced per-session, while group lessons charge for a several-week course.


Check with your local shelter to see if they offer subsidized training programs. They are especially likely to offer low costs classes to a dog you have adopted from their shelter.
Some pet supplies stores will also host classes. For instance, Petsmart offers specific and general classes for individual dogs ranging from puppy obedience to advanced trick training. The cost for most of these classes is $119.Veterinary clinics or community groups, like 4-H in the US, often offer classes as well.
 One option is having your dog trained by a professional while you’re at work, or booking your dog for a short stay in a overnight program for intensive training. Day training is great if you already have someone else watch your dog during the day. By leaving them with a trainer, they can work together on specific issues, like coming when called or interacting positively with other dogs.Board-and-train programs can be especially helpful to correct significant behavior issues. However, these programs are often expensive, and require you to keep up with training guidelines provided by the program to maintain the dog’s improved behavior.

