 The FBI has an "applicant information form" that you must complete and submit to them if you want a copy of your federal criminal record – known to federal law enforcement as an identity history summary.This is the form you'll fill out if you are submitting your request directly to the FBI. However, in some circumstances you'll need to go through a state agency to get your federal criminal record, rather than contacting the FBI directly.
If you're just seeking a copy to conduct a personal review and find out if you have a felony, you can submit the applicant information form directly to the FBI.
The FBI does not respond to requests that are related to the purposes of licensing and employment. For those reasons, you'll need to go through a state agency.
You can request the applicant information form from the FBI website, or by contacting an FBI field office near you.
 The application information form is fairly straightforward, requiring basic personal identification and contact information for you. The form also may require you to provide the reason you're seeking your identity history summary.Make sure you provide a correct and complete mailing address. This is the address to which your identity history summary will be mailed.
If you have a phone number and email address, you also should include these on your form. This may decrease delay if the FBI agent who reviews your request has to contact you or ask additional questions about your request.
You have the option of either typing the form or filling it out by hand. If you're hand-writing your answers, use blue or black ink.
 The FBI requires you to get a full set of fingerprints using the standard FBI fingerprint form, Form FD-258. You can download this form from the FBI's website and print it at home using standard white paper.You must send a current fingerprint card. If you got your fingerprints taken because you requested your state criminal record, you'll have to get them done again.
Contact a law enforcement agency near you to find out where you can get your fingerprints taken. Keep in mind you'll probably have to pay a fee of between $20 and $50 for this service.
Make sure the fingerprints you get are both "rolled impressions" and "flat impressions." This means you technically need two sets.
Rolled impressions involve rolling each finger individually. Flat impressions capture all ten fingers at once. The fingerprint technician who takes your fingerprints will understand what you need, but make sure you get both.
 Once you have your form and fingerprints, you must mail them to the FBI using U.S. First Class Mail. You must include a payment of $18 for each response. If you need an additional sealed response mailed to an address other than the one you provided on your application information form, you must include another $18.You can download a credit card form from the FBI website if you want to pay using a credit or debit card. Otherwise, you must pay using a certified check or money order made out to the Treasury of the United States.
The FBI does not accept cash, personal, or business checks. If you use the wrong method of payment or send payment for the wrong amount, your request will be delayed.
You can mail your documents and payment to FBI CJIS Division – Summary Request, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Clarksburg, WV 26306.
 Once your request is processed, the FBI will send the results to the mailing address you provided on your applicant information form, using U.S. First Class mail.Keep in mind that it may take three or four months to get your report in the mail, so plan accordingly.
If you have no federal criminal record, you will get a statement back that states that no record exists.

