 Nowadays, most restaurants post their wine lists online, so you should be able to access it via your computer or smartphone.


Simply looking at the wine list early can help, even if you do not plan to make a selection ahead of time. Take a little time to research the wines offered to see which might appeal to you, and go with different foods on the menu. This way, you don't necessarily need to commit to buying a particular bottle of wine, but will be prepared to order wine to complement a variety of dishes.
If the wine list is not posted online, you can usually call in advance and ask for advice.
For especially important meals, you can usually pre-order the wine when you make your reservation. This can relieve an even greater amount of pressure and give you more time to focus on the company you're keeping instead of the wine.;
, If you are a wine novice and have no idea what to expect, keep in mind that wine can hit several different flavor notes: light and bright, earthy, big and concentrated, and fruity. When looking for a taste you might like or asking for advice, drop these keywords to narrow your search down.The most popular wines in the U.S. tend to be bold and fruity. Examples include Cabernet Sauvignon, Touriga Nacional, Shiraz or Syrah, Nero d'Avola, Monastrell, Zinfandel, Merlot, and Malbec.
Light and fruity wines can also be an appealing choice. Examples include Lambrusco, Primitivo, and Garnacha.
If you're looking for something aromatic and earthy, try Burgundy, Beaujolais, Blaufrankish, Zweigelt, Carmenere, Barbera, or Counoise.
For bold and earthy options, consider Cabernet Franc, Mourvedre, Bordeaux, Nebbiolo, Montepulciano, Sangiovese, Tempranillo, or Chianti.
 Taking your time does not make you look bad. On the contrary, when you make it a point to go over the wine list thoroughly, you actually appear more knowledgeable about what you're doing.
 When all else fails, remember the following guideline: white wine at lunch, red wine at dinner.


This is not a strict rule, of course, and you should opt for whichever type of wine appeals to your sense of taste no matter what time of day it is.
If you are ordering by the bottle, ask your lunch or dinner companions for their preferences before making a selection.
You can also look at the type of restaurant you're in or the type of food you anticipate eating to help you make your selection. As a general rule, white wines are preferred at seafood restaurants while red wines are more popular with entrees at a steak restaurant.
 Sometimes, a restaurant's wine list will weigh heavily on a certain type of wine. When this s the case, the owner usually cares more about the type the restaurant specializes in, and as a result, those wines are likely to be of a higher quality, so this part of the list should be the section you focus on.


For instance, if a wine list has two dozen local or domestic wines but only a handful of Italian or French wines, the domestic options are probably chosen with more care.
 Showcase wines are different from specialty wines. While a specialty wine is chosen with care and made special because of the attention it receives, a showcase wine is chosen simply because it is widely believed to be special.


These wines are easy to spot because they are generally the most expensive and might be labeled as "first growth" wines or something similar.
While showcase wines can be a little more extravagant, it is somewhat rare for the small boost in extravagance to justify the increased cost. As such, these wines are best avoided if you want to get the best value.
 There are benefits to either option. If you want to make the most of your experience, try something new instead of going with something safe and familiar. On the other hand, if you want to impress someone with a wine you know to be great or simply feel like treating yourself to an old favorite, a wine you already love might be your best bet for the night.
 Wines can be expensive. You should pick a price you are willing to pay before you even step into the restaurant and narrow the selection down based on that.


Note, however, that you may need to be flexible with this price point a little. If you set your price at $20 but cannot find anything decent on the list for that amount, bump it up to the next price category on the list. Be reasonable, though. You can bump up your price point by another $10 or so, but once you start doubling your original price point or going even higher than that, you're in trouble.
 After you have narrowed the list down as much as possible based on the extent of your knowledge, look at the options you have left. If there are more than two or three choices, knock a few down at random until you only have two or three options left.


If you are not sure about which wines will go with which foods, note that there are a few wine types that go well with nearly any meal. Along these lines, you can narrow your remaining selection down by choosing a Pinot Noir or sparkling wine.
 If you feel stuck and cannot choose between two or three options, call the waiter over and say, "I can't decide between these wines." Do not ask the waiter for a recommendation, however. Instead, ask, "What can you tell me about these options?"


Oftentimes, the waiter will not know much about the wines, so he or she may just pick one at random when asked for a recommendation.
If your waiter is knowledgeable, asking for information will provide you with insight to help you choose. If your waiter does not know anything about the wines, he or she will likely fetch someone who does.



Avoid asking "what should I try?" without providing any guidance. Describe the wine style you typically prefer with as much detail as possible, or ask for similar suggestions based on wines you already know you enjoy.
If you are completely lost, let the sommelier know what food you plan on ordering. He or she should be able to recommend some choices that will work well with your meal.
 Sticking to a budget does not make you look bad. If you are asking the waiter or sommelier for guidance, you can come right out and specify the type of wine you are looking for and the upper value of your price range.


On the other hand, if you want to be discreet about your price range, you can point to an option on the wine list and say, "I'm looking for something similar to this one." To indicate that you are referring to the price, point to the price instead of the name of the wine. A good sommelier will catch your meaning and suggest other wines in that price range.
 Listen to the answers you are given, but do not rely on them entirely. You also need to watch for body language. Verbal answers will tell you facts about the wine, but body language will tell you which wines the person speaking to you feels most enthusiastic about.
 There reaches a point at which you simply need to make a decision. Factor everything you known into your choice, then take a leap of faith and just go with it.


Order by the glass when possible, especially if you are still nervous about your choice. Ordering by the glass will save you more money than ordering by the bottle, and you can always sample several different wines if your initial choice ends up being a dud.
 If you order a bottle of wine, the server will usually show you the bottle upon bringing it to your table. At this point, you simply need to verify that the wine in front of you is, in fact, the wine you ordered.


For older vintages, you should also inspect the condition of the wine. Check the fill level, the importer sticker, and the foil that covers the cork.
 The cork can tell you various things about the bottle of wine you hold in your hands, but sniffing the cork will tell you next to nothing.


When you order an older vintage, though, it is actually a good idea to inspect the cork. Check it over for any apparent damage. A damaged cork could impact the quality of the wine, especially if the wine has been in storage for a long time.
After the cork has been removed, you should check to see that the producer marked on the cork matches the producer marked on the label. Check the cork itself to see if any wine has seeped into the material.
 At most restaurants, you will be given a small sample from the bottle. Swirl the wine, then smell and taste the sample to check if the wine is in good condition or if it might be flawed. If the wine is in good shape, tell the server to pour it.A "corked" wine smells like wet cardboard. The taste tends to be fine, but the aroma is bad. It is usually the result of moldy, unclean corks.
A wine that is "cooked" or "maderized" has been stored in excess heat for an extended period of time. It will usually smell like an old, stewed jam, and upon tasting it, it will have a very flat, sour taste.
An "oxidized" wine is essentially wine that has turned to vinegar due to an improper seal. The smell and taste will be highly acidic. It might even smell like apple cider vinegar.
 A quick, gentle swirl that lasts for a few seconds will aerate the wine and draw out the right flavor notes. Swirling the wine for more than a few seconds will not do anyone any good, though, and it might make you look a bit pretentious.
 If a wine is spoiled, you can send it back. If it simply does not match your taste preferences, though, you need to keep it. Sending a wine back because you made a poor choice is considered to be highly impolite.
 If you want to try a second type, don't be afraid to do so after you have already enjoyed your first. This can be perfectly acceptable, especially if you are eating with a large group of people and will end up going through a few bottles, anyway.


This is also a great option if the restaurant lets you order by the glass instead of by the bottle. Ordering different types of wine by the glass can be a relatively affordable way to expand your knowledge base when it comes to wine and get the most out of your dining experience overall.
 As with any other area of knowledge, no one is born a wine expert. If you want to know what you are talking about when you order wine in the future, you have to endure the growing pains of ordering wine in the present.


If you want to gain more experience, go to wine tastings and festivals. You'll be able to learn a lot and get a good idea for what you actually enjoy. Then, when you need to order wine at a restaurant, you'll already have a good starting point.

