 If you've identified the symptoms of a nervous breakdown, it's important that you talk to someone about it. Staying silent and keeping the stress to yourself will simply make the problem worse. One way to help relieve stress and break from negative thought patterns is decreasing social isolation and increasing social contact with friends. You may feel like you have no energy to see friends, but push through and make time for your friends. They will help you heal.Isolation can lead to and exacerbate stress, so make continual efforts to spend time with friends regularly.
Talk to a trusted friend or family member. Sharing your problems and worries with someone else will ease the burden slightly and help you to feel less alone.
 Especially if you have had a nervous breakdown before and feel unable to cope, a therapist can help you work through the current difficulties as well as help you explore healthy ways to cope. A therapist can help you with the feelings of depression or anxiety and challenge your negative thought patterns.


If you need help finding a therapist, check out How to Choose a Therapist


, Feeling constantly stressed or anxious will raise the levels of cortisol in your body, negatively affecting your appetite. However, by not eating properly, you will feel even more tired and out of energy than before. It’s important to fuel your body with nutrient-rich foods and create a healing environment for your body.It's important to force yourself to eat regular, healthy meals, even if you don't feel like it. Try to eat plenty of fruit and vegetables, whole grains and lean proteins.
Consider cutting caffeine from your diet. Caffeine can agitate symptoms of anxiety and disrupt sleep., Exercise is one of the best things you can do to relieve anxiety and stress. However, following a nervous breakdown, your energy and fitness levels may be low, so it's important to ease into it gently. Exercise can help get you out of the house and into a different environment.Start by taking a short walk everyday, even if it's just around the block. Over time, you can build up the intensity and frequency of your exercise.
Once you feel ready, you can sign up for a class or join a sports team so you can be sociable while you exercise. Think about classes like dancing, swimming, spinning or kickboxing.
 Taking time to relax is the key to recovering from a nervous breakdown. You need to learn to let go of the worries that are causing you to feel anxious all the time and take some time for yourself.Take some time off work, if necessary, and go on a vacation or just spend time with friends and loved ones.
Find activities that help to relax you - whether it's going for a long run, meditating, or taking a long bubble bath.
 Learn ways to manage your stress, and learn the power of saying “no” when asked to do something that is beyond your current mental or emotional capacity. Especially if you have children, it’s easy to get in the habit of taking care of other people and neglect taking care of yourself. Set some time aside each day to do things that help take care of you.


Learn how to set boundaries so you don't wind up in the same situation again. Identify where your limits are and make a conscious effort not to cross them again.
For more information, check out How to Prevent a Mental Breakdown


, When recovering from a nervous breakdown, it's important to plan for the future and to start looking forward to things again. This will give you renewed purpose and provide you with something to work towards.


Stay positive about your recovery and know that having a nervous breakdown doesn't define you as a person. Remember that you have a happy, bright future ahead of you.

