 When you are out of town, you do not want to let everyone, especially anyone with criminal intentions, to know that no one is home most of the day. Ideally, there should be no advertisement on the car or truck the sitter drives. That would be a sure sign that you would be out of town. The security of your home should be a concern of the pet sitter as well as your animals.


They should not wear advertisement on their clothing for the same reasons.;
, Set up a time to meet the pet sitter at your home, and if possible, introduce a neighbor that knows you will be out of town. This neighbor could be the holder of an emergency key or be a contact if the sitter needs help or has questions. If not a neighbor, a family member or friend.
 When you do this, notice how the pet sitter and animal react to each other. This would be the time to tell the sitter what you expect of him or her; after all, you are paying them for a service. Other than dogs and cats, what other animals can they care for? If you have fish, exotic pets, or even livestock, then you should notify the sitter.
 Do your animals require fresh water daily, and to be fed daily? Cats and dogs will usually need a daily feed and must have access to clean, fresh water at all times, obviously. Other pets can be fed according to your feeding schedules and diets.


The sitter must know about any medications given to your pets. Can he or she administer medications? That should be a must. If at this time you find that they can care for only part of your animals, or they can not give daily medications, then you need to look for someone else who is more qualified.
Most importantly, the sitter must give your pets a clean and safe environment to eat, sleep and play in. This means cleaning litter boxes, crates and cages, poop scooping the yard if you do that on a scheduled day.
The sitter should also be able to transport your pet to a Vet Clinic if needed. If this should involve transporting livestock, then you should have the trailer and truck to pull it. Be sure that the sitter has pulled a trailer before—and decide if you want someone else driving your truck and trailer. 

, Here are the things your sitter will need to know about your pet:


Names, breed, color
Spayed or neutered
Ages
Temperaments
Diets
Medications
Likes and dislikes
Medical issues
Vaccinations
If they chase other animals or cars, or dig out of the yard
If they are crated at night

, You should provide the name, phone number, and address of the vet (and be sure the Vet knows that you will have a sitter and that the vet bill be charged to your account). Your phone numbers where you can be reached, and the number of a family member, friend and/or neighbor will also be helpful.
 Some pet sitters do provide extra services but they usually charge for them. They include:


Bathing
Basic grooming (brushing out)
Toenail trims
Ear cleaning
Express anal glands
Providing some play time

, Your sitter should help make it look like someone is home all the time to avoid break-ins, theft, or injury to any of the animals. You should ask the sitter if he or she charges for these services. This is what they should do to help the home look occupied:


Pick up the newspaper daily
Take in mail daily
Put out trash on their trash days
Alternate lights on and off inside the house each night
Water plants
Fill bird feeders

, The sitter should have a list of references on hand if requested; if they don't, you should wonder why. Do call on the references they give you. These people can fill you in on the kind of person that will be caring for your animals and will perhaps put your mind at ease.
 Pet sitters that are insured and/or bonded should have the paperwork with them along with the references. That just goes without saying; you either have it or you don't. You should be able to call and verify their coverage with no problem.
 Every pet sitter bills differently; they go by miles plus services, and then extra fees for extra services. Listen to all that they do provide, and determine what you want for your animals, and then find out the fees and see if it sounds reasonable. Talk with at least three pet sitting services, tell them what you need, and ask how much they would charge. That should give you some idea of the cost to expect.

