 Your basal body temperature is your lowest body temperature over a 24-hour period.In order to regularly take and monitor your basal body temperature (BBT), you’ll need a basal body temperature thermometer.Basal body thermometers are available in most drugstores and come with a chart to help you track your BBT over several months.;
, To accurately track your BBT, you’ll need to take your temperature at the same time each day: immediately when you wake, before you even get out of bed.Keep your BBT thermometer next to your bed. Try to wake up and take your temperature around the same time each morning.
Basal body temperature can be taken either orally, rectally, or vaginally. Whichever way you choose to take your temperature, continue with that method to ensure a consistent reading each day. Rectal and vaginal readings may offer more accurate readings.Write down your temperature each morning on a piece of graph paper or a BBT chart, which is a pre-made graph on which you can plot your temperature.
You’ll need to track your BBT every day for several months in order to begin seeing a pattern.
 Most women’s BBT raises about half a degree for a minimum of 3 days during ovulation.Thus, you’re tracking your BBT in order to identify when this increase in temperature occurs for you each month, as it will allow you to then anticipate when you’ll ovulate.
 After several months of recording your BBT each morning, look over your charts to try to determine when you ovulate. Once you can identify a pattern of when your BBT rises each month, you’ll be able to anticipate when you’re ovulating by doing the following:


Find when your regular spike in temperature occurs each month.
Mark the two to three days prior to this temperature spike as likely ovulation days.This record can also be helpful to show your doctor if you suspect possible infertility issues., Though your BBT can be a useful tool, it also has limitations you should be aware of.You may not be able to identify a pattern. If you can’t identify a pattern after several months, you may need to use other methods in conjunction with monitoring your BBT. Consider adding one of the other methods discussed in this article to your routine.
Basal body temperature can be disrupted by changes in your circadian rhythms, which can be brought on by working night shifts, over- or under-sleeping, traveling, or drinking alcohol.
Basal body temperature can also be disrupted by periods of increased stress, including holidays or periods of illness, as well as by certain medications and gynecological conditions.

