 After your broken heart, you may be feeling down on yourself. Even if there's no reason for this, you need to work to make yourself feel good again in whatever way possible. Here are some great ways to improve how you feel about yourself:


Pamper yourself. Get that overdue haircut, go in for a pedicure and manicure, or even buy a new outfit or two. Feeling better about how you look can go a long way in helping you feel better about yourself overall.
Feel better about your body. While you don't have to hit up the gym like a maniac, running in the sun, taking a Pilates class, or eating three balanced meals will make you feel better physically, which will help put your mind at ease.
Be helpful. Volunteer at your local library or community center, or help one of your friends work on her garden. You'll feel better about yourself if you feel that you can help people in the world.
 Now that you're riding solo, you may find that you have more time on your hands. There's no better occasion than to pursue a new interest. Pick something you've always wanted to do, or something completely random and fun. Here are some ideas:


Learn a new language. This will improve your memory, your ability to land a great job, and will make you a more interesting person.
Join a new sports league. Join a local soccer, basketball, or beach volleyball team. You may discover a new talent and will make great friends in the process.
Take an art class. Find out if you have a knack for pottery, oil painting, or ceramics.
Take an improv class. Develop your funny side and your ability to laugh no matter what.
 Though you shouldn't spend too much time brooding by yourself, you should avoid running around with so many things to do that you don't have a moment for some quality "me time." It's likely that you didn't get enough time alone during your relationship. Alone time should be something you look forward to, not dread. Here's what you can do:


Express yourself. Sketch, write poetry, or even try your hand at a short story. Just avoid only writing or creating art about your ex.
Develop your love for literature. Try to read a book a week and really think about what it means. If this makes you feel too isolated, join a book club.
Make time to take walks for at least 20 minutes a day so you can really reflect on your life.
Take time to write thoughtful entries in your journal.
 Don't forget that while your heart is aching, there are benefits to being single. You are now free to do whatever you want whenever you want it, and this is no small gift. Here's how you can take advantage of not being in a relationship:


Go to a concert for a band that your ex didn't care for. You may have been missing out on your favorite music because you and your ex's tastes didn't jive.
Eat the type of food your ex hated. If your ex was a vegetarian while you're a big meat eater, try the new Korean BBQ place in your neighborhood. If your ex hated Mexican food while you love it, invite your friends out for fajitas.
Get hooked on a TV show that your ex refused to watch. Though you should avoid drowning your sorrows in television, try watching a new high-quality television show. This will be fun and will also give you something to look forward to.
Don't do things your ex hated out of spite. Just view this as an opportunity to spend more time doing the things you love.

