 Make sure that you are in your tree house. Click on the map and go to the Bamboo Coast. Return to your tree house. Repeat that five times and click on a forbidden area. You will have to try your luck, because the chances are quite small of you picking the right forbidden area. You only have three chances each day.;
, Click on the map and go to the Bamboo Beach. Buy a lighter. Then go back to your tree house. Click on the map and go to the Tip Top Towns. Go back to your tree house. Repeat these steps (from the part when you go back to your tree house after getting the lighter) until when you visit the Tip Top Towns and there is a box in the far left side corner of the screen. Click on it to get a free matchstick. Repeat until you have 100 or more matchsticks. Go to a random panda's tree house. Take the matchsticks out and lay them in a pile in a corner of the room. Then use the lighter to set it on fire.
 Let your pando take a nap. When it wakes up you will notice that its energy bar has gone higher. Triple-click the energy bar and a window will come up, asking if you would like to buy Ultimate Pando Food.
 Go to a random panda's tree house. Click on each corner of its room, including the windows and the tree on the far-left side of the screen. Wait five seconds and click on the green cabinet in the room. It will come up with a list of items the panda own. Select an item you want and drag it into your bamboo basket on the lower right corner of your screen.
 It's not suggested, but there's a simple method. Make sure you are in your tree house. Click on the map and go to the Bamboo Beach. Buy a lighter. Then go back to your tree house. Click on the map and go to the Tip Top Towns. Go back to your tree house. Repeat these steps (from the part when you go back to your tree house after getting the lighter) until when you visit the Tip Top Towns and there is a box in the far left side corner of the screen. Click on it to get a free matchstick. Repeat until you have 100 or more matchsticks. Go back to your tree house. Take the matchsticks out and lay them in a pile in a corner of the room. Then use the lighter to set it on fire. Later you will receive a message that your panda has been successfully killed.

