 College can be a lonely time for students. They may get homesick or just want a reminder of something familiar. Sending them something from home to keep in their dorm room can help them feel more comfortable in their new space.


Include an old family photo in your care package. The best photo is one that the student is familiar with and has fond memories of.Find something in your backyard that will immediately make them think of home. For example, if you’re from the Midwest and your child is in college in Arizona, send a colored leaf in the fall to remind them of home.
Dig up an old trophy or award. If your child has a sports trophy or a first place ribbon for a spelling bee, include it in your care package. It will make your child laugh and will also be a good story for them to share with their new friends at college.
 With all of the prepackaged food your child is likely eating at college, they’ll appreciate some home cooking. Think of your child’s favorite baked goods and include them in a care package.Include enough to share. Your child will be the most popular kid on their floor if they have a dozen cookies to pass around.
If your child is on a diet, make health-conscious baked goods that use a zero-calorie sugar substitute.
Make sure you package the baked goods in a way that they won’t melt or spill out. Wrap them in several layers of foil and place in a smaller box inside the larger care package., Find a few of your child’s favorite movies that they left behind and put them in a box with microwave popcorn, milk duds, and other movie theater treats.If you child watches everything online, send them a few Amazon video credits so they can rent a movie. You can print off the gift receipt and include it in your care package.
If your child gets homesick, send them an old favorite childhood movie to remind them of home.
 Your child probably doesn’t have a lot of extra money for clothes. But it’s important for college students to feel well put-together and stylish. You need to know your child’s style to pull this off, but there are a few places where you can’t go wrong.Go to your child’s college bookstore website and order sweatshirt or hat with the school’s logo.
Send them workout clothes. The gym is one of the places college students like to show off the most. They’ll appreciate a new pair of running shoes or tank top.

