 The first step to living with one is understanding it. Talk with your orthopedic doctor about what treatment is best for you and how you can manage pain. Be sure to go in regularly for check ups and X-rays. Here are some basic facts about osteochondromas to get you started:


Osteochondromas appear in roughly 3 percent of the general population, appear in most people around the ages of 12-18 and are non-cancerous
Osteochondromas can appear as single tumors or through out the body and the most affected areas are usually joints such as the knee area and elbows
Most people can live their lives with these and do not need therapy or to have them surgically removed, but not all cases are the same and if you are experiencing pain or are worried about how things are developing, talk to your doctor and make a plan together. Be sure to give details about where the pain is and what activities irritate it.;
, Try to talk with someone else who has one if you can! They can help you understand what's happening and have tips about how to deal with or manage pain.
 If you really feel that your pain is getting out of hand, limit yourself. Try to understand and accept that you won't be able to all the things you used to and maybe running 20 laps every morning isn't good for you anymore.
 Starting psychical therapy is a good way to rebuild stronger muscles that will allow you to do more with yourself than you could before. Most psychical therapy is only about twice a week for an hour at a time, so it allows you to do other things too.


Remember: therapy is not always a permanent solution, and you may need to continue with surgery plans. Try not to become depressed when you can't do the things you want. Get out there and meet new people and find new activities you love!

, Try an ice massage or an old fashioned ice pack and get icing! You can watch TV while you do it, but keep an eye on time. 10 minutes is the maximum amount of time you should ice each area a day. 

, Avoid flat shoes as these put a strain on your legs if you have an osteochondroma there.
 Understand that you're not invincible and sometimes you will need to take breaks.
 If someone asks you why you limp, or why you have to sit out some activities, just explain. Sometimes it can be embarrassing to talk about it, or maybe you don't want to strain the conversation or make it awkward, but it's best to not beat around the bush. Here's an example conversation and explanation:


Stranger: Why are you limping?
You: I have an Osteochondroma in my leg. It's a non cancerous tumor, not much too it.
Stranger: Oh my God! Doesn't it hurt?
You may want to roll your eyes or say "You don't say?" At this point, but continue the conversation. Remember not everyone knows as much about this as you do, and a short and simple explanation will do just fine. Some people only confess they have an Osteochondroma when they have a strong or long relationship with someone, and this is okay too. You are free to explain as little or as much as you'd like.
 Make sure to follow these tips and manage your pain when needed. That's about all! Now go out and enjoy life!