 Before entering the interview room, make sure that you are relaxed, comfortable, confident, and, definitely, focused. Drink about an inch tall of ice cold water to let something go through yourself before the interview. Make sure you don't drink more than needed and you get a potty break right before the 'view. Put some chap stick for dry, cracked, peeled lips and smile.
 Before you walk in there, make sure that your phone is OFF, even a vibrating phone attracts attention where it's not needed (or wanted). Make sure everything is ready and set for your 'view. Your entrance is important, also, so walk in with poise: smile and look confident.
 Acknowledge the difficulty. Repeat over something such as: "That was a difficult question. However, I would like to provide you with an accurate answer, so I will have to think about that for a minute." Let off a small smile at the end and go back to searching: Take your time, but don't take hours to answer the simplest question. And do not repeat over again and again through simple questions. Take your time through everything.
 Calm down and take time to answer questions honestly, but let the metaphoric light shine on you in a good way. Answer questions with honestly, poise, smiles, pauses, and you might just be on your way back there tomorrow!

, Make sure you are giving your body enough time to process all the questions. Think about them and never let one slide. Before you say something stupid, think about whether it would ruin or revive your reputation.
 Let's say, for argument's sake, that the interviewer asks, "Why should we give you this employment opportunity, out of curiosity?" You know you have about three answers to that. Answer Choice One: because I need food to eat and shelter above my dang head! Answer Choice Two: Because this is what I love to do. Answer Choice Three: You and your company should give me this opportunity (noticed how I rephrased the question?) because I can bring in new ideas to this company. I have the creativity and thoughts about making my job easier, neater, and, overall, smarter which benefits this company. You should also give me this opportunity because I deserve to be here and have had over of training/experience. The best answer is irrevocably Answer Choice Three.
 Do not let your interview shake you, it's part of the whole interview thing, it's a test! Keep your cool and answer thoroughly, try your best. Do not boast because you have practiced, there's never anything like the real thing. Maintain a professional, humble, and yourself attitude.

