 Because the caramel is extremely sticky, you must prepare your tools and supplies. Use nonstick cooking spray to grease a large bowl, plastic spatula, and a 13-inch by 9-inch (33-cm by 23-cm) baking dish before mixing the popcorn.If you prefer, you can use softened butter to grease your tools and supplies.;
, Add 10 cups (80 g) of popped popcorn that’s lightly salted and 40 small pretzel twists that have been broken into pieces to the large, greased bowl. Toss the ingredients lightly to ensure that they’re completely mixed.You can air pop your own popcorn or use microwave popcorn. Just make sure to choose an unbuttered version.
Any type of unflavored pretzels will work for the popcorn bowls. For example, you might use plain, whole wheat, or honey wheat pretzels depending on your preference.
 Add 2 tablespoons (28 g) of unsalted butter to a medium size saucepan. Heat the butter on medium on your stovetop until it melts completely, which should take 2 to 3 minutes.Stir the butter to help it melt evenly.
 Once the butter has melted completely, add 20 caramels, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of water, and ⅛ teaspoon (1 g) of salt to the saucepan. Allow the mixture to heat for approximately 5 minutes, or until the caramels have melted completely.Stir the caramel mixture occasionally as it’s melting to ensure that it heats evenly. Use the greased spatula to keep the caramel from sticking to it.
 When the caramels have melted completely, mix 3 cups (150 g) of miniature marshmallows and ¼ cup (65 g) of crunchy peanut butter into the pan. Allow the mixture to heat for another 1 to 2 minutes or until the marshmallows and peanut also melt.Be sure to stir the mixture as the peanut butter and marshmallows melt to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully blended.
 When the caramel mixture is fully melted and blended, add it to the bowl with the popcorn and pretzels. Use the greased spatula to toss the mixture well so the popcorn and pretzels are coated with the caramel mixture.The caramel mixture may be hot, so be careful not to get any on your skin.
 Once the popcorn and pretzels are coated with the caramel mixture, use the spatula to transfer it to the greased baking dish. Press the coated popcorn down, and allow it to cool completely, which should take 30 minutes to 1 hour.Make sure that the popcorn is in a single, even layer so it’s easier to cut the mixture into bars.
 When the coated popcorn has cooled and set, use a sharp knife to cut it into bars. You should wind up with approximately 24.Store any leftover popcorn bars in an airtight container at room temperature. They should stay fresh for 3 to 5 days.

