 Once the ingredients are all mixed together, you'll need to work quickly. You don't want to be digging through your pantry to find a mold last minute.


Keep in mind that this recipe will make approximately one large, softball-sized bath bomb. If you would like to make a different amount, adjust the recipe while keeping the proportions the same. (For example, if you wanted to make two softball-sized bath bombs, you would start with 2 cups baking soda instead of 1.)
Try organizing your ingredients by grouping the wet ingredients separate from the dry ones.;
, Place the baking soda, cream of tartar, cornstarch, and salts into the bowl.









Avoid using plastic bowls and spoons, as plastic can soak up essential oils. This won't affect your bath bomb, but the plastic will probably smell like soap for a very long time.You have a few different choices of which salt you can use. One common frugal option is Epsom salts. You can also use sea salts, which are more expensive. In a pinch, you can even use table salt, but it must be non-iodized.Some hobbyists claim that cornstarch can cause yeast infections and leave it out of their recipes. However, studies have shown no correlation, and cornstarch continues to be a common ingredient in commercial bath bombs.If you don't want to use cornstarch, add an additional 1/4 cup baking soda and 1/4 cup salts. Keep in mind that cornstarch acts as a filler and slows down the fizzing reaction. Without it, a bath bomb will fizz much more vigorously but won't last as long., Take a metal whisk and use it to mix all the ingredients together well. If you don't have a whisk available you can improvise one with two forks or a set of chopsticks.
 Measure out the oils and food coloring into a second bowl. Whisk these ingredients together, but keep in mind that the food coloring and oil are unlikely to mix; the first ingredient in most food coloring is water.









Essential oils add fragrance to your bath bomb. Be careful when handling undiluted essential oils, as these can burn your skin.
The second oil is optional and acts as a moisturizer. Sweet almond oil, coconut oil, and olive oil all work well., Gently spoon the wet ingredients into the first bowl and mix well before adding more. Mix well as you go. If the mixture starts to foam, you may be adding the ingredients too quickly.








To keep from staining your hands, you may want to wear gloves. The best way to mix the ingredients at this stage is to knead them by hand., You will probably need to add some water to your bath bomb to blend the ingredients well. The exact amount of extra moisture you'll need will vary, so it's best to add it little by little as you work. In general, you'll need less than a tablespoon. Spray in some water whenever you have difficulty working the mixture.


You should end up with a mixture that is crumbly but holds its shape when squeezed together., Pack the mixture in as tightly as you can. Pat it down to make a smooth and even surface.









If you're using the popular Christmas decoration option, overfill each half of the ball. Press the two together lightly., Allow your bath bomb to dry for at least a few hours and ideally overnight.


If you try to remove it prematurely, it is more likely to fall apart.Rinse all metal tools carefully. Epsom salt can corrode metal over time., Once it's out of the mold, the bath bomb is ready for use. Simply fill up your bath tub with warm water, drop in your bomb, and relax.









It's best to use a bath bomb within a few weeks. Older bath bombs lose their effervescence., Almost anything can be used as a mold, but plastic and glass items work best. You can pick something big enough to hold a few cups for one big bath bomb or use smaller molds for little bath bombs.


Plastics can soak up undiluted essential oil, but this is less likely to happen after you've mixed everything together.
The most popular "mold" is a spherical plastic Christmas ornament. Look for the two-part, snap-together type of ornament commonly sold at craft stores. It will make the round, softball-sized shape often seen in commercial bath bombs.
Chocolate molds come in many cute shapes that are perfect for making bath bombs.
Tart and cupcake tins also work well., You don't have to use dyes right out of the box. Try mixing them together to create you favorite colors.


A bath bomb that looks pretty when you make it may not necessarily make the best-looking bath.
Keep a record of which combinations you've tried and which work out best.
Make sure to always use dyes that are non-toxic, non-staining, and water soluble.
 Get creative with your bath bomb's scent. Blend different oils together to create your own unique aroma.


If you don't know where to start, you can look up essential oil "recipes" online for suggestions. You don't have to look specifically for bath bomb-making blends. Information for soap making and aromatherapy will also apply to bath bombs.
Some popular combinations include: 4 parts spearmint to 1 part patchouli, 2 parts orange to one part vanilla, 1 part patchouli to 1 part cedarwood to 2 parts bergamot, equal parts lavender and peppermint,and 1 part peppermint to 1 part tea tree to 2 parts lavender.You can bottle and store larger amounts of your favorite blends for later use.
Be careful when handling undiluted essential oils. Some can burn or irritate your skin.