 Pellets are an important component of your parrot’s diet. They come in a variety of colors, sizes, and even flavors.Because pellets are made up of a combination of fruits, vegetables, grains, and seeds, they have a very high nutritional value.


When selecting pellets at your local pet store, be sure to read the ingredients label. Do not select pellets that have a lot of preservatives.Since there are so many varieties of pellets, consider talking to your veterinarian to determine which pellet formulation would work best for your parrot.;
, Even though birdseed should not be a mainstay of your parrot’s diet, it still provides some nutritional value that is good for your parrot. Just like with pellets, there are many seed formulations to choose from at the pet store. It is ideal to purchase a package of seed mixture, but you could also purchase individual seed types and mix them on your own.Sunflower seeds were once thought to be addictive to parrots, but this is actually not true.Before purchasing the birdseed, make sure that it is fresh. It should not smell moldy or rancid, and should be free of insects and fungus. Good birdseed should also be shiny.Your parrot may prefer seeds that are sprouted or germinated.To germinate seeds, soak a daily a portion of the seeds in clean, fresh water overnight, either at room temperature or in the refrigerator. After 12 to 24 hours, you will start to see the root tips of the seeds, which means that the seeds have germinated. At this stage, you can feed them to your parrot.Seeds for parrots are like candy for people–they are tasty treats, but should only be eaten on occasion. You can use seeds as rewards if you are training your parrot., There are many types of fruits and vegetables that you can feed your parrot, including apples, broccoli, collard greens, and peaches. Whichever type of fruit or vegetable you choose to feed your parrot, make sure that you wash it thoroughly with fresh water before feeding it to him.Keep in mind that fruits have a relatively high sugar content, so they should not be a large part of your parrot’s diet.Remember that pellets are partially made up of fruit, so your parrot will likely get the same types of nutrients from the pellet mixture as he would from the fresh fruit.Chop the fruit and vegetables into smaller portions to make it easier for your parrot to eat.
Some fruits may stain your bird’s droppings,but this is not a cause for concern.
 Nuts are another component of your parrot’s healthy diet. They are high in protein and other vitamins and minerals, but are also high in fat. Because of the high fat content, you should feed them to your parrot in moderation. For example, you could feed your parrot nuts as a training reward or occasional treat.Examples of nuts that you can feed your parrot include macadamia nuts, walnuts, pistachios, and cashews.The nuts that you feed your parrot should be unsalted.If possible, leave the shell on the nuts. Wild parrots often use their beak to break open the nutshell. Leaving the shell on will make your parrot put a little extra effort into eating his food, which is good physical and mental stimulation for him. Keep in mind that breaking the shell is a learned behavior.Macaws tend to need more nuts and fat in their diet than other parrot species., Legumes include beans, peas, and lentils, and have a high nutritional value. Examples of legumes that you can feed your parrot include black beans, greens beans, and chickpeas. Tofu is another type of legume that you can feed your parrot if he likes it. Legumes can be fed raw or cooked.The grains that you feed your parrot should be whole grains, such as cooked brown rice, whole grain pasta, and barley.The grains should also be low in salt., Parrots are omnivores,so they can have meat in their diet as well. Chicken is a healthy meat source for your parrot. Make sure to cook the chicken fully before feeding it to him.Too much meat in your parrot's diet could damage his kidneys, so meats should be fed only in small portions., Although your parrot can eat wide a variety of human foods, there are certain human foods that you should not feed him. For example, avocados and chocolate can be toxic to your parrot and should be avoided. Alcohol can also be toxic to him.Caffeine should be avoided as well.Peanuts that are improperly stored (warm, dark, damp conditions) can release aflatoxin, a toxin produced by a type of fungus. Aflatoxin can be deadly to parrots, so it would be best to avoid feeding peanuts to your parrot. , Your parrot should have a fresh supply of water at all times. Keep in mind that parrots can be very messy eaters, which means that bits of food may land in his water bowl. Change out his water bowl twice a day, or whenever you see that it has a lot of food particles in it., The exact amount of food that your parrot should eat depends on such factors as his age, species, and overall health status. Your veterinarian can provide you with additional guidance on what how much of each dietary component he should eat. In the mornings and evenings, feed him small amounts of birdseed and fresh food (fruits, vegetables, etc). Wait about an hour and remove any food that is leftover so that it does not spoil.Consider feeding no more than 1 to 2 teaspoons of birdseed to your parrot.
After he has eaten his birdseed and fresh food, feed him pellets (morning only). He will likely snack on these throughout the day rather than finishing them in one sitting, so you do not have to remove the pellets that he does not finish in the morning.Small parrots can be served about 1/4 cup of pellets per day. Large parrots can probably handle about 1/2 cup of pellets per day.Rather than putting the entire amount in his cage at one time, you can add pellets in small portions at a time if you able to do so.
The other dietary components can be fed in very small amounts. For example, if your parrot is small, he will need about 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of fruit, 1/2 spoonful of vegetables, and 1/2 tablespoon of a protein source (nuts, cooked meat) per day. If he is large, he will need 1 tablespoon of fruit, 1 spoonful of vegetables, and 1.5 tablespoons of a protein source., Wild parrots spend a large amount of their time foraging for food.You don’t want your parrot to become complacent or lazy when it comes to eating his food, so encourage him to put a little extra effort into eating. For example, sprinkle some pellets and gravel in his food tray. This will make your parrot sift through the gravel before he gets to the pellets.You can also put his food in foraging toys, which are available at your local pet store.Working to eat his food will keep your parrot busy and mentally stimulated, which can help reduce the likelihood of behavioral problems., Obesity can be a major problem in parrots, especially if they eat too many high-fat foods. Obese parrots can also develop fatty liver disease, which is a serious medical condition. If you notice that your parrot is starting to look a little pudgy, take him to your veterinarian. Reducing his food intake will help him lose weight, but you want to make sure that you keep his diet healthy and balanced.


Certain species of parrots, including budgies, cockatiels, and Amazon parrots, are especially prone to obesity and fatty liver disease., Vitamin A helps your parrot fight off infection. Deficiency in this nutrient is common in birds and can make them very sick. Their respiratory system is often affected by vitamin A deficiency, so your parrot may develop respiratory problems (nasal discharge, difficulty breathing, sneezing) if he is not receiving enough vitamin A.If you notice any of these signs, take him to your veterinarian for treatment.


Vitamin A deficiency can also affect your parrot’s kidneys and digestive organs.Provided that you are feeding your parrot a healthy and balanced diet, he will receive enough vitamin A to keep him healthy.