 Because you will be working with spray paints, you will need to work in a well-ventilated, dust-free environment. The best place to work is outdoors. Cover your work surface with newspapers or plastic cloth to protect it.


If you cannot work outside, then make sure to keep a window open and take breaks often. Consider turning on a fan, and keeping it turned away from you—it will help steer the fumes away.;
, Brand-new pots are often coated with a thin layer of dust. Some may even have price tags and stickers. All of these can prevent the paint from adhering properly. To fix this, start off by soaking the pot in a container of warm water. Use a stiff brush or coarse sponge to loosen any grit or dirt. If the pot has any stubborn price tags that won't come off, leave the pot sitting in the hot water for about an hour, then continue scrubbing it Once clean, set the pot in a sunny spot and let it dry., Once the pot is clean, use a fine, 220-grit sand paper to smooth the surface. Focus on any rough pots and sharp edges.Don't worry about polishing and getting the pot to be perfectly-smooth. Raw, unpainted terracotta will never be smooth as porcelain; it will always have some texture to it. The rough, jagged patches, however, are imperfections and will have to go.
 This will remove all traces of dust and grit. Let the pot dry completely before proceeding.
 Shake a can of clear, acrylic spray sealer until you can hear it rattle, then apply a light, even coat to the inside of the pot. Be sure to cover the bottom and the sides. Terracotta is porous, so it will likely soak up the first coat. This is normal.Simply wait for this coat to dry before applying another coat. You may need between two or three more coats. Make sure that you allow each coat to dry before applying another. The sealer is important, because it will prevent moisture from leaching through to the outside after the pot is planted.


You can use any finish for the acrylic sealer: matte, satin, or glossy. Be sure that the can states that the sealer is waterproof.
For a more sophisticated look, paint the inside of the flower pot black first, then seal it.
 If you are going to paint the entire pot one, solid color, then you will need to prime it. Hold the can 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the surface of the pot, and apply a light, even coat. You can apply a second coat, if necessary, once the first one dries. Applying some primer will not only help you achieve a smoother finish, but it will also prevent the pot from soaking up any paint.
 If you wish to paint some designs and have the raw terracotta still visible, then coat the pot with some matte, acrylic spray sealer instead. Hold the can 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the pot, and spray on a light, even coat. You may apply a second coat, if necessary, once the first one dries. This will seal the pot and prevent it from absorbing too much paint while giving the paint something to grip onto. The matte finish will blend in with the matte texture of the pot.


If you wish to create a weathered-looking pot, then use this technique.
 Most primers will dry within 15 minutes, but some may require as much as two to three hours. Refer to the manufacturer's directions on the can for more specific drying times.
 You can paint the entire pot a solid color, or you can leave parts of the pot unpainted. If you wish to leave some areas unpainted, then you will need to cover them with painter's tape. Here are some ideas:


Apply paint to just the brim of the pot for a splash of color. You can paint the drain dish a matching color.
Paint the body of the pot, but leave the brim unpainted.
Paint only half of the pot. You can choose which half: the top half or the bottom half.Create alternating stripes of painted and unpainted areas. You can also use a zigzag pattern.
 This will help you achieve a nice, crisp line between the painted areas and the unpainted areas. If you have a steady hand and are using a flat paintbrush or a foam brush, then you do not have to use the painter's tape. If you are using spray paint, then you will need to use painter's tape. Here are some ways you can use painter's tape:


If you want to paint just the brim of the pot, place a thick stripe of painter's tape just below the brim. If you are using spray paint, then cover the pot with a plastic bag and seal the edges of the bag to the pot using tape. The painter's tape will help you get a nice, straight line, and the bag will prevent any spray paint from accidentally getting on the pot.
If you want to paint the pot but leave the brim plain, then cover the brim with painter's tape.
If you are painting only half of the pot, then cover the part you don't want colored using painter's tape.
Place strips of painter's tape to create lines and zigzags. The areas with the tape will have the unfinished terracotta color when you are done painting.
 Paint comes in many different finishes, and the sort of paint you choose will determine what sort of sealer you will be using at the end, if at all. Here are some suggestions:


Metallic, pearlescent, and glittery paint will add some sparkle to your pot. These paints will need to be sealed with a glossy finish to preserve their shine and luster.
You can create a completely customizable pot with chalkboard paint. If you choose to use chalkboard paint, you won't need to seal it. Sealing a chalkboard finish will prevent it from working like a chalkboard.
Solid colored paints can be coated with matte, satin, or glossy sealants for different finishes.
Textured spray paint is also available. You can make your terracotta pot look rustic with a coarse, stone-like texture.
 If you are using acrylic paint, squirt some paint onto a dish. To reduce the possibility of brushstrokes, dilute the paint with a few drops of water, until it reaches the consistency of cream. If you are using spray paint, simply shake the can for few moments until you can hear the ball inside rattle.


You can use outdoor or craft-grade paint. The pot will be sealed once again when you are done painting.
 If you are using acrylic paint, you can use a flat paintbrush or a foam paintbrush. If you are using spray paint, hold the can 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the pot's surface and spray on a light, even coat. Let this coat dry before applying another. This can take anywhere from 15 minutes to a few hours, depending on the manufacturer's recommendations.
 Once the first coat has dried, you can apply a second or third coat. Make sure to let each coat to dry completely before adding another one.
 Apply some paint to the top inch (2.54 centimeters) of the inside of the pot. It isn't necessary to paint any more of the inside as the pot will be filled with soil., Painting your terracotta pot can give it some color, but adding designs can make it even more interesting. These section will give you some tips and ideas.
 If you want to create a pot with a striped or zigzag pattern, arrange some painter's tape on it in a pattern you like. Paint the pot again in a different color, then remove the tape. Let the pot dry. You can create more shapes and patterns by adding more painter's tape, painting, and removing the tape.You can also create a polka-dot pattern by sticking circle-shaped stickers or price tags onto the pot. Paint over the pot, and then remove the stickers.
If there are any chips in your paint from removing the tape, fill them in using paint and a thin paintbrush.
 Purchase some adhesive stencils and stick them onto your pot. If you cannot find any adhesive stencils, then you can simply tape them onto the pot using painter's tape. Paint over the stencil using acrylic paint or spray paint, then remove the stencil. You can use any color you want, but contrasting colors or metallic colors work best. Here are some ideas:


If you painted your pot black, consider using white or gold paint for the designs.
If your pot is white, then make some designs using black or gold paint.
If your pot is neon green, create some bold designs using pink or orange.
You can also use ordinary objects as stencils, such as doilies. Lay the pot on its side, and drape a doily over it. Apply the paint and lift the doily off. Do not drag the doily, or it will smear the paint.
 If you don't like using stencils, you can paint the designs on using oil-based paint pens or a thin paintbrush.
 Take a piece of fine, 220-grit sandpaper and lightly buff the surface of your pot. You can sand in the same direction, or achieve different effects by sanding left-to-right first, then top-to-bottom. You can even try buffing in circular motions. Keep sanding until the original texture of the terracotta pot starts to show through., This will allow you to change the names on the pots when the plant inside of them changes. If you make a large label, then you can even write down specific care and watering instructions.You can add a chalkboard label to a solid-colored pot, or to a raw, terracotta pot, sealed with matte acrylic sealer. Here is how you can add a label to your pot:


Seal your pot first. To learn how to seal your pot, refer to the section in this article on finishing and sealing the pot.
Block off any areas that you do not want painted with painter's tape. You can also use an adhesive stencil, shaped like a square, rectangle, circle, or oval.
Apply a thin layer of chalkboard paint using a flat paintbrush or a foam brush. You can also use chalkboard spray paint.
Allow the coat to dry 8 hours before applying a second coat.
Allow the paint to cure for two to three days.
Season the surface by rubbing white chalk over it, then wiping it off with a piece of damp cloth. Your chalkboard label is now ready to use.
 Because you will be working with spray-on sealers, you will need to move to a well-ventilated area. Outdoors is the best. If you cannot work in a well-ventilated area, then make sure to have a window open and take breaks often so that you don't feel lightheaded. Consider switching a fan on and turning it away from you. It will steer the paint fumes away from you. Make sure that your work area is free of any dust or debris, especially if you are planning on working with a glossy sealer.
 Make sure that the cup or can you are using is thin enough to fit inside the pot, but tall enough so that the pot can rest on top of it without touching your table. You are creating something that looks like a lamp or a giant mushroom. This will allow you to coat the entire surface of the pot, including the bottom., Several coats of a glossy sealer will give you a glazed-finish. If you painted your pot using metallic, glittery, or pearlescent paint, then you will need a glossy sealer as well.


If you blocked off the designs using painter's tape, then leave the tape on until the sealer dries. Once it dries, remove the tape.
 A matte sealer will give you a dull finish, similar to the original texture of the pot. This will work well for designs that you hand-painted onto a bare pot.
 A satin finish will have some gloss to it, but it will not be as reflective or shiny as a typical gloss finish.
 Instead, let the paint dry for 3 days, then prime it by covering the entire surface with a piece of chalk. Wipe the chalk off with a damp cloth. You can draw designs on the pot, or you can write the name of the herb or plant you are putting inside the pot.
 Hold the can 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the surface and apply a light, even coat. The sealer protects the paint from scratches, adds durability and makes the pot easier to keep clean. If necessary, apply a second coat once the first one dries. Be sure to get the bottom of the pot as well. Let the sealer dry completely before proceeding.
 If you see any drips along the rim, take a fine, 220-grit sand paper and lightly buff the surface until the drips are gone. Be careful not to scratch the paint off.
 Once you are done sanding, wipe the dust off with a damp cloth, and apply a light coat of sealer. Be sure to get the top of the rim, and the inside of the rim. Wait until the sealer has dried before applying a second coat.
 If you plant too soon, the paint may not be fully-dried yet. The moisture form the soil may cause the paint to bubble, crack, and peel away.

