 Sure, you might have had a great time annoying people in public places, but that doesn't come without consequences. People in public places expect to be left alone, and may not react the way you expected when you annoy them. Here are some things that could happen:


People on public transportation will be prone to anger. These people have most likely worked or traveled all day and their patience will be worn extremely thin. They can yell at you, report you, or even get violent.
People at sporting events may be especially touchy. If their team loses, or if they've had a lot to drink, they may hurt you and do irreparable damage. Remember that you're playing with fire when you annoy people you don't know.
 While being annoy to people who care about you may be fun if you're in the mood to be a jerk, the people who care about you can quickly give up on you, and you may find yourself completely alone. Here are some other things that may happen:


Your significant other can leave you at any time. Being annoying may not be as much fun if you're rolling solo.
Your friend can stop hanging out with you. You can easily be friend-dumped for being a jerk. Being annoying won't be so much fun if you don't have anyone to annoy.
 Your parents are supposed to love you more than anyone in the world, but they are still only human. They work hard to give you what you need, and if you continue to act bratty and ungrateful, you'll have to face the music. Here are some things that can happen:


Your parents can cut you off. If you annoy them enough, yes, they can really leave you hanging once you reach a certain age--it's their right.
Your parents can stop wanting to spend time with you. As you grow older, they may not want to see you on special occasions or call you up. That will sting.
 You may have fun bugging your teacher, but your teacher can fight back by failing you. Remember that your teacher has power over your grades, which can affect your professional future. Here are some things your teacher can do:


Your teacher can flat-out fail you. This can keep you from moving on to a new grade, or even graduating.
If your behavior is bad enough, your teacher can even have you expelled. Try explaining that to a college admissions officer.

