 Scent is the sense that coonhounds rely on the most during the hunt so you want to begin to acclimate a puppy to following a scent early on. You can purchase raccoon scent from an outdoor or sporting retailer, or online. Apply the scent to a drag, whether it is an old rag or a retrieving dummy.You can also use a fresh raccoon carcass, but be aware that scent training is an ongoing process and you’ll need to procure new carcasses to train with as the old ones begin to deteriorate.
 Let the puppy play with the scented dummy so they become acclimated to the smell. Reward the puppy with a small treat for showing interest, but take the drag away before they lose interest in it. This is called “putting them away hot” and helps you to control your puppy’s interest in the scent.Repeat this process for at least three days, continuing to put the drag away while it’s hot.
 Attach the scented dummy or coon hide to a line or rope. Pull the line across your property, creating a scent trail. Do this while your dog is inside and cannot see you pulling the line. The trail will ultimately end at a tree, where you'll hang the scent drag or carcass.


This creates a scent trail for your coonhound to practice following.
 After you’ve finished creating a scent line, put the drag away and out of sight. Bring the dog out of the house and lead them to the area where you began dragging the line. They should be on a leash, since coonhounds are prone to running after scents. Encourage them to find the scent and pair it with a verbal cue, like “find it” or “find the scent, Max.”


The dog will hopefully catch on to the command and begin tracking the scent. If your dog does not seem to understand, you can lead them around the area where you pulled the drag and let them sniff the ground along the way. Their scent instincts will eventually take over. Give them a treat when they are done following the scent and respond to your come command.
Practice this scent lead process for every other day for at least two weeks.
 This way, your puppy will begin to associate the smell of the raccoon with trees. This helps to link the two in their mind, so when it comes to tracking a real raccoon they know that the trail will ultimately end with them treeing the animal. Each scent trail should end at a tree.
 The coonhound is now beginning to associate the scent of the raccoon with the hunt, and with the tree. Repeat this process of dragging a scent throughout your property several times each week. Vary the route each time, but always end at a tree where you’ve hung the drag or the hide.


This process should be repeated at least 2-3 times each week. The first two years of your dog’s life are integral to training them to a good scent hound, and this is the best way to strengthen their skills., Every time your puppy successfully tracks the scent to the tree, praise them and offer them a treat. This helps them to associate the hunt with positive things, though they will likely find it inherently enjoyable.

