 At such a young age, it's important to take some time to think and decide whether you really want a boyfriend at this stage in your life. Having a boyfriend may seem like a great idea, but a lot of the boys in the seventh grade aren't going to be mature enough yet to handle something like that. If you take a hard look and decide that you want to go through with it, continue through to the next steps. If you're having any trouble in really figuring out whether you're ready, try imagining your life with a boyfriend added. It's important to think about how much time a good relationship takes to build. If you're already busy as it is, it's best you don't try to look for it too hard.;
, In the seventh grade, a good fashion sense isn't necessary, but dressing nicely is a good way to get all sorts of positive attention. Dress casually to match whatever setting you'll be in.
 No one should be looking for someone to love if they don't already love themselves! This is as true for girls as it is for boys. If you have issues with self-image and loving yourself, it's really important you take some time to work on those things before inviting someone new into your life. There are lots of wonderful things about you. Part of getting a boyfriend mean acknowledging those things in yourself. Do you suffer from low confidence? Try making up a list of ten things you love about yourself.
Smile in the mirror. Even if it feels odd at first, you'll soon get used to it and it'll help you develop a stronger sense of positive body image.
If you have some close friends, ask some of them what their favourite things are about you. Keep their responses in mind the next time you're feeling down!

, No matter how much you want a boyfriend, it's never a good idea to settle for someone you don't think is great. This includes making sure your potential boyfriend is mature enough to handle a real relationship. Keep your chin up, and don't let yourself get into anything that doesn't feel just right.
 When you're at the seventh grade, your biggest source to meet people will be school. You'll be in classes with a lot of the same people all year round. This gives you plenty of opportunities to make great friendships along the way. Can you think of any boys in your class you might be interested in? If not, are there boy in other classes you've had your eye on for a while? If you're starting a new year of school, you should find out if you're in any classes with a boy you might like.
 Even if you don't go to school, you can see find plenty of way of meeting people. Try checking out some extracurricular activities regardless. Is there a chess club at your school, or maybe an atmospheric black metal appreciation society at your local library? Meeting people in these clubs can be especially good because you already know you have some shared common interests with them. What's more, the fact that it's not technically on school time means everyone will be more relaxed. , It's possible you already have a strong network of friends you can fall back upon when the going gets tough. Likewise, if you're looking for someone special they may be able to help. If you feel like it, you can ask your friends if they know anyone they might introduce you to. It's important you go about that in a positive, confident manner. If you sound timid, it may come off as desperation, which you definitely don't want to show around your friends.
 Events are a perfect, fun way of meeting new people. Whether it's a sporting event or a music concert recital, everyone is at the event because they want to be there. The specific reasons for the event give lots of opportunity for conversation starters. Keep your eye out for someone doing something interesting. If you overhear a neat conversation, chime in and add your fourteen cents.


For instance, if it's a sports game you're at, you could approach someone and ask: "What team are you rooting for today?" If you're feeling particularly bold, you might even start the conversation by letting him know what your favourite team is.
 Finding someone interesting can be luck of the draw, but with enough time and putting yourself out there in the world, it will eventually happen. Introducing yourself to someone can be a pretty nerve-wracking experience, although it's nowhere near as bad as some people might fear it to be.


If you're nervous or don't know how to approach someone in a proper way, look around yourself for inspirations. If you're at an event, there are lots of things you could bring up. Ask their thoughts on the event. If you're at school, ask them about their favourite class or their least favourite teacher.
Going up and simply saying "Hi!" works too. It's very rare someone won't be flattered by someone giving them attention.
 Once you've properly introduce yourself, it's time to learn more about him. If you're talking to him, ask him questions about his life. What are his favourite bands, books or movies? If he has an online profile, check out what he's written for it. , You don't need to necessarily ask a boy to hang out to spend time with them. At first, it's best if your time together is casual. If you're there at the same place at the same time without calling it 'hanging out', there's less pressure for the two of you. This includes sitting next to each other during class or during lunch, or going to the same event together. The more time you spend together, the more likely feelings will spark.
 In this day and age, one of the best ways to get to know someone is over the internet. Most people have Facebook now, and it's a great way to talk to someone about a lot of different things, even if one of you doesn't have the time available to hang out in person.


Check out their online posts. If there's something that engages you in some way, you should reply with your opinions. Don't be afraid to be opinionated! Boys really like someone who knows how to speak her mind.
 At a certain point, it'll become appropriate to start spending time together one-on-one. For some people, asking to hang out with someone they like might feel nerve-wracking and intense. If you've developed the bond already, it shouldn't be much of a risk. Just ask that you would like to see him sometime. Chances are he'll say yes. If he says he's too busy, don't sweat it. You can always schedule for later on down the road.


Go spend time together somewhere the two of you have never been before. This will give the two of you a chance to see each other in a new light, far removed from the context of school.
Going to the beach or your favourite restaurant are great ideas for a first date.
 Once you've started hanging out, it's a good idea to make it a regular thing. The more times you spend together, the more likely it'll be that you'll develop feelings. While the first time you get together may even feel awkward, you'll feel much more at ease with the boy the more you see him.


Take it slow. At first, it should feel incredibly casual to be spending time together. It doesn't need to get emotionally intense anytime soon. Just enjoy spending time with the person you're with.
 You should never be afraid to demonstrate your talents to the guy you like. It's a big lie that guys aren't attracted to smarts. Showing you have well-developed and passionate interests will make you appear like an even greater catch. , Chances are, if you fee really attracted to his boy, you're already displaying that attraction in subtle, but significant ways. Try to decide if you're doing some or any of the following. If not, you might imply be feeling too nervous:


Making lots of eye contact. This is especially important if you're naturally shy. Eye contact is a great way to show interest in someone, romantically or otherwise. On the other hand, averting your gaze may get the impression across that you're attracted as well, particularly if you're on the shy side.
Twirling your hair is a playful way of showing interest.
Smiling a lot and holding his gaze will let him know you're interested in what he has to say.
 At a certain time, it'll become apparent that the two of you have feelings for one another. Even if you both know it, asking someone out officially can be tough! It's best to find a perfect moment where you won't be interrupted by anything.


For example, once you've gotten somewhere private, you could take his hands in yours and say: "You know, I've been really enjoying the time we've spent together. I think there could be something special between us. Maybe we could get closer, if you were interested too?"
Going in for a quick kiss can say just as much as an official declaration.
It's well possible that he might ask you out before you even get the chance! If that happens, stay calm and accept his offer graciously. The last thing you want to do is panic and suddenly reject him without thinking!

, Things will feel intense in the relationship at first. This is especially true if it's your first real relationship. Nonetheless, you should take it as slow as you can at first. You don't want to rush into saying "I love you" until you know it for a fact. Rushing through the stages of a relationship can lead to problems later on if you don't build a solid foundation first.
 One of the things most people do when they're getting into a relationship is to put on their best face. It's not until the relationship is a few weeks or months in that people start to let their bad habits in. The best thing you can do is to be honest from the start, but keep working hard for as long as you're in the relationship.
 In the seventh grade, your boyfriend may not be as mature as you would like. It's still important to be as honest a you can in the relationship.
 At some point, you'll probably have to meet his family. When you meet them, look them in the eye and greet them politely. It shouldn't be taken personally if his parents are apprehensive about your boyfriend bringing a girl over-- it's possible this is the first time they've ever dealt with something like this.
 Even in the best relationships, arguments will happen. What decides whether an argument will be bad or constructive depends on how it's approached. Shouting matches have never helped anyone, especially when you're in the seventh grade!

, Life is a series of hellos and goodbyes, and its very common for relationships early in life to fall apart, and often quite quickly at that. Soon enough, you'll have moved onto someone new and even better than the last!

