 Having a positive morning routine can help set the tone for the entire day. Wake up to your alarm 15 minutes earlier than usual. Spend a few minutes in bed, take some deep breaths, and assure yourself that today will be a good day. Tell yourself that this is a chance for a fresh start, which will help you center yourself for the rest of the day., Finding pockets of time during the day to help you let go of problems, consider remedies or solutions, or treating yourself will help you maintain a Zen attitude.
 Constantly rushing around will add to your stress and make it harder to maintain calm. Take time to enjoy activities like cooking, walking or writing. This will also help you feel more in control over things in your life., Meditating will give your mind some much needed space to process everyday stresses. Choose the same time of day in order to get yourself into a routine. This is often best at the beginning of the day, when you are preparing for the day. Meditating doesn’t need to take very long, so adjust the time to what works for you. Start with a minimum of 5 minutes and work up to 10 minutes, then 25 minutes.Take a minimum of 5 minutes to sit quietly and comfortably. Focus on your breathing, drawing in full, deep breaths through your nose and into your lungs and stomach. Breathe out slowly and deliberately. Count to 4 on the inhale, and count to 4 on the exhale.Keep your eyes open with a soft focus. You can close your eyes if this feels more comfortable to you.
As your mind begins to wander, bring it back to focus on your breathing and to resume counting the breaths.
 Sleep is a naturally healing technique that will help you remain calm and ready to tackle the day. Plan to go to bed at a regular bedtime every night and aim to get at least 7-8 hours of sleep., Turning off distractions such as your phone or computer will go a long way to uncluttering your mind. Social media and email encourage you to respond to people’s needs and requests instantly and constantly. Taking time away from your electronic devices will help you clear your mind.