 Give your Virgo the benefit of the doubt and assume that she is aware of her tendency to judge people too quickly. Trust that she is open to reconsidering them when proven wrong.If you feel like she has misunderstood a statement of yours, reopen the conversation and clarify your meaning. If she has misinterpreted your actions, explain exactly why you acted as you did.


For example, say she has concluded that you have poor manners because you didn’t hold the door open for her. Joke about how you are unsure of what is still considered chivalrous and what is now thought to be outmoded and belittling in the modern world of dating.
 Understand that Virgos tend to be very knowledgeable. Stimulate her mind by always keeping the conversation alive. Embrace discussions on any number of subjects. Challenge her points of view when you disagree.Don’t worry about being an expert on each and every topic. Your openness to discuss topics that you never pondered before should impress her just as much as your thorough knowledge on a subject, if not more so.
 Resist the urge to feel offended by her blunt statements. Appreciate that her practical mind often compels her to speak directly, without mincing words. Regard her criticisms, opinions, and advice as simple statements of what she thinks, rather than a personal attack.Past instances of offending people have probably clued her into this tendency of hers, so trust that all you have to do is softly point out that you would appreciate a different choice of words in the future.
 Remember that no one receives the brunt of her critical eye as much as she does. Expect her to over-analyze your relationship and worry over her own faults, whether or not you even consider them to be a problem. Anticipate that her expectations of herself may lead to pronounced mood swings at times, depending on how well she thinks she’s living up to her standards.Encourage her to talk openly about her feelings, which she may hide in the beginning.
Assure her when her worries are baseless or resolvable.
Couch your own criticisms gently, since she may take them too much to heart.
 Expect your Virgo to strive to be perfect in other areas of her life, too. Accept that she will divide her time between you and other obligations, such as work, friends, and family. Understand that this balancing act may in fact appear quite imbalanced at times.When it appears to be against you, trust that her pragmatic mind has made a logical decision about what needs more attention this minute, rather than take it as a personal slight.
 Appreciate that your Virgo’s passions will rarely erupt into fiery pronouncements of undying devotion. Remember that she is more likely to think in terms of practicality rather than poetry. Expect her to demonstrate her love with small, consistent acts of caring. Rest assured that her gestures, however moderate, indicate a sincere love and desire for stability.For example, though you might be feeling neglected after her fifth night of working late in a row, appreciate her effort to, say, fix you breakfast or a cup of coffee before she leaves in the morning.
 Don’t be surprised if your meticulous Virgo likes to map out the next several years in advance. Expect her to have ambitions as well as clear strategies of how to achieve them. Either share your own early on so that you can formulate a plan together for shared success, or be very, very flexible in where you’d like to see yourself in the future.Remember that she may not necessarily be looking for a partner with the exact same qualities as her. So don’t be overwhelmed if you are more of a spontaneous type who prefers seizing the moment. This may be a trait that she envies!