 Hail Mary passes are high-risk and long-range. They originally gained their name from Catholic university football teams that would say a prayer before especially desperate plays. Hail Mary passes are typically only thrown when the offensive team needs to gain substantial yards (usually with little play time remaining) and is unable to attempt a conventional play. Consider throwing a Hail Mary in situations like the following:


You possess the ball for the last play of the half and are a long way from the end zone.
You have to complete a long fourth-down play and punting isn't advisable (for instance, if the game will end during the next possession and you are behind.)
You possess the ball for the last play of the game and can potentially prevent the game going into overtime by scoring.
Caution: Long passes are risky - it's difficult for even the best quarterbacks to throw accurately at extremely long distances, and because these passes typically travel in a higher arc, they are easier for the defense to intercept. Also, because the receivers require more time to get into position for the pass, the quarterback is open to a sack for more time. For these reasons, use caution when throwing Hail Mary Passes.
 Grip the back of the football with your index finger, middle finger and thumb, laying whichever fingers are comfortable (including your ring finger and pinky) over the ball's laces. Keep a slight bend in your knees. Face ninety degrees away from your target with your throwing hand away from him and your forward foot pointed forward.


Because you will need to wait longer than usual before throwing the pass, drop back especially far after receiving the snap - you'll be more able to avoid rushers. If you are tackled while throwing, see Method Four below.
 Keep the ball in the "ready to throw" position near your ear. By stepping back, you are positioning yourself to push forward as you throw, giving your throw greater momentum.
 Cock your arm backward behind your head in a wind-up motion. Bend your knees slightly as you push off of the ground with your back foot and begin to step forward.
 Lean forward as you throw the ball. Rotate your hips and shoulders through the throw as you continue to step forward. By stepping forward, rotating, and leaning into the pass, you impart additional momentum on the ball, sending it farther down the field.


Allow the ball to roll off your fingers as in Method One above. Follow through the motion by continuing to step forward until you naturally slow down. Don't lose focus now - if your Hail Mary is intercepted, you may need to try to tackle the ball carrier!
For best results, try to arc the ball high enough that it reaches your receiver's hands while passing over his defender's head. To arc the ball higher, release it a split-second earlier in your throw.

