 It can take days or weeks for the thickness of your blood to change due to dietary and lifestyle habits alone. Start making these changes as early as possible to maximize the potential impact they have on your blood.;
, Good options to consider include dark green vegetables, dark fruits, and certain nuts.The highest concentration of vitamin K can usually be found in dark green vegetables. Kale, collard greens, spinach, green beans, soybeans, spring onions, Brussels sprouts, asparagus, and cucumbers are some of your best choices.
Most fruits don't contain quite as much vitamin K as green vegetables do, but many of the darker fruits and berries at least contain some. This includes blueberries, blackberries, strawberries, and plums.
Cashews and chestnuts contain more vitamin K than most other nuts, but pistachios, pine nuts, and hazelnuts contain some, as well.
You can also add vitamin K to your diet by seasoning your food with dried basil, dried sage, dried thyme, dried marjoram, dried cilantro, parsley, chili powder, curry powder, paprika, or cayenne pepper., Alcohol tends to thin the blood and cause more bleeding to occur, so you should avoid consuming alcohol as much as possible at least one week before surgery.An occasional glass of wine or some other alcoholic beverage relatively low in proof may not necessarily cause much of a problem for someone whose blood has a normal consistency, but even that can cause adverse effects for someone whose blood is thinner than average. Your safest option is to avoid alcohol completely until after the surgery is over.
 Proper hydration is an essential component of healthy blood. If you're dehydrated, the volume of blood pumping through your circulatory system can decrease, causing it to thin out have difficulty coagulating.


Excessive hydration can also cause your blood to become too thin, however. As you drink more, more fluid enters into your blood, thinning it out.
It's best to maintain standard, healthy levels of hydration prior to surgery to avoid complications. Try to consume eight 8-oz (250-ml) glasses of fluid each day.
 Salicylates blocks your body's ability to absorb vitamin K, thereby preventing your blood from thickening. It might be best to avoid foods high in salicylates so that your blood can more effectively benefit from the vitamin K you consume.


Many herbs and spices are naturally high in salicylates. Some of the most notable include ginger, cinnamon, dill, oregano, turmeric, licorice, and peppermint.
Certain fruits are also high in salicylates. It might be best to stay away from raisins, cherries, cranberries, grapes, tangerines, and oranges.
Other foods rich in salicylates include chewing gum, honey, peppermints, vinegar, and cider.
Some seasonings and foods high in salicylates are also high in vitamin K, and the two substances may balance each other out. Examples include curry powder, cayenne pepper, paprika, thyme, blueberries, prunes, and strawberries.



A better option would be to simply avoid excess vitamin E while preparing for your surgery. Don't take vitamin E supplements and don't add any new sources of vitamin E to your routine.
Some topical health and beauty products, like certain hand sanitizers, use vitamin E as a preservative. Check the ingredients and consider temporarily switching to a brand that doesn't include vitamin E.
Most foods high in vitamin E contain just as much, if not more, vitamin K. Spinach and broccoli are two examples. As such, they generally won't thin the blood and don't need to be excluded from your diet.
 Omega-3 fatty acids can thin blood and prevent clotting. Normal doses of omega-3 fatty acids will be safe to consume before surgery if you usually have healthy, adequately thick blood, but excess omega-3 should be avoided.


You may also want to avoid omega-3 fatty acids if your blood tends to be thinner than usual.
Fatty fish contains some of the largest doses of omega-3, so you might want to avoid salmon, trout, tuna, anchovies, mackerel, and herring.
Fish oil capsules should usually be skipped completely while you're preparing for surgery since they contain concentrated doses of omega-3.
 Light to moderate exercise can still be beneficial before surgery, but you should avoid intense bouts of vigorous exercise at least one week in advance.


Vigorous exercise can increase bleeding, lower vitamin K levels, and thin the blood.
On the other hand, remaining stationary can also be bad for you. People who live stationary lifestyles run the risk of thickening the blood too much and developing blood clots.
Your best option is to engage in light exercise several times throughout the week. For instance, you could try walking or jogging for 30 minutes, three to five days a week.
 When preparing for surgery, you should discuss any changes you plan to make with your physician or surgeon beforehand. This includes changes to your diet, over-the-counter medications, and prescription medications.


Bring all of your current routine medications to the surgery orientation. Your doctor should be able to tell you if any of these medications must be stopped or decreased before surgery.
Note that blood can be either too thick or too thin, and neither option is particularly safe, especially when you have surgery. Thin blood won't coagulate properly, which may cause you to bleed excessively during the operation. Thick blood can lead to blood clots that may block arteries or cause related complications., Even though vitamin K naturally obtained through your diet is typically better, you can consider temporarily supplementing your diet with vitamin K capsules as an acceptable alternative.


Begin taking the supplement one week before surgery to gradually thicken your blood.
Adult women should only take 90 micrograms daily, and adult men should only take 120 micrograms daily. Children will need to take smaller doses based on exact age., Some over-the-counter or herbal drugs can act as anti-coagulates. In other words, they cause your blood to become thinner. You should stop taking these drugs at least one week before your surgery to prevent your blood from thinning out.Aspirin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (like ibuprofen and naproxen) are the biggest over-the-counter culprits.
Herbal drugs that have a similar effect include vitamin E supplements, garlic supplements, ginger supplements, and ginkgo biloba.
 If you're currently taking prescription anti-coagulants (blood thinners), your doctor may recommend stopping those medications several days before your surgery. This can be the case regardless of whether or not those medications were originally prescribed for the sake of thinning your blood.


The exact timing will vary depending on your specific circumstances, so you must consult with your doctor before stopping your prescriptions.
Prescription blood thinners include warfarin, enoxaparin, clopidogrel, ticlopidine, dipyridamole, and alendronate. Prescription dosages of aspirin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are also included.

