 In the information age we’re in today, it’s only right to teach kids how to embrace connected learning. This includes using technology as a tool or a way to learn new concepts.


For example, a child who enjoys playing video games can be asked to write a report about it – teaching him writing and creative thinking skills. On the other hand, a tablet PC could be used in art class to draw pictures or even signs and banners for school.;
,  If you have a classroom of teenagers, then most of them will likely have Twitter accounts. Why not make learning a bit more fun by having them contact popular personalities, or spread hashtags related to the topic of the day using Twitter?


This could help gain interaction from people around the world who have something to share. By doing this, it can help teach your students the value of making connections and the influence it can have on them.
 There’s a more efficient way of sharing classroom notes, documents and projects and that’s with programs like Google Docs. Teach children how they can collaborate via the Internet, which could be a part of their future if they decide to pursue a business career. You can also upload videos to a private channel just for your class using YouTube.
 The idea of pen pals can be enhanced using video chat systems like UberConference. These systems can also be used to connect with experts or students from other classrooms that are far away.


In this scenario, children will learn how to share experiences and build new relationships from a distance. Teleconferencing is a great way to teach children about teleconferencing etiquette, such as understanding when it’s alright to connect and how to act when on camera.
 In order to help get your students active in class lessons, you can use a blog or wiki to entice them to comment on lessons, topics and current events.


Students should also be allowed to create new posts about news or their thoughts. This is a great way to enhance creative writing. Parents can also feel connected, since they’re able to browse through the discussions and see how the children and teachers interact in an open online environment.
  Technology isn’t always about being seen; it can also be used to be heard. With a classroom podcast, you can read passages from a textbook or a novel or schedule for discussions to take place on a certain topic that’s in line with your curriculum. This will teach broadcasting skills, speaking skills and critical thinking skills. You can also record the discussion, which can be reviewed by the class or future students.
 Similarly to YouTube, a private account can be created (no one but classroom students can log into the account). With Pinterest, you and your students can post photos of projects, activities, field trips and anything else that’s class related. Since this is a visual medium, it will help to bring out creativity and confidence to share things with others.
 If you’re a math or life skills teacher, you could put Excel to use in teaching your students about formulas, budgets and working with spreadsheets overall. This will show them how to do complex and simple calculations, and how they can be used to improve their personal or work life.


When doing financial planning, you can use real-world scenarios to help teach a point that can be used in real life. This includes learning about savings, earnings, credit and expenses based on formulas that the students create.
  Whether going on a family vacation to another state or country or learning the transits of Christopher Columbus, an interactive map can be used.


This will also allow students to place their thoughts and exploits on the map. Some maps also provide fun facts, pictures, street views and videos of different cities, states and countries, offering a virtual field trip. #*Integrating technology into your classroom can have more benefits than one. You can try implementing these ideas into your class to see how it can help enhance teaching lessons for your students.

