 It could be anywhere. Outside under a tree, in a bedroom with the lights off, or even in your living room. Anywhere that makes you feel comfortable is great. Make sure that there is no distractions in the area you have chosen and make sure there are no future distractions. You need to be focused on the here and now.
 Whether it would be sitting, laying down, or standing up the decision is up to you. Make sure that it's comfortable for you. Once you find your position, close your eyes.


If you are sitting up, you’ll want to have good posture so you can breathe better. Your back should be straight, chest slightly lifted and shoulders back. Lift your chin slightly but do not strain your neck. Your wrists should rest lightly on your knees, palms open and facing up.
 As you are in your position with your eyes closed, take in a slow, deep breath. As you are taking in your breath, relax yourself. Loosen your shoulder and neck, wiggle your toes or fingers. Breathe in slowly, and as you breathe out, imagine all your stress and worries leaving your body whenever you exhale.
 Put off any tasks that can wait until after you're done meditating. As you are taking in your breaths, let all your worries go. Stop stressing or thinking about commitments, appointments and responsibilities. Save that for later. Instead, become self-aware. Notice your breathing, your relaxation. Be in the moment and benefit from it.


Of course, if the phone rings, or you need to do any important task, then take care of it. You can always return to this meditation later.
 This may be from a holiday a few years ago, when you were younger, an imaginary place or you simply sitting alone in a park. The point is that you get a good feeling from the location.


Another option is to practice mindfulness meditation. Simply focus on what you are experiencing at the moment. Focus on your breathing, what you hear or smell right now. Bring your mind back to your breathing as often as possible.
 Keep your eyes closed, continue to breathe deeply and imagine all your body slowing down. Your heartbeat, your blood flow, all the way down to your feet—everything should begin to feel loose and heavy. Continue imagining yourself in your happy place while breathing slowly for the next few minutes.


Scan your body to find areas that feel tense from stress. Start with your toes and move all the way up to your scalp. Imagine that each deep breath flows into that body part as heat or light. Do this for 1 to 2 minutes and repeat for each tense area., Don't worry how long you should meditate for. Keep meditating until you feel yourself relaxed and refreshed. If you need a time frame, studies show that 5-15 minutes is beneficial. Once you feel like it's over, open your eyes and feel the benefits.

