


Verify a dealer’s reputation before obtaining coins. If the dealer claims to be a member of a professional organization, then call the organization.
Get a second opinion about the grading of inventory from an independent party.
Shop around to compare coin quality and coin prices.
Take possession of coins after you purchase them. Don’t allow them to be stored in a vault.
 You can either sell your items at traditional auctions or at online auctions.


Auction your coins on a bidding website such as eBay or Amazon Marketplace. Acquiring positive feedback can boost your business over time.
Sell your coins online through a third-party dealer. Register an account with another dealer and use their e-commerce tools to sell your coins. They will take a percentage of sales as a commission for letting you use their services.



Assemble a catalog of your inventory for your shoppers.
Choose a niche. Sell certain types of coins so that you can become a specialist.
Continue to present new offers to repeat customers to keep them coming back.



Rent an appropriate space for your business. You may need to look at surrounding towns to find the best available rents.
Decide what your shop will specialize in concerning sales and inventory. If you want to buy people’s coin collections, then be confident in your grading ability. If you want to only work with coins that have already been graded, then let your customers know.
Set up your inventory for display. Consider keeping your coins in glass display cases for protection.
Purchase a point-of-sale (POS) system. This will enable you to ring up your customers and to keep track of your sales.
Hire an accountant. Your accountant will help you to comply with all small business regulations.



Have a 5-year history in the coin business.
Adhere to minimum and maximum buying guidelines.
Have your company certified by an accountant who is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Possess a business net worth of between $10 million and $50 million, depending on the kind of coins that you want to sell, for the last 3 fiscal years. Alternatively, you can submit an irrevocable letter of credit.

