 How much you buy will depend on how large (and how hungry) the crew your feeding is. It's safe to figure about 1/2 pound per person.


If you don't find it on the shelf, ask the butcher. He may have some in the back, or can cut it to order for you.
Get the untrimmed version, if it's available. It's often cheaper by the pound, and you can choose to trim the fat off at home.
Make sure it's well-marbled for the best flavor.;
, For the best flavor and ease of grilling, trim off most of the fat. But leave some for self-basting.
 There are many brands and styles out there—pick one that suits you. But whatever you do, don't go crazy with the rub. This is a delicious cut, and you want that rich beef flavor to predominate.
 Once your tri-tip is trimmed and prepped, give it a couple hours or so to come to room temperature. This will not only give the rub a chance to work, it'll also make it easier to grill. If it's too cold, the meat will be raw on the inside, and burned on the outside.
 Fire up your grill and get it good and hot—around 400°. When the grill is up to temperature, prep for indirect cooking.


If you're using charcoal, push the coals either to one side, or separate into large piles on either side of the grill.
If you're using gas, set one side burner to low. If your grill has 3 burners, leave one side on high, and turn the center and other side to low.
 Place the cut over the cooler part of the grill, and not over direct flame. As the meat cooks, the fat will drip off and cause flareups, which adds to the flavor, but if it's over a flame your flareups can get out of control.
 You want to keep the heat and smoke inside where it belongs, cooking and flavoring the meat. Keep an eye on the temperature, and watch for flareups, but don't keep peeking and poking.
 Grill it on one side for about 10-15 minutes or so, then flip it and cook for another 10-15 minutes. The longer it cooks, the more well-done it will be.Make sure you let it sit for about 4-5 minutes to be sure it is not too hot before eating.
 You can use a meat thermometer, and check to see what the internal temperature is. Of course, you poke a hole in your roast and let the juices run out. Seasoned cooks use the push test.


Pinch the muscle between your thumb and forefinger, and remember how that feels. Now press on the top of roast, and if it feels like that, it's still rare.
Press the muscle at the base of your thumb. Now press the top of the roast. If it feels more firm, like that, it's medium to medium-rare.
Tense your thumb muscle, and press on that. If your roast feels like that, it's well done.
, After you've taken the roast from the grill and placed it on your cutting board, put an aluminum foil tent over it, and let it rest for another 10 minutes or so. The beef will continue cooking, and the juices will be sealed in.


While the meat is resting, prep the rest of your dinner, side dishes, drinks, and the rest. Gather your guests so that they're ready to eat when you're ready to serve.
 When you're ready (and when the roast is ready), slice against the grain and serve. Some people like to serve thin strips, others like a heartier cut.


If the roast is cooked right, you don't need to slice it too thin. 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) slices are good.
If the roast seems dried out, thinner slices are better.
 Tex-Mex flavors like beans, corn, and salsa are good choices. Garlic bread, salad, and potatoes are also very complimentary.


Pair with a Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah, Chateauneuf du Pape, or other full-bodied red.

