 The covering may be vinyl tiles that are laid in a specific pattern or sheet vinyl that forms a rug covering the expanse of the floor. Keep in mind that vinyl rugs are often thinner than tiles and may require more delicate handling during the repair process.;
, The exact process used will vary, depending on the condition of the floor covering. Problems like scratches or cuts can be managed quickly while burns or larger tears will require removal and replacement of the tile or rug section.
 For deep scratches, you may be able to patch the vinyl flooring by simply cleaning the area with a good quality sealing compound, also known as liquid seam sealer. By cleaning the section with lacquer thinner, any residue collected in the cracks is removed, making it possible to fill them with the sealing compound. The dried seam provides a secure patch and will be relatively hard to notice.
 When the area is severely ripped or burned, use the utility knife to cut out the damaged section of the vinyl rug. Alternatively, use the knife blade to carefully pry and loosen the edges of the damaged tile. Once the damaged section is loose, remove from the space and discard.
 Using lacquer thinner will help remove any residue of tile or the underside of the vinyl rug, as well as rid the area of any adhesives applied when the vinyl was installed. Follow up with a little soap and water to make sure all the residue is removed, and then allow the area to air dry.
 Apply a thin layer of vinyl adhesive to the exposed area. Then slide the patch or replacement tile into position. Make sure no adhesive product leaks from the edges onto the surrounding floor covering. To aid in creating the seal and prevent curling, place a book or other heavy object on the section.
 A thin layer of vinyl lacquer applied to the surface once the adhesive has dried will give the new section a similar patina as the rest of the flooring. As a result, the vinyl floor patch will blend in easily, making it difficult to tell the repaired section from any other area of the floor covering.

