 Monitoring software can be set up in a number of ways. The first thing to consider is setting a complete system with a server. This will include antivirus and malware protection, and also employee monitoring. If you don't have IT staff to maintain the equipment, you can use a cloud-based service like Trend Micro Business Security or Symantec Cloud to get these services. These services are not tremendously expensive; expect to pay about $150 per year.


If you are just trying to track employee web usage and block some sites, a simpler software package will do. This service will be cheaper and allow you to monitor and filter web pages, view keystrokes, and capture screenshots. For example, Interguard Sonar provides these services.
In some cases, you may even be able to get rudimentary tracking systems for free. For example, ActivTrak monitors system web traffic and produces a monthly report for you., Employers have the right to monitor what web pages their employees visit and to block websites that they deem unimportant to business operations, inappropriate, or potentially harmful. Mainly, employers block certain websites to either make sure employees are productive, like blocking Facebook or stock trading sites that distract them, or to ensure that employees are not harassing coworkers or committing corporate espionage.


Employers may also block sites considered to be pornographic or hateful.
Some monitoring packages allow for set time limits on certain types of websites, for example allowing a set amount of time each day on social media sites.When you notice that your employees are visiting a website unrelated to work frequently, block that website and then send out an email reminding them that they are on company time., Monitoring emails is more difficult for employers to justify. Before reading any employee emails, employees should be notified of the policy that allows their emails to be read. In addition, the employer usually needs a reason for the suspicion that led them to read the emails, like a documented incident with that employee. It is also difficult for employers to justify reading emails if they claimed originally that emails will be confidential., Certain monitoring measures may interfere with your employees' right to privacy. Check with an employment lawyer before you install monitoring software. Make sure there is written documentation on the software that the employees have signed, and that everyone understands what the software is for.