 Sometimes, the same old sights and sounds may start to get to you emotionally. You may feel caged in, or as though you are starting to grow crazy. One thing that may help is to change your environment. They may be as simple as going for a hike, taking a new route to school, or going on a trip. It can be as short as a day or as long as forever. This section will give you some ideas on how you can escape your life by changing the environment you are in.
 Much like traveling, hiking will allow you to experience new sights and sounds. Unlike traveling, hiking takes less commitment. Try visiting a national park or nature reserve. If there aren't any close to you, or if you don't have any way to get to one, try going for a walk around the block or explore a nearby park.
 You can travel as far away as another country or state. You can also take a road trip to a neighboring city. New sights, sounds, scents, and tastes can break up monotonous days. Traveling may also allow you to experiment with a new identity, even if it’s only short term. When you return from your trip, you may feel refreshed and ready to tackle life with more enthusiasm than when you left.If you are planning on going abroad for a long time, ask your boss if you can take a sabbatical, so that you don't have to quite your job. Depending on your profession, you may also be able to "work from home," and submit your assignments over the internet. If you work for a corporate, retail business, ask if you can transfer to a new location temporarily.
 If your job is making you want to escape your life, consider working for another company. It could be that you are unhappy with the way your boss manages things, or the way that the company works. You may be happier working for someone else.
 If you are really unhappy with your job an life, you might want to consider trying another career path. Try taking some classes at a community or state college; they will give you an idea for what other careers might be like. If you find something that you like, try getting a degree or certificate in that area; it will make getting a new job easier. Be sure to research your new career path, as you do not want all your time and effort to go to waste on something that may not be a good fit for you.If going to a community college is not an option for you, try taking some online classes.
If you dislike working for companies, there are always freelance jobs and contracting gigs.
 If leaving your job isn’t an option, ask your manager about ways you can add some variety to your work. It could be as simple as being assigned a different cubical or getting different projects. If your company does events or parties, ask if you can be placed on the planning committee.
 Much like traveling, moving will allow you to experience new sights, sounds, scents, and tastes. The new environment will replace the old one, and might be enough to provide the escape that you need. If moving is not an option, consider swapping houses instead.


If you want to move but cannot afford a new house, consider renting a house with some roommates. You can also rent an apartment or a studio in someone's house.
 If you still attend school, moving to another place may not be an option for you. Many high schools and colleges offer exchange programs. You will be able to study abroad, and accommodation is often provided for you by participating families. If you do not get along with your family or the students in your school, this may be a great escape for you.


Keep in mind, however, that some exchange programs are only available to students taking certain language classes. For example, you may not be able to study abroad unless you are taking French—and France would be the only country you may be able to study in.
 Sometimes, where you live now just isn't the place for you. The people, the lifestyle, even the very air may seem wrong to you. If this is the case, moving elsewhere may be an option for you. Before you make any drastic changes, however, try researching where you would like to move to first, and visit that place for a couple of days or weeks. Stay in a hotel or in a friend's house. If you like the new city, state, or country, start making arrangements to move there.


Always do your research first and visit any potential place you'd like to move to. The last thing you'd want is to get stuck in a place you end up hating.
You don't always have to buy a house when you move; you can rent out an apartment. These are usually cheaper.
 Even something as simple as a new set of bed sheets can change the way your room feels. You can also try moving around the furniture; not only will the physical activity take your mind off of things, but the new set up will give your room a new look. This can help make your life feel a little different from before. It is almost like moving to a new place, without actually moving. Here are some more ideas:


Repaint your room. You can also try adding in some new wall paper. If you are renting your room, try adding some wall decals; they can be peeled off when you are ready to move.
Add some new curtains, rugs, or lamps.
Get some new furniture, or paint the old ones to give them a new, fresh look.
Consider fixing leaky faucets, broken appliances, and burnt out lights. This could help get rid of anxiety.
Too much clutter can make you feel crowded, both physically and emotionally. Consider selling or donating some things that you no longer use.

