 Umbilical hernias occur in the opening in the muscle tissue through which the umbilical cord passed before birth. As such, the telltale bulging of this type of hernia will appear right at or very near to the belly button.Most umbilical hernias are inherently reducible; that is, they appear and retract on their own. They appear most often when the child is crying, and may also appear when strain is placed on the abdominal muscles (coughing, hearty laughing, etc.).
So, if you spot a potential umbilical hernia and then it goes away, do not immediately assume it is gone for good. Keep checking occasionally, especially as the child has a crying fit, for instance.
 Umbilical hernias occur almost exclusively in babies and small children, and usually resolve on their own before an affected child reaches school age (if not by age two). They rarely cause significant health problems, but you should always notify your child’s physician if you suspect the condition. As is always the case with the health of small children, safe is better than sorry.It is possible that the doctor will simply tell you to keep an eye on the umbilical hernia and report any changes or new symptoms. You do not need to rush your child to the emergency room if you suspect an umbilical hernia, unless there are significant additional symptoms (vomiting, severe pain, redness or hardness, fever, etc.) that indicate a major problem and you should seek a qualified pediatric emergency room as soon as possible.
In manly cultures, parents by tradition will try and reduce the umbilical hernia affixing old coins secured with adhesive to the belly button. Unfortunately, this practice increases the risk of infection of the umbilicus with common germs or worse with dangerous germs such as botulism and should be avoided.
 Most umbilical hernias will go away for good on their own within the first few years of life and will not cause any health problems along the way. If the hernia is causing discomfort or embarrassment as the child gets a bit older, a simple elective surgical procedure may be warranted. Even then, however, surgery is usually not a necessity.If the hernia recurs beyond the age of four or five, is larger than two inches in diameter or grows in size, or causes pain, it should probably be dealt with surgically.
In the rare instance that an umbilical hernia presents along with other symptoms associated with potentially dangerous hernias — such as ongoing nausea or vomiting, significant pain, or redness, discoloration, or swelling — seek medical attention right away.

