 Taking regular breaks can prevent burnout, help you regroup after demanding work, and offer a much-needed mental respite. Find a relevant cue such as when a new hour approaches or when you finish a batch of tasks.

Use your break to walk around your office or go outside for some fresh air. Do some light stretching. Visit a coworker in another department for a quick chat. Drink some water or have a light snack., If you have a tendency to rush through tasks or from event to event, your mood may be suffering. Feeling like you are always in a race against time can take a toll on your mental and physical health. You are not focusing on the present moment when you’re in a rush. Plus, on some occasions, rushing can actually increase your chances of making mistakes.

Only rush when doing so saves you time. For instance, if you need to hustle to meet a deadline, by all means, do so. But, if you are putting pressure on everyone to hurry up with tasks for no real reason, rethink this strategy. Don’t rush simply to reinforce the glorification of busy., Many people often experience depressive and anxious moods due to an overactive mind. These are people who experience a lot of racing thoughts of worry, or other internal dialogue causing much stress over concerns of the past or future events and experiences. It is best to clear the mind, let go of these thoughts, and put more energy toward being in the moment. Mindfulness allows you to clear your mind of the worry, which will help lead you toward a more productive, organized, and stress free life., In a rushed and busy life, you may scarf down most of your meals as you’re driving from place to place or while doing other tasks. This disconnect with the process of eating impacts your satisfaction, and can lead to overeating. Stop eating mindlessly and start enjoying food mindfully.When you eat, only eat. Turn off the TV, put down the gossip magazine and your cellphone.
Eat with others and enjoy thought-provoking conversation rather than entertaining yourself.
Choose nutritious, plant-based foods to take up the majority of your plate. Before you eat, think about all that went into the meal you are eating (i.e. who harvested the food, who prepared the food, etc.). Admire the different smells, textures, and colors. Take a small bite and chew at least 20 times before taking another. Return your fork to your plate after each bite.

