 The purpose of this is to ensure that her blood pressure is in the normal range, and to catch any abnormalities (or signs of high blood pressure) as soon as possible.


High blood pressure is normally not worrisome if it is mild and has only been going on for a short amount of time. This is why catching it early is key, and this is best done through regular monitoring of your child's blood pressure.
Doctors usually begin routine testing of blood pressure at age three, sooner if your child has risk factors for high blood pressure.
The risk happens when your child's blood pressure is elevated significantly over a period of time, as this can lead to long-term complications and increase your child's chances of having a heart attack or a stroke in her adult years, or rarely, lead to health complications while she is still a child.;
, However, in children, measurements for blood pressure are not as simple, because a child's blood pressure depends upon a number of factors including age, sex, and body size and composition. Therefore, your child's doctor will use a chart (similar to a growth chart) to measure and assess blood pressure, and to compare it to other children of the same age and sex.


"Pre-hypertension" (the precursor to high blood pressure) is defined as anything above the 90th percentile on the charts that your doctor will be using, on three or more measurements.
"Hypertension" (actual high blood pressure) is defined as anything above the 95th percentile on the charts that your doctor will be using, on three or more measurements.
The purpose of regular blood pressure measurements is to catch your child if and when he enters the "pre-hypertension" stage, so that further evaluation and treatment can be received as needed before your child develops worrisome high blood pressure.
 Therefore, it is important to be aware of signs and symptoms that may indicate high blood pressure, and to bring your child for a visit to her doctor if the following symptoms are present:


Shortness of breath
Unusual fatigue
A headache
Dizziness
Visual disturbances.
 Sometimes there is a cause that can be identified, and other times there is not. Some possible causes include:


Kidney disease
Obesity
Heart disease
Diabetes
An endocrine disorder.
Medications that are causing high blood pressure as a side effect
Note that if an underlying cause can be found, obtaining treatment for this often resolves the high blood pressure issue.