 To appear confident, your voice needs to be heard so your audience can follow your presentation and understand your point.Proper posture will allow you to use the support of your diaphragm, the umbrella-shaped muscle below your stomach, to control the movement of air. When you breathe in, let your stomach expand. This movement is controlled by the diaphragm. Practice using your diaphragm to project your voice.


Lie down on your back, and keep your abdominals and stomach relaxed. Keep one hand on your abdomen, and think about moving it up and down as you breathe in and out.Find out in advance if you will be using a microphone for your presentation. This can help you plan ahead and adjust the volume of your voice accordingly.
 In everyday conversation, your pitch, speed, and volume varies when you are chatting with a friend or sharing a story. A monotonous tone can be boring and may convey to the audience that you are unsure or unprepared. Add interest by playing with the dynamics of your speech. Your audience will be more likely to pay attention to your presentation.


Try to incorporate these variations in speech while giving your presentation, and pretend as though you are having a conversation with a friend or a colleague.
Practice these variations by reading a poem, a play, or another piece of literature aloud., When people are nervous, they may be more likely to speak quickly and speed through a presentation. Try to maintain a slow and moderate pace while speaking. This will help the audience understand what you are saying and allow you to communicate your ideas clearly and confidently.Speeding up your speech is acceptable to offer variety in your presentation and may be a useful tool when you are making a particular point, but aim to remain regulated, consistent, and articulate during the majority of your presentation.


Stretch out your vowels to slow your speech. Pretend that the vowels are italicized and focus on speaking each one clearly. Practice this technique to ensure that it sounds natural.
Break your presentation up into sections. Plan to pause for a moment or two when you reach the end of each section. Allow for one second to pause before moving on to the next point.