 A high quality, preferably fresh turkey that has been farm raised (a varied diet increases flavor) and allowed to run around generally yields the best flavor. Buy or have a good thermometer ready to ensure it hits 165 °F (74 °C) as the smoking will impart a pink color to the turkey (this is normal, doesn't mean it isn't cooked - use temperature for accuracy).;
, Let sit for at least 15 minutes to let the flavors come together. If you have a bigger bird increase each of the ingredients accordingly.
 Rub the ingredients all over the outside of the chicken and especially under the skin of the breast (make sure you get to the front of the breast not just the back). Coat the inside of the turkey as well. Let it sit for an hour to get up to room temperature.
 Make sure the woodchips are submerged but not swimming in the water. They need to soak for at least 30 minutes, preferably longer prior to use.
 Use a charcoal chimney to get your coals going (never use lighter fluid). After the coals are ready put half on each side of the drip pan working to get more coals on the sides of the grill rather than next to the drip pan to reduce potential burning of the turkey.
 Lightly coat the middle of the grill grate with oil and place the grill so that you can add wood chips to each side (you can use a Weber with a grill grate that opens on one end for just this purpose - if you don't have this, you'll need to put wood chips on the coals prior to putting the grill gate/turkey on).
 Ensure that your top vent is about a 1/3rd open and your bottom vent is 3/4 open. Watch for a few minutes to ensure the wood chips are smoking properly. 

, The first 2 or 3 times you add wood chips are critical to getting that deep rich smoke flavor and color. After the first hour, you can add wood chips dependent on the level of smoke you wish. You will also need to add charcoal briquettes a few at a time, each time you add wood chips.
 Pull it off the grill (lightly tent it with aluminum foil) and let it sit for 15 minutes before carving to let the juices flow back into the meat.

