 Even if some of your family or friends may not get what you're going through, it's important to have someone that you can trust who is fully supportive of your recovery. Safe friends, whether a relative or friend, won't make you feel judged. Identify someone you can call or talk with when you're feeling anxious and wanting to binge.Consider checking in with your safe friend before and after anxiety-provoking events where food is plentiful.
Discuss with them your concerns and your triggers. With their help, you can find strength and reassurance.
As an alternative, you can also reach out to the National Eating Disorders Association's Live Helpline, which is available Monday through Friday: 800-931-2237 or http://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org/information-referral-helpline


, The holidays may be filled with food, but they are also filled with activities that remind us to love and cherish our friends and loved ones. Focus on doing activities that help you enjoy the holiday spirit without feeling bogged down by food. Consider doing activities like these with friends or family:


Decorate a Christmas tree. Make ornaments and other crafts that are holiday-themed.
Go holiday shopping.
Do some winter sports and activities. Go ice skating, sledding, or skiing.
If you're a sports fan, watch some football or basketball games with the family.
If you're a movie lover, gather friends and family together for a holiday-themed movie night.
 While the holidays may feel overwhelming with social obligations and holiday expectations, it's important to stay focused on your wellness and recovery. Make sure to keep the appointments you have with your treatment team such as a counselor. If you aren't already connected to counseling or support groups, consider starting around the holidays.Counselors are trained to help with stressful events and triggers. Consider identifying providers available through your health insurance network that are therapists trained in treating eating disorders.
Find treatment providers for binge eating through the Binge Eating Disorder Association website: http://bedaonline.com/binge-eating-disorder-treatment/

Identify support groups for disordered eating in your community by getting referrals through counseling centers or by reaching out to Overeaters Anonymous: https://oa.org/ or Eating Disorders Anonymous (EDA): http://www.eatingdisordersanonymous.org/

If you are already in treatment, make sure to schedule and keep your appointments over the holidays. This can help you to cope with the stress you may be experiencing.
 Focus on relieving stress in ways that don't involve food. Give a little extra time just to treat and pamper yourself. Do things that make you feel better in mind, body, and spirit. This is particularly important when people are highly stressed over the holidays.Do yoga. Stretch your body and clear your mind.
Try meditation. This helps to clear your thoughts.
Deep breathing or visualization exercises. This can help to reduce anxiety in the moment, and help you cope when triggers occur.
Take a hot shower or bath. The warm water can release muscle tension.
Get a massage. This can help relieve stress and relax your muscles.

