 Once you believe you have found a suitable kidney donor, you should arrange for the donor to meet with your doctor at the transplant center. The donor may also want to speak to their spouses, their family, or their doctor as they start the process of being a donor. You should make sure the donor feels supported and prepared for the donation by speaking to medical professionals and their own personal support system.You may also suggest that the donor talk to someone who has been a living donor before, as this may help them get more familiar with the process of donating a kidney. Your transplant center may be able to refer the donor to a kidney transplant support group, where the donor can talk to other living donors and recipients who went through the donation process.
 A good living donor will be physically healthy and willing to donate their kidney. They do not need to be the same race or sex as the recipient to be a good donor. Your potential donor will be tested by your transplant center to ensure they are healthy and that the transplant will have a high rate of success.The evaluation of the donor can take from one to six months to complete. The transplant center will run blood tests on the donor as well as tests for blood pressure, heart rate, and lung function. The donor will also need to get a CT scan closer to the donation date to check the state of their kidney.
Individuals who are 70 years and older can still be good kidney donors as long as their kidneys are healthy and their body is able to handle surgery. People who smoke can be donors, though they will need to stop smoking before and after the surgery for a period of time.
 Once your kidney donor has been approved, they may be scheduled in for their kidney donation right away, depending on your needs as a recipient. Your transplant team will determine the best date for the donation and help your donor prepare for the surgery.During the surgery, both you and the donor will be given general anesthetic and placed in adjoining operating rooms.The surgeon will then remove the donor’s kidney and inspect it before taking it into your room and placing the new kidney in your body.
The transplant is often quick and painless for both the donor and the recipient. The donor and the recipient are usually able to leave the hospital after several days and can resume normal activities within four to eight weeks.

