 A balloon is designed to be inflated by gas, which makes it the perfect vessel for you to store a fixed amount of gas. You can fill the balloon with air using a pump, or you can choose another type of gas such as helium or nitrogen. Once the balloon is filled, tie off the end so that no gas escapes., Next, submerge the balloon in a container of water. The balloon will cause the water level to rise. Mark the new height of the water and remove the balloon., Use a measuring instrument (e.g. cup or beaker) to measure the amount of water needed to fill the container to the mark (without the balloon in the water). Pour slowly. If you pour too much, you will have to start over. The volume of the balloon is equal to the volume of the water you add. Record this value for later use as V.You can save time by submerging the balloon into a large beaker or other pre-measured container. Then you can skip adding any water and simply subtract the volume of the water from the volume of the water and balloon.
 You can weigh the balloon using a sensitive scale. Electric scales are usually the best for this application. Record the weight of the gas filled balloon for later use as mGB.If you are filling the balloon with a gas that is lighter than air, you will need to weigh the take before and after you fill the balloon to determine the amount of gas used.
 Poke a hole in the balloon. This will allow the gas to escape. Weigh the balloon again and record the weight of the empty balloon as mB., Now that you have enough data, you can calculate the density of the gas inside the balloon. Subtract the weight of the empty balloon, mB, from the weight of the full balloon, mGB. This will give you the mass of the gas alone, mG. Divide the mass of the gas, mG, by the volume, V, of the gas to find the density of the gas, DG.mGB - mB = mG
For example, if the full balloon had a mass of 1 kg and the empty balloon had a mass of 0.5 kg, the mass of the gas (mG) would be found by: 1 kg - 0.5 kg = 0.5 kg.



mG / V = DG
For example, if the balloon displaced 1 L of water, the density could be found by dividing the mass by that volume: 500 g / 1 L = 500g/L




