  Try to study a few days before the test or on the night before the test. Some people are more forgetful and have to study a little on the day of the test or the night before.  Try to focus on main concepts instead of studying every single little detail.  Make sure you get what you have learned.;
,  Rest may not seem important when taking exams, but it can affect your grade and percentage by a lot.  When you're drowsy and tired and unaware, you don't know what you're doing and write nonsense on your paper.  Make sure to get at least 8 hours of sleep the night before the test.  It'll help.
  Once you get your test, write your name on it, and start immediately.  Don't daydream or talk to others.  You'll just waste your valuable time, especially if your test is timed. Try to do the easy/not so hard questions first, so that you don't just sit there looking at your paper for 5 minutes.
  Make sure to read the questions several times over until you get the idea of the question.  Try not to ask your teachers too many questions, as this will waste even more time, but ask him/her questions if you just can't catch the question.  If you really don't get it, just give it your best shot.
  Make sure your writing is distinguishable, but don't spend too much time writing every single word carefully and as neat as possible.  It's not a neat handwriting contest, anyway.  Write as fast as possible.
  Only erase your answer if you're more than 90% sure you got the question wrong.  Most of the time your first answer is correct, and you're wasting your time and decreasing your marks.
  Try not to overthink your questions too much.  If you studied hard and understood the question, it's more than likely that you got the question right.  Try not to obsess over every little thing.  Be careful, though.
  After you're done, go back and make sure you wrote the right thing and didn't misunderstand the question.  Sometimes, you'll rush the first time, get something REALLY important wrong, and erase the whole thing, making you be the last one to hand it in.  That's the explanation for Step 4.

