 If you are using toasted mustard seeds, soaking them overnight may help bring out their flavor. It will also help soften them up a little before you add them to the gravy. This may be a good option if you want your mustard seeds to be less crunchy., Preheat your oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (218 degrees Celsius). Place the turkey neck and giblets in an ovenproof skillet and roast them for 35 to 40 minutes. Remove the skillet from the oven and deglaze the pan with a cup (237 mL) of red wine. Scrape the skillet and let the wine and meat simmer for about 8 to 10 minutes., Once the wine has properly deglazed the skillet, transfer the neck, giblets, and remaining liquid to a large stockpot. If you want, you can add the turkey wings and drumstick. You can also add vegetables like onions, carrots, celery and garlic for more flavors. Add 8 cups (2 L) of water to the stockpot and bring it to a boil. Reduce heat and let the mixture simmer for about 1 hour. Strain the stock into a bowl and discard the remaining solid pieces.If you like your gravy a little chunkier, consider leaving in any meaty pieces of turkey. You can also puree the remaining vegetable and meat and add it to the gravy. However, be sure to discard and bones or cartilage.
 Heat 4 tablespoons (57 g) of butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Once the butter melts, whisk in ¼ cup (60 g) of flour. Vigorously whisk the roux for about a minute.

Be sure to whisk the roux to avoid any lumpiness.
 Once the roux has set, slowly pour your stock into the mixture. Continue to whisk as you the stick to break down any clumps. Let the stock and roux mixture simmer for a few minutes or until it no longer tastes like flour.

At this point you have plain turkey gravy.
 Add 2 tablespoons (32 g) mustard seeds and whisk them into the gravy. Reduce the heat to low and allow the mixture to simmer for a few minutes. Season with a pinch of salt to taste.You can also add 2 teaspoons (5 mL) of soy sauce and a pinch of black pepper for a little more flavor.
This recipe makes about 8 servings of mustard seed gravy.

