 This method uses a product called the Aeropress, which can be found at many coffee specialty stores. The Aeropress consists several parts: a plastic tube, a plunger, a plastic filter, a paper filter, a plastic funnel, and a plastic stir tool. You can use the Aeropress to make iced coffee drinks and hot coffee. You will need the following supplies for this method:An Aeropress.
Espresso beans.
A coffee grinder.
A cocktail shaker.
A tall glass.
A short glass.
Milk.
Sugar.
 You should use a coffee grinder to grind the beans. Set the grinder to the espresso grind setting so the grounds are fine enough for the Aeropress. You want a medium fine consistency to the grounds.You will need 17 grams of espresso for one iced latte.
You can use a coffee scale to weigh out 17 grams of espresso beans or around 3 ½ tablespoons of coffee beans.
 To give the milk some body, shake up the milk in the cocktail shaker. You can also add sugar to the milk for a sweeter latte and then mix it all up the in cocktail shaker., Then, pour the milk from the cocktail shaker over the ice. This will help to chill the milk while still keeping the milk foamy., Now that you have your espresso ground and ready, you will need to brew the coffee in the Aeropress in a separate glass and then add it to the tall glass with the ice and the milk.To put together the Aeropress, place the paper coffee filter into the deep end of the plastic coffee filter and twist this on to the end of the plastic tube.
Then, place the plastic funnel on the open end of the plastic tube and pour the grounds into the plastic tube. You can shake the grounds around so they are flat and even in the plastic tube.
Place the Aeropress on the top of the glass jar with the part with the filter facing into the jar.
 Boil water in a kettle and then pour the hot water in the Aeropress until it reaches the very top of the Aeropress. You may notice the grounds starting to foam or bubble. This is a good sign, as this indicates the espresso beans still have flavor and have been well roasted.Use the plastic stir tool to quickly stir the water and the grounds about 10 times. Put a timer on for 2 minutes and let the water run through the grounds.
At the 2 minute mark, use the plunger to compress the water and the grounds in the Aeropress. You should have a small glass of espresso once this process is over.
 Slowly pour the espresso into the glass with the ice and the milk. Use a long spoon to stir all the ingredients together. You can add more sugar to taste.