 Set a practice schedule for yourself and stick to it. In order to improve, your training sessions should increase in intensity, length and/or frequency over time.The amount of training you choose to do depends on your personal goals and the kind of dance you’re performing. In general, if you’re trying to become a better dancer, a daily practice session is ideal. If you’re a beginner, start with a few training sessions per week and work your way up to daily training.


Set a training plan for yourself that gradually increases in difficulty.
Take practice seriously by removing distractions, like your cell phone and tablet, from the practice room.
 As you’re creating your training plan, try to choose a few things to focus on for each session. For example, you could choose to concentrate on particular movements or portions of a routine in one session. If necessary, set a timer to let you know when you should move on to the next task.To prevent injury, warm up your muscles before practice with some light cardio, like running in place or jumping jacks.
Don’t forget to schedule five to fifteen minute breaks into your sessions., By practicing in front of a mirror, you can immediately correct mistakes and tweak movements in your performance. Taking video of your training sessions is equally important. Spend some time reviewing the video and analyzing yourself afterward.As you review your videos, ask yourself questions like, “What are my strengths? What are my weaknesses? How is my technique?”
Take notes and incorporate what you’ve learned into your next training session. This will result in constant improvement.
 Create a stretching routine and perform it after each practice. Stretch out the muscles that you use the most – the hamstrings, quads, hip flexors, calves, shoulders, forearms and lats. When you’re stretching a muscle, make sure you are in a comfortable position. You should be able to breathe normally and easily. Hold each stretch for 20 to 30 seconds.


Always wait until after you practice to do any serious stretching. Deep stretching can temporarily weaken your muscles, so doing it before practice is counterproductive.
Your post-training flexibility routine should be about 10 minutes long.

