 iTunes offers music stations that are organized by genres, artists, albums, or individual songs. You can then listen to these music stations or to pre-made playlists that are built around musical themes, genres, or artists.


If you haven't used iTunes before, go to http://www.apple.com/itunes/ and hit the download button. If you don't have an Apple ID, it will prompt you to make one after you open iTunes.
Open iTunes and go to the Radio section, located on the top menu as "Radio".
Browse genres. Scroll down the page and find a station you want to listen to. Then click it to start the station.
Search for a station by using the search bar to find a station for a specific artist or song. The results of search will include stations at the bottom.;
, When you use Pandora, you cannot choose the songs that will be played. Rather, you pick a song, artist, or genre on which to base a playlist, and Pandora automatically plays other songs that it thinks you will like. This is a great way to discover new music, but if you are looking for a specific song, it is not your best option.


Open Pandora by going to http://www.pandora.com/. The first screen you see will prompt you to enter the name of an artist, song, or genre. As soon as you enter an artist, song, or genre, Pandora will begin playing a station based on that choice.
You can manage your preferences on Pandora by giving a song a “thumbs up” or “thumbs down”. Based on your ratings, Pandora will adjust the songs on that station. When you click “thumbs down”, that song will automatically be skipped. Pandora limits the number of skips that you can make to six songs per station every hour.
You can also click “add variety” under the name of the station in order to give greater variety to the station.
Create an account on Pandora so that Pandora remembers your stations and your preferences. Once you sign up, you can decide whether or not you want other users to be able to view your Pandora profile. This is the default setting. If you do not want this option to take effect, uncheck the box for this feature., To access iHeartRadio, go to http://www.iheart.com/. You can search for music stations based on genre or search for a specific station, song, or artist.


You can also create a custom station by searching for a song and then creating a custom station based on that song. Once you click the song title, you can click the play button next to the text that says "Radio".You can also manage your station by giving a “thumbs up” or “thumbs down” for each song. Add greater variety to your station by adjusting the “Tune” dial at the far right (next to the name of the station).
Create new stations and return to old stations you have already listened to by creating an iHeartRadio account. After signing up, you can see what stations you've made by mousing over your username in the top right corner and clicking "My Stations".
 You can also stream traditional radio music stations online by searching for a specific radio station on Google or by searching “internet radio” on Google. There are sites that host radio music stations for free, allowing you to listen to radio programs that play music. Keep in mind you cannot customize the playlists of these radio stations but you can select different radio stations based on the genre or the radio show host.