 Perfectionists have a tendency to fixate on the results of a task, instead of appreciating the process itself. If you are practicing healthy striving, you will enjoy the task you are working on, regardless of the outcome. Try to enjoy the moment and take pride in the work that you do.For example, in healthy striving you will have a good time working on a school project and not just be fixated on the final grade. This can actually help you do better work, as you will be focused on the actual project itself and not the final outcome.;
, Be happy about your ability to set realistic goals and objectives. You can still take pride in reaching these goals because you achieved something. You know your abilities and try to work with them. Instead of setting yourself up for failure, you create and meet the practical expectations you set for yourself.For example, you set a goal to run three miles, instead of five, because you know that five is an unrealistic objective for your current physical shape.
Setting high goals can set you up for failure, which can hurt your self-esteem in the long run. It's OK to set smaller goals for yourself so that you can attain them.
 Instead of viewing failure as something that should be avoided at all costs, you understand it as something that you can learn from. Be proud of your ability to take a positive away from something that is considered a negative. It is important that you understand that you are human and that mistakes are part the experience.For example, instead of viewing a bad grade as a major failure, look at it as an opportunity to improve your knowledge of a certain subject.
Remember that you may fail a few times before learning something new. For example, if you're learning how to cook, you may burn things a few times, but you will soon improve.
 As a healthy striver, you are a resilient person who takes adversity in stride. Instead of being bogged down by mistakes, you use them to your own advantage and learn from them. You refuse to let your fears and anxieties limit your ability to perform and create.For example, you get work completed on time and avoid procrastinating because you are not paralyzed by a fear of failure.

