 Each breed of dog requires various degrees of grooming and coat maintenance. Talk to your veterinarian about what specific grooming needs your dog may need, how often they should be groomed, and if seeking the help of a professional is right for your dog. The answer can depend upon your breed of dog and how comfortable you are grooming your dog at home. Your veterinarian may be able to provide you with a list of credible groomers in your area.


Poodles often have their hair styled in various ways, which requires help from a professional. The coat of a long-haired dog may be prone to matting and tangling, and you may feel more comfortable going to a professional groomer for assistance.;
, Ask friends and other dog owners for advice and recommendations. While taking your dog for a walk or for a visit to a local dog park, keep an eye out for well-groomed dogs or dogs that have similar coats to your dog’s. Approach the dog’s owner and ask if they have any recommendations for a reputable groomer in your area.
 Your local pet store can be a great source for discovering local businesses that cater to your dog’s needs. Check to see if there is a bulletin board in the store that lists brochures, business cards, and flyers advertising groomers in your area. Be sure to ask the employees in the shop if they have any recommendations for you and your dog.


Some chain pet shops offer grooming services in the store. Be sure to ask about the training and credentials of the pet groomers in the shop before making an appointment.
 In the U.S., it is not required that pet groomers receive formal schooling and certification. Many groomers undergo an apprenticeship or have on-the-job training. A vocational and certificate program teaches the groomer safety practices and bathing procedures, and they are also trained to check for skin disorders and other health issues. Check to see if your dog groomer has received certification to ensure a thorough and safe experience for your dog.The National Dog Groomers Association is a professional society in the U.S. that recognizes a particular set of grooming standards and aims to educate and certify its members. See if your dog groomer is a member and has been certified by this group to ensure that your dog receives quality care.
 It is important to get a sense of your potential dog groomer’s training, background, and expertise. Ask questions that are important to you and are specific to your dog’s grooming needs. Some groomers specialize in grooming particular breeds, and some groomers have strict polices regarding the size and type of dog they are able to work with


If your dog has a chronic health condition or a geriatric disease, ask the potential groomer if they are able to accommodate your dog.Ask your groomer about their training experiences and how long they have been in the business.
Be sure to ask your potential groomer if they have a particular expertise or are trained to groom particular breeds., Other dog owners may have shared their experiences, both good and bad, with a particular dog groomer in an online review forum or website. The reviews can provide helpful information that may help you make a decision.


The Better Business Bureau is an excellent resource to check out the quality of a particular grooming business. The BBB sets high standards for businesses, and they offer honest, trustworthy reviews. See if your potential dog groomer has been accredited by the BBB.
 Before making an appointment, stop by the grooming shop with your dog to assess the facility. You want to make sure that it is a clean, safe, and healthy environment for your dog. Be sure that the facility is well-lit and clean, that the cages are the appropriate size for your animal, and that the other animals are not crowded together. Chat with the groomer and the staff to make sure they are knowledgeable, friendly, and trustworthy and that they are kind and caring toward your dog., The cost of grooming varies depending on your location, the size of your dog, and its grooming needs. The grooming needs of small and mid-sized dogs that do not have a thick coat will typically cost between $30 and $50. Grooming a mid-sized or larger dog with a thicker, longer coat, like golden retriever or an Afghan hound, may cost between $50 and $70. The grooming costs for poodles, Burmese mountain dogs, and other larger dogs that require complicated cuts and styles can cost between $70 and $90., Taking a pet to a groomer’s can be a stressful situation for the animal. Before you take your dog to a groomer, groom or brush your dog’s coat for short periods of time when both you and the dog are relaxed. Increase the grooming time every day, and reward your pet with praise and a treat when it remains calm. Helping your pet to be comfortable during grooming sessions at home can help make the visit to the groomer’s easier and less stressful., Before going to the first grooming session, make sure your pet’s vaccinations and other medications are up-to-date. Talk to your veterinarian about these details before the grooming appointment. This will help keep your dog, the groomer, and the other dogs at the facility safe., Share information about your dog’s personality and temperament before you leave the facility. This can help the groomer safely interact with your dog. It is also important to discuss what you hope the groomer will be able to accomplish. Discuss how you would like your dog’s hair to be groomed and cared for, if they require and nail care, or if they require any additional treatments.

