 Although you can stack cakes of any shape, traditional layer cakes are round. 8 or 9 inch (20.3 or 22.9 cm) round pans work best.;
, Layer cakes often bring together complimentary cake and frosting flavors. You may want to combine lemon with vanilla or chocolate with raspberries.


Use butter, eggs and water at room temperature. Set the on the counter for about an hour before baking., If you are just learning how to assemble a layer cake, save some time by buying cake mix and pre-made frosting.
 Take it out of the oven for 10 minutes. Then, loosen it from the pan and place the cake on a baking rack to cool all the way.


Test the cake by inserting a toothpick into the center. If it comes out clean, your cake is done.
, Place them in the refrigerator or freezer overnight. If you are short on time, do it for at least a few hours.


A cold cake is easier to frost., You can trace the cardboard and cut it out or buy a round cake platform at a kitchen or craft store.


If you don’t want to use a platform, slide pieces of parchment paper underneath the cake before you frost to cover your cake stand. Remove them before you serve the cake.
 Any thick, buttercream-like frosting should work. To make a quick version at home, mix together three cups (360g) powdered sugar and one cup softened butter.


Add one tsp. (5ml) vanilla extract and one to two tbsp. (15 to 30ml) of whipping cream once the mixture has been creamed. Beat in your mixer on medium speed for five minutes altogether.,, Unwrap the first one. Set it atop the platform.
 Make sure they are no higher than your shortest cooked cake. If the batter was not poured to exactly the same amount, one cake may be shorter than the others.


You can also cut each cake into two cakes if they are thick enough.
 You may want to measure and mark the cake with a frosting dab if you aren’t confident you can cut in a straight line. Ensure saw through the domed top of the cake very gently.


If your cakes came out of the oven very level, you can skip the step of cutting them flat.
 Use an offset spatula and start with a big clump of frosting in the middle. Work the frosting out just past the sides of the layer.
 Then, set the second layer of cake on top of the frosting.
 Stack layers of frosting and cake until you have reached the top of your cake. Remember the more layers you have, the more frosting you will need to make.
, It’s easier to judge the amount of frosting you are using if you frost near eye level.
 Frost it to the edges.
 Be generous with your frosting. Finish one section before turning the Lazy Susan and moving onto the next section.
 Wipe off excess frosting with your spatula. Cover with an even coat of frosting and then place your cake in the refrigerator for a few hours.


Remove it from the refrigerator and frost with a fresh coat layer of buttercream.,, Serve.

