


Gas-powered ovens use either natural gas or propane depending on your town. Gas ovens are more expensive than electric ovens, but they cost less to use.
Electric ovens provide less control over your heat settings, but the ovens often work better overall.
Dual-fuel ovens tend to use gas to power the cook top and electricity to power the oven.
Convection ovens use fans to spread heat evenly throughout the interior.;
,


Most ovens come in a standard 4 cubic feet (1.22 cubic meters) size, but smaller ovens come in 2 to 3 cubic feet (0.61 to 0.91 cubic meters). The size of oven to buy depends on the number of people in your household as well as the amount and size of foods you plan to cook.



Freestanding ovens are the most common style. The appliance is completely standalone with panels on each side. Freestanding ovens typically rest on the floor.
Drop-in ovens are literally dropped in between counters or cabinets. Drop-in ovens are always electrical. Unlike freestanding ovens, drop-in ovens have no bottom drawer.
Slide-in ovens are the same as freestanding ovens except without side panels. Slide-in ovens are situated between cabinets.



Most ovens include the following features: self-cleaning cycles, racks, smart timers, locking doors, broiling option and a front facing window.
Choose a coil type for electric ovens. Open-coil burners are coils on top of the range in a slightly concave position. Smooth-top burners are completely flat and the heat comes from under a glass panel. Smooth-top burners heat up slowly. Halogen burners are a modern option that uses glass tubes and magnetic fields for precision cooking.
Determine if dual-element burners are important to you. Many oven ranges feature various-sized burners for different types of range cooking.
Select a digital or analog display. Most ovens sold today are completely digital; however, there are a few brands that are still made in a more old-fashioned tradition.
Decide if you want super-modern, next-generation oven features. These features include a dehydration option, a warming drawer, Internet hookup, touch screens, speed cooking and downdraft ventilation.
,, Many websites will rate different brands and models of ovens.

