 You will need to make sure that your traps are big enough for a rat. You can buy larger traps or make the trigger of a small trap bigger by attaching a 2-inch (5 centimeters) piece of cardboard to it. The cardboard will trigger the trap if a rat steps on it.

You can also try a wooden snap box trap, which is better for outside. It is similar to a snap trap but has built up walls around it. These traps prevent other larger animals from getting killed by the trap.;
, Great bait options include peanut butter, raisin bread, bacon, and candy. Secure the food to the trigger so that it’s hard to remove without triggering the trap. Some rats will be smart enough to pull off the treat without hitting the trigger, so make it as hard as possible to remove the food.Check the traps frequently to keep them baited.
 You need to use as many traps at one time as you can. Since one trap will likely only kill one rat at best, you need to use multiple traps if you want to eradicate your rat problem.Rats are smart, so the longer the rats have to observe how the traps work, the harder it will be to kill them.
 Keep pets and small children safe by placing traps in out-of-the-way locations, such as behind walls, inside holes created by the rats, and under appliances. Avoid placing them in hallways, inside apartments where pets or children live, or in the walking areas of basements.

Try a box trap to avoid trapping larger pets, like cats or dogs.Notify residents that you will be setting rat traps. Tell them where they will be located so that they can monitor their children and pets.
 Look for spots that are a tight squeeze, such as between the wall and an appliance. Rats prefer to travel the same paths over and over, so look for their rat droppings or signs of a trail.

Look for rat nests and feces. Place traps near these areas because the rats will frequent them.
If you want to set a trap in the ceiling, it’s okay to set them on top of panels. If there are no panels, you’ll have to go into the attic.Listen for scurrying and scratching, then place the traps nearby.
Most traps should be near a wall or the side of a large appliance. Rats do not often run in open spaces., Set a schedule for yourself to periodically check the traps. You should plan to do so a few times each day while you’re trying to take control of the problem. Clear away dead rats and reset the trigger.

If you leave dead rats in the traps for long, other rats will become cautious around the traps.