 Take two of your four wider boards and place them together along the long edge. You'll end up with a square 9-1/2" wide, 12-1/2" long. Do this try run to make sure the cuts are even so that the boards come together to form an even rectangle. Repeat with the other two boards.









These wider planks will be used to create your ends.
 Building this crate requires that you to adhere the two boards to make the ends. You have several options, including:










Biscuit joints. The remainder of the tutorial will be using biscuit joints.
Dowels
Wood glue. Know, however, that this will not make a very strong box.
 Mark where you're going to adhere the boxes together on both blanks. For this tutorial, you'll use biscuit joints, though you can use any method you're comfortable with. Make sure you have three wooden biscuits as well as a biscuit drill.









Three biscuit joiners for each end should be more than enough. If you're in a pinch, two will do.
 Like up the drill with your pencil marks and make a clean, quick cut with the drill. Repeat for the other 5 marks.
 One solid line of glue along the entire edge should be fine.
 Make sure each biscuit is snug inside the hole.
 Simply slot the biscuits into the slots on the other piece. Let the wood glue dry and your ends are finished. Use a rubber mallet to hammer the ends gently, but firmly, together.









For the cleanest results, use a set of clamps to hold the two boards together as the wood glue dries., Now that the ends of the crate are finished, you can decorate them or add handles. You have several options:









Using a table drill with a wide 1-2" drill bit, "punch" holes into each end to make a handle. Simply drill 3-4 holes in a small line to cut a handle in the wood.
Using a power drill and some small screws, install two metal handles, like those found on cabinets, into the ends. If adding these handles, wait until the end to install them, as you'll need to lay the box down flush to the ground to finish it.

