 When you visit the pet store or look online, you will see a variety of covering options for your scratcher. You will need to choose from rope, fabric, cardboard, natural wood, or a combination. Outdoor cats often prefer more natural surfaces, while cardboard is easier for older cats to scratch.Rough sisal rope is probably the most popular option. The sisal captures and removes dead claws as your cat scratches. In contrast, cardboard is less helpful in removing dead claws, but is a gentle way for cats to relieve aggression and mark.
Think about the type of clean-up that you are willing to do as well. Cardboard scratchers have a tendency to result in tiny pieces of cardboard spread throughout the floor. Sisal rope is less messy overall.
 Carpet covered scratchers can be visually appealing, but they are not as useful in keeping your cat’s claws healthy. They also make it more difficult for your cat to really dig in their paws. If the carpet is too loopy, your cat may also get stuck as they scratch, which can turn them off the post entirely.


Carpet covered scratchers can also pose a problem as cats begin to fail to distinguish between their designated post and other areas of carpet. They may, therefore, start scratching in hallways or at other parts of the floor., A good scratcher is a sturdy and stable scratcher. Your cat will stop using it if they feel it wobbling too much or if they are afraid to knock it over on themselves. You need a post that can withstand your cat launching itself at it or pulling on it during a sustained scratching period. Test this by applying pressure to the post and mimicking your cat’s movements.You will also want to check the various attached parts that come with the scratcher to make sure that they are not loose. For example, sometimes the toys attached can come off too easily and will only cause your cat to be frustrated and distracted.
A good rule to follow is that a tall post requires a wide base. The taller the post, the more secure and wide the base needs to be., If you have free wall space and plan to attach the scratcher to it, then spend a bit of extra time looking over the mounting brackets and hardware. These items need to be able to bear the full weight of the scratcher and your cat. For extra security, you may want to replace standard screws with drywall mounts.Feel free to add extra brackets to make your cat’s vertical or wall scratcher even more secure. It is best to do the installation right the first time.
 Before you make your final purchase, do a bit of online research to see if a particular brand gets excellent reviews. Pay particular attention to those reviews that talk about long term usage and the quality of customer service. If you have any issues, you want a responsive seller.