 The night before you're ready to make the chorba, place 3/4 cup (150 g) of dried chickpeas in a large bowl. Pour enough water to cover the dried chickpeas by an inch or two (2.5 to 5 cm). Let them soak overnight.If you'd rather use canned chickpeas, you can simply measure out 1 1/4 cup (300 g) of canned chickpeas.;
, Wash two onions, two medium-sized tomatoes, and two large white potatoes. Carefully use a sharp knife to slice the onions thinly. Set the onion aside while you dice the potatoes into 1-inch (2.5 cm) long pieces. Get out a box grater and grate the two medium tomatoes. Set these aside while you prepare the chorba.It's fine to mix the grated tomatoes with the diced potatoes, since they'll be added to the chorba at the same time.
 Place a large saucepan on the stove and pour in 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Heat the oil over medium-high and stir in the finely sliced onions and 2.2 pounds (1 kg) of chicken wings. Stir in 2 teaspoons of turmeric, 1 teaspoon of salt, ½ teaspoon of ground black pepper and a generous pinch of saffron threads. Cook the mixture for 10 minutes and stir it occasionally. The chicken should brown slightly.The turmeric and saffron give the chorba its distinctive yellow-gold color.
 Drain the soaked chickpeas and add them to the saucepan. Stir in 6 1/3 cups (1.5 liters) of water. Bring the chorba to a boil and turn the heat down to medium-low. Put the lid on the pot and simmer the chorba for about 40 minutes.If you're using canned chickpeas, you can just measure out the 1 1/4 cups (300 g) of chickpeas and add them to the saucepan.
 Remove the lid and stir in the grated tomatoes, 1 1/2 tablespoons of tomato paste, and the diced potatoes. Stir the chorba and turn the heat up to medium-high. The soup should come back to a boil., Turn the heat down to medium-low and put the lid back on. Let the chorba bubble gently for 15 minutes. This will help the chickpeas soften more and cook the potatoes a little., Measure out 3.5 ounces (100 g) of spaghetti and break them into 2-inch (5 cm) long pieces. Take the lid off of the saucepan and stir in the dry noodles. Chop 3 tablespoons of fresh parsley and stir it into the chorba. Let the chorba simmer until the noodles are cooked (about 7 to 9 minutes).Serve the chorba with extra chopped parsley and flatbread.

