 This classic fix is famous for a reason — it works. Sprinkling about a tablespoon of baking soda inside a smelly pair of shoes will help absorb the odor and draw out moisture that makes it easier for bacteria to thrive. For best results, add the baking soda when you take the shoes off at night and shake it out before you put them on in the morning.


You may want to avoid this for leather shoes — the baking soda can dry them out.;
, Instead of tossing yesterday's newspaper in the trash, recycle it with this odor-removal trick. Pack smelly shoes with bunched-up newspaper, then leave them in a dry spot to sit for several days. The newspaper will gradually absorb the odor and moisture from inside the shoes, leaving them fresh and new.


You can also try sprinkling the newspaper with your favorite sweet-smelling perfume or aromatic. A few drops of vanilla extract can work especially well., While it may not seem like the first thing you'd want in your shoes, kitty litter is designed specifically to neutralize odors, so it's actually a great choice. Spreading a tablespoon or two of (clean) kitty litter inside each shoe before you go to bed should greatly cut down on odor. Don't forget to shake your shoes into the trash in the morning!

, If you're a coffee addict, make use of the leftover grounds you produce every day to fight shoe odor. Sprinkling a handful of dry grounds inside each shoe and letting them sit for a few hours is an excellent way to eliminate bad smells. Using dry grounds is crucial here — wet grounds will leave your shoes damp (which can make them smell worse before they dry out) and can stain the fabric of lighter-colored shoes.


Coffee grounds also work well as a general-purpose odor remover. Try setting an uncovered bowl of dry grounds in the fridge. The results should be similar to what you'd get with baking soda., Swabbing the inside of each shoe with a rag or paper towel dampened with white vinegar is a great way to remove foot odors. Let the shoes dry completely before wearing them again — otherwise, you'll just replace the odor with the smell of vinegar. Stuff with crumpled up newspaper to help remove excess moisture if you use too much vinegar.


Alternatively, try using vinegar along with the baking soda method above to create a fizzing foam that fills the shoe and removes odors.Stick to white vinegar here. Other varieties, like apple cider vinegar and balsamic, can stain your shoes.
 Alcohol is a powerful disinfectant — it's great at killing a wide range of bacteria and other microorganisms.This makes it perfect for removing odor-causing bacteria from a pair of shoes. Soak a cotton swab or Q-tip in rubbing alcohol (also called isopropyl alcohol) and scrub the insides of your shoes. Be thorough, hitting every corner of the inside fabric and re-soaking your swab as needed.
 These disposable laundry accessories are a cheap, convenient way to fight foot odor. Stuff one sheet in each shoe at the end of the day to remove odors overnight. For best results, be sure to use scented dryer sheets — unscented ones may absorb some of the bad odor, but they won't leave your shoes smelling as fresh.
 According to some cleaning resources, this odd trick will leave your shoes smelling fresh once they come to room temperature.Leaving your shoes in the freezer overnight allegedly kills the bacteria that cause shoes to smell bad.


Note, however, that some sources dispute this method.You may want to pair it with one of the other tricks above to be safe if you need good-smelling shoes.

