 Harlem Shake videos popped up like flies on the roadkill of the Internet for a hot minute, but it's a little too late to record one now unless all you want is groans. Before that it was "What girls say" videos. You've got to beat them to the punch!


Get in on the ground floor. If someone's forwarded you a funny video, change one of the central components of it and record a new version to look as much like the original as possible. Maybe you've got a meme in the making.
What makes the original unique? With Harlem Shake, it was the sudden jump-cut when the beat dropped and the ludicrous dancing. Groups like sports teams and army units made perfect matches with the one-then-a bunch of people transition.;
, Iconic scenes from recent movies are fantastic to include in your own parodies. The video of a mumbling Batman interrogating the Joker was all over YouTube for a minute when the movie was so popular and people were complaining about Batman's comical rasp. Capitalize on a new movie's success and make fun of it at the same time.


Give it a twist to make it your own. Maybe you do a shot-for-shot remake of the restaurant scene from the Godfather, even going so far as to memorize the Italian, but you're all wearing turn-of-the-century one-piece bathing suits and stroking handlebar mustaches. Ok, maybe that's a terrible idea, but put some creative spin on a classic and you'll get some views.
 In programs like Windows Movie Maker and iMovie, you can easily edit existing film and make it your own. If you've got footage from DVDs you've ripped or downloaded from YouTube previously, you can mess with the sound, add subtitles, and make new scenes.


Add subtitles or voice over to old footage. Adding humorous interior monologue to old Chuck Norris flicks is comedy gold. GOLD.
Edit together only the fight scenes from your favorite action movies, or Bond's best one-liners into a great and quick video that'll be funny to watch.
Edit together the comic relief footage from a horror movie to make it look like a family rom-com, or take old footage from family flicks and make it look like a creepy slasher flick.
 One thing about humans is for sure: they love looking at videos of animals, especially the baby versions of animals. And if you add clips from the Pirates of the Caribbean soundtrack, you're on your way to a classic YouTube clip.


Keep toys or treats out of the shot and tease your pet into acting silly. Or record animals interacting, or animals places in awkward circumstances, like on trampolines, in bathtubs, or in boxes.
Wait until your pet is asleep and then wake them up with a camera. Squeefest.
If your pet has a funny voice or an ugly face, all the better.
 If you're planning on filling your friend's shorts with Nutella or loading his shower-head with Jolly Ranchers, you might as well catch it on film. Could be hilarious. Just make sure you get permission before uploading anything that might be embarrassing.

