 Artists tend to accumulate a large amount of materials as time passes, so it’s very important that you have a system in place to keep track of all of your supplies. Clear plastic storage bins will allow you to tell what’s inside without having to open anything up and root around. However, if you have some other type of storage on hand, simply make sure that each bin is clearly labeled with its contents.
 Place similar materials together in your bins, making sure to put everything in an appropriate spot.


For example, you might separate your paints into separate bins by type: acrylic, oil, and watercolor.
A bin that contains brushes should not contain cloth samples or clay, because they are too dissimilar.
If you don’t have enough of a material to merit having its own bin, make sure the contents are as closely related as possible: for example, your painting knife with your paintbrush cleaners.
 After you’ve separated your supplies into discrete, labeled bins, you want to organize the bins into a system that groups similar materials together. For example, your bin full of paints and your bin full of paintbrushes should not be stored in opposite corners of your studio.


Attach sturdy shelving to the walls if possible to make your bin storage cleaner, more compact, and more aesthetically appealing.
If that’s not an option, looking for sturdy shelving units that can support the weight of your materials.
 Depending on the type of art you create, you may need only a desk, or you may need a wide expanse of open floor space. You’ll know what you need to prepare.


If you work with messy materials that seem to end up on the floor and walls, make sure you give yourself wide berth.
Establish your workspace in the center of an open area, where paint won’t splatter the walls or other objects.
 Depending on your materials and working style, you may simply need a single large desk or table centered in the workspace to hold your materials. However, if you work from an easel, make sure that there is a surface that can hold all of the paints you’re using, your brushes, your painting knives, etc.
 Many artists prefer to work in garage-like studios with concrete floors, and don’t mind if the floors get stained with the various pigments and supplies they use day to day. However, if your floors are wooden or carpeted, you want to lay down a layer of protection to prevent them from being permanently damaged by your work.


Look for a large, inexpensive area rug that you don’t mind getting stains on.
You can also create a grid of plastic floor protectors intended for office desks to protect your floors.
Just don’t use a protection method that will require constant upkeep, like spreading newspapers across the floor. Doing that would waste useful time every day when you could just breeze into your studio and get right to work.
 If you’re a painter, you might store wet paintings near an open window to help them dry, or you might point a fan toward the wet canvas. If you’re a sculptor, you may need a flat surface to allow clay to dry near a window or fan.
 This is where you will create your work, so it needs to be a space that inspires your imagination. Decorate the studio to your liking, choosing artwork for the walls, placing flowers here and there, and purchasing furniture that appeals to your design aesthetic. The happier you feel when you’re in this space, the more time you’ll want to spend here creating art.

