 This may sound a bit clichéd, but confidence is the most beautiful quality in a person and Lauren Conrad has lots of it. You can't be afraid to be yourself or wear what you want. The key step to being as beautiful as her is to be as confident as her. To be confident, you have to love who you are and don't beat yourself up. We all have our "ugly days" even celebrities, but you just need to stay strong and keep your confidence and self-esteem up. Treat yourself in the way that you would treat your best friend. In all truth, you are your best friend. You know yourself better than anyone ever will. Confidence also affects the way you act around people and the way you carry yourself. Confident people have a beautiful, strong energy about them that makes people attracted to them.;
, Lauren Conrad had an amazing fashion sense and is widely known for it. If you want to be like her you have to develop a good taste in clothes and fashion.If you have trouble with this step try reading lots of fashion magazines such as Vogue, Teen Vogue, Allure or Seventeen. Be confident in what you wear. If you think that you will never have the guts to actually wear something don't buy it! Try to keep up with fashion trends as good as you can, but they change frequently and some are just ridiculous or ridiculously expensive to follow. Remember always wear what you want and be yourself.
 Lauren has beautiful hair. She has long, blonde, beachy waves. Your can recreate the color by getting wheat or honey blonde highlights. For her waves you could try putting your hair in a loose bun or twist after a shower and then when it dries take it out. This usually produces great waves very similar to her style.Otherwise you could use different heat tools to recreate the style, but using those too much can cause lots of damage to your hair.
 She usually uses neutral colors on her eyes such as gold or beige or light pinks. They are very subtle colors but makeup should enhance your natural beauty, not cover it up and she is an excellent example of this. Her skin has a warm, tan glow. This can be achieved by using bronzer and a light, rosy blush color. She has lighter eyebrows and lashes so when using mascara try brownish-black or black, don't go too extreme.
 People are attracted to someone who is positive and friendly. Try to talk to people that you wouldn't normally speak to. If someone says something to you respond in a nice, calm manner. Don't be jealous or lie. Try to be as positive as possible.
 This can be achieved by two things, proper diet and exercise. Diet is very important. You will have to eat lots of fruits and veggies and try to cut out all red meats. Lean protein such as fish and chicken are the best. Replace most carbs with whole wheat substitutes. For exercise do cardio 3-5 days a week. Cardio burns fat. If you have muscles and do lots of strength training but no cardio you won't be able to see your muscles because they'll be covered by a layer of fat. Mix up the cardio, try running, jogging, swimming, boxing, biking or anything that gets your heart beating faster. Do light strength training with lighter weights about 2-3 times per week. It may seem like it takes longer but doing it the healthy way pays off.
