 Some parts of your schedule are going to be inflexible, such as class times and work days. Fit homework and studying in when you're not in class or at the office. Build a routine that you can stick to, but are able to adjust if other important things come up. As a working student, you have to be ready to adapt to new assignments, unexpected errands, and sudden work crises that need to be addressed immediately. Make enough studying time in your schedule so that if something comes up, you can shift it into another slot during the week.


Get a calendar. Write out what you need to accomplish each and every day. When you accomplish a task, check it off with a pen. This way you'll be able to still see how much you've accomplished, while keeping your future tasks organized.
If you have other members in your household, keep your calendar posted where everyone can see it. That way, they can avoid making plans that involve you during times when you aren't available.;
, A planner is especially useful if you have a lot of appointments and your days are so varied that you have trouble keeping track of your schedule. Fill in all of your fixed appointments - class times, work times, due dates, and familial obligations. This way you'll know exactly when your free time is, so you can schedule studying sessions or leisure time.
 Most smartphones have calendar and to-do list functions on them. Apple and Google products have the capability to sync with your laptops and desktop computers so that you can share your schedule between devices. If you add something to your calendar in your smartphone - a new assignment's due date for class, perhaps - it will appear on your home device as well., Talk about your schedule with your friends and family. Give them a glimpse into what the life of a working student looks like and they might just empathize - perhaps, they'll even try to make your life easier. At the very least, they'll know when to expect you and when to leave you alone to conquer your other goals.


Sign up for an online calendar and send the URL to the people who depend on knowing where you are and when. You can use a special calendar site, or just share a Google Calendar with them.
 Figure out what steps you need to make it to where you want to go and set goals for yourself. Do you need 5 courses to finish a program? Find out when they're offered and create a multi-year schedule. Every school is different. Go see an advisor and get them to help you map out your entire program, so you know what to expect.
 As you fill out your schedule also include time for your family and family obligations. Create a separate column for things you need to do to keep your house in order, your spouse happy, and your children well. Schedule things like laundry and family meal times alongside studying and other work related activities.If you have children, make sure their needs are met. You'll have to take them to daycare/school. Some jobs and schools even provide daycare for their students.They'll need to be fed and you'll need to spend as much time as possible with them. Make sure that you don't neglect your children while going to school.
 You want to maintain your friendships. At the beginning of every week, schedule something fun to do with your friends for the upcoming weekend. It will show that you are still making an effort to be friends and it will give you something to look forward to during the week., With all of your responsibilities, you probably have a hard time finding time to get everything done, let alone give yourself any down time. However, in order to avoid burnout and stress, it's important to schedule some "me time" every week. Even if it's just an hour where you sit in a coffee shop and read a book for fun with no kids around, make yourself a promise that you will make time to keep yourself happy and healthy.