 If you aren’t currently seeking help for your anxiety, then you should do so. While you can manage anxiety and your anxiety related procrastination on your own, medical and mental health professionals can provide you with effective treatment, support, and information.You can check with your school counselor or the human resources representative at your job for references for professionals.
Talk to your physician about your feelings of anxiety. For example, you could try saying, “Could I schedule an appointment to talk about some anxiety I’ve been having?”
If you are currently receiving treatment, talk to your service provider about techniques you can use to overcome your procrastination. You might ask your therapist, “Are there strategies I can use when my anxiety is causing me to procrastinate?”

, You will be able to handle your anxiety and your anxiety related procrastination if you use strategies to reduce your stress and calm you. There is a respectable amount of research that suggests that using coping techniques like mindfulness meditation and deep breathing can reduce anxiety.Practice taking slow, deep breaths. Inhale slowly and deeply. Hold the breath for a beat or two. Slowly and deeply exhale. Repeat these steps as many times as needed to reduce your anxiety.
Try mindfulness techniques to center yourself and calm down when you feel your anxiety building. Being mindful, or aware of yourself, can help you cope with the physical and emotional symptoms of your anxiety.
Practice doing stretches and other physical activities like yoga to help reduce some of the anxiety you feel.
 One of the best things you can do to cope with your anxiety is to let your friends and family support you.People that care about you can provide support, encouragement, or just a listening ear to help you beat your anxiety related procrastination.


Tell the people close to you that you’re struggling with anxiety related procrastination and need their support. You might say something like, “Mom, I’m having trouble finishing my work. I get anxious about it and then put off doing it until the last minute.”
Check https://www.adaa.org/supportgroups to find support groups and online groups you can join.

