 Medium sized chips tend to be between the size of a dime and a quarter. Because of their increased size, it isn’t uncommon for small amounts of debris to get stuck in the chip or to the paint on the borders of the chip. Remove small debris with your fingers or a pair of tweezers before washing the area of the vehicle. If you attempt to wash it first, the sponge could catch small bits of debris and drag it through the rest of the good paint, causing small scratches.Using tweezers can help you to get small bits of debris that may be caught in the paint before you move on to washing the vehicle.
Sometimes blowing on the area or using canned air can free up and dispel small bits of debris.
Ensure none of the paint is flaking off as you remove the debris. Flaking paint may lead to a large chip.
 Once the chip and surrounding area are free from debris, wash that part of your car just as you would for a small chip. First rinse the area, then apply warm soapy water with a sponge before rinsing it again. Ensure the car is completely dry before applying any paint.Washing the area also ensures there is no debris or sediment that may get trapped by the new layers of paint.
 Once the area around the chip is clean and dry, put some rubbing alcohol, Prepsol or enamel reducer on a rag and use that to clean the chipped area once again. This will remove any grease or oils in the area that may make it difficult for the primer to establish a strong bond to the metal. You likely won’t be able to see any oil or grease, but it does not need to be visible to compromise the painting process.Simply rub the rag on the chip itself and around the edges of it.
Remember that this will remove wax and even clear coat from the remaining paint, so avoid scrubbing the painted area. Instead simply rub the chip lightly.
 Automotive primer can be purchased at your local auto parts store as well as at many large retailers like Walmart or Target. The primer will come in a small bottle with a brush, unlike the paint pen used for smaller chips. Use the applicator brush to apply the primer to the dry, clean metal, taking care to get very little of it on the paint surrounding it. Use only enough primer to cover the unpainted area with a thin, but solid coat.While you will be painting over the primer, applying it to the paint around the chip will raise the height of the paint in that area, creating a blemish in the paint you will be able to see.
Ensure you don’t use more primer than is necessary. Immediately wipe off and thoroughly clean any drips.
Make sure the primer dries completely before moving on to the next step. If it feels sticky, it isn’t dry yet.
 Medium and large sized chips require touch up paint that has an applicator brush instead of the pen. While the paint is the same, the method used to apply it is slightly different. For medium sized chips on the smaller side, a paint pen may still do the trick. Shake the touch up paint thoroughly, then dip just the tip of the applicator brush into it. Dab the applicator brush in the center of the chip and move it around slightly, allowing the paint to stick to the metal and expand. Dip the brush in again, then touch it to the paint in the same area, allowing the paint to flow off of the applicator brush and settle on the vehicle, instead of stroking it on as you might when painting a house.It may take a number of dabs to fill the chip, but doing it in this manner allows the paint to settle evenly.
Fight the urge to apply more paint to expedite the process. Adding too much paint at a time can result in dripping or bubbling.
 Once the touch up paint has dried, evaluate the result. If the paint has sufficiently filled the chip and the sides of the touch up paint have become flush with the surrounding paint, you are ready to move on to the next step. If the touch up paint settles slightly lower than the surrounding paint or some metal is still visible, apply another coat of paint by dabbing it on the chip just as you did previously.The paint may look raised above the surrounding dry paint as you dab it. It will shrink as it dries, allowing it to flatten out.
Patience during this process will ensure you end up with the best possible final product.
Ensure the touch up paint is completely dry before moving on to the next step (it may take a number of hours).
 Although you only painted one small portion of the vehicle, it’s important to wax the entire vehicle at the same time to ensure the glossiness of the paint matches throughout. Wax protects your paint from the elements and from sun-caused fading, so failing to apply new wax to the entire car could result in the paint fading into slightly different shades. You will need to apply wax to the newly painted area in order to protect the new paint as well as to make the glossiness of it match the rest of the car.Make sure to wash and wax your entire car to protect the paint and ensure the levels of glossiness match.

