 There are only three main questions an interviewer wants to ask:


Can you do the job?
Will you do the job?
Will you fit in?

Structuring your planning around these three areas, will help you to cover the most crucial issues likely to be covered during the interview, and give you the chance to prepare your key statements and responses to market yourself most effectively.


Can you do the job?

Questions in this area are intended to probe your background. It is unlikely you would have been invited for interview if your qualifications and experience on paper did not match the criteria for the job. Most interviewers therefore will spend about 15% of the interview on this area.


Do you have the required qualifications?

If the job is very technical, you may be required to demonstrate greater in-depth technical knowledge in the interview. Be prepared to verify and back up any claims you make regarding qualifications and so on. Employers are increasingly using the services of data agencies to verify details given on CVs and application forms. Avoid 'little white lies' such as upgrading your A Level results. A small fib found out will undermine your credibility totally.

;
, this will ensure that you are not nervous and will give you plenty of time to prepare.
 Smile through the interview because this is your final examination, you are not going to get the opportunity for a rain check, and therefore, you are going to get that job if your life depended on it.
 interviewees are always nervous so sweaty hands result.
 please also wash and dry your hands before. you will not get a goodbye handshake if you don’t.
 bad breath is a sure way to turn off the interviewer; especially if the interview is behind closed doors.
,


Men: Avoid colouring your hair to make a good impression. There is nothing worse than a man trying to pass off as a younger man.
Women: You can mostly get away with it - it is sometimes even recommended.
 Curls and fluff will not get you through an interview.


Men: No long hair, handle bar moustaches or overgrown beards. Keep it short and professional. You can always grow it back once you get the job! No earrings, thick gold chains, or nose rings either.
 Use positive words, like yes, instead of no.
,,,,, (You are the expert on what you have done. don’t be shy about your abilities).
 Also take copies of written references.
 Explain that you did not view this as failure. it was a learning experience.

