 Some examples of household plants that are toxic to cats are lilies, Dumb Cane, azalea, ferns, holly, ivy, oleander and umbrella plant, to name a few. Remove these and replace them with safe household plants.While some toxic plants may only upset your cat’s stomach, plants like lily can cause irreversible kidney failure. It is important to be informed about all toxic plants. Visit the ASPCA website for a comprehensive list of plants that are toxic to cats: https://www.aspca.org/pet-care/animal-poison-control/toxic-and-non-toxic-plants.
Some examples of safe household plants are cat grass, bamboo, blue echeveria, golden palm, lamb's tail, pearl plant, and Christmas cactus, to name a few.;
, Traps intended to kill pests can harm your cat as well. Place mouse, roach, and ant traps out of your cat's reach to avoid harming it. If you cannot place them out of your cat's reach, then you should remove them entirely.Call an exterminator instead of laying out traps if you have an infestation.
 Cover electrical wires and cords with covers, or place them out of reach. For cords that cannot be removed or placed out of reach, spray apple cider vinegar or bitter apple onto them. The bitter taste will deter your cat from chewing on the cords and wires.Re-spray the cords once a week.
 If you leave your windows open, then place screens on them. The screens will prevent your cat from escaping. They will also prevent your cat from falling out of high windows and injuring itself.Keep in mind that some screens may not be strong enough to resist the weight of your cat. If this is the case, close your windows, or only open the top part of your window so your cat can’t escape.
 Avoid using ammonia, scented cleaners (especially lemon-scented cleaners), detergents and deodorants to clean your cat’s bedding, toys, litter box, and food and water bowls. Instead, use hot water and a mild detergent (or a pet-friendly detergent) to clean them.Wash your cat's bedding in cycles so your cat's scent will remain on the items.
Make sure to secure household cleaners in locked cabinets.

