 Now that you are a teenager, it is important that you take care of yourself. Wear deodorant every day, and put some in your gym bag. Also wear perfume or body spray. Shower every day and wash your hair every 2 days. You may also be starting menstruation at this time, so be sure that you pack supplies in every bag, no matter what time of the month it is, in case you get a surprise. Also, even if you don't have your period yet, bring some supplies. You can never be too prepared.;
, You may be cranky a little more often. A good night's sleep can help ease that, and little sleep can actually just add on to your bad mood.
 It is important that you watch what you eat. You should eat vegetables, fruits, grains, as well as protein, but don't be afraid to treat yourself to something sweet every once in a while! Don't go on one of those diets where you starve yourself. If you really want a sweet but healthy dessert, then try putting sugar on some strawberries. It's delicious, and your body is getting fruit and sugar that it can use for energy.
 There's no such thing as being "too cool for school". It is very important that you pass your classes. If you really hate school, then look at it like this; don't spend 3 years in 7th grade when you could be done with school quicker.
 You may have mood swings, but you can try and somewhat control them. Try not to blow up over little things. A good way to be kind is helping others. The teenage years are also a good time to start volunteering.
 Let your family and friends in. Don't be secretive. When you're open with your parents, you tend to get more freedom. With your friends, not being secretive will show that they can trust you and they will think of you as a better friend.
 Caffeine makes you hyper and jittery, which is a false sensation of energy, but it's bad for your body and will most likely only make you more tired. A little caffeine every now and then is okay, but don't overdo it.
 Say please, thank you, you're welcome, and may I. Listen to directions and if your parents say no, then that's it. Don't pretend to go to a friend's house but really go to the party they said you couldn't go to.
 Keep your bedroom and living space clean and organized. It builds stress when you're digging around trying to find things.
 Drama is common in the teenage years. Sometimes, it may be unavoidable, but try your best not to associate with those who tend to create drama.
 Sit down with a parent and discuss a good curfew, bedtime, and waking time, as well as what a good age for you to begin dating is.
 If you feel like someone or something is sketchy, it's always better to stay away from it. Alcohol, drugs, and cigarettes are the farthest things from cool, and being addicted can get you in major trouble, not just with your parents, but potentially the law. This doesn't apply to just teenagers, it is good for adults to follow this rule too.
 Have a day with your friends to go to the movies, the beach, the mall, the park, or anywhere you would like to go! Just have fun. Your teenage years may be hard, but they don't last forever, and they are some of your best years.

