 Break open each bean pod and remove the individual fava beans. Discard the empty shells when finished.

Snap off the string/stem end of the pod, then peel the string away down the entire pod length.
Use your fingers to pry open the new seam and pluck out the individual beans inside. You should be able to gather four to eight beans from each pod.
 The skins covering each bean also need to be removed. Do so by quickly steaming or blanching the beans until the skins shrivel up.

Steam the beans in a steamer basket set over boiling water for roughly 1 minute. Let them cool, then peel or pop the beans out of their skins by applying light pressure to one end.
Parboil/blanch the beans by submerging them in boiling water for 30 seconds. Transfer the beans to a bowl of ice water for another 30 seconds, then peel or pop them out of their skins.
 Place the oil in a large saucepan and set it on the stove over medium-high heat. Allow the oil to heat up for 30 to 60 seconds., Toss the diced onion into the oil and cook, stirring frequently, for 5 to 7 minutes.

The onion should become more aromatic after the first few minutes. Continue cooking it until the pieces become notably soft and slightly translucent.
 Toss the four ingredients into the saucepan and stir until evenly combined with the onion.

Allow the contents of the saucepan to sit over medium-high heat until the water begins a steady simmer.
 Cover the pan and reduce the heat to medium-low. Continue cooking the beans at a gentle simmer until they become very tender.You don't need to stir the beans as they cook, but if you want to stir them to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the pan, only do so once or twice. Opening the pan too often could cause too much steam to escape and may increase the overall cooking time.
 Add the lemon juice to the saucepan and simmer, uncovered, for another 5 minutes.

Taste the mixture after it simmers. Adjust the seasonings as desired to match your personal sense of taste.
 Pour the contents of the saucepan into a blender and puree until it becomes thick and smooth.

Stop the blender and stir the puree with a spoon to make sure that the mixture is thoroughly mashed.
You could also use a food processor instead of a blender during this step.
 Pour the fava bean puree into a bowl. Cover and chill the paste in your refrigerator, then enjoy it cold.

You can use fava puree as a topping or dip. It can also be garnished with lemon wedges or fresh dill, if desired.

