 Trust is the foundation of any relationship. Since you will spend the majority of your time away from your new beau, it is important that you genuinely trust each other. Knowing that he is in a different school, surrounded by unknown people has its pros and cons. On the one hand, you won’t hear any gossip about your relationship. On the other hand, you may feel that you don’t see each other enough to develop a strong bond. Either way, it is important that you both feel confident in your relationship and that you really believe your guy is doing what he says he’s doing., Despite not being able to see him all the time, you can still keep up with him. Call, text, or even email him. Send him a text between classes or call him at the end of your day when you both have some free time.Keep it consistent. You don't have to have long, meaningful conversations all the time. Mix it up with short texts that just let him know that you were thinking of him. Tell him a funny thing that happened to you that day, or just say, "I was thinking about you."

, You may be making time to have regular phone conversations with your guy, but what are you really talking about? Communicating your honest thoughts, hopes, and fears brings you emotionally closer to the person, and makes for a stronger relationship. Use your time together (or on Skype, or on the phone) to truly open up., If your school systems are completely out of sync, communicate about upcoming stressful periods. These might include final exams, end of year projects, holidays, and school events. Discuss your school schedules in advance. That way you can be either prepare for less communication or prepare to help each other get work done.


For example, if you have exams, while he has a holiday, he can come over and quiz you on your work.
Consider using technology like Google calendars to sync your schedules.
 People at school may say many things about your relationship, especially if they don’t know the guy you are dating or if he is from a rival school. Rumors and gossip can be hurtful, but try your best not to lash out at people that make rude comments. Instead, respond with a calm tone or walk away. For example, someone might make fun of you for dating a guy from your rival school’s basketball team. Stay relaxed and say something short like, “Wow, you think you’re funny,” and walk away.
 It may be too much to be in a relationship with someone whose schedule is quite different from yours. Give yourselves some time to evaluate how things are going before you make any decisions. Be realistic and, don’t be hard on yourself if you realize that it just won’t work.