 You will need some special materials to backstitch a curve. Before you get started, you will need to get:


Cross stitch fabric
Hoop to hold fabric in place
Needle
Thread
Scissors
Paper and pins or chalk for creating a guide curve (optional);
, Thread the needle with your chosen thread. Make sure to anchor the thread using a knot at the end or by holding it until you have a few stitches in place that will keep the thread from sliding out. You can trim off the knot after you have a few stitches to anchor the knot.Make sure that you choose a needle that is appropriate for your thread. For example, if it is a thicker thread, then you may need to use a large eye needle.
Ensure that you have enough thread on the needle to complete your stitches for the project.
 To start your back stitching, begin by making a basic backstitch that is about ¼” (0.6cm) long. To do this insert the needle through your fabric from the back side and going out the front, then come back through the fabric by going into the front side and out the back.This straight stitch will help to anchor your thread and it is essential for starting your backstitching.
 To create your first back stitch, push the needle through the back side of the fabric and out the front. The needle should come out the front one stitch space ahead of the end of your first straight stitch.Keep the stitches to about ¼” (0.6cm) like you did with the straight stitch.
 To complete your first straight stitch, you will need to insert the needle in through the space next to the end of the straight stitch. Bring the thread back to this point and then insert the needle into the same space as the straight stitch thread is going through.Repeat the process by bringing the thread back out one stitch space ahead of the backstitch you just created.
 Backstitching in a curve requires you to use a more freeform approach. Start by imagining the curve you want to create running along your stitching surface.You can also use a paper cutout pinned to your stitching surface to help guide you, or even draw a chalk line on the stitching surface. However, this is optional.
 Create your backstitches as close to the curve as you can. They may not form a perfect curve, but it will be close. Keep backstitching until you reach the end of the curve you want to create.Keep in mind that smaller backstitches will create a less jagged appearance. If you notice after a few stitches that the line looks extra choppy, then reduce the size of the stitches.
 Wrapping your stitches will help to give the curve a softer finish and reduce the look of any jagged edges. To wrap your stitches, leave the thread connected after you finish your last stitch. Then, slide the needle under the last stitch you did. Do not go through the fabric. Slide the needle under the stitch and out the other side. Then, return the needle to the starting position and wrap the next stitch.Continue wrapping the stitches to the end of the backstitches. Then, you can anchor the thread by doing a couple of straight stitches. Cut the excess to complete your curve.

