 Pick a mild shampoo that does not have a scent. Most sphynx experts recommend using a shampoo designed specifically for cats. Some breeders recommend Johnson’s No More Tears Baby Shampoo. , Double check that the water is warm but not hot.


If you can’t use a sink, a large bowl will do. The bathtub will also work, but it might be difficult for you to lean over and wash your cat, and you will use much more water than is really necessary.
 Turn off any loud radios or televisions that might startle your cat while they bathe. Remind the other members of your household that it’s bathtime so that they don’t shout, slam doors, or run in and out of the room where you are bathing your cat.


It’s important that you not startle your cat while bathing her, because she might scratch you in her alarmed state. She might also completely escape your grasp if she is very scared. , This will prevent your cat from slipping and sliding, which can be frightening and cause your cat to panic and either claw at you or try to flee., Let her feet touch the water slowly, first the back feet, and then the front. Then lower her rear end into the water, followed by the front of her body. Your cat may start to struggle at this point if she is not used to bathing. It’s okay. This is normal. It may feel distressing to you, but proceed. Bathing your sphynx is important enough that you should fight through the feelings of guilt that may arise when he seems unhappy about the bath.
 Don’t force her downward by pushing in her back. Put your hand around her body to remind her that you’re there and keep her comfortable while ensuring that she remains in the water. If your cat struggles, wait a few minutes before you wash her. Make it clear to your cat that she is not getting out of the water. , You can also use a cup to pour water gently all over her body. Avoid the head. Just wet your cat’s back from the neck down. (The rest of her body - the lower half- should be submerged already.), You can use an exfoliating glove or a small sponge. Use short, firm strokes. Emulate a mother cat cleaning her kitten. Be sure to wash in between any wrinkles and folds on her body by stretching them flat. Don’t forget her tail.
 Hold one paw in your hand very gently. Put a little pressure on the toe pads. This will make the claws extend slightly. Clean the dirt from the pads and around the base of the claw with soapy water on the sponge. This will help prevent infections that can happen if dirt builds up in around the sensitive skin near the claw. , Sphynx cats do not have eyelashes, so dirt can more easily get into their eyes. Ask your vet if they recommend a particular product for cleaning your cat’s eyes. Particularly if their eyes are very sensitive, you may need to use the product more often than you bathe your cat (every day or every other day). You may want to use a cotton ball for this stage, or you can keep using the sponge that you’ve been using to clean the rest of your cat’s body.
 If the water gets too cool, you can drain a little and then add a bit more warm water from the tap. The running water may startle your cat, so either run the water very gently, or take her out while you add water. , Especially if you are instituting a new bathing regimen, this behavior is perfectly normal. Use a low, calm voice. Praise your cat when she does well, and speak gently to her if she struggles or yowls. , You can use a bit of running water or gently pour clean water over her with a cup. Be sure that the water is still nice and warm at this stage. You don’t want to startle her by freezing her. Be sure all of the soap is gone.
 If you have a towel warmer, it’s a good idea to use it for your cat’s towel, but check to make sure it’s not too hot when you pull the towel out. Be sure that your cat is completely dry before letting it go. Never share a towel with your cat without washing it in between uses. You could pick up bacteria and transfer it to yourself.
It’s okay to dry vigorously. By this time, your cat will probably be sick of you and ready to leave, so dry quickly. , Use a cloth to wipe around the inside of the ear. If your vet has recommended that you use ear drops, this is a good time to put them in. Drop them into the base of the ear. Then use a Q-tip to remove the dirt from the surface of the ear. Don’t go too far in, or you could damage your cat’s hearing. It’s also okay to wash your cat’s ears while she is still in the bath, but since that just prolongs the experience, there’s no reason you can’t do this part once your cat is out of the water.
 Especially if your cat isn’t a fan of bathtime, you will want to reward her a little after bathtime. Give her some extra petting and affection or offer her a treat if you want.

