 Start off by mentioning the day of your last meeting with your attorney. Give enough information about that meeting so that they can quickly recall you. Your attorney has many clients and may forget the last time you met.;
, In the main body of your letter, speak concisely of your legal matter with your attorneys. Include any details immediately relevant to your follow up meeting. For instance, if you want to meet to discuss your will, mention that. If you have thought of more questions you would like to ask your attorney, mention them in your letter so that your attorney can prepare answers for you.
 Cordially make your request for the followup meeting. Include your phone numbers and email address, even though your attorney already has them from the previous meeting. If there is a best time or manner to contact you, let them know what it is.
 Say you are looking forward to hearing from them. You may say that you look forward to discussing the details, or that you found your last meeting very helpful. Do not thank them for anything they have not yet done, as this may come off as presumptuous. Sign off formally with a version of "Yours truly, " or "Sincerely, ."After signing your name, you may choose to include your business title under your signature.
 Be clear about what you want, and write as little as you need to communicate it. Write exactly what you mean, without beating around the bush, and do not add superfluous content. Avoid using legal terms if you do not understand them fully. If you are efficient and polite, your letter will be well received.Proofread before you send, and use a spell-check.
If you do need to use legal terms, look them up to make sure you have used them correctly.
 A business letter should be typed for complete legibility. Use ordinary paper, black ink, and a standard font, such as Times New Roman. Write in left-justified paragraphs. If you have paper with a letterhead that includes your information, you can use this paper.


Your whole letter, including your header and signature, should be left-aligned.
 Type your address at the top left-hand corner of the page. Skip a space, then type the date. Write the date in words rather than numbers, especially if you are writing to an attorney in another country. Your attorney is likely to file your letter by date received, so make sure you include this information.You can omit your address if you are printing onto paper with a letterhead. In this case, begin with the date alone.
 Skip a space or two after the date, then type your attorney's name, address, and the name of his or her law firm., Skip a space after the name and address, and begin your letter by greeting your attorney. Write "Dear ." Follow this salutation with a colon., Skip a space after the salutation, and put the body of your email next. Single space your letter. Instead of indenting paragraphs, skip a line between paragraphs. This makes your letter easier to read, and is a convention of business correspondence., Skip a space or two after the body of your letter ends. After your sign off ("Yours sincerely," or "yours truly,") skip several lines. Type your name. When you have printed your letter, sign your name in the blank space between your sign-off and your typed name.