 There's only so much you can correct with makeup. Getting a good night's sleep is essential for having bright, healthy-looking eyes. Aim to get seven or eight hours of sleep each night so you'll wake up bright-eyed and bushy-tailed.


Try going to bed on a set schedule, and waking up at the same time every morning. The routine will help your body rest well, and you'll wake up looking and feeling refreshed.
On days when you didn't sleep well the night before, treat your eyes with extra care to help them feel and look good throughout the day.
 When it comes to your eyes (and your skin and hair, for that matter) drinking water is an essential beauty trick. When your body is dehydrated, your eyes can appear dull or bloodshot. Drinking plenty of water keeps them clear and bright.


When you feel thirsty, drink water instead of reaching for coffee or soda. There's no other beverage that hydrates your body the way water does.
Taking a reusable water bottle with you as you go about your day is a good way to stay hydrated. That way, you'll never be without a drink of water when you need one.
 Both alcohol and salt can cause your eyes to look puffy and swollen, since they dehydrate your body.The worst time to eat salty foods and drink alcohol is right before bed, before your body has had time to process everything you've consumed; you'll inevitably wake up with puffy eyes. Stop eating and drinking a few hours before bed, and drink plenty of water to make up for any alcohol or salty substances you've consumed.
 As a long-term way to get brighter eyes, examine your diet and see if you can add more nutrients that are known to benefit your eyes. Load up on the following nourishing foods to promote eye health for years to come:


Carrots and sweet potatoes: these contain beta carotene, which is excellent for preventing macular degeneration and cataracts.Spinach, bell peppers and brussels sprouts: these foods are high in vitamin C, which protects the eyes.
Turkey and other lean meats: they contain zinc and b vitamins essential to eye health.
Salmon, sardines and almonds: they contain omega 3 fatty acids, which protect the eyes.
 Even if you eat healthy and get plenty of sleep, eye strain could be causing your eyes to be irritated, dry and red instead of bright and healthy. Be sure to regularly visit the eye doctor to make sure you're wearing the correct glasses or contacts prescription.
 Dust, cat dander, mold and other allergens can cause the eyes to look bloodshot and puffy. Try to keep your environment as allergen-free as possible. During allergy seasons, take medication to reduce eye swelling and irritation, so your eyes will look and feel bright and healthy.
 It's a quick way to restore moisture to your eyes and help them look brighter right away. Saline drops are formulated to replace your natural tears and lubricate your eyes.

