 Purchase a pumpkin and carve it into an iconic Halloween Jack-o'-lantern. If you're really looking to turn heads, you can buy multiple pumpkins and carve more than one. Purchasing stencils can help you carve an intricate design even if you aren't normally artistically inclined.


To learn how to carve your Jack-o'-lantern read how to Carve a Pumpkin.
Be sure to thoroughly remove all of the pulp and seeds from the inside of your pumpkin before cutting it.;
, Hang pieces of cheesecloth on the roof of your porch to make it look like spider webs are hanging from it. Use scissors to cut strips of cheesecloth around 2-3 inches thick and 2-3 feet tall. From there, you can either staple or glue it on the overhang of your porch to create a spooky look.A similar thing can be done with cotton balls. Stretch out the cotton so it is thin and whispy and hang it or tape it to parts of your porch.


Dip your cheesecloth into a black tea to give them an old and worn look.
You can also purchase spider-web specific cotton at most Halloween decoration stores.
 Draw a template or download a template for a bat online and use it to create black paper bats that you can tape or glue to your porch. Use bats of different sizes to give your porch a feeling of depth. You can also hang some of the cardboard bats from the ceiling using string.You can buy pre-made bat decals if you don't feel like making them yourself.
 Purchase additional props at major department stores or online to create a sense of realism for your spooky Halloween porch. Props like black cats, rodents, spiders, and skeletons will scare trick-or-treaters coming to visit. Some stores will have motion sensor props that make noise when someone walks past them., The color black can evoke a sense of dread and is associated with Halloween themes like death, black cats, and cauldrons. Red stimulates the senses and is a more aggressive color than orange.When choosing the color scheme for your Halloween porch, utilize both of these colors to make it appear more spooky.


You can use red paint to simulate the appearance of blood on your porch.
 Electronic equipment like lights, speakers, and fans can add to your spooky porch environment. Visit local department stores and try to find Halloween specific gear that you can install on your porch. Use creepy sound effects and strobing lights to put visitors in a paranoid state of mind.


Strobe lights and sound effects can cause distress and disorientation if you are looking to scare your visitors.Smoke machines can also add to a spookier feeling for your porch.