 There are a variety of menus which can be accessed using the buttons at the bottom of the screen. The system menu, for example, will allow you to access to many of the settings. You can also access the settings menu by clicking Esc. Some of the other menus include:


The Map. You can use a variety of maps while playing the game. You can bring up the larger map (press M if playing on a PC), look at a map when viewing your quests, or use the mini-map in the corner of your screen. The map will tell you where to go for quest objectives, as well as the location of important characters, objects, or buildings.
Your journal. Your journal will have important information about your quests and quest progress. You will also be able to see maps for each quest, as well as rewards. The journal can be brought up most easily by pressing J (on a PC).
Your item menus. You can access your general inventory either through the main inventory menu or by selecting the colorful squares above your main buttons. The colorful squares indicate slots in your inventory occupied by items. You can access weapons and armor through your armory menu. You can have 25 of each type of weapon. Right-click (on the PC) to get a few of the item options.
 You can interact with NPCs to get quests and rewards. When buttons appear above an NPCs head, this means you can interact with them. A tan button will appear when you can talk with an NPC to get a quest. When you’ve completed a quest, a green button above the NPCs head will need to be selected in order to get your reward.


When talking with any NPC, you will need to right-click on the text screens to progress through them.
 There are lots of ways you can interact with your friends in the game. Aside from the usual joining of guilds and friending people you know or joining their characters in the world, you can also use the Moogle Delivery Service to send messages, items, and money to other characters. Find a Moogle to receive items you are sent.


You can also set up or join a Linkshell, which will allow you access to a closed chat with only the people attached to the Linkshell. This is a great way to interact with your friends or guildmates.
When you are at the very beginning of the game, you will not be able to see or play with other people in the world. However, once you make it through the beginning tutorial, you will be able to join your friends.
 There are many ways, within the game, to travel between the cities, within the cities, and even to smaller settlements. Aetherytes, for example, are a great mode of transportation. These large crystals, seen throughout the world, will instantly transport you between any place you have visited before. All you have to do is attune yourself to each crystal you come across by interacting with it.


You can also use airships, ferries, and Chocobos (either that you own or hire) to travel between areas.
The smaller Aetherytes are for travel within your current city.
 The game autosaves, so you won’t need to constantly save your progress. However, to make sure that your most recent progress saves correctly before you quit the game, make sure that you exit the game through the menu (rather than just turning it off).

