 Wear clothes the colors of the rainbow. you can wear blacks and browns to you just have to have a balance.


Pastels are always nice and denote sweetness.
If you are feeling adventurous, try bright colors like hot pink, yellow, orange, etc. These denote "crazily lovable".
Choose girly shades such as pastels, pink, purple, and bright colors. you can wear black and other dark colors. You want your outfits to be bright and fun you have to have a balance
Other colors you can wear are mint green, baby blue, cream, light coral, and a light yellow.;
, Jeans should be formfitting. Go for light washes. If you're wearing a skirt, make sure it's wavy and bright. Make sure your skirts aren't too short.
 Choose good styles such as baby-doll, empire, t-shirts, halter, peplum, spaghetti straps, and tank tops.
 Make sure the pockets aren't hanging out or that they ride up on you. Alternatively, wear Capri pants, and long shorts that go to your thigh or your mid-calf.
 Dresses are essential for the girly look. All lengths are possible. Choose dresses with floral patterns, plain girly colors, stripes, or swirls.
 If you need to wear sneakers, try finding converse in bright colors.
 Accessories are a fun part of being a girly girl.
 Don't wear too much or it could look like you're wearing an ugly mask. Look confident with your makeup. Curl your lashes, and apply some mascara.If you have acne, use foundation to cover it up. Paint your nails pretty colors, and if you want, create a pattern with different colors!


Do not overdo the makeup. Keep it simple and natural, for a fresh look.
 Have good hygiene and wear what flatters you.
 Exercise, and eat healthy. Don't try starving yourself as this will lead to anorexia. Be as healthy as you can be, everybody has different body types, curvy or stick-thin.
 Just because you are pretty doesn't mean you can't be smart and brainy. If you want to make even more friends, have a study group come over before an exam.
 Find the style that suits you best, flatters you, and catapults you into the girly stratosphere. Or not. It's totes up to you.

