 If work feels like the last thing you want to do, try to change your approach. Try to have more conversations with your coworkers, or get to know them outside the office to create a warmer work atmosphere. Motivate yourself to finish your work by giving yourself a reward at the end of each hour, such as a snack or a five minute break.
 Wander around and ask your coworkers whether they need any help. Take them at face value if they decline; interrupting their work with frequent offers of help is counter-productive.
 Go through all your unread emails until you've replied to as many as you can. Once that's done, use your mail system's "folder" or "label" system to organize your mail. You could divide your mail by "reply by" date (today, this week, or this month), by project, or by type (announcements, reference documents, and personal).


If your email system is based in gmail, you can automatically filter new messages to sort them into the correct categories.
If you have a work computer with many documents on it, organizing them can be an endless task – which may be what you're looking for.
 Not only good for you, but a great way to pass the time. Many exercises can be done while seated, including rotating your shoulders and neck, and flexing your leg muscles and arms.
 Your boss may find it hard to fault you for spending time at work becoming better at your job. Read blogs or studies related to your field online, or bring a book on the topic to study during your downtime.
 You can make a homemade calendar using printer paper, or cardstock paper if it's available at your workplace. This task can take as much time as you need it to, from a quick stapling job to a hole-punched work bound with twine. Once you've cut the pages, use a straight edge to draw six vertical lines, dividing the pages into seven days. Draw four horizontal lines to divide these into five rows, and you'll end up with enough squares to represent a month. Copy an online calendar to label the days, to avoid making mistakes.


If you have more downtime, color code each month, and write in holidays and your family's birthdays for a year in advance.
If you don't want to cut and construct a calendar yourself, turn an old notebook into a daily planner, with two to three days on each page.
 Rearrange your desk drawers. Take out the trash or clean the bathrooms. If you genuinely have no work to do, being seen doing additional menial tasks could be a hint to your boss to assign more.
 True, this is high on the list of activities you don't want to be caught doing at work. But if you've made it to the end of this guide, it could be time to search for more stimulating opportunities.

