 A loose drive belt may be the result of stretching over time. If your drive belt has stretched, it should be replaced. Depending on the vehicle, there are a number of ways you may be able to loosen the tension on the drive belt. A tensioner pulley can be loosened by inserting a breaker bar or socket wrench into the hole in the center of the pulley and twisting it clockwise. In other vehicles, you will need to loosen the alternator bolts and either tip it forward or slide it toward the motor within its bracket to loosen the belt.Check the service manual for your vehicle to determine which way you can reduce the tension on your drive belt.
If your belt has been damage or is showing signs of excessive wear, it should be replaced instead of simply tightened.
 With the tension off of the belt, slide it off the top pulley. This will produce enough slack to remove it from all of the remaining ones. If your vehicle does not provide a diagram of how the drive belt is wound through the pulleys, take a picture of it before removing the belt to ensure you can place the new one on in the same fashion.The drive belt likely snakes through a number of pulleys in order to power multiple accessories within your car.
You may also be able to find a diagram of the drive belt’s route on the auto maker’s website.
 Before installing a new drive belt, compare it to the old one to make sure you’ve purchased the right belt. While an old belt may stretch a bit, they should be fairly close in length and equal in width. Make sure the new belt matches the old so it will install properly.The wrong belt could fail to power the vehicle’s accessories or even cause internal damage to the engine.
If you feel you have purchased the wrong belt, return it to the auto parts store and get the proper belt before moving forward.
 Follow the diagram or picture you took to run the new drive belt back through and around all of the pulleys the old one did. If your vehicle comes equipped with a tensioner pulley, turn it clockwise again to bring it closer to the other pulleys as you slide the belt over it last.Check the belt against the diagram or picture again once you’ve finished running it to ensure it looks right.
You will need to maintain pressure on the tensioner pulley while getting the belt over it, so this step may be easier with a friend to help.
 Once the belt has been run through all the necessary pulleys, either release the tensioner or use a piece of wood to pry the alternator away from the motor to increase the tension in the belt. With the belt tight, bolt the alternator in place to maintain tension.Use a ruler to check to make sure the belt is under the proper amount of tension.
Place the ruler along the belt and try to pull the middle of it away from the ruler. If it moves more than a half inch, it’s not tight enough.

