 Choose a book that is the same width as the bow you want to make. Place the end of a wide, wired ribbon on the middle of the book's cove.Move the end of the ribbon towards the spine by about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters).


You can also use a CD or DVD case, or even a scrap of cardboard.
 Keep the ribbon in the same place as you wrap it around the book. This will make your bow look neater in the end. Avoid wrapping the ribbon too tightly, or it will be difficult to slide the bundle off in a later step., You want both ends of the ribbon to be overlapping by ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters). This will help prevent the ribbon from falling apart when you go to tie it together., Try to keep the loops in place so that they are nice and even. Do not lose the middle of your bundle where the ends overlap., Pinch the middle of your bundle first, then wrap a piece of thin wire around the middle. Wrap it tightly so that it creases the ribbon and holds everything together. Don't trim off the excess wire yet.The thin wire that florists use would work great for this. Another option would be one of those twist ties used on trash bags.
 The ribbon needs to be two and a half times the length you want the ribbons to be. For example, if you want the tails to be 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) long, you want to cut 30 inches (76.2 centimeters) of ribbon., Make sure that the knot is loose so that it doesn't wrinkle on the front part. It's okay if it wrinkles on the back where the ribbons cross over one another.
 Place the knotted part of the tail ribbon over the center of your bow. Make sure that the smooth part of the knot is facing out, not the crossed part. Wrap the tail ends over to the back of your bow., Hold the tails of the ribbon behind your bow. Pinch them tightly, then wrap the excess wire around them to keep them in place.Trim off any excess wire.
 Move the loops around to your liking. Use your fingers to make them appear fuller. If the tails of the ribbon are too long, you can trim them down using a sharp pair of scissors.


Cut the ends of the ribbon into notches or angles for a nicer touch.

