 Place clams on a clean, dry towel, and shuffle through them loosely. Discard any that look abnormal or are open, in the outside trash, otherwise their stench will quickly overpower.;
, Have something like a bucket, tub, or sink in which to soak the clams. The soaking process will clean the clams prior to cooking.


Make a weak brine solution – 1/3 cup of non-iodized salt (iodine will kill clams) to one gallon (3.7 liters) of water should work.
Soak clams in the brine for about fifteen minutes, to remove all grit from inside and outside the clam. Fresh water works decently as well.
Pour the clams into a strainer, and hold under a stream of cold water. Scrub thoroughly with a metal brush.
Place clams back on the towel you had them on earlier. Rub them dry gently to remove any final grit.
 For every pound (453g) of clams, add half a cup of water. Layer the clams into the cooking container with the water (or white wine). Cover the cooking container and place over high heat.


Here, you can choose to add the aromatic ingredients listed above. They are not needed, but if you prefer more flavorful clams, add the extra ingredients, or even just some of them. Keep in mind that the amounts are for three pounds (1.3kg) of clam, so you may need to add or subtract amounts depending on how many clams you have. If you do chose to add them, this is the moment to do so.
 Allow the clams enough time to open their shells - this will be indicated by a burst of steam and popped-open shells, anywhere from 2–3 minutes to 5-10 minutes, depending on the type of clams. If some don't open in this time, discard them as they probably were already dead. Cook Stephanie Alexander even suggests giving the ones that do not open another go at steaming because sometimes the clams have a very tight and vigorous hold on the shell (be sure to remove those that have already opened as they're ready)., Remove the open clams from the kettle or other container and place them in a dish, possibly with a small amount of the broth around them. Lemon halves, or quarters, and a few sprinkles of sea salt are lovely accents to the dish.
 Bread can be added for mopping up any liquid.

