 For a basic cuff, you will need several feet of an elastic string, a selection of pony beads, and a pair of scissors. Although pony beads are classic for making a traditional kandi cuff, you can use any type of beads as long as the hole is large enough to fit your string through twice.;
, Depending on how large your wrist is and how wide you want your cuff to be, you will have to use varying amounts of string. Wrap the string around your wrist to get a general measurement, and then multiply this length 5-6 times over. Cut the string at this length; if you run out of string during the beading process, you can always cut and tie on a bit more.
 Tie a knot at the end of your string (leaving a small tail), and begin sliding on beads. Using about 25-30 beads is standard, but you'll just want enough so that the cuff will be big enough to slide on and off your wrist without being too loose.
 Pull the string and beads taut so that they are all lined up tight against the knot at the end of the string. Tie the short knotted end with the long loose end in a secure knot. Cut off the excess string from the short end, but leave the long end of the string intact.
 The second row is a bit slower-going than the first, because the process involves adding a single bead and then weaving the string through the previous row. To bead the second row, string one bead on the long end of the string, and then slide the string through the bead directly under and next to the bead you’re working with. Add another bead, and slide the string through the bead next/under it on the first row. Continue this process all the way around, until you reach your starting point.Add one bead to the string, then thread the string over the first bead and through the second bead of the first row. This is how you weave the rows together.


Because you’re skipping beads in the first row in order to weave the second row, your cuff will appear zig-zag with only two rows completed.
 Use the same process for adding the second row of beads to add the third row of beads. This time, you don’t need to tie the string off in a knot but can continue the process by adding beads to fill in the spaces. Slide a bead onto the string where there is a gap, and then attach it to the cuff by putting the string through the corresponding bead in the first row. Work your way all the way around the bracelet until you’ve created two full rows of beads, and tie off the string.
 Although you can technically have a complete cuff with only two rows of beads, many people prefer to add multiple rows in addition to the first two. Use the aforementioned method of weaving on beads to create an uneven row, and then adding another row to fill in the spaces.
 When you feel that your kandi cuff has been perfected, tie off the string and try it on for size! If at any point in the bracelet-making process you run out of string, you can cut an additional length and tie it to the ends, trimming off any excess to create a smooth transition.