 Look for oils in amber or other dark colored bottles that have been independently tested for purity. For more information on where to get essential oils in the area, ask a local aromatherapy expert in your area.;
, Great oils for the newest aromatherapists include Lavender, Rosemary, and Lemon. These oils are cheap, and they can be used in various ways. For starters, get a 4mL vial of each of these three oils; there is enough oil in the vial for you to learn aromatherapy basics. Here are some three basic ways to use these three oils; check out aromatherapy books for more uses.


Lavender is great for relaxation. Use a few drops before going to bed to help you sleep.
Rosemary is great for concentration. Use a few drops in your class or office to help you focus while you write your projects.
Lemon is great as a deodorant. Use it to freshen a musty room.
 A diffuser is used to get essential oil into the air; a passive diffuser is a diffuser that does not use external heat to get oils into the air. Passive diffusers are also good for scenting a small area; you won't have to worry about bothering your roommate or your co-worker in the neighboring cubicle with your aromatherapy. For starters, pick a ceramic diffuser; they are cheap, and effective, and they match all sorts of décor and color schemes. Most ceramic diffusers have impressions in them to hold drops of essential oils.
 Most aromatherapists store their essential oils in wooden boxes, but a covered cardboard box is good for starters. Store your oils in a cool and dry place. Learning to store your oils properly is essential to keeping your essential oils in the good condition.
 If your diffuser has depressions, add the oils there. Start with a few drops; you can always add more oils later. Let the diffuser sit in one place, and it will gradually scent the air around it.
 There are hundreds of different oils out there as well as thousands of recipes and other uses for aromatherapy. For best results, buy a good aromatherapy book. Keep learning about aromatherapy, and pretty soon you will be a knowledgeable aromatherapist.

