

Different players have different physical appearances that appeal to their style, thus the unique appearance of every player in Spiral Knights. By using the image as a reference:

A player may choose to look lavish and somewhat intimidating, utilizing their accessories at their disposal to the best of their ability.
Another player may choose to look completely simple, restraining from becoming excessive with their accessories, but still showing off stand-out attributes.
Finally, a player may choose to wear their wealth with rare accessories and show off their skills with color-coordination.;
,

A player should (but they don't have to) keep up with the times and see what other players are wearing. Specifically, a player should analyze which themes (Regal, Prismatic, Dusky etc.) are popular at the moment. This does not need to relate to the current promotion that the game is hosting, such as the Diamond Box Promotion and Slime Box Promotion—but instead it can just be what you tend to see very often while walking around Town Square.,

Wearing much more rarer pieces of "clothing" is essential to maximizing your physical appeal, so it's important to look around for rarer pieces of clothing prior to making a costume so you won't have to trash other items and feel some remorse later.

A rare item is usually denoted by its obnoxiously higher price on the Auction House. If it's really nice looking and expensive, chances are it's a rare item.
When an accessory is added to a costume, it cannot be taken off and kept unless you pay a fee. In most cases, players are forced to remove an item to replace it for another. Removals are free, but the item is destroyed. Keep this in mind before you start your purchases early.


Using this technique is an extremely smart and useful way to predict how you may look prior to buying. Previewing an accessory, costume, sword, or piece of gear costs nothing and may be the prime determiner of whether you choose to bid or buy it later in the future.

You can also use the preview action when visiting Bechamel in the Bazaar of Haven. Using this can also help with the current unused costumes, accessories and gear pieces in your arsenal.


A friend or a merchant or the auction house? This is very important and can make the difference between you getting ripped off by other players and you getting a bargain.

For starters, you should check the auction house to see the current prices on your desired item.
Otherwise, you can ask a merchant for their price on the item. Merchants are useful, but tend to have their own "exclusive" prices, which may be lower or higher.
Merchants are useful, but tend to have skills which may make it easier for them to scam you.


Similar to step 1, you could take days to find a good price, and generally this is a good thing for both you and your crown wallet. Don't be foolish and purchase too early, and realize the next day there is the same item for half price. Patience is a virtue.

Take notice of the four Hunter Gold Buckled Coats. The first has a drastically higher price than the other three.


If you are satisfied with the accessories you have chosen, click the armor or costume piece and the accessory, then proceed to click the "Accessorize" button to put them together.,

You can always change your costume, and decide to make changes to it should you see fit.

Remember to look unique! Players are more compelled to talk to you and compliment you if you are different from the others.


As simple as it sounds, your physical appeal can determined by a number of factors. Many revolving around players friend requesting you randomly, admiring your look, and complimenting you. This gives you a genuine idea of how high your physical appeal is, and how compelling you seem to be.

A simple "I like your wings" can be a nudge to someone saying they like your outfit, and your appeal is good.


Not narcissistically though. Do not yell out "Look at me!" or "Hey guys I look so great". This will not only make you sound narcissistic, but also make you sound very annoying and immature. However, don't be afraid to ask "Do you like my new look?" or "Like my wings?" in a conversation.

Basically, just be polite.


Increasing your physical appeal involves you getting around with the right crowd. You can raise your appeal by speaking with the right players, and they can give you advice on how to change your outfit or do some quirks.

This is an important point, and is remarkably true. You tend to see wealthier-looking players hanging out with other wealthier-looking players, and vice versa.
Finally, you can give advice to other players on how to look good, and in turn you can help other players with their appeal.
Be a social butterfly and raise your appeal!

