 Get comfortable with your breasts and be aware of what their "normal" state is. "Normal" is unique for each woman, but get to know how your breasts generally look and feel. Establish a familiarity with them and their texture, contours, size, etc. You’ll be better able to recognize any changes and then communicate those changes to your physician. In addition, becoming more aware can help you feel empowered as you take an active role in your own health and well-being.Increasing breast awareness is one of the best things you can do for yourself if you are concerned about breast cancer. By becoming aware of what is normal for you, you'll be better able to assess when something is abnormal.Note that even things like breast asymmetry, where one breast is a slightly different size or in a slightly different position, are generally completely normal.You generally should only have cause for concern if things change from the way they usually are (for example, one breast grows significantly larger, etc.).
If you have a spouse or partner, make him or her part of the process of checking your breasts and becoming more aware of your breast tissue. This is especially important because your partner sees and touches your body from a different angle and may be able to see things that you cannot. Ask your partner to communicate any changes s/he may notice or feel.;
, In the past, a monthly breast self-examination (BSE) was recommended for all women. However, in 2009 the US Preventative Services Task Force recommended against teaching women to do consistent and formal self-examinations after several large research studies concluded that BSE didn't reduce mortality or increase the number of cancers found.Subsequent studies have confirmed that BSE is of no importance in detecting malignant lesions in the breasts.At present, the American Cancer Society and the US Preventative Services Task Force recommend that BSE should be done at your own discretion. These organizations also emphasize that the real key is to be aware of what is normal for your own breast tissue.
Part of the pushback against BSE is because it can lead to unnecessary testing (such as a biopsy), which can cause harm to the patient as well as a financial burden on the healthcare system. The problem is that BSE may draw attention to benign lesions, whereas mammograms can identify those malignant lesions that are real cause for concern and medical treatment.Be aware as well that a BSE should never be done in lieu of a physician's clinical examination or mammogram. At best, doing a BSE can help you become more aware of what is normal in your breasts and can help you assist your doctor in detecting changes., There are a number of signs that you should be aware of when visually or manually checking your breasts for cancer, including the following:



Changes in breast size or shape - Swelling from a tumor or infection can change the shape and size of the breast tissue. This often occurs only on one breast but in some cases can occur on both.Your breasts may also change size during certain times in your menstrual cycle, so having an idea of what is "normal" for you at any particular time of the month is helpful.

Discharge from the nipple - If you're not breastfeeding, there should be no discharge coming from the nipple. If there is discharge, especially without squeezing the nipple or breast tissue, talk to your physician.Swelling - There are aggressive and invasive types of breast cancer that may cause swelling in breast, collarbone or armpit. In some cases, the swelling occurs before you can feel a lump.Dimpling - Tumors or growths in the breast near the surface of the skin or nipple can cause a change in shape and look of the tissue, including dimpling or puckering of the skin (like the skin of an orange, also known as peau d'orange). Look as well for a newly inverted nipple, which is also a sign of a problem.(Some women have naturally inverted nipples, which are not a cause for concern; a change from your normal state is.)

Redness, warmth or itching - Inflammatory breast cancer is a rare but aggressive type of cancer that presents with symptoms similar to an infection in the breast: a warming sensation, itching or redness., You can do this whenever you like, although it's a good idea to do it after your period, when your breasts are less tender and swollen. Try to do it every month at around the same time. You can even mark down when you do the exam each month in your planner or journal to keep track of it.In front of a mirror, sit or stand without a shirt or bra on. Lift and lower your arms. Look for any changes to the size, shape, tenderness, and appearance of your breast tissue, using the above signs as your guide.
Then place your palms on your hips and flex your chest muscles. Look for any dimples, puckers or other abnormalities.
 Devote a set time each month to do a manual BSE. If you are still menstruating, the best time to do this is a few days after your period when your breasts are the least tender.You can do the examination lying down; in this position, the breast tissue is more spread out and thus thinner and easier to feel.Another alternative is in the shower, where the soap and water can help your fingers move more smoothly over your breast skin. You can also do both methods, in order to maximize the examination.Follow these steps:


Lie flat and place your right hand behind your head. Using the first three fingers of your left hand, palpate (feel) the breast tissue on your right breast. Be sure to use the pads of the fingers, not just the very tips. Feel for anything that feels hard and round.Start at your armpit area and work your way towards the center of each breast. Move across to the middle of your body until you only feel the sternum (breastbone).Use three different levels of pressure to feel the tissue: light pressure at the top for tissue just under the skin, medium pressure to check tissue in the middle of the breast, and deeper pressure to feel the tissue closest to the chest wall.Make sure to apply each pressure level to each area before moving on.Once you've done one breast, do the other. Put your left hand under your head and perform the same exam on your left breast.
Squeeze each nipple gently to check for discharge.Remember that your breast tissue extends to the area near your armpit. This area can also develop lumps or cancer, so it's important to check there as there during your manual BSE.