 This will help conceal any gaps that might show up in the end. The best type of paint to use would be acrylic paint. Spray paint will be quicker, but some types of spray paint can dissolve Styrofoam.


Choose a tube-shaped Styrofoam ring, as opposed to one that is flat on the back. It will be easier to wrap the tulle around it.
8 inches (20.32 centimeters) may seem small, but the tulle will make the wreath appear bigger in the end., You will need 1 to 2 spools, depending on how full you want your wreath to be. The more tulle you use, the fuller it will be.


To make the cutting quicker: wrap the tulle around a 14-inch (35.56-centimeter) long piece of cardboard, then snip through each end to create lots of 14-inch (35.56-centimeter) long strips., Wrap the tulle around the wreath form, then tie it in a double-knot. Position the tulle so that the knot and "fluffy" ends are on the outside of the ring.


For a fuller, fluffier pumpkin, use two pieces of tulle for each tie., Push the pieces of tulle together as you tie them. This will give you a denser, fuller wreath., To create a simple stem, just cut a brown rectangle. To create a fancier stem, consider giving it bit of a curve, and making it taper outward towards one end.Look at pictures of real pumpkin stems to get ideas.
 Before the glue sets, pull apart some of the tulle wisps to either side of the stem. This will make it more visible.
 If you don't want to buy a whole spool of green tulle, you can use some green, mesh ribbon instead.


For fluffier leaves, use two pieces of tulle instead.
Cut the ends into V-shaped notches to give them some more texture.
 Before the glue sets, spread the green tulle outwards so that it sticks out to either side of the stem., The ribbon needs to be long enough to fit over the top of your stem; this way, you can hang your wreath without the stem getting in the way. You can use plain, green ribbon, or something fancier, such as pompom trim., You can hang this wreath from a nail or from a wreath hanger. Be careful not to get it wet, or the orange paint will run, and ruin your door or wall.

