 If you wanted an article on dieting, you would've pulled up an article on dieting. But the fact of the matter is that everything is intrinsically connected. If you eat healthily, you'll feel healthier. When you feel healthier, guess what? You'll feel more like working out.


In addition to eating healthily, eat breakfast! Not only will it energize you for the entire day, but it'll help you maintain a healthy weight and stay strong.Oh, and chug the water, too!

, Spending money and having nothing to show for it is a pretty crappy feeling. So when you spend triple digits on shoes, pants, and other gear, you gotta use it. So go out and buy a new workout outfit! Part of you will be chomping at the bit to go slink it around the gym.


However, this won't work if you leave it in a bag in your car or bury it at the back of your closet. When you buy that outfit, leave it out. Place it on your dresser, on your bed -- heck, on the kitchen counter -- to torment you until you wear it. Once again, the whole "out of sight, out of mind" thing is what you're working on here. Constant reminders will keep you on the right track!

, For instance, make an effort to go to the gym each time you would instead of watching a TV show you don't really like after one you do like. You'll feel motivated to exercise each time the old, deprecated activity comes up in your mind, and not short on time due to the new exercise habit.


How often do we get lazy and do things that we're not particularly engaged in? All. The. Time. Everyone does. So next time you find yourself channel surfing, take it as a cue. You don't have to go to the gym, but get up and go for a walk. Clean the dishes. Organize the garage. Just do something else. You'll feel better (and more productive) after!

, If you want to go to the gym, but just don't feel like it, just drive yourself to gym. Tell yourself that if you still don't feel like working out, you'll go home. Odds are, though, once you're there, you won't feel like driving home. Then tell yourself you'll just walk on the treadmill for 10 minutes, even if your exercise routine involves much more. Just telling yourself to do one more thing, without having to commit to anything else, will make things much easier. And before long, your endorphins will take over.


If your form of exercise involves going outside, a good first step is to get dressed and just sit outside. A good next step is to walk. You'll find that once you're dressed to go and walking, exercise doesn't seem like such a big stretch.
 Even though we're our own worst critics, we also are our own worst enablers. We'll set our minds to one thing on Monday and by Tuesday morning we're onto something else. That's why we've gotta have others holding us accountable, too. Tell your family, friends, and coworkers of your plan -- knowing the questions are coming will surely be motivation to get on it!



Keep a journal. So you've told everyone and their brother about your workout plan -- wonderful! Now it's time to record your progress. You'll want concrete numbers (and you'll want to remember them) to report to yourself and to the world around you. This journal could be on paper, on your computer, or even a blog on the Internet the world can chime in on.
 Though you might think you'd turn green with envy, you'd be surprised -- reading up on the topic at hand may be just the motivation you need. It keeps your mind on working out and shows you just how doable it is. What's more, you'll learn from what you read, resulting in you being more knowledgeable and resourceful.


Reading others' success stories, apart from being heartwarming, will make you think, "Well, heck, if she can do it, so can I." And that's exactly how it works -- you see these normal people (just like the rest of us) who took on these marvelous feats and came out ahead. You're next!

, In today's world, you feel naked when you disconnect from technology. How often are you more than 10 feet (3.0 m) away from your phone? Maybe when you shower, maybe? So turn it off. Turn it all off. What's there left to do? Go for a workout.


That includes the TV, your phone, the computer, the whole gamut of technology. When the time rolls around to work out and you're not feeling it, disconnect. Don't let yourself use these things. You may find that you're bored enough to go for that run!

, The world is full of people that want you to fail. These people are insecure, unhappy, and just plain mean. Avoid them. You know who they are. They'll make this process so much harder to accomplish. They're not worth it.


Working out is such a common thing nowadays. If it's not working out, it's dieting. Nobody is happy with what they look like or their health levels it seems. Use this to your advantage! Do you have a group of coworkers, friends, or family members that are going through the same thing? Suggest you team up! You all can put yours heads together to support each other. After all, there's strength in numbers.
 A 2007 study showed that the more you pay people to lose weight, the more pounds they drop over a three-month period.Doesn't exactly sound like rocket science, huh? If there's someone who keeps nagging you to lose weight, ask that person about paying you for every pound you lose! Odds are they'll pay up or shut up.


If your employer is self-insured, he or she might consider enlisting the services of a company that develops reward programs to encourage employees to lose weight.