 Choose a bra that fits both your body and your personal taste. A bra with wider straps will work better because you'll be sewing part of a bra extender to the straps.
 The list of materials includes fabric scissors, needle and thread (the same color as your bra), and a bra extender (preferably the same color as your bra).


The bra extender will need to have at least 2 hooks. Most bra extenders have hooks that are similar to regular back clasping bras. They can be found at your local retail store and usually come in 3 colors: black, white, and nude.
 Using scissors, cut off the hook end of the extender. You'll want to cut at about the first seam so that you form a pocket to tuck the bra strap into later.Use fabric scissors that are strong enough to cut through the thick material.


Be sure to cut on a flat surface to ensure you are able to cut straight across the seam.
 Connect the hooks you just cut with the corresponding eyes. Cut down the middle of the eyes, creating two long rows of one hook and multiple eyes.These cuts do not have to be as accurate.
 Using fabric scissors, cut at the top where the strap meets the cup. There is no need to measure, but pull the material taut to ensure an easier cut.
 Fit the pocket part of the hook over the cut strap. Make sure the hook faces inward towards your body, and that the hook faces downward (like an upside down "J").Sew into place using a stitch that suits your abilities. A zig-zag stitch on a sewing machine works best but a running stitch will also do the job.






For a running stitch, weave the needle and thread in and out of the fabric, creating a "dashed" effect. The dashes should be about 1/8th of an inch in length.






This stitch is good for very small spaces such as this project.






Make sure it is attached in a straight and secure manner to avoid discomfort later.Repeat on the other strap.
 Position it so that the lowermost metal eye aligns with the bottom of the strap without extending past it. Make sure you are sewing the eye piece to the front of the bra, and that the eyes are facing downward.


Use the zig-zag setting on your sewing machine or a running stitch if you're hand stitching.






Repeat on the other strap.
 Put on your bra to ensure a proper fit and to ensure the hooks and eyes connect properly. Your bra should not be too tight, should not pinch your skin, and the straps should not fall down on their own. You should be able to unsnap one side and pull down the cup to expose one breast at a time.

