 You might hate to see your child struggling, but slip-ups are part of the learning process. Let your adult child make their own mistakes and then figure out how to fix them. This will improve their resilience and give them a sense of agency.This does not mean that you cannot be there to offer advice and help. It just means that they will have to do the work themselves and that you will not solve your adult child’s problems for them.
 Talk with your child about saving money, living frugally, and avoiding debt. Start doing this as early as possible. It is best to begin talking to your child about these things when they are still young. However, if you did not do this with your adult child, then you can do things to help them now. Help them come up with a weekly or monthly budget so they’ll be prepared to manage their money when they move out.Charging your child a reasonable amount of rent is a good way to prepare them for paying bills later.
 Offer to look over your child’s resume, do mock interviews with them, or help them pick out professional clothes. If you know people who might be able to help with networking, give your child their names and phone numbers.Avoid doing any of the actual work of job hunting. For instance, don’t call your professional contacts yourself – let your child do it.
 If your adult child is working hard to become less dependent on you, cheer them on. Poor self-esteem often contributes to low achievement in young adults, but genuine support and encouragement can help give your child the confidence they need to make it on their own.You might say something like, “I’m so proud of you for getting this big job interview. Even if you don’t get the job, it’s still a great start!”

, Failure to launch syndrome is often caused by underlying problems like mental illness or substance abuse. If you think your child may be struggling with depression, addiction, or a similar issue, help them set up an appointment with a therapist.Seeking help for your child may even be a requirement if they are living with you.

