 Throw-ins are rarely great offensive opportunities, and this is by design

, The easier you can make it for your teammate to trap the ball and start moving, the better for everyone. Try to land the ball near their feet so that they can treat it just like a pass. Note, however, that there are times when your aim needs to change up a bit:


If you communicate well, a throw to your teammates head, allowing them to flick it on, is a great way to get two quick passes in and scramble the defense.
If there is a lot of traffic, and you're worried about getting picked off, aim for the chest. Your teammate can use their body to trap and shield the ball, and it is a much bigger target to hit., Don't just float the ball in. This gives the defense plenty of time to react and pressure the ball, which generally means your teammate is under attack before the ball even gets there. Put a little "oomph" on your throws, really dialing them in like passes. While you don't want to chuck it at a teammate, you don't want to lob it in, either.


If you're flexible and comfortable with a front handspring, try out a powerful flip throw., Deciding where to deliver the ball is the most important step. You may have set plays for this or you may just need to find an open player. Once you've made your decision, you'll need to execute quickly so that your opponent can't detect where you're going to throw. It is always best to hit a teammate on the run instead of standing still. Movement makes the defense react -- standing still makes their lives easy.
 Get a short running start--just 2-4 steps--to help you gain the needed momentum to power the ball to its target. Plant whatever foot is comfortable behind the line as you start your throw. Your back foot, which still has momentum, drags on the ground behind you to ensure you still keep both feet down.


Your strong leg should be forward which is the opposite of how it would be if you were throwing a baseball.
In general, anything longer than 2-3 steps doesn't add much more power to the throw.
 If you've got no options, your team isn't moving, and the referee is telling you to "hurry it up," chuck it down the line towards your opponents goal. This leaves the defense few simple options to handle the ball, and the most likely result will be another throw in further down the field.


Tell your teammates, if possible, to sprint down the line as you're throwing. If you can pressure the defense quickly off the ball you have a better chance of forcing an error.
 Never throw the ball straight ahead, unless there are no defenders or pressure (like deep in your own defensive half). Think about it -- a throw-in is a high, slow, and predictable pass, one that is easily read and picked off. Furthermore, your teammate will receive the ball facing the worst possible direction -- the sideline. The chances of an error or, even worst, getting picked off, are compounded by the fact that the defense running after the ball is heading right towards your goal.