 This task is doable but difficult. If you're shaving your own back without any help, you may have a hard time reaching the entire area. This might lead you to shave at strange angles, which can heighten the risk of slicing the skin. You may not have full visibility of the region that you're shaving, and you may not be able to tell easily when you've missed a spot. Consider finding someone else to do it: probably a partner or a paid professional.


Use the safest razor possible. Choose a razor with a lot of blades, and ideally a razor with built-in safety features. A quality electric razor may be better for your back than a cheap manual razor.
Keep a towel on hand in case you cut yourself. If you slice your back while shaving, it probably won't bleed too profusely – but it will be painful. Use the towel to blot the blood in the case of a mishap.;
, Give yourself plenty of time to get the job done right. Choose a space that is private, well-lit, and easy to clean up. A bathroom is ideal: a bright space with a mirror, running water, and a tile floor. Make sure that you have plenty of water and shaving cream to make the shaving process easier on your back.


Use a shaving cream or shower gel that contains exfoliating ingredients. This may help keep you free of ingrown hairs and razor burn.
If you rush yourself, you might be more likely to make a mistake. Not only can slipping up be painful and embarrassing – but it can open you up to the risk of infection.
 If you are going to shave your own back, you need to make sure that you can see the entire area that you're working on. Use a large, clean mirror, and try to angle it so that you have a clear view of the back. If possible, use two mirrors. Consider using a hand-held mirror to focus on specific sections at at time.


Not only will a mirror make the process of shaving much safer, but it will help you know when you've finished. You may need to hold the mirror very still and very close to your back to tell whether you've "missed a spot."

, There are products that are specifically designed to help you shave your back. These extra-long handles will hold your razor and dramatically increase your reach. Research products before you buy. Decide whether this is something that you will realistically use again and again.
 Take your time, and use plenty of shaving cream. Shave with long, unbroken strokes across your back, and don't be afraid to take multiple passes at the same spot. Go against the "grain" or growth of your hair. Overlap your strokes to make sure that you get everything. Be patient.As you go, continue to apply liberal amounts of shaving cream and water. Depending on your hair coverage, you might need a lot.
Take special care when shaving around your spine and shoulder blades. Ridged areas provide an uneven surface, which might make your razor more likely to jump.
 When you're done shaving, take a shower to wash the wet hairs and shaving cream off of your back. Dry your back gently with a clean towel, being ginger and gentle with any spots that you've nicked. Consider rubbing lotion into your skin – your back may feel raw and slightly painful from the shave, and your back skin may not be used to the stress.

