 A good partner, in and outside the bedroom, is willing to listen and respect a verbal or nonverbal "no." If your relationship is based upon mutual respect, then navigating consent can be a straightforward task.


Consent can only happen when there is equal power.;
, Before moving forward with any sexual advances, make sure you have a willing, verbal, and enthusiastic statement of consent.Ask "Do you want to _____?" before getting too involved.
Check if they seem uncertain. Say something like "Are you still into this? It's okay if you aren't. We can just cuddle or do something else instead."If your partner really wants sex, then they'll insist that they're up for it.
If it's unclear, don't proceed. An enthusiastic yes means yes, and anything else means no., A consenting partner takes an active role in sexual acts. They respond well to your actions, and initiate or reciprocate sexual acts.They touch you when you touch them
They encourage you to keep doing something

, Consent is not a one-time permission, it is part of the process and can be modified or withdrawn at any time. Before you try something new, ask about it. This allows your partner to say yes or no, and you can use a seductive look and tone of voice to make it very hot."How's this?"
"Do you like it like this?"
"Does this feel good?"
"Would you like it if I _____?"
"Are you into this?"

, If someone asks you to stop doing something, stop it right away. Don't try to negotiate or convince them to let you keep going. This can fall under pressuring or coercion, especially if power dynamics are in play. It's okay to ask them what's wrong or why something upsets them, but it is not okay to try to convince them to do something they don't want to do.


If your partner says no, say "okay" and stop.Then ask them what they're interested in doing.
 If someone's body language indicates that it isn't going well, then stop what you're doing and ask if they're okay.Find out what's wrong and apologize if you hurt them.


Stiffening up
Trying to change the subject
Crying
Pushing you away
Not looking at you
Unresponsive, silent, or passive, Unclear situations aren't necessarily consensual, so ask, and only act if you get a clear answer. It's time to stop if you can't get a straight answer, or if your partner expresses disinterest. Don't proceed if your partner says:"Maybe."
"Not now."
"Wait."
"I'm not sure if I'm ready."
"Maybe later."
"I don't know."
"It's late. I'm really tired."
"I'll think about it."

