 As you age, exercise becomes a very important aspect of managing diabetes. Exercise helps increase the intake of glucose by your cells. However, it is common for adults to become more sedentary as they age, so you must make sure to maintain a healthy and active lifestyle in order to best manage your diabetes.


You are encouraged to check your blood sugar before starting exercise and after you have finished.
This will help you figure out the amount of insulin you need to inject.
In cases where you are exercising for more than 45 minutes, it is encouraged that you check your blood sugar while exercising.
 You are encouraged to carry a diabetic snack when you exercise, because this will help avoid fainting when your blood sugar is low.


Good snacks to carry include 3-6 small candies, glucose tablets, honey, a packet of sugar, and a cup of fruit juice.
This will help you maintain a good balance of blood sugar in the blood, between 4.4 mmols and 6.1 mmols.
 As you get older, talk to your doctor about what exercises are best for you. As a young person, you may be involved in higher intensity exercise that should be reduce as you age.


The US Department of Health recommend 2.5 hours per week of moderate intensity exercise for patients 18 to 64 years old, equivalent to 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity.
However, patients above 65 years old should engage in lighter physical activities to limit chronic ailments and likewise avoid the risk of a fall.
Especially if your blood sugar drops too much or rises too much during or after exercise, contact your doctor.
Any exercise program should be started slowly and increased gradually.
Exercise helps to reduce your blood sugar and manage weight.
Start with walking for 30-45 minutes per day.You can also swim for half an hour per day.
 Children should have a guardian nearby who is aware of what should be done in cases where the sugar level is reduced.
 You can settle into an exercise routine by exercising at the same time, for the same period, and the same level of exercise every day.


If you are helping a child deal with diabetes, try to instate this type of exercise plan early.
This will help the child learn how to control their blood sugar level as they grow up.
 If you have type I diabetes, you are at an increased risk of stroke. For this reason, you are encouraged to keep your weight under control by maintaining an optimum BMI.


BMI is a measure of your relative weight, based on the mass and height of the patient.
BMI is measured by weight divided by height.
The ideal BMI is 18.5-25. Therefore, a BMI of less than 18.5 means that the patient is underweight and BMI of above 25 means that the patient is obese.

