 The symptoms of sarcoidosis can flare-up when you are stressed out, and meditation can be a useful way to combat increased stress.


Meditation and relaxing techniques can be used to overcome the challenges brought on by day-day life.
Perfecting the art of meditation takes some time, but all you need is time alone and a calm space free of distractions.
Close your eyes, focus on your breathing, and take time for yourself. This helps to free the mind of unwanted stress and worries.
 Yoga can be an effective pulmonary sarcoidosis remedy, because it helps clean out the lungs and respiratory system.


Pranayama is a form of yoga that may help treat a number of respiratory conditions, because it is focused on promoting respiratory health and clearing the lungs and respiratory passages.
Remain calm throughout your yoga exercises, as holistic approaches may take some time to improve your condition.A few Pranayama exercises are highlighted below.
 Find a comfortable seated position to begin the exercise.


Inhale rapidly and forcefully.
Then exhale rapidly making a sound like ‘hmph’, with the same kind of force as a large sneeze.
Do at least 4 vigorous breaths, making a bellows sound.
After the last one, release your breath slowly and begin some relaxing breaths.
Move back into the bellows breath and repeat the whole process.
These breathing exercises have a calming effect.
Alternatively, try anuloma viloma, another breathing exercise that involves inhaling through both nostrils together and exhaling alternately between the left and right nostrils.
The thumb of the right hand is used to manipulate the right nostril, while the pinky and ring finger are used to control the left nostril., Stand with the base of your big toes touching, heels slightly apart (so that your second toes are parallel). Lift and spread your toes and the balls of your feet, then lay them softly down on the floor.


Rock back and forth and side to side. Gradually reduce this swaying to a standstill, with your weight balanced evenly on the feet.
Tighten your thigh muscles and lift your knee caps, without hardening your lower belly. Lift your inner ankles to strengthen the inner arches, then imagine a line of energy running all the way up along your inner thighs to your groins, and from there through the core of your torso, neck, and head, and out through the crown of your head.
Turn your upper thighs slightly inward. Lengthen your tailbone toward the floor and lift your pubis toward your navel.
Stretch your ribcage. Press your shoulder blades into your back, then widen them across and release them down your back.
Without pushing your lower front ribs forward, lift the top of your sternum straight toward the ceiling. Widen your collarbone and hang your arms beside your torso.
Balance the crown of your head directly over the center of your pelvis, with the underside of your chin parallel to the floor, throat soft, and tongue wide and flat on the floor of your mouth. Soften your eyes.
Tadasana is usually the starting position for all the standing poses. But it's useful to practice Tadasana as a pose in itself.
Stay in the pose for 30 seconds to 1 minute, breathing easily.