 Aim for 2-6 guests so there are enough people to have fun with but not too many so it gets out of hand. Plus, you need enough room to sleep and less people to please. Remember, don't be disappointed if someone can't make it. Have a backup list planned in case you end up with hardly any guests. Some people may be able to stay for a while but not for the night.;
, Be sure to give your guests plenty of time to reply, you don't want to spring on them with only two days to reply.
 If your bedroom is quite large, it would be great, but a living room is a popular venue for your sleeping area. Decorations are a great idea but not compulsory- if there is a theme to your party, think about what sorts of decorations you want. If you are looking at themes, you should get decorations early so that you can plan it out.
 Make sure there is enough room for everyone to space out, and have enough blankets and pillows for everyone. If it is Summer time, you could perhaps camp in the back yard! If your guests have long legs, put them on the end so there's less chance of them kicking you accidentally!!! Also, If you are very crowded, you can just ask them to bring a sleeping bag of their own.
 Even if you're interested in the programme, it can make you drowsy and it's good to help you drop off to sleep eventually.
 Also it's a good idea to have some fresh water.
, Be sure they know where they're sleeping, where the bathroom is and where your parents are sleeping.
 If you want, telling scary stories adds a spooky atmosphere, but if anyone starts to get really scared snap on the lights and play a fun game to cheer them up.
 You should be thinking about sleeping at 2:00 am at the latest. After all, although it's a fun sleepover, you don't want to be awake ALL night!

, you could order pizza and eat popcorn! They are both popular for sleepovers.
 It really hurts!

, Your guests might be tired and won't want to be disturbed after going to sleep too late. Don't make fun of anyone who goes to sleep early.Discuss with your parents what time they can expect you to settle down, if they are checking upon you every so often.
 They won't mind when they see the time- they'll most likely laugh!

, Even better, the park is a fun place to hang out. Don't go straight away, you might still be dopey with sleep and hurt yourselves.
 Greet their parents politely and perhaps ask them in for a cup of tea.
 Wave them off good-naturedly - it gives a good last impression before they leave.
 It was your sleepover, so why should your parents have to clean up? Take all the bowls and plates and cups to the kitchen and wash them up/put them in the dishwasher. Put all the bedding in the wash basket and deflate the airbeds and put those away. Lean the mattresses against the walls so they are out of the way for anyone that wants to use the living room next. If you clean up, your parents will be more likely to let you have sleepovers more often!

