 You should eat three meals per day — one when you wake, another towards the middle of the day, and another in the mid-to-late evening. Missing a meal or consuming fewer carbs than your body requires could cause your blood sugar to crash.If you miss a meal or cannot eat a meal, grab a snack like popcorn, trail mix, or a banana.
 Exercise takes a lot of energy, and your blood sugar typically declines after an intense workout. Consume a source of carbs within three hours of your workout, but not within the hour prior to your planned workout. After you’re done working out, have a source of protein and carbs (a protein smoothie, for instance) within 20 minutes to prevent low blood sugar., If you have diabetes, check your blood sugar regularly, as directed by your doctor. You can do this using a blood sugar monitoring device. If you do not have a blood sugar monitoring device, consult your doctor for a recommendation regarding the most reliable such device available.Follow manufacturer directions to use the blood sugar monitoring device.
 When you notice signs of low blood sugar, it is important to address it as quickly as possible. You should consume about 15 grams of glucose or simple carbohydrates. Wait 15 minutes, then check your blood sugar again. If you are still hypoglycemic, eat another 15 grams. If your next meal is more than an hour or two away, eat a small snack once your blood sugar has returned to normal. Try the following sources of simple carbohydrates:4 ounces of juice or soda (not diet)
1 tablespoon sugar, honey, or corn syrup
8 ounces of nonfat or 1% milk
Glucose tablets or gel (follow package instructions).
 If your family and friends know you have diabetes, they will be able to help you spot low blood sugar warning signs. By catching your low blood sugar levels early, you could avoid more serious complications associated with low blood sugar.Wear a medical ID bracelet that identifies your condition and carry a medical ID card as well. If you are in an emergency situation and unable to communicate (such as if you fall unconscious), this information can help the emergency medical staff determine treatment.