 Neighborhood Watches are often very successful in eliminating drug dealers from your neighborhood.They can help reduce criminal activity by creating an environment without opportunities for things like drug deals. However, it’s important to work with the police so that Watch members are properly trained and informed.Post signs and publicize the presence of your Neighborhood Watch. Knowing that the area is under observation will often persuade dealers to move out of your neighborhood to an area that is less patrolled.
Never attempt to apprehend a drug dealer yourself. This only creates a situation where people could be seriously harmed or even killed.
 Block clubs have historically had a significant impact on getting rid of neighborhood drug dealers.Get together with neighbors and arrange for “positive loitering,” where members of the club do things like sweep the streets, pick up litter, and do other activities near where drugs are sold. The constant presence of people may dissuade drug dealers that operate in public places.
Go to community meetings together. Many communities have safety training meetings, police meetings, and other events and activities where you can learn more about how to keep your neighborhood safe.
 If your neighborhood is rough, it may be safer to avoid having Neighborhood Watch or block club meetings in that area. Instead, look for a public location such as a church or community center, or even a small local business. Even meeting a few blocks away can provide more safety for your members.Definitely avoid having meetings at any one individual's house, as this could provide dealers with a target for revenge.
 Areas such as vacant lots are prime territory for drug dealers. Contact your local officials to see if lots can be turned into parks or playgrounds. Your community may even be able to pitch in to beautify an area.Eliminating potential dealing spots will help drive dealers out of your neighborhood.
 If the property where you believe drug dealing is occurring is a rental, contacting the person in charge of the property may help them take action.


If you don’t know who is in charge of the property, your local tax office can usually provide you with information about the owner, landlord, or property manager.
 Things such as broken streetlights, abandoned cars, and degraded fences can provide opportunities for drug dealers to thrive. Taking actions such as getting street lights repaired and abandoned vehicles towed are small fixes, but they can have a big effect., Many local law enforcement agencies work together with the community in specific programs, such as CrimeStoppers and "drug dealer eviction" programs, to help eliminate drug activity. Ask about how to work with these established programs to ensure everyone's safety.

