 Because you will be sanding the coffee table and creating a lot of dust, it is best to work outdoors or in a garage. If this is not an option, choose a room that is well-ventilated and will not be needed for use during the refinishing project. Lay down a plastic drop cloth to cover the floor of the room and collect the sanding dust. Make sure the room is not really in use by anyone else during this time period.;
, Your coffee table may be covered in paint, a clear sealer, or a stain and a clear sealer. Any type of finish can be sanded away to expose the raw wood underneath. If you hope to re-stain the wood or use a clear finish, you'll need to sand the finish away completely. If you want to paint the coffee table instead, you can leave some splotches of the previous stain.


For the fastest results on the coffee table's surface, use an electric sander. Fitting the sander with coarse-grit sandpaper will help you cut through existing layers of paint or varnish quickly.
For sanding along legs, molding, or other intricate or tough-to-reach places, use a sanding sponge. For very hard-to-reach areas, you can wrap a piece of sandpaper around your finger.
 When you are finished sanding, use a vacuum with a hose attachment to remove as much sanding dust as possible from the coffee table. To ensure the removal of all sanding dust, moisten a rag with some mineral spirits and rub it across the coffee table.
 If there are scratches in the wood that were too deep to be removed through the sanding, you should fill them in before refinishing the coffee table. Small scratches can be filled in by rubbing them with the meat of a walnut or pecan. Larger scratches can be filled in with wood putty.
 Wood stains are available in a wide range of shades for darkening your furniture. Apply the stain according to the manufacturer's directions; an inexpensive foam brush is usually adequate for the task. Make sure that you wipe away all excess stain after allowing it to penetrate the wood. Allowing stain to dry into the wood will create an uneven appearance.
 Whether or not you stained the coffee table, you'll need to apply a coat of clear sealer to improve its appearance and protect the wood. The best option for achieving the durability needed in a coffee table is polyurethane, which can be applied using inexpensive foam brushes.
