 This can be done relatively easily with an online keyword search for “secondhand stores/shops near me.” The garment selection can be radically different from shop to shop, so note a few conveniently located shops. This way, if one doesn’t have what your children need, you can head to another.


Some common secondhand shops include Goodwill, Salvation Army, St. Vincent de Paul, Oxfam, Anglicare Shops, and so on.
Secondhand shops located in upscale or higher income neighborhoods usually have higher prices. Stores located in small towns and less upscale neighborhoods tend to have the best prices.;
, Some stores may have a better supply of one kind of item (like winter gear, footwear, and so on) than others. Noticing these patterns will help you find what you’re looking for.It’s best to visit these stores early in the day. As the day wears on, stock will dwindle, with desirable items being snatched up by other thrift shoppers.
If you’re looking for a specific item, you may want to visit local thrift stores first thing daily or every few days. This way you have a better chance of finding that item., Many thrift stores try to encourage quick turnover with stock by offering daily sales. For example, graphic tees might be half off on Tuesdays, dress clothes on Thursdays, and so on. Many stores use a sticker system, where all items with a certain colored sticker are discounted.


Once you find out which day a desirable special is, try to make it to the shop first thing in the morning. Other shoppers will likely also be trying to save money by buying items on that sale day.
 In many cases, right after the passing of a season you can find great deals on items for that passed season. For example, in early spring, you’ll likely find winter gear, like boots, gloves, jackets, and so on, significantly discounted.Younger kids can grow quite a bit in a year. It'll be impossible to predict their size perfectly, but you can always estimate it off of older siblings, or you can look up the average sizes for that age range online.
Seasonal sales are often planned well in advance. You may want to ask a store employee if their shop has any seasonal sales so you can make time in your schedule for them.
Many people try to clear out the clutter in their home during spring cleaning or after gift giving holidays. These can be great thrifting opportunities., Some secondhand stores may not have changing rooms or they may have policies against children trying on clothes. Most, however, will have facilities for trying on clothes.


Sizes can be considerably different between brands. For this reason, it’s important to try on clothes before purchasing them.
If the store you’re at doesn’t allow clothes to be tried on, hold up the garment to your child or have them try it on over what they're wearing. While not a perfect sizing technique, this will often give you a rough idea of the fit.
 Yard sales and flea markets are excellent places to find inexpensive clothing. Where yard sales are concerned, keep your eyes out in the warm months, especially in spring, for road signs indicating local community yard sales.You can often find advertisements for flea market hours and larger yard/rummage sales (like those that are hosted by non-profit organizations, like churches) in the classified section of your local paper, or even advertised online.
 After you’ve selected your items, gather them together and pay for them at the register. When you arrive home, be sure to wash your child's clothes before wearing them. After all, you never know who tried on the clothing before your child.


Check for care instructions on the garment before purchasing it. If an article of clothing does not have this, you may wash it incorrectly and cause damage to it or ruin it.
If you’ve bought an item without care instructions, hand wash it in a clean bucket or sink using cold water and a little detergent.In most cases, you can also wash it separately on the cold setting in washing machine.

