 Rhinoplasties are fairly common medical procedures in the United States and you are likely to find a number of qualified surgeons in your area that can conduct the surgery.Meet with the surgeon to discuss your medical history and whether or not you are a good candidate to undergo the rhinoplasty procedure.
You may have a medical reason to pursue surgery, such as obstruction of the nasal passages.
Signs of obstruction include a feeling of fullness, stuffiness, congestion, or complete blockage. Straightening your nose may correct impaired breathing and structural deficits of the nose, and may even improve your sleep.
Septoplasty is the definitive treatment for those with deviated nasal septum.
 Before you can undergo the procedure, your doctor will conduct a complete physical examination to ensure that you are healthy enough to undergo surgery and that the procedure will actually benefit you.The doctor will likely run a series of blood tests to ensure you are healthy enough for the procedure.
The doctor will look at the thickness of your skin and the strength of the cartilage in your nose in order to determine what affect they may have on your results.
 As is the case with any surgery, rhinoplasty procedures are not without risk. You should be well aware of what could possibly happen and make sure you understand the likelihood of such complications. Ask your doctor to discuss the following possibilities with you:Recurring nosebleeds
Difficulty breathing through your nose
Pain, discoloration or numbness in your nose

, Before agreeing to a surgical procedure, ensure you and your doctor are on the same page regarding what the procedure entails and what you can expect as a result. Your doctor may inform you of limitations in the procedure or other elements that may play a role in the appearance of your nose.In some situations, the doctor may bring up the possibility of making a change to your chin as well, as smaller chins can draw attention to the nose.
It is important that you are open with your surgeon in order to make sure you aren’t disappointed by the results.
 Your surgeon may choose to use local anesthesia with sedation to conduct the surgery or he or she may choose to use general sedation to put you under throughout the procedure. You should discuss the benefits and risks of each with your surgeon in order to choose what is best for you.Local anesthesia and sedation usually involves numbing just the area around your nose and sedating you using a medication provided through an IV.
General anesthesia is generally received via a mask that you breath gas through until you are unconscious. General anesthesia requires a breathing tube to be inserted into your lungs through your mouth.
 You will wake up in a recovery room after the surgery and will need to lie with your head elevated for some time. You may experience congestion due to swelling in the hours you spend in the recovery room. Once you are released, you can return to normal life with a few limitations for the first few weeks:Avoid strenuous activity that elicits heavy breathing.
Take baths instead of showers to avoid wetting the bandages.
Avoid extreme facial expressions until the surgery site heals.

