 The worst possible place to fart (other than inside a car) is inside an elevator. If you feel the need, there are ways you can reduce the problem.


Hold it until the elevator door opens. The good part is that the elevator doors will make noise when they open and close.
Secondarily, new people will come into the elevator when the door opens, and other people will go out.
Thus, the new people might blame the farting on one of the people who just left the elevator (and you can blame them too without them being there to deny it). It’s often best, though, to just remain silent because there will be so many suspects no one will know whom to blame anyway.
 If you’re afraid the fart will be loud, wait for something naturally noisy before you let it rip.For example, if you’re in a movie theater, wait until there’s a particularly loud sound effect on the screen.
In a restaurant, wait for the clattering of dishes or the loud talking of a couple about to walk past your table.
At a family event, wait for the music or someone to make a loud toast or laughter from a joke.
 Rather than waiting for other people to make noise, you can make noise yourself right as you are about to fart.


Cough loudly right as you are about to fart. In fact, cough several times as if you are in a coughing fit, and then reach for a glass of water.
Move your chair loudly so that it rubs along the floor or makes noise. If you’re sitting on vinyl move your body so your legs create a rubbing sound on the chair. Pretend the fart is the sound of your chair squeaking.Start singing if the occasion allows for it, start talking a lot and loudly, sneeze, or rattle a dish.
 If you’re worried about public flatulence, there are steps you can take to reduce gas before you go out into public.


A dash of cayenne pepper sprinkled into a glass of water is supposed to reduce gas.Ginger can help too. Eating and drinking slowly, avoiding carbonated beverages, avoiding smoking, and using antacids can also help.Don’t chew gum. It can cause gas buildup. Avoid foods known for causing gas, such as beans. Gas is caused when your digestive system has a hard time breaking down certain foods into energy and waste.Milk and dairy products, starches like pasta and potatoes, some fruits (prunes, peaches, apricots), some vegetables (cauliflower, peas, Brussel sprouts, asparagus) and some grains (wheat and oat brain) cause flatulence.

