 While there is no one way to walk like a girl, you may want to practice walking in a more feminine way. Instead of taking straight, hard strides, try to walk with a bit of a sway to your hips and lightness in your step. Unless you are going for an over-the-top walk, such as for a drag show, try not to place your feet directly in front of each other or pretend you are walking on a line because this can make your walk look too exaggerated.If you are just trying to experiment with what walking like a girl is like, then just aim for some slight movement in your hips as you take each step.
 A masculine way of sitting is with legs spread wide and arms out to take up more space. Instead, keep your knees together and your elbows in close to your body.You can cross your ankles or cross your knees if you feel comfortable doing so. This seated position will help to give you a more feminine appearance.


You can also fold your hands on your lap or place them gently on the table in front of you.
 Women tend to have higher voices than men and this can give you away as a man dressing up like a woman.If you have a deep voice, then you may want to practice speaking at a higher octave.


However, keep in mind that some women have deeper voices, so try not to feel self-conscious if your voice is a little deeper than some other women’s voices.
If you are dressing as a woman for a drag show or play, then you can either use your normal voice or go with an over-the-top girl voice.
 Some women tend to smile and laugh more than men. Smiling and laughing more often can help you to appear more feminine, so try to smile and laugh a lot. Unless it is part of your drag show or character, you don’t need to wear a big grin constantly or laugh all of the time. If you are just trying to get a feel for more feminine mannerisms, then try to smile and laugh a little more than you usually would. You may also want to practice your feminine laugh. Listen to how other women laugh and then try to imitate it.

