 Begin the process by trying the simplest of solutions first. Most vehicles have a dashboard lights control switch that will dim the dashboard lights, as well as turn them off. Check the control switch, which should be located on the console near the steering column or part of the headlight switch.


If you are having trouble locating the dashboard lights control switch, refer to your vehicle's owner manual for further assistance.;
, A blown fuse can disable the vehicle's dashboard light. The fuse box may be under the hood, or near the floor, near the brake pedal, or there may be two fuse boxes in both places. Refer to the diagram on the fuse box cover to locate the correct fuse. Replace the dashboard light fuse if necessary. Note: also check if the tail lights are working. Tail lights and dash lights are connected through the tail light (and/or brake light) fuse. When the dashboard goes dark you know you are driving without tail lights.


Make certain to use the exact replacement dashboard light fuse to avoid the potential of electrical failure in your vehicle's dashboard.
 If the fuses are working properly, check for a blown bulb in the dashboard. Following the manufacturer's instructions, disconnect the battery while working on the dash, remove the faceplate covering your vehicle's dashboard gauge panel. Remove the screws holding the plate on. Carefully remove the faceplate. The bulb sockets should be on the back of the panel. Some panels are LED type bulbs and bulbs are not replaceable.These panels will have to be repaired by a certified instrument panel service facility.


Twist and pull the bulb to retrieve it from the socket. To prevent breaking the glass, be careful not to turn or pull the bulb too hard.
Once you have removed the bulb, examine the filament for damage. If the glass inside the bulb is charred or discolored, replace the light bulb using the exact type of bulb.
Purchase a new bulb and bulb grease from an auto parts store. Apply grease on the metal base to increase the longevity of the bulb.
If you are uncertain of the light bulb's condition, allow a customer service representative at the auto parts store examine it.
If the bulb is not bad, carefully reinsert it, applying a small dab of light bulb grease on the metal base of the bulb.
If you find more than one bulb that is bad then, it is recommended to replace all the bulbs as a set. Once they start failing, then it is likely all will fail soon.
 If attempting to isolate the problem proves unsuccessful, consider taking your vehicle to a qualified mechanic to fix dashboard lights that won't light. The problem may be in the electrical system, or faulty wiring. Get at least 1 additional estimate if you are uncomfortable with the price a mechanic quotes you.

