 In particular, moderate to high intensity exercises have the greatest impact on estrogen levels.Try to get 15 to 30 minutes of moderate exercise each day to begin lowering your estrogen quickly.


Research suggests that postmenopausal women should get at least three hours of moderate exercise per week if they want to significantly reduce the amount of estrogen circulating through their bodies.Instead of doing muscle toning exercises, focus more on aerobic exercise, like walking, running, and cycling.
Exercise can also lead to weight loss. Since estrogen can hide out in the body's fat cells, fewer fat cells can mean less estrogen.
 In order to deal with stress, the body burns large amounts of progesterone and creates cortisol, the stress hormone. A by-product of this process is a relative excess of estrogen.It might seem impossible to cut stress out of your life completely, but there are things you could do to try reducing stress in your life. Remove any avoidable yet predictable source of stress you face on a regular basis. To counteract the effects of unavoidable stress, find activities that help you relax—meditation, reading, light exercise, therapy, and so on.
 Infrared sauna treatments are a popular detoxification practice. These treatments are believed to help balance hormones by encouraging fat cells in the body to flush out the estrogen stored there.


During an infrared sauna, infrared radiation safely heats up your skin, causing you to produce more sweat. Sweat cools the body, but it also releases toxins built up in the body, including excess estrogen., Poor sleep habits can reduce the amount of melatonin hormone in your body. Melatonin helps protect your body against estrogen dominanceso decreased melatonin can lead to increased estrogen.


Try to get seven to eight hours of sleep each night.
Keep the room as dark as possible as you sleep. Research often suggests that darkened rooms allow you to sleep more deeply, and a deeper sleep will help you produce more melatonin.
 In particular, certain plastics and cosmetics can contain xenoestrogens, and these estrogens can find their way into your body when you handle them on a regular basis.


Perfumes and perfumed products are one possible threat, and many toiletries contain harmful parabens.Plastic bottles and cups can cause you to consume harmful phthalate.
Metal cans can contain high levels of hormone-altering BPAs.
Ceiling and floor tile glues can contain dangerous carbons.
Gases produced by bleach and strong chemical cleaners can also negatively impact your hormones.
 You should never quit taking any medication without consulting your doctor first. That said, if you are concerned about high estrogen levels in your body, you may want to talk to your doctor about certain medications linked to increased amounts of estrogen and ask if you can limit or avoid them.


Antibiotics can kill or damage the helpful bacteria in your digestive tract. That bacteria helps flush estrogen out of your system, so destroying it can cause estrogen to build up.