 Before you begin preparing the cauliflower, first preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (232.22 C). The oven will preheat as you are preparing and forming the bread so that it will be hot enough by the time you are ready to bake it., Rinse the head of cauliflower, then place it on a cutting board. Cut away the central stem of the cauliflower as well as any other stems so that you are left with the florets, or the bushy tops, of the cauliflower.If you don’t cut away the stems, the bread will have a tougher and less fluffy consistency. You don’t have to cut away every last bit of stem; just do your best to cut most of it away.
 Once you cut away the stems from the cauliflower, place half of the cauliflower florets in a food processor. Pulse the cauliflower on high until it is about the same texture as rice.After grinding, pour the ground cauliflower into a microwaveable bowl.
 Place the rest of the cauliflower florets in the food processor and grind until they reach the same texture as cauliflower you just ground. Then pour the rest of the cauliflower into the microwaveable bowl as well., Even though you will bake the cauliflower into bread, you first need to cook the cauliflower in the microwave to get it soft. Place the bowl of ground cauliflower in the microwave, then microwave on high for 7 minutes., Take the cauliflower out of the microwave and let sit until it is cool enough to handle. Then place one third of the ground cauliflower in a cheesecloth and fold up the corners of the cheesecloth so it resembles a sack.Squeeze the cheesecloth over the sink until releasing the liquid from the cooked cauliflower until no more liquid comes out. Place the drained cauliflower aside, then drain the rest of the cauliflower in two batches using the same method of squeezing with the cheesecloth.
Draining the cauliflower releases liquid and dries it so that when it bakes it has the consistency of bread.
If you don’t have cheesecloth, you can use folded heavy-duty paper towel.
 Crack a large egg into a bowl, then beat it lightly with a fork until the yolk and egg whites are just combined. Shred the mozzarella cheese using a coarse grater., Once you have drained all the cauliflower and prepared the egg and cheese, place the cauliflower in a large bowl. Add the lightly beaten egg, shredded cheese, and the salt and pepper. Stir with a large spoon to completely combine.You can also add additional ingredients if you want to give you cauliflower bread extra flavor. Add a tablespoon of fresh, shredded herbs like rosemary of parsley for a more nuanced taste, or add an additional ½ cup (118.2 ml) of cheese to give it a richer, cheesier taste.
 Tear off a piece of parchment paper and use it to line a large baking sheet. Then spray the parchment paper lightly with non-stick cooking spray., Scoop out the cauliflower mixture onto the baking sheet in four equally sized portions. Use your hands to form the mixture into four square that are about ½ inch (1.27 cm) thick. Make sure that the cauliflower squares are spaced out so that they don’t overlap when baked., Once you form the cauliflower mixture into squares, place the baking sheet in the preheated oven. Bake the bread for 15 minutes, then check on its progress. If the bread is golden, remove it from the oven. If not, let it cook for 2 more minutes and then take it out., Then use a spatula to remove the bread from the baking sheet, and serve it warm or cooled!