 If there is an emergency and you cannot reach your home, your contact should be able to enter your house to take care of your pet. It is important that you give your contact your house key.If you have a security system installed, they should have the password to turn it off.
 To make things easy for your emergency contact, you should put together a kit that has everything your dog might need in an emergency. These items can be stored in a special toolbox, duffle bag, plastic storage crate, or trunk. Tell your contact where the kit is located so that they can grab it in an emergency.You should include:


Medications
A week’s worth of food
A bag of treats
A week's worth of clean bottled water
First-aid kitCopy of your dog's medical records
An extra leash, You should make sure that there are written instructions for your contact so that they know exactly how to provide for your dog. You might want to include these written instructions in the emergency kit, or you can post it on your fridge. You might also consider giving your contact the instructions in advance, so that they are prepared if an emergency strikes. Be sure to include:


How often and how much the dog eats
How often they need to be walked
When the dog needs to take medications
Who their vet is
Any medical problems
How often they need to be groomed
Where your dog’s crate, carrier, bed, toys, and food/water bowl are located in the home.
 If the worst does happen, you should stay in touch with your emergency contact. As soon as you are able, call them to make sure that your dog is taken care of. You might even ask your contact to send you pictures or videos of your dog so that you can have peace of mind while you recover from the emergency.


You may also want to make sure that the contact is updated on your situation. You can say, “I will be in the hospital for another week. Are you ok taking care of Max for that long?”
If your contact is suddenly unable to take care of the dog, let them know where they can take your dog while you recover. This can be another emergency contact, a vet, or a boarding facility.
Be sure to thank them for their help.


