 Pay close attention to your outfit's color scheme. Neutral colors like black, white, tan, and grey go with anything. Neutral colored clothes should be your bread and butter. Also, as a rule of thumb, primary colors (red, blue, and yellow) and complementary colors (orange and blue, green and red etc...) always go well together. Nearby colors like indigo and purple harmonize nicely too. Mix and match colors until you find an outfit that pleases the eye.


Remember to match the color of your shoes to the color of your outfit.
Blue jeans match everything.
If you're feeling daring, try an eye-catching monochrome look like an all red outfit.;
, The easiest way to look good is to wear well-fitted clothes. Your clothes shouldn't be baggy or skin-tight. They should flatter your body type.


There's no need to guess. Measure your pant size and remember it.
Try on clothes before you buy them. A medium in one brand may be a large in another. If you can, avoid ordering online so you're certain of the fit.
 If you're wearing a fancy button-down shirt, try to match it with nice khakis. Avoid sneakers with a classy outfit and go for something more like black, leather loafers. Similarly, if you want to go with something more casual, make sure you whole outfit is casual. All your clothes should work together. Or in other words, nothing should stand out.
 Depending on your school's dress code, add necklaces, bracelets, belts, sunglasses etc... into the mix. This adds depth to your look. If you're wearing neutral colors, use your accessory as an accent. A bright blue necklace or red shoelaces can bring otherwise drab clothing to life.


Don't overdo it. Too many accessories can make it look like you're trying too hard. Aim for one or two matching accessories per outfit.
Don't over match your accessories. If you're wearing a mainly blue outfit, avoid blue accessories.
You can match the color of your accessory to one of the understated colors of your outfit. A hint of red on your shirt and red earrings go very well together.
Accessories are a good way to express yourself. A crazy scarf or unique hat makes for an intriguing look.
 If you wear orange stripes and green polka dots with two different jackets, your look is too loud. It's better to err on the side of simple and elegant than complex and busy. From there, you can accent your outfit with trendy shoes, bright accessories, or an interesting hairdo.


On the other hand, if you just wear a t-shirt and jeans every day your style will get old. Try to find a reasonable middle ground.
 Mix in the occasional sundress and skirt for variety. Accessories are essential. Pay close attention to how your accessories and shoes interact with your outfit. Play around with your accessories until you find combinations that work.


Match your necklace to the length of your neckline.
Jean shorts and tank tops are a fashionable look for girls. Make sure you comply with your school's dress code, though.
Layer with jackets and undershirts to add more color and depth to your outfit.
Sweaters generally look great on girls.
Apply a light layer of makeup. Makeup is a good way to bring out the natural beauty in your face.
Other than your lipstick, makeup shouldn't be noticeable.
 Styles change, but collared shirts will always look good on boys. You can match easily with blue jeans and a light jacket. Wear a nice belt and matching shoes to round out your style.


T-shirts are a basic but perfectly acceptable look.
You can experiment more with colors once it's warmer and you can wear shorts. Colored and patterned shorts are very fashionable, especially if they match your outfit.
When it's colder, layer with a light jacket, overcoat, hat, and scarf. Make sure all those elements are working together.
Sweaters are a timeless look for boys too.
 Don't wear the same clothes every day. Change your style and adapt to fashion trends. Using these general rules, play with your outfits and create a style all your own!

, Wrinkled clothes don't make for a good look. Crisp and smooth clothing is far more fashionable. If you take the time to properly store your clothes, you'll instantly look better dressed.


Nicer clothes like button-downs and blouses should be ironed before they're worn.
Organize your wardrobe to make putting together an outfit quick and easy.
 It doesn't matter how good your hygiene is; if your clothes smell bad, you'll smell bad too. Don't wear t-shirts more than once, and only wear pants that you know aren't dirty.


Use a scented detergent so your clothes naturally smell good. Though if you have eczema or chemical sensitivities, avoid fragrances and scents as they can irritate skin.
 It's a good idea to carry around a lint roller and instant stain remover. Be careful not to spill on white clothes. If you have P.E. or an outdoor field trip, bring a change of clothes.
 Your shoes aren't just functional. They're an important part of your outfit. You can clean your shoes when they start to get brown, and if you can't see their original color anymore, it's time to buy new shoes.


Be careful not to wear white shoes in grass or mud.
If it's raining, wear boots or shoes you don't mind getting dirty.
 Take care of your uniform by washing it and ironing it frequently. Keep it away from any pets and keep it dry if it's raining.


You have less room to express your style with a uniform, but you can still make differentiate yourself with accessories and unique hair style.
 Find a shampoo and conditioner that's right for you. Wash it daily to maintain healthy hair. Then, brush and comb your hair how you like it.


Blow dry your hair if it's long.
 Do some research on hair styles and find one that suits your tastes and your hair type. You aren't stuck with the style you have. Put some thought into your hair and make it look how you want it.


Find a quality hair salon nearby. Ask the stylist's advice and build a relationship with them. Specific hair cuts are better than generic ones.
For girls, hair ties and braids are your friend. You don't have time to do your hair up every day. Put your hair in a bun or ponytail for an easy hair style.
For boys, short buzz cuts are safe. If you grow it out, make sure to comb and part your hair appropriately.
 Exercise three or four times a week. If you aren't on a sports team, make time for physical activity. This will help you maintain a healthy body type.


You don't have to go to the gym to stay in shape. Go for a bike ride. Try yoga. Play basketball with your friends.
Don't stress about your body type. A healthy lifestyle and consistent physical activity will get you the body you want.
 Know your skin type. If you have oily skin, use an oil-free moisturizer. If you have dry skin, use moisturizer rich in essential oils to revitalize it. A little attention to your skin can go a long way.
 Wake up early and use the morning for hygiene. You should wash your hair thoroughly and clean your whole body with soap or body wash. If you have facial hair or excessive leg hair, you can also shave in the shower.


If you have longer hair you should condition it too.
You can also shower at night before bed.
 After a hot shower, your pores open up. This is the perfect time to wash your face. Apply a gentle face soap to clean your skin. Then, dry your face with a soft towel.


If you have acne problems, make sure your face wash fights acne and oil too.
 White teeth and fresh breath are central to your cleanliness. Make sure to brush for at least two minutes and floss once a day.


It's a good idea to carry breath mints or gum to freshen up during the school day.
Mouthwash helps too.
 Not only should you smell clean, you should actively smell pleasant. Before you leave for school, put on the deodorant or perfume of your choice.


Don't put too much on or it will be overpowering.
If you have the tendency to sweat, make sure your deodorant is an antiperspirant too.

