 Before deciding to write a letter, you should talk to your lawyer about whether or not a letter from you will help.Technically, you cannot have communications with a judge outside court, so letters from defendants are unusual. Instead, your lawyer will argue at sentencing why you should get a light sentence.


You should keep the communication lines open with your lawyer. Feel free to ask him or her what information will be presented during the sentencing hearing. At the hearing, your lawyer will argue on your behalf. If your lawyer thinks it would be helpful for you to talk at your sentencing hearing, then he or she will help you draft your remarks.
Also share with your lawyer whether or not people you know are willing to come in and testify or write character reference letters on your behalf.;
, If you decide to write a letter, then you want to type it so that it looks professional. Set the font type and size to something readable. Times New Roman 12 point type is fairly standard.
 You need to write the letter like a business letter. Make sure all information is aligned to the left-hand margin.First put your complete address.
Move down two lines and insert the date.
Move down two more lines and insert the judge’s address. You can get this information from your lawyer.
 Two lines beneath the judge’s address you will add the salutation: “Dear Judge Jones.”Make sure to use the judge’s last name. You have appeared before the judge many times and it would be rude to not know his or her name.
 In the opening paragraph you need to accept responsibility for the crime.You must also express remorse and not make any excuses for your conduct.


For example, you should state, “I fully accept responsibility for my actions. I am not proud of what I have done and think every night about the victims. When I think about punching the two victims outside the bar that night, I am filled with sadness and regret for what I have done.”

, Hopefully, this is your first offense. If not, then you will need to convince the judge that you are not a risk for re-offending should you get out of jail early after serving a light sentence. Defendants with lengthy criminal histories should expect to get the maximum sentence allowable under the law.


One thing you could mention is that you now have a support system in place, which you didn’t have in place after you committed your earlier crimes.
For example, you could say, “I realize that this is not my first arrest. However, I truly believe that I can turn my life around if given a chance. Specifically, I have received treatment for my substance abuse and am making progress in getting that under control. I also now have a girlfriend who provides the emotional support that I need.”

, You should have a couple specific examples of good deeds you have done in the past.Write about these in the third paragraph. You want to create a vivid impression of the good you are capable of.


Identify one or two situations in which you were especially kind or helpful to other people. The situations have to be genuine. You should expect a judge to be able to see through your examples if you make them up.
Try to connect those incidents from the past to your future. For example, you may have volunteered with children in the past. You can then explain how, once you are out of prison, you want to become a teacher or to work with children in some other way.
For example, you could write, “As you think about what sentence to give me, please keep in mind my desire to return to volunteering with children and my accomplishments in this field. I remember in particular helping one student, Joseph, overcome his fear of reading….”

, You should let the judge know how being in prison will affect your family. Your family may depend on the money that you make, or you may have to take care of the children because your spouse is sick. If you are a single parent, then let the judge know that.


“I especially would like probation because of my children, Matthew and Angela, who are 6 and 4. As a single mother, I am responsible for my children as their father disappeared long ago and I cannot locate him. If I am in jail, then my family will have no resources. I do not get child support, and my parents have both died. Matthew and Angela will have to be placed with friends, who already have children of their own to take care of.”

, In the last paragraph, you should thank the judge for taking the time to read the letter. You could write, “Thank you for reading my letter. I hope it has provided helpful context for understanding how a lengthy prison sentence will impact me and my family.”


Add “Sincerely” two lines beneath the final paragraph and sign your name beneath in pen.
 Your lawyer will want to read the letter and make corrections or additions, so you should finish the letter as soon as possible. Your lawyer will want a perfect copy for the judge. Incorporate any suggestions and provide a clean copy to your attorney, who will then submit it into evidence.

