 Before starting the wash cycle, determine the load size of your laundry. Make sure that your clothes, sheets, or towels are loosely packed into the washer to allow for proper cleaning and rinsing, and to prevent wrinkling and pilling. As a general rule:A small load will fill about 1/3 of the washing machine.
A medium or regular load means that the washer is half full.
A large load fills up about ¾ of the washer.
An extra-large load will fill the washer to full capacity.;
, Place Tide Pods at the bottom or back of your washer, then place your laundry on top. Choose the appropriate number of pods based on your load size. Use one pod for small to medium loads, two packs for large or very soiled loads, and three pods when the washing machine is at full capacity.Be sure that you don’t place Tide pods in the dispenser part of your washing machine, but in the drum itself.
 Tide pods work in all types of washing machines, in warm and cold water. Choose the correct wash cycle on your washer based on the care instructions on your clothing labels. For a breakdown of what instructions the five fabric care symbols indicate, visit Tide’s website at http://tide.com/en-us/how-to-wash-clothes/how-to-do-laundry/how-to-read-laundry-symbols.


For instance, the symbol showing a water-filled basin with one dot in it indicates that an item should be washed in cold water.
 When washing a load of delicates (e.g. undergarments), be sure to use Tide Free & Gentle pods. These pods are free of perfumes and dyes to be gentle on clothing and skin alike. They are also hypoallergenic and dermatologist recommended., All Tide pods are formulated with special stain removers. For especially soiled or smelly laundry, add an additional Tide pod to the wash for extra cleaning power. For stuck on stains, pre-treat items by rinsing them in cold water and blotting stains.For extra stain fighting power, buy a Tide to Go Instant Stain remover pen and rub the stain with it prior to washing.
 Bring a few tide pods with you when travelling to avoid having to purchase detergent at hotels or nearby shops. Store pods in a hard plastic container to prevent them from being pierced during travel, and from getting wet. You can also transport Tide pods this way for trips to your local laundromat.