 The simplest and cheapest way you can get the most efficiency and power out of your engine is by giving it the least amount of car to power. Even dropping 20 pounds will help you accelerate faster. Remove excess junk from your trunk and cab, and consider making extra modifications that will lighten your load:


Remove the rear seats, which can weigh up to a hundred pounds in some models.
Use lightweight wheels instead of steel, with high performance tires. This can help you drop up to 50 pounds.
Use carbon fiber or fiberglass body panels instead of the manufacturer panels. This is a more complex modification, but if you're trying to find your engine's max and make the vehicle lighter, it's a possibility.;
, Changing out the air-filter to a higher performance variety can add a few horsepower cheaply and quickly to your engine. You won't have to buy new air filters, and you'll allow your engine to breathe better, adding a small amount of power. For about $40 – $250 for most applications, this is an excellent place to start.


AEM dryflow air filters never need any oil added and are legal everywhere.K&N Air Filters are good for for 1,000,000 miles (1,600,000 km), and can add five horsepower or more depending on vehicle.
Cold-air or ram-air intake systems draw in air from a cooler place outside the vehicle. Some cars will benefit greatly, and some will not. Usually, higher-end cars will not be able to benefit from this, as they already have a well-designed air intake system.
Before making any filter modifications or using a high-performance system you get from the Internet, research the laws in your state regarding filter regulations. Some high-flow filters aren't legal in all 50 states.
 Ideally, a "header-back" exhaust system will be installed, in which the exhaust goes pretty much straight from the engine to the tailpipe, efficiently and quickly. Kits are available, should you choose to do it yourself, for several hundred dollars, though welding a new exhaust system onto the car requires that you have access to a shop with a hydraulic lift, the replacement system, the welding gear, and the know-how. It's usually better to have a muffler shop that knows what they're doing upgrade your exhaust system for a fee.


I-4 engines should go up to 2.5 exhaust, unless a turbocharger is equipped, then 3" is acceptable. V6/V8 cars should have 2.5"-3" exhaust all the way through.

Exhaust headers are expensive and will add only a small power gain. It's a good option, but only if you've exhausted most other HP-maxing opportunities available.

