 Whereas a younger child may not have built up a lot of friends, older children looking for a middle or high school will have important social and emotional factors that affect their well-being. If your child already has a group of friends that have a positive impact on their life, you may want to not break this arrangement up. Also, things like bullying can become more prominent in older children. Find a school that has a strong anti-bullying policy and helps your child build up solid social skills. Finding out what sort of guidance counselor availability a school has can be one important factor in limiting bullying.
 Around this age your children will start to be developing interests and schools will have offerings beyond the basics of education like math, english, and writing. Technology courses, foreign languages, and other special offerings can really distinguish one school from the next. Ask to see what electives the school has and sit down to talk to your kid and see how they may align with their interests. It is also a good idea to ask the school specifics about their programs, such as student-to-faculty ration, faculty training, and funding available to support students.
 In high school your child may be starting to consider whether they want to continue on to college or pursue a trade. Schools that offer AP classes for college credit, a guidance program for navigating the application process, and even internship options are great for someone looking to continue on to college. If your child is interested in a trade, see if the school has an option to receive hands-on or technical training in various fields.
Ask for statistics about where graduate go to college and what sorts of schools they get into. This can give you a general idea how well prepared students are for continuing on to college.
See if they have options for students who are advances or excel at subjects. A high school with flexibility and a willingness to challenge students who go above and beyond can be great preparation for academic excellence down the road.
 By the time your children reach middle or high school, they may have interests in a particular sport, playing a musical instrument, or perhaps as a budding thespian. Schools that are able to financially support your child's interests outside the classroom can provide a more edifying educational experience and help make them into more rounded maturing adolescents.
 While where a school receives its funding does not necessarily make it better or worse than another school, there are differences between public and private schools worth paying attention to. Perhaps you want the structure of a religious education, in which case a private religious based school may be a good option. You'll also want to take into consideration other factors, like whether your child has friends in the community already, how far you are able to drive, and what you are able to financially afford.The main difference between public and private school options is funding. This can play a role in deciding the type of education your child will get. Public schools are funded by the government and thus typically have to follow set curriculums. This will mean it will be largely standardized and have to adhere to certain standards. Private schools do not have to adhere to these and their independence can be a strength. If your child has special needs, public schools are mandated by law to accommodate, whereas private schools will vary from one institution to another.