, flat-ended stick or metal tube, drive a 7/16" square of Mesh #40 screen carefully down into the 1/4-inch square crater as far as it goes (about 3/16" or 5-mm. deep). Then with a flat-ended narrower stick or nail, push it out from the other end of the piece. With shears, trim away four sharp tufts of wire so that the side-legs or walls of the screen stick up uniformly 1/8" (3-mm.) (or to about 1/16" from top opening of the crater when in place). This cup-shaped screen is ready to install permanently, again with the 3/16" flat-ended stick you used before. For more details on screen-manufacturing see article, "How to Make 1/4-inch Screens for a Single-Toke Utensil"., distance to top. (An equivalent to this ring piece can also be made by cutting, and bending around, a small segment of Mesh #40 screen as mentioned below.) Then install screen (see above) so it will rest on this support ring and not sink further into the crater., (Tape or rubber-glue can be used to narrow the crater diameter slightly for tighter fit.), If the channel of the chillum at that end is wide enough (1/4" i.d.) you can cram into it tightly up to a half-inch of 1/4" o.d. flexible drawtube (plastic p.v.c. is considered safe at these exposure temperatures; use about 20 inches). b. If the channel is narrower, cram in a short length of metal tube, leaving a length of about 1/2" sticking out, over which the flexible drawtube fits tightly., If using a flame lighter, hold the flame far enough BELOW the opening to only heat the herb at first, drawing air steadily through the long tube, and when it starts burning, continue slow at low temperature to obtain most vapor value and least carbon monoxide. Properly sized "heat wands" are being developed which will make this vape lighting easier than with a flame lighter.,, Suck them out routinely as a prelude to cleaning the screen in readiness for next use. If you then grind them between tongue tip and palate you will find the taste interesting. (Just another example of knowledge that the hot-burning-overdose cigarette companies have used schlock advertising to keep everyone from learning.)