 When tilting your mower, keep the gas tank and oil fill openings on the upper side to avoid spilling. Prop the mower up securely so it cannot fall and cause an injury.


It's usually best to empty the gas tank before you begin.;
, Turning the lawn mower's blade by hand can start the engine. Always remove the spark plug or disconnect the attached wire to prevent accidents before handling the underside of the lawn mower.For additional safety, detach the blade.
 Put on heavy-duty gardening gloves and remove large clumps by hand or with a large, flat pry bar. Scrape off remaining grass with a metal putty knife or wire brush.Wet the underside of the deck if the grass is difficult to scrape off.
 For best results, use an air hose with a nozzle or wand to blow away loose grass after scraping.
 Remove the mower's air filter and check to see if it needs replacing. If it is in good condition and is washable, first use an air hose to blow off grass and debris, taking care not to tear it. Add a small amount of dish soap or degreasing soap into water and wash the filter thoroughly Shake off excess water, use the air hose to blow dry, and let dry completely before reinstalling.


If you are not sure whether the filter can be washed, check the manual.
 If hand scraping isn't doing the job, spray the underside of the lawn mower with a pressure washer. Leave the mower propped up and let it dry completely before you continue to the next section.


Water can interfere with the air filter or other mechanisms, especially on the sides or top of the mower.The underside is usually designed to withstand occasional washing, but check your manual if you are concerned.
If you have an air hose, use it again to speed up the drying process.
 This is a cheap, short-term solution that reduces buildup slightly, and makes it easier to scrape off. If you don't have a spray, rub on vegetable oil with a clean rag.


WD40 or used motor oil have a similar effect, but they can drip off and damage your grass., Graphite, silicone, or Teflon sprays are all sold as lawn mower deck sprays (although the all-purpose product probably works just as well). Cover the entire underside of a clean, dry deck, then let dry as directed on label instructions. The effect is similar to cooking spray, but should last longer. If you are mowing a short, dry lawn, this may be enough to meet your needs.


Check product reviews online before buying. Even products marketed for lawn mowers often due a poor job of long-term protection.
 If you tried a lubricant and were not satisfied with the result, check the ingredients on your rust protection product to make sure it isn't based on the same material. Follow label instructions for surface preparation and safety advice. No product has universally helpful reviews, and it's difficult to tell in advance which one will work for your mower model and lawn conditions. Here are a few possibilities:


A lanolin-based product such as Fluid Film leaves a non-drying coat. Some people swear by it, but others find that grass sticks even more to this coat. Test it on a small patch first.Cold galvanization compound is a highly water resistant treatment for unpainted metal surfaces.This might be a good choice in wet climates, but dirt and debris may still wear it down much sooner than the label suggests.Other heavy-duty rust protection products all have mixed reviews. POR-15 is one of the more popular options.
 Whenever possible, mow the lawn while it is dry. Morning dew or recent rain can make the grass clump and stick to your lawn mower.


Grass may have more internal moisture for a day or two after a rain, even if it feels dry.
 The longer the grass clippings, the more likely they are to clump. Try mowing more often to see if that reduces grass buildup.
 Most modern mowers are designed to run at full throttle the whole time.If you run your lawn mower at slower speeds, the messier cuts and reduced air flow can make it difficult to eject grass clippings.
 The longer you wait between cleanups, the harder the job will be. Check regularly to clean off any grass buildup, and make sure all parts are in good condition. Look out for clogged air filters in particular, since this can increase grass buildup.


Inspect mowers used for small home lawns (once or twice a week) at least once a month. Mowers that experience heavy use (several days a week) should be checked once every one or two weeks.
 If grass buildup is still a major problem, contact a store that sells lawn mower parts. They can help you identify which type of lawn mower blade you have, and sell you a "high lift" blade compatible with your model. This increases airflow and ejects the grass clippings with more force.If your lawn mower cuts the grass into small pieces so you do not need to collect the clippings, you have mulching blades. These are low to the ground and most vulnerable to grass buildup, especially on a wet lawn. Low blades are also worse for the grass, since they scalp the dirt and tear grass out by the roots.

