 Along with the route that takes you from the Magic Kingdom (sometimes nicknamed Disneyland, though these are two separate distinct parks), other locations can be found outside the Epcot gate and near the Transportation and Ticket Center (sometimes nicknamed by it's separate initials TTC).;
, The most famous one can be found at the Contemporary Resort (directly inside the hotel) along with others outside at the Grand Floridian and Polynesian Resorts.



Gather all your belongings and all members of your party who will need to be transported via the monorail.
Approach the applicable area that takes you to the monorail. There is a purple "overhang" with the title "to (location) directly on the sign.
Realize that you can't go straight from the Magic Kingdom to Epcot without heading to the Transportation and Ticket Center location first. However, you can go from the Magic Kingdom to the resort locations on the same line. Be careful to board the "resort" monorail and not the Express, as taking the Express will bring you to the TTC instead.
 The area that contains the passengers who are also waiting, tend to become long. If you just missed the last train, chances are that other people may already be at the station waiting for the next one).
 Wait on the line for the next "train" to arrive. It's not too long, in most cases.
, Moving trains may injure people. The monorail will keep the gates closed until they are ready to have members board. But just in case their safety systems fail (for some reason), just keep away from the train until the doors open and the exiting people stop exiting.
 Never run, and don't walk too slow either. Besides, you're probably tired from walking the park anyway, if this boarding is at nightfall after a long day of riding the rides.
, If there are no seats available, keep standing and hold onto the top handrail.
 The announcements will signal safety concerns in both English and Spanish.
 The train will then begin moving slowly onward (forward).
 It'll explain what part of the journey you're seeing underneath the monorail car.
 You'll be surprised, especially if you are traveling from the TTC to the Epcot Station. You'll see most of the exterior portions of the attractions leading up to the station as it circles around the inner portions of the park.


If it isn't too crowded, consider looking at the opposite side's window.
 You may need to say on board, to find your intended target location.
