 Use a hot iron on a clean jelly bag. Your jelly bag can be cheesecloth, a piece of muslin, a pillowcase or a thin tea cloth about eighteen inches (45 cm) square. Place the sterilized cloth over a large bowl or bucket., Rinse the apples under running water and pat them dry. If there are any bruised or rotten spots in the apples, cut those parts out.Chop the apples into half-inch (13 mm) pieces, with the skin and cores included.Granny Smith apples offer a high amount of pectin, but you can use another type of apple, such as Winesap or Bramleys.
 Pour five cups (1.4 L) of water into a pot. Add the apples. Bring the ingredients to a boil, then lower the heat so that the contents simmer gently. Allow it to simmer until the fruit is soft and mushy., Bring the ingredients to a rapid boil. Let it boil fast for five minutes., Place a sieve on top of a clean bucket. Line the sieve with your sterilized muslin. Place a clean tea cloth over the top.The tea cloth over the top is a barrier to keep flies out.
Leave the bag to drip for about twelve hours.
 Measure the juice. In a deep, heavy-bottomed pot pour in a pound (454 g) of sugar for every pint (2.5 cups or 570 mL) of juice., Heat the ingredients gently, stirring them occasionally, until all the sugar is dissolved., If desired, add a just a few drops of food coloring before boiling if you want to give the jelly a rich color such as red or green.Heat the ingredients a little at a time so that the ingredients come to a boil slowly., Use a jam thermometer to determine when the jelly has reached 217 °F (103 °C). Alternately, put a couple of testing plates in the refrigerator to get cold. Drizzle warm jam onto a plate and put it back in the fridge for about two minutes.If the liquid begins to froth before it sets, put in a pat of butter.
After two minutes in the refrigerator, touch the jam with your finger. If it leaves a crinkly track, the jam is ready.
You may find the jam to be tastier if it’s a bit runny. Jam will firm up after several months.
 Remove the liquid from heat. After ten to fifteen minutes, gently stir the herbs into the liquid., Place a funnel over a sterilized jar. Ladle the warm jelly into the jar, leaving about 1/4" (6 mm) of headspace. Cover the jar right away with a screw-top lid. Repeat this for each jar.Tip filled jars upside-down for several seconds to coat and seal them. Let them cool right-side-up on a heatproof surface.