 Values are a core component to understanding self identity.For instance, if you value honesty, this value will affect the way you interact with others, influence the type of business you conduct, and the people in your life. If you value animal livelihood, you may choose to volunteer at an animal sanctuary, eat vegetarian/vegan, get involved with activism, and surround yourself with other people who share these values.


If you wonder what values you hold ask yourself some questions: Who are two people you admire, and why? Name an experience that has been fulfilling, and describe what made it so rewarding. What issues activate you, and why?Think about what character and living values you hold, and think about how these values influence your life. Some examples of values include honesty, compassion, and working hard. Think about how the value you chose became a value in your life, who influenced it, and what meaning it has to you.;
, Passion can encompass many things: it can relate to a career or it can be a hobby. You may be passionate about fashion design, feeding the homeless, or watching videos of cats. Find what fuels you, excites you, and makes you happy. The things that you can talk endlessly about? That’s likely a passion.


Reflect on the activities that you get lost in and lose track of time.Things that engross you can be your passions.
Think about what enchanted you as a child. You may have had passions that got stifled as you grew up; maybe you loved horses, loved to sing, or drew pictures constantly. Tap back into your inner child and re-discover those passions.Passion cannot stand alone and thrive: fuel it! If you love to dance, find places and ways to dance. Fuel your passion by nurturing it and watching it grow.Find ways that following your passion moves you forward. For instance, maybe you are passionate about art, and creating art is soothing, boosts your creativity, and is something you enjoy., Often, it’s precisely one's life’s difficulties that help define one's identity and meaning.Through life’s most challenging moments you discover who you are and the strength you possess. Books and movies retell the stories of many who have experienced life-or-death situations, and detail their growth and sense of meaning through these experiences.


Think about what difficulties you have faced, and how you have changed as a result. Even if it’s not life-threatening, you can still grow and experience quite a bit from a difficult situation. Perhaps you were hospitalized, lived through a car crash, or experienced the loss of a loved one. Reflect on how these hardships have influenced you and changed you, and what growth you have experienced from these difficult experiences.
 Spend more time getting to know your strengths. By knowing what you do well, you can begin to contribute to the world. Maybe you are kind, compassionate, a good cook, a math whiz, or you have excellent social skills. Knowing your strengths can help you understand your identity.


Think about the compliments you have gotten from people to help you assess your strengths. Ask lots of people: professional contacts, friends, family, your workout instructor at the gym, etc. When you’ve received feedback, think about what patterns emerge. Then think about your best traits and what you excel in doing., Be honest with yourself and assess your "weaknesses," and begin to see that these are actually opportunities for you to grow. Maybe you make plans then forget them or under-estimate time needed to complete activities, which leads to a frantic race to finish. Awareness of your opportunities for growth allows you to better assess yourself as a whole.It’s generally uncomfortable to change, yet can be helpful in moving forward.


Are there patterns you tend to engage in that negatively affect you or people around you? Maybe you are messy, disorganized, quick to judge, or cut people off when they talk. Think about any negative feedback you’ve received from other people (like always being late) and reflect on any negative patterns you have in your life.
Sometimes, you can use your strengths to improve other skills: if you are bad at socializing yet good at planning and organizing, you can improve your socialization by planning social events and approaching social events in an organized manner (“I will talk to three people tonight about the topics I am knowledgeable about”).
 It’s easy to get tangled up in reflecting on the past or getting ahead of yourself in the future. Mindfulness practices help you stay present in the moment. This includes being aware of your body’s sensations, your feelings, and your environment and surroundings.When experiencing intense emotions, pay attention to your breathing.When experiencing emotions, don’t shrug them off. Be mindful of what you feel and what may have set off that emotion. Perhaps you get frustrated at work. Take a moment to feel the frustration, to examine what made you feel frustrated, and if there were any other factors that contributed to the feelings of frustration. Take a moment and feel in your body what frustration feels like: Is it heavier breathing? Tightening your shoulders? A different expression on your face?
Practice mindful eating by observing the process of eating inside and outside of your body.When you are hungry, notice where in your body you feel hunger, and as you eat, notice what makes you full “fuller” and “full.” Before you eat, take a moment to engage your senses in the food before chewing. If you can, put the food in your hands and feel its texture. Look at it and examine its appearance. Smell it, and notice if your mouth begins salivating. Finally, put it in your mouth and notice how it tastes. Slowly begin chewing, noticing the flavors.
 Many people find meaningful connection in religion and spirituality. Most spiritual traditions encourage the importance of de-emphasizing thoughts of the self and focusing on what is outside the perceived self.This includes inner practices such as meditation and prayer and outer practices such as charity, compassion and helping those in need.


Reflect on how spirituality influences your connection to yourself and those around you.
If you are not connected to any type of spirituality but are curious, explore different spiritual practices that interest you, whether they be religions, mysticism, or Earth-centered spiritual practices.
 Pick a point in the future (six months, one year, five or 10 years) and imagine what your life will be like in all the best possible ways. Imagine you become exactly who you want to be. What are you doing? What makes you happy? Who is there with you? What goals have you accomplished, and what goals are you working toward? What character attributes have you developed?Write down your experience, then fill in all the details about your life and how you got to that future point.
Don’t just focus on your accomplishments, recognize the character traits that get you to this point in the future.
 Your style isn’t just about fashion, it’s how you present yourself. To know your style, you must learn from yourself what you like and dislike. Don’t be afraid to experiment to see what you like. You learn self-awareness and self-knowledge by trying new things and seeing how you respond.You might surprise yourself by what you like. The more comfortable you feel in your style, the more free you are to express yourself.


Think about how you present yourself, and how you want to present yourself. Perhaps you want people to see you as confident or artsy or sporty, then choose a style that communicates this.
 Think about the aspects of yourself that you value most, and what topics about yourself you enjoy talking about. If you want people to view you as the gay person, dog lover, eccentric, artist, rock climber, or vegan, you largely get to influence how people perceive you. What you choose to talk about and the activities you engage in often shape how people perceive you.


If you go hiking every weekend, people will likely think of you as an outdoorsy person.
Feel stuck in a particular identity? Don’t be afraid to recreate yourself. Think about celebrities that have re-created themselves (like Snoop Dogg/Snoop Lion, Miley Cyrus, and Prince) and know that you can do it, too., Your social identity is how you see yourself based on those who surround you.This can differ by social class, sports team membership, profession, and lifestyle choices. Because humans are social beings, group membership is an important part of identity. Group membership also comes with inclusivity and exclusivity: two people may get along at first, but when one realizes the other supports an opposing sports team, he immediately excuses himself. To help discover yourself, look around you.


Having inclusion within a social group can be a large part of one’s identity. If you are passionate about climate change, chances are you want to surround yourself with others that share the same values. Social identity also affects romantic relationships: if you come from one spiritual practice, you may seek out a partner with the same spiritual practice.
 While your values determine who you are and what's important to you, your skills help you work with other people, achieve a goal, and move forward personally and professionally. You may be skilled in mathematics, art, writing, constructing, planning/organizing, leadership, sales, training, or many other areas. You may be detail-oriented or big-picture-oriented. Discover what skills you have.If you are unsure, think about what people have commented about when you work in a group or as a teammate, or feedback you’ve gotten in school or at work.


Remember that nobody is born with skills; skills are developed.Having skills means you can contribute to projects, both personally and professionally, in many different ways.
 Think about your future and reflect on what you may regret missing out on now. Then start planning your life to enjoy as much as possible. Think about what you want for the big picture of your life.Think about what goals will create a sense of satisfaction throughout your life, then start working toward them.


Maybe you want to adopt a child, play in a symphony orchestra, or be a shoe designer. Acknowledge these goals, then begin plotting how to get closer and closer to attaining them.
Make achievable goals. To train for a marathon, you have to create a running schedule that allows you to gradually build up the strength and endurance to complete the race; you couldn’t just run a marathon without training. Create goals that challenge you and push you, yet you know that you can accomplish. It’s okay to have fears or doubts about completing your goals, but find ways to combat those fears. This can include writing a detailed plan of action of how to step-by-step complete goals leading up to the day you complete it.
Personalize long-term goals. It may seem impossible, but the more you relate to the goal and put yourself in the future experience, the more likely you are to work toward the goal., The fun part about discovering who you are is that you will never stay the same person for long.You may discover a new hobby, become a parent, or move to a new country. By facing new challenges, you learn more and more about yourself, how you problem solve, and learn to keep evolving and growing. Embrace it as an adventure!

