


You can get some babysitting training from Girl Scouts or your local YMCA and get CPR and first aid certified from your local Red Cross.But first make sure you are old enough to care for others kids.
Having a license keeps parents feeling less worried and can help you get $3-$5 more per hour than if you had no training. You will learn A LOT and your CPR skills might actually come in handy.;
, Figure out when you're available to do some babysitting. As a quality babysitter, you can plan your own hours. But do not be too stubborn or you may end up with no jobs. Keep track of your engagements, keep a small pocket planner or calendar.
 Create flyers and put them on local bulletin boards and around local areas like middle or elementary schools. Advertise in your towns newspaper. You can even use Internet sites to advertise but ask your parents about that one. Create some business cards to pass out whenever there is an opportunity. Always be reasonable and talk to a client before agreeing to take a job. You can ask your family members to talk to their co-workers who have young kids. Soon the word will get around that you are babysitting!!

, Most babysitters watch TV while halfheartedly supervising the kids. Don't do this. Instead, interact with the kids and get a babysitting bag- a fun colored bag filled with stickers, weird paints, and games to bring with you wherever you go. Also play fun interacting games with the kids! You'll soon be the favorite babysitter of all the kids you care for, and parents will usually choose their kids' favorite babysitter as a more permanent (and better-paid) caretaker!

, Treat your clients well: remember kid's birthdays and write Christmas cards for families. These niceties will pay off- families will often give you a few hours' pay as a Christmas gift, and you will often receive sizable gift certificates for your birthday.
!Don't be afraid to request a raise- if you have families lining up to have you as their babysitter, then you have the flexibility to charge top dollar!

