 To reduce the number of arguments between your kids, teach them important skills like how to share. Make sure they know sharing is voluntary and they are never required to share. Sharing should be a choice or an option they choose when they play with others. This way, they learn to choose to share, rather than feel forced to do it.If it is not possible for sharing to be voluntary in your home, such as an instance where you only have one of the same toy to share among two or three kids, encourage your kids to share with each other. Intervene in a positive way if they fight over a toy and guide them on how to share.
For example, you can intervene in a fight between your kids over a toy by asking one child, “Can we share the toy with your brother?” Then, have the other child wait while their brother decides to share.
It can be hard on one child to wait for their turn to share. You can speed up the process by asking the waiting child, “It can be hard to wait for a toy, I know. Can you ask your brother again to share the toy with you?” Make sure to have a different toy for the child to play with while they are waiting for their sibling to finish playing with the toy.
 Often children fight because they do not know another way to communicate with their peers. Teaching your kids how to express how they are feeling can help them communicate with others in a calm, civil way, rather than fight or squabble all the time. Try to get your kids to learn how to express their feelings early in their development, to you, to their siblings, and to themselves.For example, encourage your kids to use “I feel” or “This makes me feel like…” when talking about a situation. Teach them different expressions of feeling, such as “I feel angry,” “I feel concerned,” or “I feel worried.”
It is important for children to develop empathy, which means they are able to recognize other people’s feelings and relate to them, by around the age of 3 or 4. Otherwise, the child may not understand why apologizing to a child who is crying is important and they may think this is just a form of manipulation. To help your child develop empathy, ask them things like, “How do you think your brother/sister is feeling?”, Strengthening the bond between your kids can help them feel they are a team and need to work together, rather than fight with each other. Encourage your kids to learn to appreciate one another, focusing on the positive things they do for each other. Get your kids to view themselves as part of one unit and emphasize the importance of getting along together as a team.For example, you may tell your kids, “Think of a positive thing your brother has done for you lately,” or “Tell me something you appreciate about your sister.”

