 It is common to experience feelings of shame surrounding a fear of water or swimming, but remember: you're not alone! Nearly half of all American adults report a fear of swimming in deep water. Once you have acknowledged and accepted that your fear is perfectly normal, you can begin taking steps to correct it.;
, Reading about the process of learning how to swim, and about the scientific principles of water and buoyancy, is a great way to prepare yourself for learning how to swim.A simple internet search for articles related to swimming or fear of water will provide you with many informative options to choose from. The more you learn, the more you'll come to understand that there's nothing magical or complex about learning to swim.
 To help you avoid becoming overwhelmed or panicked by your fear of swimming, practice deep breathing or other physical relaxation techniques prior to any attempt to enter the water. Relaxing will reduce your fear, and make you more receptive to learning and instruction., When you find yourself suffering from fearful or anxious thoughts about learning to swim, focus on imagining yourself successfully swimming in a comfortable, stress-free environment. This will help reduce your anxiety, and will make it easier for you to focus on learning to swim., Whether you are taking a swimming class, or learning independently, learning to swim with a trusted friend can reduce your stress, and make you more comfortable. , Practicing in water shallow enough that you can easily touch your feet to the floor without submerging your neck or head will help you feel secure as you learn the basics of swimming. If you get fearful, just stand up, take a deep breath, and relax.
 Sit at the edge of the pool with your legs dangling in, and take a few moments to get comfortable. Remember, there's no rush. Spending some time relaxing and focusing on the task at hand will help your confidence., If a pool ladder is available, enter the water one step at a time, taking as much time as you need to feel comfortable and secure. Once you reach the floor of the pool, take a moment to breathe deep and relax. , One of the biggest hurdles for many beginning swimmers to get over is the fear of submerging their face and head. Start by splashing water over your face, as if washing it. Once you're ready, practice taking a deep breath, and then squatting down to submerge as much of your face as you are comfortable with. Keep practicing, submerging more and more of your face until your whole head is under., Now that you can submerge your face and head, you are ready to try floating. Most human beings are naturally buoyant, so, while it might seem like a challenge, there's really nothing to it! Simply lay your face in the water, as you've practiced, and allow one, and then the other, of your legs to relax and leave the floor of the pool, stretching your arms out on the surface of the water. When you are ready to stand again, calmly lower your legs to the floor. , Once you're more comfortable and confident in water, you can begin learning to swim. Professional instruction is a great option for those suffering from a fear of swimming, and because fear of swimming is so common, beginner swimming classes for adults are widely available.


A simple internet search for beginner swimming lessons should point you in the direction of classes in your area.
Alternatively, visit or call a gym or community center with pool access, or a local public swimming pool, to inquire about beginner's lessons.

