 Try to do all the assigned work and keep up with the material anyway. Sometimes, you may find that you like a very demanding teacher better once you start to get a grasp on the subject.
 If a teacher is not really teaching a class, you might have to set your own learning goals and work to achieve them. Use external sources of information to gauge what you should be learning in this class. Setting realistic personal goals is a crucial part of self-directed learning.


For example, if you are in a class that is supposed to be preparing you for a set exam, find published older versions of that exam in your library. Work your way through one of them and identify what you still need to learn.
Make use of your textbook. Most textbooks have sample questions and answers at the ends of chapters. Set a goal of being able to answer 80% of the relevant questions correctly.
 Take full advantage of other resources, such as designated tutoring times led by other teachers, to learn the subject taught by the horrible teacher. Just because you can’t learn a topic from this teacher doesn’t mean you should learn it at all!


For example, if your foreign language teacher is horrible, you might ask another teacher in the language department for advice on learning and practicing that language. Don’t criticize your teacher, but just ask for resources to help you learn outside the classroom.
 In addition, you may understand a particular concept better if you hear someone else explain it.


Take turns teaching one another the key concepts each week. Use a white board or chart paper to sketch out and demonstrate ideas.
Quiz one another using flashcards to help retain information.
 If your difficulties aren’t limited to just one teacher, you might benefit from evaluation for a learning disability. Do you find it difficult in general to read, or to remember, or to follow directions or stay organized?Common learning disabilities include dyslexia, which affects your ability to read and process language, and dysgraphia, which affects your ability to write. Getting appropriate accommodations and support will help you succeed in all of your classes.Talk to a trusted teacher or guidance counselor about your concerns. Your school may also have a dedicated Accessibility or Accommodations office which will be able to help you access evaluation and support.

