 Measure 2 cups (228 g) of corn flour (masa) into a large mixing bowl. Pour in 1 1/4 cups (295 ml) of water and use your hands to mix the water into the corn flour. This should make a dough that's thick like a paste.You can purchase pre-made masa dough. Just follow the manufacturer's instructions for rolling and frying it.;
, Get out one ball of red recado and place it in a prep bowl. Add a few tablespoons of water or enough liquid to thin out the recado, so it's just a little thick.If you can't find red recado paste, you can use red recado powder or ancho chili powder.
 Spoon the red recado into the mixing bowl with the masa dough. Use your hands to mix and knead the recado into the dough. Continue to knead (stretch) the dough for several minutes, so the dough becomes smooth.

The masa dough should turn slightly red once you add the red recado., Divide the masa dough into small balls. Roll each ball between the palms of your hand to smooth them out. Each ball should be about 2-inches (5 cm) in size. Set the balls aside to rest while you heat the oil and prepare the salbutes toppings., Pour enough vegetable or coconut oil into a skillet or frying pan, so the oil comes 2-inches (5 cm) up the sides of the pan. Heat the oil over medium-high heat while you press the masa tortillas.The oil is hot enough once a drop of water in the pan sizzles or pops.
 Place a ball of masa dough in the center of a tortilla press. Put the lid of the press down and press firmly on the handle of the press, so you put great pressure on the dough. When you open the press, you should see a flattened disk of masa dough.Repeat this with the other balls of dough.
 Place one or two masa tortillas into the hot oil at a time. They should immediately begin to bubble and fry around the edges. Use tongs or a slotted spoon to carefully flip the tortillas over after about 30 seconds, so they fry on the other side. Finish frying the tortillas for another 30 seconds to one minute.Remember to let the oil heat back up in between batches of tortillas.
If you crowd the pan with too many tortillas, they'll take longer to fry and will absorb more oil.
 You can purchase cooked chicken and shred it apart using two forks. Season the shredded chicken with one ball of red recado that you've diluted with a little water.You can also roast, braise, or poach the chicken yourself. Save any of the pan juices for pickling the onions.
 Wash two or three tomatoes, half a head of lettuce, and two red onions. Use a sharp knife to carefully slice the tomatoes. Set the tomatoes in a prep bowl. Chop the lettuce and put it in another bowl. Slice the red onions and put them in another bowl.Keeping the veggies separate will make it easier to assemble the salbutes, especially if people want to create their own.
 If you'd like to make quick pickled onions, bring 2 cups (470 ml) of chicken broth to a boil over high heat in a small saucepan. Add the sliced red onion and let them boil for about one minute. Have a bowl of ice water next to your work surface. Drain the onions and immediately submerge them in the ice water until they're cold. Use a slotted spoon to lift the blanched onions out of the water and put them in a bowl with 1 cup (236 ml) of distilled white vinegar until you're ready to serve them.If you're short on time, you could just serve the raw, sliced onions.
 Set a fried masa tortilla on a serving plate and spread a few tablespoons of the shredded chicken over the tortilla. Top the chicken with some of the pickled onion, a little chopped lettuce, and a few slices of the fresh tomato. You could also serve the salbutes with:Shredded cabbage
Chopped cilantro
Sauce flavored with recado
Chopped hot peppers

