 Hanging a TV on the wall saves floor space and makes the room look more spacious. If you want to get fancy, you could hang the TV in a wooden frame backed with soundproofing material.The size of the TV you want depends on your budget.


Ensure your TVs are HDMI compliant so guests can connect their devices to watch their favorite shows.
 One of the best ways to provide a comfy bed for motel guests is to invest in a featherbed. These are both economical and comfortable. Use sheets with a 300 to 400 thread count, and seal them tightly beneath the mattress. Add a couple of down pillows and a duvet., There should be one clothing storage drawer for each possible occupant. If you design a motel room that sleeps four, there needs to be a minimum of four clothing storage drawers.


Install a low dresser unit directly across from the bed and below the TV. Horizontally-oriented dressers will streamline the room.
Do not install a wall-mounted dresser or armoire. These are more difficult to replace and modify than smaller, more mobile dresser units.Consider using under-bed dressers if space is limited.
 Most people do not use their closet, or use it only for a dress or suit.Keep the closet size to a minimum. A closet 18 inches wide and two feet deep is an acceptable size.The space you save on the small closet will make the room feel more spacious.
 Even a single guest might need three or four to accommodate their laptop, phone, tablet, and/or MP3 player. If you assume some rooms might have whole families together, you can multiply that by three or four. A motel room should have at least three outlets, plus another in the bathroom.
 Today, wi-fi is an expectation no matter where you are. Motels are no exception. Choose a convenient system that doesn’t make guests enter their room number every time they log on in order to keep guests connected for the duration of their stay.You should also include wi-fi in the lobby or recreational rooms of the motel.
 Use simple, functional light switches and warm white light bulbs.


Consider hiring a lighting designer. They are usually not expensive and are often provided free along with installation from many lighting companies.
Provide lighting near doors, next to or above chairs, beds, and desks.
If designing a room with a two-person bed, include two lamps (one for each side).
Avoid harsh fluorescent lights. Colored lights should also be avoided.Use energy efficient light bulbs.
 People use desks less than they used to, but many travelers still have business to attend to and require a small desk on which to work. The desk also functions as a table for guests who wish to dine in their rooms. Choose one with rounded corners and a color scheme that compliments the rest of the room. Purchase a comfortable chair to match it., Most hotel and motel guests appreciate having a fridge in their room.When travelers go out to eat, they often want to save leftovers for breakfast. Place the fridge to one side of the dresser.


You could choose to include a complimentary bottle of water if you have the budget for it.

