 These exercise programs strengthen your core and in turn require significant strength in your chest. Often you are working with your pectoral muscles, the chest muscles under the breast. As those muscles are strengthened, through poses like chaturanga in classical yoga, the breasts will have enhanced size and shape.
 Grab 5 lb (2.2kg) weights in each hand. Set them aside on your exercise mat as you lower yourself onto your back. You can also use a weight bench for this exercise.


Bend your knees and contract your abdominal muscle deeply.
Grab a weight in each hand. Raise your hands directly over your shoulders. Your palms should face each other when they are in the air.
Lower your arms down slowly until your elbows touch the floor beside your waist.
Pause and lift them slowly. Repeat 12 times. Do 3 sets of 12 with 30 second resting periods in between.
Switch the position of your hands so that the palms face your feet and repeat the exercise. You can also use a 10 lb. (4.5) weight bar for this version.
 Stand with your feet hip width apart. Grasp the ends of a hand towel with a hand on each end. Hold your arms out straight in front of you. Contract your abdominal muscles and try to pull the towel in opposite directions with each hand. Pretend you are playing tug of war. Hold the contraction for 30 seconds to 1 minute. Repeat 3 times.


Increase the amount of time you contract your muscles every other day.
 Find a weight bench that you can set at an incline. You can also use a chair that inclines, as long as it gives firm support. Grab 2 5 lb. (2.2kg) weights. Lay back on the incline.


With a weight in each hand, extend your upper arms parallel from your shoulders. Your palms should face toward your lower body, rather than toward each other.
Lift the weights until they almost touch in front of your chest. Pause and slowly lower them to the original position.
Do 3 sets of 12 repetitions.
 This will tone and strengthen the arms, chest and shoulders while also enhancing the size and appearance of the breasts.


Back up to a stable chair. Squat down with your feet slightly out in front of your knees and reach back with your arms to grab the arm rest or seat of the chair.
Lower your torso down slowly without going past 90 degrees of elbow bend. Then push yourself back up.
Repeat 10 times, then break, and do two more sets of 10.
 Pushups will help strengthen your pectoral muscles, those muscles under your breasts, which in turn will give the breasts an enhanced firmness. Pushups are also just excellent exercise for overall physical fitness and strength.Lay down on your stomach on an exercise mat. Place your arms right below your shoulders.
Press yourself up into a plank position. Your weight should rest on your hands and feet, with a straight line extending between your shoulders and your ankles.
If you don’t have considerable upper body strength, modify the pushup position so that you are on your knees, in a plank.
Lower your body as far as you can by bending your elbows. Stop before you reach the floor.
Raise yourself back up. Go slowly, spending 2 to 3 seconds for each movement.
Do 2 sets of 10 and increase the number of repetitions you do each week.
 This a simple exercise that can be done anywhere and anytime. Place both palms of your hands together and press into each other for a count of 5 and then release. Do 10 reps.

