 To begin baby crow pose, you should come into a low squat, also called malasana. To get into this pose, lower yourself down into a squat and continue below parallel until your knees are bent. Your weight should be back in your heels so you can balance in this pose. Your body should be upright with your head and chest lifted. Bring your hands together palm to palm in front of your chest.Your knees should be wide. You will be on the balls of your feet.
 From the low squat, you will lean forward to place your palms flat on the floor. Make sure they are around shoulder width apart or a bit wider. Align the forearms so that they are parallel on the floor. Spread your fingers against the mat., As you lean your weight forward, wrap your knees around your upper arms. Squeeze your knees just above your elbows, making sure to keep your knees bent., Look slightly ahead, just past your fingertips. Transition into the pose by leaning your weight forward. Keep your knees close to your upper arms like they are hugging you. Continuing leaning your weight forward as your body moves towards the mat.You should be coming up onto your toes.
Keep your elbows on the mat the entire time. You should feel like your biceps and forearms are folding together.
 As you lean down, you will need to transition from your toes and lift your feet off the ground. Lift one foot off the floor first. If you are new to baby crow pose, lower that leg then lift the other leg. This helps you practice your balance.Once you feel comfortable having one leg off the ground, round your back and squeeze your knees and lift both feet from the mat. You should move your heels towards your glutes.
Point your toes.
 One you have balanced yourself on your forearms with both feet off the floor, try to hold the pose for five full breaths. If you can’t hold it for five, try to hold it for as many breaths as you can and work up to five full breaths.Look ahead slightly to reduce neck strain. You shouldn’t feel any strain in your neck.
 After you have held the pose as long as you can, slowly lower your feet back to the mat in a controlled motion.