 It must have widescreen capabilities and able to show 1 of the following resolutions: 1080i, 1080p, 720p, 576p or 489p. The newer the TV, the more likely it is to be compatible with your Apple TV.;
, You will need an HDMI cable if you are using a second or third generation Apple TV. However, you can use component cables with a first generation Apple TV.


If you have a first generation Apple TV and ports for both component cables and HDMI cable in your TV, choose the HDMI port. It can connect to audio, as well as High Definition shows in a single port.
If you have a first generation Apple TV and a TV with a DVI port, you can buy an HDMI to DVI adaptor to connect the audio and video.
 You will need a Wi-Fi connection or a high-speed DSL or cable connection to run the Apple TV.
 This is required for setup and management of your Apple TV system. You must 1 of the following computer types:


An Apple computer running Mac OS X v10.3.9 or Mac OS X v10.4.7 or later.
A PC running windows XP, Windows Professional or Windows Vista (32-bit).
A computer running the latest version of iTunes.
 You will need to create and use an Apple ID to manage all f your Apple products through iTunes and the App Store.
 Make sure you find the power cord and a small Apple TV remote.



If you are using component cables for a first generation Apple TV, you will need to connect the red, green and blue cables to the ports on the back of your TV. You will use 5 ports for this component connection. If you have a home theater system, you can connect it using the optical digital video port on the back right of the Apple TV.
, You will either connect it to your DSL modem using an Ethernet cord or you will connect it to your Wi-Fi network wirelessly.
 Connect the other end of the power cord to your Apple TV.



Don’t place anything between the Apple TV and your couch that would block the signal to the remote.
 On most TV remotes you will press “Source,” “Input” or a similar button to change the input from cable or DVD player to the Apple TV.


Each device that is plugged into your TV is a different input. If you have a gaming console, Disc player or other devices, you may need to scroll through several options to find your Apple TV.
 Hold it down until the Apple TV turns on. , You will need to become accustomed to using the Apple TV remote to scroll, select and go back.
 Type in your Wi-Fi password and IP address.


If you have already connected an Ethernet cable to your high-speed broadband connection, you should be automatically connected to the Internet.
 If it does not appear, go to the Music section to prompt the code.
 Look for the Apple TV under the devices list and select “Click to Set Up.”


Type in the 5-digit passcode to sync the 2 systems.
Click on the Music app on your Apple TV to gain access to all iTunes music.
 The available Apple TV apps should automatically pop up, and you can choose what you want to link. Click on the app, such as Netflix, and input your username and password.
If an activation code pops up, sign into the account on your computer and type in the activation code under your account devices.
If you do not have a current account set up with any of these services, you can do a free trial to experiment with content streaming choices.
If you do not have a Netflix account, you can rent movies through iTunes using the Movies app.
 If you have an iPhone 4S or iPad second generation or later, then you can push your content to your TV for better viewing. Go to your Home screen. Swipe up from the bottom to access your Control Panel.
Click on the AirPlay button near the bottom. It is a box with an arrow in it.
Choose your Apple TV on the device list.
When you find content you want to show on the Apple TV, click on the Airplay button at the bottom of the screen and it will show it on your TV.
 If you lose your Apple TV remote, you can use your iPad or iPhone to control it.


Go to the App Store and search for the Remote.
Enter your Apple ID and download it.
Open iTunes on your computer. Go to File, then choose Home Sharing. Choose “Turn on Home Sharing.”
Open the Remote App Settings. Turn on Home Sharing on the Remote.
Go to your Apple TV Settings. Click on General and then Remotes and Remote App. Finish the configuration and use your new device remote. 