 Although witches are supposed to be very dark and introverted, Bonnie is always really sweet and is a great friend who likes to have fun and party. If you're a witch, it doesn't mean that you have to be closed down in a coffin all day, and not talk to anyone at school. That won't make you a witch - it'll make you a loner. It'll also make you feel bad and upset, so just be yourself - have fun, laugh, be caring and loving and help others.;
, When something weird happens, like, for example, a candle lights itself on fire or there's suddenly heavy rain, when there was sun a minute before, and people start saying things like: "Wow, how did that happen?" or "This is so strange! It's almost magic! Impossible!", don't look surprised or scared. Just say something like: "Everything is possible." and walk away, or look at your own hands and then look back to the object that has suddenly changed, and look really shocked and even a bit scared. This will create an illusion for people, and they'll think that it was actually YOU who lit the candle on fire without touching it, or YOU who suddenly changed the weather.
 It'll make people think it's some kind of a relic that your family's witches passed on for thousands of years. Wear it everyday and everywhere, and NEVER take it off when others see it, and if someone asks you something about it, just smile mysteriously and say: "Oh, it's very important to me. I couldn't go without it. It's like... How to say... My energy source." and laugh.
 Be stylish! Bonnie doesn't wear capes and black hats, not at all! She likes to buy clothing from shops like Free People, she's normally wearing tunics and leggings, with loads of different bracelets and feathers added to it. Her style is very hippy-ish and natural. Her hair is mostly down in beautiful, natural waves, so don't overdo the whole dressing part - make it natural, pretty and laid back with a touch of hippy.
 It's all about natural here. You're a witch, not a mannequin. Don't wear massive amounts of powder and make yourself look "cakey". You might wear some lip gloss or lip balm, some cheek stain and some concealer - but that's it. Don't fake it! Witches are ALL about nature. Which leads us to another step.
 If you're already a vegetarian, it's great, but you don't really have to become one, as long as you live ecologically. Recycle every day, live a healthy lifestyle, don't even eat the junk food, and always say things like: "I'd never eat that badness they put in the food you all eat every day!" and ALWAYS bring your own herbs, natural fresh salads and veggies to school in a lunch box, and disagree to eat the food they give you. Also, try to learn all the names of the plants you're eating, all the vegetables, fruits, herbs, and oils... A witch knows it all! Go to your local library or buy a book, and just examine all the plants, learn their good qualities, learn what you shouldn't mix together, how you should eat them, what their meanings are... You'll see how people will start coming to you and asking you about herbs and essences, and you'll feel really smart and cool about it.
 For example, if someone trips and falls and start bleeding, run to them, take your herbs and tell the person to press them to their wound. Of course, if no herbs can help, always use medicine, because sometimes, when you're just too ill, herbs are just too weak to heal you - you need real medicine. But when it's not too harsh - try doing it the natural way.
 Remember - you're best friends with nature. Whenever there's good weather, always go out and smile when you're walking - touch the trees, the leaves, take deep breaths and relax. Think of it this way - it's a therapy. Love every inch of the earth - and love every animal on it. Even snakes or spiders - never say you're scared of them. If someone starts saying: "Oh, I hate snakes and spiders! They're so sneaky!", try saying something like this: "They're only sneaky when you treat them bad. We're all animals, one way or another. So it means that we might be sneaky when someone acts bad with US, too. You have to love the nature.". When there's bad weather, and people go all sad and depressed, saying that they can't go out anywhere, and how they hate the rain and the cold, just explain: "Just smell it. Smell the rain, sense the freshness of the earth after it. Hear the water drops on your window pane. Isn't it beautiful? The air will now be fresh and clean. Everything happens for a purpose." and then add happily: "Oh! My herbs in my garden will be watered. Isn't that great? I hope those rosemary shrubs will finally grow.". And THIS leads us to.
 If you're living in a house and if you have your own back yard - you're lucky. Witches use natural herbs and oils. Why not grow your own patch of them? Wouldn't that be awesome? Just buy a gardening book, some seeds of the healing and good-quality herbs you want to grow, and start the gardening! Make fresh salad from them. Make meals and even smoothies, if you like them. When you're coming to your friend's house, ALWAYS bring your own fresh veggies and herbs, and make some salad for everyone. It's really cool! You can even learn to make your own oils, just find a book or Google it, and you're all set! People will love you for your love for nature, and how individual and awesome you are. If you live in a flat, try growing some plants and herbs in your balcony - just buy some pots and soil and do it, as well! Become a professional at it - it's awesome. Try to feel the connection between you and the plants. Love them.
 Witches never use fake, unnatural materials. Try buying some crystals and stones with good and healing qualities. Some may strengthen your brain work, some will make you relax, some will make you happy... There are thousands of different meanings - check them out and learn some of them. Try keeping them at home - and even give a person that stone if he/she is sad or depressed or unhappy, saying: "This is "...." It'll help you with "...." Carry it, and it'll help. I promise." Always have a pestle and mortar, and on your free time experiment with herbs and make oils, grind them and make powder, just read all the books you can about these kind of things - don't do it by your own mind. You might not know how dangerous some herbs can be - always find out what can happen and be careful when you do it.
 It's essential for a witch! Just take an old-looking leather notebook with old, yellow-ish paper, and write all of your experiments, all herbal meanings, you can even create your own spells that you say while you're grinding the herbs and spells you say when you're planting the plants... Just create your own! Write everything you learn about plants and herbs and how they work; it's so interesting and fun! Keep this spell book in a safe, secret place.
 Being a witch is being at peace with nature, you have to be a part of it. You have to FEEL it, you have to LOVE it and ENJOY it.