 Place 4 tablespoons (84 g) of honey, ¾ cup (150 g) of sugar, and 2 tablespoon (28 g) of unsalted butter in a medium saucepan. Heat the mixture on medium-low until the sugar melts completely, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.Whisk the mixture periodically as it’s heating to prevent the sugar from burning onto the bottom of the pan.;
, Once the sugar has melted, take the pan off the heat. While it’s still hot, mix in 3 large beaten eggs. Whisk the mixture vigorously to incorporate the eggs.Be sure to whisk the mixture constantly as you add the eggs to keep them from scrambling.
 When the eggs are fully mixed, add 1 teaspoon (7 g) of baking soda to the pan. Whisk the mixture so the baking soda is completely blended with the other ingredients.Continue whisking the mixture until there are no lumps.
 To finish the dough, use a spatula to gradually add up 3 cups (360 g) of all-purpose flour. You want to add just enough flour to give the dough a clay-like consistency that doesn’t stick to your hands.Fold in no more than ½ cup (60 g) of flour at a time to avoid adding too much.
Gently fold the flour into the mixture to avoid overmixing the dough.
 In order for the oven to be hot enough to bake the cake layers, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully.Be aware of what your oven does to indicate that it’s preheated. It will most likely beep or flash a light to alert you.
 Place the dough on a well-floured surface, and cut it into 8 equal pieces. You can move onto the next step right away because the dough rolls out best when it’s still warm., Use a rolling pin to roll out each piece of dough. Shape it into a 9-inch (23-cm) circle that’s approximately ⅛-inch (3-mm) thick.If you find that the dough is sticking to the rolling pin, sprinkle the top of dough lightly with flour.
 Once the dough is rolled out into thin circles, take a 9-inch (23-cm) plate and place it on top of the dough. Trace a knife around the dish to cut the dough into perfect circles. Be sure to save the dough scraps.Instead of a plate, you can use the bottom insert from a 9-inch (23-cm) springform pan.
 Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper to keep the cake layers from sticking. Place one or two cake layers on the cookie sheet, depending on how many will fit.You can use a silicone baking mat instead of parchment paper if you prefer.
 Place the cookie sheet in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake until they are golden with little browning. It should take approximately 4 to 5 minutes. Repeat the process with the rest of the layers and dough scraps.Bake the dough scraps on a cookie sheet by themselves so you can spread them out and ensure that they bake evenly.
 Once all of the layers and scraps are baked, allow them to cool on a wire rack for 15 to 20 minutes. When the scraps are completely cool, crush them with a rolling pin or in a food processor to create fine crumbs.If you prefer a more rustic look for the cake, crumble the baked scraps with your fingers for coarser crumbs.
 Add 1 cup (240 ml) of heavy whipping cream to the bowl of a stand mixer. With the whisk attachment in place, beat the cream on high until stiff peaks form. It should take approximately 1 to 2 minutes.Make sure both the cream and bowl are chilled. That will make it easier to whip the cream.You can whip the cream with a handheld electric mixer or by hand with a whisk

, Add 32 ounces (920 g) of sour cream and 2 cups (220 g) of powdered sugar to a separate bowl. Mix well until they’re fully blended., Once the sour cream and powdered sugar are mixed, carefully add the whipped cream. Use a spatula to gently fold it in so the mixture stays light and fluffy.If you don’t plan to assemble the cake right away, refrigerate the frosting until you’re ready.
 Place one of the baked cake layers on your serving plate. Smooth 2 to 3 tablespoons (28 g to 42 g) of the frosting over the layer with a knife.It’s a good idea to poke holes throughout the layers before placing the frosting on them. That allows them to soak it up more easily.
 With the frosting in place on the bottom layer of the cake, set the second layer on top. Gently press down on it to ensure that there are no air gaps between the layers. Spread 2 to 3 tablespoons (28 g to 42 g) of the frosting over the top of the second layer.Don’t worry if some of the frosting comes out the side when you press down on the layers. You frost the sides of the cake too, so you’ll have a chance to smooth it out.
 With the second layer in place, repeat the process with the remaining 6 layers of cake. Remember to press down on each layer when you set it place so there are no gaps., Spread more frosting around the sides of the cake, so it’s completely covered.Don’t worry about getting the frosting perfectly smooth. The crumbs will hide any messy areas.
 Once the cake is completely frosted, dust it with the crumbs that you made from the baked dough scraps. You’ll need to press gently when you add them to the sides of the cake so they’ll stick., After you’ve added the crumbs, cover the cake in plastic wrap. Place in the refrigerator to chill overnight so they cake has time to absorb the cream frosting.If you want to add color to your honey cake, dust some red currants in sugar and set them on top of the cake in an arrangement that you like.
