 You don't want to be fussing around looking for bedding or food bowls when you bring your rabbit home. She will be stressed after travel and desperate to retreat somewhere dark and quiet. Make sure you have a hutch that is large enough for an adult rabbit. It should be about two hops wide, three hops long, and tall enough for the rabbit to stand upright in. Have food, treats, water dispensers, toys, and straw ready.;
, Place the hutch in a quiet room that doesn't have noisy equipment such as a tumble dryer. Deep bed the hutch with straw or hay. Make a secluded sleeping area such as a sturdy wooden box stuffed with straw within the hutch.


Make sure other household pets (cats and dogs) can't sniff at the hutch. This will terrify the rabbit since dogs and cats are predators.
 Your rabbit will also appreciate having other hiding places around the house. Scatter several wide-diameter cardboard tubes or shoe boxes. This way, she has several places to hide or bolt if she gets scared while investigating.


Giving her hiding places doesn't teach her to hide. It just lets her do what feels natural. If she knows there are plenty of safe places available, then she'll be more likely to venture out in the first place., Quietly lift her from the carrier and place her in the hutch. Speak softly and handle her gently but firmly. If your rabbit seems nervous or anxious in the carrier, cover her with a towel before picking her up. The darkness of the towel (like being safe in a burrow) has a naturally calming effect which makes her feel safe and calm.


Be sure to support your rabbit's belly and hind legs with your hands when you move her to the hutch. Don't squeeze her.
 Don't handle your rabbit or lift her out of the hutch for the first 3 days after you bring her home. Let your rabbit become familiar and comfortable in her hutch. She may spend the first day hiding, but this is normal, so don't worry.Once she gets used to the sounds and smells, she will start to venture out. She may run and hide when she first hears a noise, but will grow bolder when she realizes it's not a threat.


Young rabbits are more curious than adults, so this process may be quicker for a youngster.
 Rabbits are likely to feel threatened by other household pets, even the scent of them. So wash your hands after handling your other pets and before touching your rabbit., Once your rabbit has had a chance to settle in and a few days have gone by, start hand-feeding her. Start by sitting next to her cage and just talk to her in a calm voice. If she bolts, just keep quietly talking and wait for her to come to you. Open the door and offer her a tasty treat, like a dandelion. If your rabbit doesn't have the confidence to come up to the dandelion, set it halfway between the two of you.
 When you feed or talk to your rabbit, rest your hand on the straw near the door. This way, she'll get used to your company while she eats.Top up her food bowl and chat to her as you do. Since rabbits learn by experience, she will soon associate you with food (a good thing). This will help calm your rabbit.
 Once she's comfortable eating in your presence, you can start to gently touch her. Don't overdo it by trying to pick her up. She may become stressed and try to fight back. Instead, quietly reach inside the hutch and touch her back or flank. If she doesn't run away, gently stroke her.


Avoid putting your hand over the top of her head. Objects passing over the rabbit's head signal danger (such as a hawk flying over a rabbit). This is likely to make the bunny scared.Make sure to approach her from the side or back.
 Once she's used to being stroked in her hutch, you can try picking her up. Sit on the ground, lift the rabbit out and put her on your lap on ground level. Keep some dandelions handy so that she has something tasty to nibble to distract her. Keep the session short, about one minute to start with. This way she won't start to panic. With practice you can keep your rabbit out longer and longer.


You should also keep a towel nearby in case your rabbit gets distressed. Then you can cover her with a towel. This will calm her. You can also scoop her up in the towel, which means you are less likely to get scratched if she panics., Once your rabbit is used to your presence and being picked up, you may want to let her roam in the house. Always supervise her, and start with one small room so that she doesn't feel overwhelmed. Check the room first and make sure there are no gaps for her to hide and get stuck in. Make sure there are no electrical cables for her to chew.


Rabbits will chew anything, so be alert and remove anything you don't want damaged.
 While your rabbit checks out her new environment, you should lie flat on the floor. This makes your height less intimidating for your rabbit and lets her sniff and investigate without feeling threatened. A good tip is to keep a treat in your pocket or hand, and reward her brave behavior with a snack.Keep the sessions short and sweet at first, no longer than 10 - 15 minutes. This way your rabbit won't get overtired.

