 make sure that the area is a safe place, especially if you plan on walking home at night. It’s always a good idea to practice the buddy system. Have a friend meet up and walk with you.
 Research the bus, train, or streetcar routes available in your area to find safe and affordable travel to your destination.


Make sure you check the schedule for your outgoing and return travel. Some public transportation will cease to run late at night. Be sure if you take public transportation to the venue that you will also be able to get home late at night.
Check the routes. Even if some public transit is still running late at night, the routing may change. Some may run express past many of the stops, or not travel all the way to the ends. Be sure that your stop will still be available when you need it for your return trip.
If you are taking public transit in a vulnerable state after drinking, it is always a good idea to travel in groups. Having friends available is a good way to stay safe and make sure that you reach your destination.
 This is more expensive option than a taxi or ride share service, but could be a fun and fancy way to stay safe and ensure that you will have a ride home.


Plan this service in advance with a scheduled time to pick you up from your home and the venue. You want to be sure that the service will still be available when you need to get home.
 This may be easy in a large city, but taxis may be less frequent in smaller towns. This is especially true late at night, so this is a less reliable option than scheduling a ride in advance.


Have a friend accompany you and help you flag a cab to make sure you are able to get one.
Set up a plan to call a friend when you get home to make sure that you made it safely to your destination.
If there are no taxis readily available call a local service to send a car to pick you up.



If you are in a vulnerable state it is best to share the ride with your friends to make sure you get home safe.
You can request the car to yourself rather than sharing rides with strangers.
If you travel home on your own or are the last of your group to be dropped off, make plans to call a friend when you get home so they know you made it safely to your destination.
 There may be a designated driver service in your area which can chauffeur your group.Make reservations with them in advance and keep their contact information handy while you are drinking.

