 If you've listened to her show for quite some time, you may have heard her take calls or read emails from other people with problems similar to yours. In this case, your question may have already been answered indirectly. If you still intend to ask her opinion and think you would benefit from her feedback, call the show. Do not call, however, if you have done something wrong, because she will bully and scold you. A therapist or counselor would be better able to help you work through your guilt.;
,, Due to the high call volume, you will most likely get a busy signal, but just keep trying. Call from a land line phone or get stationary with a cell phone.
, When you get through, you will first talk to Dr. Laura's call screener. When talking to him/her, relax and have your question ready. Try to be as specific as possible. Tell him/her what your question is and how you expect to be helped by Dr. Laura. If you're dealing with an emotional issue, take your time, and take some deep breaths. Sometimes the screener will be able to help you phrase your question the right way. Write this down so you don't forget it while on hold. You will then be placed on hold, and you'll be able to hear the show. While on hold just relax. Just before you get on the air with Dr. Laura, you will hear some brief static.
,,, It will confuse her and distract her from getting to the core of your issue. Dr. Laura likes to get to the root of the problem very quickly (and she's very good at it!), and she doesn't necessarily have all the time in the world to spend with one caller.
 Dr. Laura wants you to deal with the reality of your situation and take responsibility for your actions, and, depending on your particular dilemma, she may not care about how you feel, but about what is and what the solution is. Her opinions and solutions to these problems are inherently black-and-white, right or wrong.
 She hears this all the time and she doesn't buy it most of the time. Yes, there are times when a caller has already done what she suggests, and she'll just say, "Good." Finish with the call and disconnect.
 Take her advice with a grain of salt. Often callers can look at their situation from a different perspective and they're grateful for it. Other callers may just feel bullied and intimidated by her.

