 Performance cams increase the duration and timing of the valve openings during the engine stroke, increasing horsepower and making your car accelerate more quickly. You'll idle slightly rougher with a performance cam, but get a throaty rumble that's desirable for some gearheads, depending on your vehicle. They're on the expensive side, but work well in conjunction with header or exhaust upgrades.



To install a new camshaft, you must expose the valve train by removing the valve cover and possibility the distributor. Loosen and remove the timing chain and the old camshaft to install the new version. Adjust the timing and tweak the new cams as necessary.
 A turbocharger can add up to 25 – 30% power gains. However, turbocharger kits cost about $3,000 for common applications, and go up in price for less common applications. Turbochargers are excellent for any car, anywhere, but can be prohibitively expensive, and are difficult to install for novice mechanics. Research which systems and options would be effective for your model and weigh your options.



Turbochargers suck air into the engine, increasing boost and horsepower. An intercooler will also need to be installed with a turbocharger to avoid turbo-lag, in which the engine overheats and slows the impeller.Superchargers are belt-driven, making them more effective for 6+ cylinder engines. While a turbocharger results in a higher peak of HP, superchargers don't require the use of an intercooler, and result in fewer heating problems and maintenance issues. They're available in centrifugal, screw, and roots-type models, depending on the kind of engine.

Nitrous is power in a bottle, Nitrous is an oxidizer (like adding more air), couple that with some more fuel and you make power. Kits cost from $900 - 3000 for any application. Basic kits are easy to install with high performance kits needing some skill sets. Power gains can be anywhere from 5Hp to 1000Bhp over the whole rpm range. Unlike Turbo's and Superchargers if you change your vehicle you can take your kit from one vehicle to another so you don't lose your investment. Nitrous will also work with Turbocharging and Supercharging to reduce lag and increase top end so can be combined to make more power. Most vehicles will take a good increase in standard bhp around 25-50% more without modification. Higher levels may need improvement of ancillaries and eventually internals.
 For $300, a good water-injection kit increases gas mileage and power while reducing carbon deposits within the combustion chambers, preventing engine pinging. Most of the time, having such a system installed will even let you buy lower-octane fuel. While water-injection kits will have almost no performance gains on naturally-aspirated engines, they can help restore lost power. Turbo or supercharged engines will have massive power gains with water-injection.

