 Achieving a state of overall happiness requires that you first have an active desire to actually be happy. It also requires a commitment to being happy regardless of external factors. It is important to focus on consciously choosing attitudes and behaviors that promote happiness rather than sadness or discontent.


Some professionals who specialize in positive psychology believe that creating an intention to be happy is the very first choice that is made by happy people.Once the intention is made, there are specific things that you can do to nurture that intention. For instance you can choose to spend time in environments that make you happy while avoiding places that are more of a challenge for you.;
, Set aside 10-15 minutes every day to write down everything that you’re thankful for in that moment. Gratitude tends to magnify positive emotions while blocking negative ones. This is because it’s difficult to experience incompatible emotions in the exact same moment. Although you can have rapidly fleeting conflicting emotions that occur in such close proximity that it feels like they are occurring simultaneously, it’s hard for them to actually occur at the same exact time. Therefore, the more that you focus on one emotion the less you will focus on the other. So, if you spend more time being thankful about your life then it becomes more and more difficult to feel envy, resentment, or other negative emotions.


Gratitude allows you to focus on positive features which helps you to feel happier and creates a more pleasurable life experience.
Some studies have even shown that people who have higher levels of gratitude recover from illness and psychological trauma quicker., Happy people try to focus on the positive aspects of the people and situations that surround them. Remember, even the most frustrating of people have some good traits.


When you are painfully aware of someone’s negative personality trait, take a moment to think of all of the other good characteristics about her. For example, if you find that it is annoying how Susan obsessively talks about herself, it might be useful to remind yourself of how helpful she is when other people ask her for help.
Do your best to surround yourself with other positive people. Research has found that people who spend time with happy people are more likely to be happy in the future.When you are around an ornery person, it may be tough to find the good in that person in the moment. However, here are two things that you can do to stay centered when dealing with an ornery person:

Use deep breathing: Breathe in deeply through your nose so that you’re drawing air into your midsection. Then slowly release the air through your mouth. Intently focus your attention on each breath that you take. Repeat this as often as you need until you feel centered and unaffected by the ornery person.
Use an anchor word: Choose one word to focus on to help you stay in your happy place. You can visualize that the word is written on a white wall in your mind’s eye and focus on looking at it with your imagination. Or you can actually say the word to yourself. You might want to choose words like “compassion” or “love” to remind yourself that ornery people are generally ornery because they are unhappy. These powerful reminders can help you to remain more compassionate.
 People who are satisfied with their life tend to experience greater overall happiness. Simply doing what feels good will often result in increased feelings of life satisfaction and happiness. So, whether it’s something as simple as turning up the radio in your car when your favorite song comes on or doing something more extravagant like driving cross country over the course of a month in the summer; commit to doing things that make you happy.


Although doing things that you already know that you enjoy increases happiness, stepping out into the unknown can increase your life satisfaction too.To really experience greater satisfaction in life, try something that you’ve always wanted to do but is a bit out of your comfort zone. Whether that means finally participating in karaoke night or going zip lining at an amusement park; if you’ve always wanted to do it, then try it.
Make sure that your favorite activities are legal and constructive to avoid unwanted consequences.
 Whenever possible choose to do what you like and avoid doing what you don’t like. Happy people understand that they have choices and they choose to focus on creating an experience that they enjoy.


Of course there will be times when you may have to engage in activities that are less than exhilarating for you. Although your ultimate goal should be to eventually move on to something more pleasant, it’s important to learn how to manage how you feel until you can make the necessary changes. Remember, happiness is a choice. Here are a few things that you can do to stay happy even in less than desirable environments:Use humor. When you can see the funny side of things, it is much easier to enjoy life.
Find someone to talk to so that you can release tension and stress. Also, be sure to talk about what you want to accomplish during these conversations. Most happy people are very optimistic. Sharing your vision can help increase your happiness levels too.
Be sure to do more things that you actually enjoy when you’re not involved in the activities that you dislike.


Keep in mind that this isn’t a license to behave recklessly. For instance, to quit a job that you don’t like without an alternative income would likely result in even more unhappiness. Instead, be intentional about looking for a different job. The key is to move closer and closer toward what you love through intentional action. Just avoiding important obligations that you find undesirable could lead to harmful consequences.
 Altruism toward others actually results in higher levels of happiness in your own life. In fact, studies in neuroscience have shown that the areas of the brain that are associated with pleasure are activated when people do nice things for others.So when you engage in acts of kindness toward other people, you are actually creating a happier life experience for yourself.


Keep in mind that how you help a person doesn’t really matter that much. In other words, you don’t have to do something significant or extravagant for this to work. Even doing small favors can give your happiness a boost.
Consider volunteering, donating money or items, buying someone a small token of appreciation, showing compassion, or any other altruistic gesture.
Be careful not to make the acts of kindness something that is done out of obligation. Also, be sure that your kind gestures don’t become overwhelming. If either of those conditions exist, then the altruistic behavior becomes a burden and no longer increases your happiness., Forgiveness allows you the opportunity to release any bitterness that you may be harboring about a situation or person. When you’re no longer experiencing that emotional burden then you are open to experiencing more joy in your life. Remember, the forgiveness is not for the person who has wronged you; it is so that you can release the negative emotions that are causing you psychological and physical pain. The result is that you can experience more happiness. Here is a good strategy to help you practice forgiveness: First acknowledge that you are angry. In order to practice forgiveness, you have to first acknowledge that you are angry. You can even try writing down why you are angry so that you get a clear picture.
Consider how the incident has helped you to grow. Every situation is a learning experience. When you’re able to acknowledge that you have learned something from the experience, even if it was the hard way, it makes the actual process of forgiving other people easier. Try asking yourself the question, “What have I learned from this experience?” and take a few minutes to reflect on the answer. For example, did you learn to always have an alternative plan?
Think about the person that you are angry with. Remind yourself that she is human and that everyone makes mistakes and demonstrates poor judgment at times. Reflect on why she did what she did. When you see her as a person who is struggling in some areas, rather than as a person who just doesn’t care, then you may be more willing to forgive.
 Try to find things that you have in common with the person that you are angry with. Maybe you both like the same music, live in the same neighborhood, have a similar fashion style, go to the same church, like the same movies, or have kids that go to the same school. Seeing similarities will help you experience more compassion. Research shows that even something as simple as tapping your fingers to the same rhythm boosts compassionate behavior. So focus on what is similar about you and the other person rather than the differences., Make the conscious decision to let go of your grudges. A life free from grudges allows you to experience greater life satisfaction. Decide whether you want to tell the person aloud or if you want to release the grudge privately.


Remember, the alternative to forgiveness results in ruminating thoughts. When this happens, you will spend an extravagant amount of energy thinking about the wrongdoings that have been inflicted upon you by others which will cause emotional distress. Therefore, it is wise to release grudges.
Forgiveness and releasing grudges has many health benefits to include improved heart health, a better immune system, less anxiety, and fewer symptoms of depression., Be sure to make time for those who are closest to you. One of the dominant findings of happiness research indicates that being socially connected is crucial to happiness.So be sure to make healthy friendships and relationships a priority. Here are some reasons that relationships make people happier:


Relationships give people a sense of identity.
People tend to feel more sociable when they around other people.
People experience more positive emotion from relationships than from material things.
 People tend to be at their best when they’re in their “flow” or zone of genius. You should pursue undertakings that you enjoy that bring you a sense of satisfaction. Most people feel more fulfillment in life when they are involved in activities that allow them to grow. In fact, one study showed that people who saw their jobs as a “calling” rather than as just a job reported more life satisfaction than their counterparts., Reflect on what you think will make you happy in life. Most people say that they want to be happy but are unable to identify exactly what happiness means for them. Happiness is relative and is different for everyone. Reflecting on your values is a great way to determine what will make you happy. Here a couple of questions you could ask yourself to help you determine what your values are:If you could change one thing in your community or environment, what would it be?
What was one moment in your life that you can say was truly satisfying for you?
If there was a fire in your home what three items would you save (i.e. all people and animals are safe.)
Consider if you see any themes emerging among the answers to this question and that is likely a clue to what goals will make you feel the most fulfilled and happy.
What issues are you the most passionate about? What issues do you find yourself being fired up about when you talk about them?

, Once you know what will make you happy, then it time to set some goals. Goals are like the roadmap that will get you from where you are to where you want to be. They help you to stay focused so that you can actually accomplish what you believe will make you happy.


Make sure that your goals are specific so that they are measurable. You should also include a time frame. For instance, instead of saying, “I’m going to make myself more of a priority” you might instead say “I will get a massage once per month, beginning this month.”
Make sure that you word your goals positively rather than negatively. For instance, it’s better to say “I’m going to maintain my weight” rather than “I’m not going to gain any weight.” Try to avoid discussing what you’re ‘not’ going to do. Positively worded goals are actually accomplished more often than their counterparts., When your goals are large, they may seem overwhelming and unattainable. The best way to make these goals feel more attainable is to create benchmarks. You can set benchmarks by breaking large goals into smaller action steps. Smaller goals or action steps can help you stay on track so that you don’t get overwhelmed and give up.For instance, let’s say that you decide that taking your family on a vacation every year would make you happy. Your goal may be to have at least $5,000 in your savings account by July of every year. Rather than waiting until June 1st to try to come up with $5K, you could instead set monthly or weekly benchmarks. A reasonable benchmark might be to put $100 dollars in savings every week.
Another example might be that you want to lose 20 pounds in 10 months. A reasonable benchmark might be to lose 2 pounds per month.
This method of creating benchmarks is sometimes called chunking down the goal.
 Developing goals and then actually taking action on those goals are two very different things. However, once your goals have been identified, it’s time to act. Remember, your decision to be happy should always be an absolute priority to you.


Write down step-by-step what you will do every day to meet your goal or bench mark.
It’s important to identify any potential barriers that might prevent you from accomplishing your goals.Try to figure out how to overcome these barriers in advance. Consider getting help from family and friends when needed.
For example, say your goal is to lose three pounds per month and a morning walk is included in your action plan. If you know that you like to sleep in, then perhaps you could adjust the plan to include an evening walk instead. Alternatively, you could solicit help from your family and make the morning walk a fun family affair.
 Solidify your goals and action plan by writing them down. Research shows that when you actually write down your goals then you are you are more likely to to accomplish them.Don’t underestimate the power of writing down your goals. Numerous outlets reference a study that was reportedly conducted in 1979 at Harvard University. Although the actual study is difficult to locate, it is said that the three percent of participants who actually wrote down their goals earned ten times more than the other 97 percent of the class.
Be sure to review your written goals everyday so that they stay fresh in your mind.
 As you move toward achieving your goals, your inner critic will inevitably emerge. You will recognize this inner voice because it is usually critical and self-defeating. When you find yourself experiencing doubt about accomplishing your goals and being happy, your inner critic is probably to blame.


Be sure to prompt yourself to immediately think more positive thoughts whenever your inner critic starts to talk. For instance, instead of saying “I’m so awful because I didn’t meet my benchmark this week” you could say “I learned something new this week. This was a small setback that turned into a learning experience.”
Your inner critic is not an actual voice that you hear with your ears but is instead a collection of thoughts that you hear in your mind. This critic results from unconscious fears that you have been gathering since childhood.
 Exercise is known to be an instant happiness booster due to the endorphins that are released when you are engaged in physical activity. Regular exercise increases happiness and self-esteem while decreasing anxiety and stress. In fact, one study shows that consistent exercise can same the same level of impact on increasing happiness as antidepressant medication., Getting enough sleep is very important to achieving happiness. In fact, lack of sleep might alter the brain and cause problems with controlling your emotions and anger. Some research even suggests that sleep deprivation is linked to depression, suicide, and risk-taking behavior.Allowing yourself adequate time to sleep will help with emotional regulation and ultimately allow you to experience greater happiness.
 The modern American diet often consists of sugars, refined carbohydrates, and vegetable oils. However, research is beginning to see a correlation between this diet and increased unhappiness, depression, and other mental health concerns.In order to experience a greater level of happiness, your food choices should promote mood regulation. Here are some things that you should consider when making food choices:


Nutrient dense food like seafood, nuts, and whole grains do wonders to stabilize blood sugar levels which impacts mood.
Healthy fats such as Omega-3 fats, DHA, and EPA help protect your brain against mood disorders.
Choose chicken and beef that are free from antibiotics and other harmful hormones that can impact your happiness. Be sure to read the labels.
 Your senses have an impact on your happiness, particularly the senses of smell and hearing. Play music that you enjoy to keep a happy atmosphere in your home or office. Also, try keeping a stash of essential oils on hand to smell when you need a quick happiness booster., Mindfulness is the process of observing situations and circumstances from an objective perspective. It allows you to pay attention to all of the good that is going on in your present environment without focusing on the anxiety of the future or rehashing the negative past. These techniques have been shown to be quite effective in increasing positive emotions and decrease stress. In fact, one study found that mindfulness based therapy was just as effective for treating depression and preventing relapse as antidepressants., Spend time savoring the things and activities that you enjoy. Whether it’s eating that delicious pastry or relaxing in a luxurious bubble bath, take time out to really bask in it.


Individuals who take a few minutes each day to actively savor an activity that they normally complete in a hurried fashion, such as eating breakfast, drinking a cup of tea, or walking to the train, tend to experience more happiness and fewer symptoms of depression. Spending a few moments reminiscing and expressing gratitude about the positive things happening in your life also results in a happiness boost.The present reality is right now. Anything that is not happening right now is either in the future or in the past. Even if an event is scheduled to happen just ten minutes from now – that event is not occurring in the present. Focusing on the present allows you to find solutions to problems or enhance the pleasurable feeling that you’re currently experiencing.
Try to stay in-the-moment even when you’re having a tough day. Instead of trying to get away from the difficult experience, focus on savoring the goodness in the present moment. From this relaxed place you can reflect on the changes that you need to make to improve the situation rather than become distracted with wishing things were different.
 There will be times when you have an unpleasant experience, and that is okay. However, it’s important to learn how to allow the experience to occur without judgment. Will you feel some anger or sadness? Perhaps. However, you should not berate yourself or blame others for what happened. Purposefully going into a nonjudgmental stance is a great way to approach the process:Stop what you are doing and observe the situation at hand. Use very concrete words as you observe. You can think or say things like “I observe that my heart is beating faster as I talk to my husband” or “I observe that I just missed my train.” Try not to attach any emotion to it.
Then describe what you are experiencing. Again, you are reaching for a detached description. For example, you might say “I notice that my face is hot and I have an urge to yell back at my husband.” Remember, you are not making a judgment so avoid saying “My husband is wrong for yelling at me.” You’re not focused on why your husband is yelling or what you think that means to or about you. You are just focusing on what is actually happening.
Finally, participate in the interaction in a nonjudgmental way. Describe what you are experiencing to the other person and ask questions if necessary. For example, you can say “I’m noticing that you are raising your voice. Why is that?”

, This may be difficult to do at first but as you continue to practice mindfulness, it becomes very useful. There are many different mindfulness techniques that you can practice. However, here is one great meditation technique for beginners:Sit in a quiet place and only pay attention to your breathing. Whenever a thought begins to emerge, make a mental note and refocus on your breathing. Start with five to ten minutes and then gradually increase the time that you practice this technique.
You may experience frequent intrusive thoughts when you first begin practicing this exercise. However, the more you practice the easier it will be to focus only on your breathing.
Mindfulness techniques such as this teaches you how to focus on the present without letting other thoughts intrude. Once you master this simple technique then you’ll be able to apply the same strategy when you’re faced with a difficult situation. You can focus on the solution rather than the problem. This will make decision making easier and less stressful, even when the situation seems quite daunting.

