 There's nothing more annoying than investing your careful efforts into a gift only to realize you forgot to take the price sticker off. If you cannot remove the sticker, get a black pen and black out the price. You can also use a piece of tape if you put one end on the tag and pull it off, the price sticker will usually come with it. You don't want the person to see that you bought his electric shaver from the clearance shelf, now do you?;
, This optional step will make the gift easier to wrap. If your box comes apart easily (like a shirt-box), be sure to use a little bit of tape to keep it from opening during the wrapping process. Use only as much as necessary to keep it from coming apart, not so much that the person will need a machete to open it.


If you need to, you can almost always cut off excess wrapping papers. You can't add more wrapping paper on.
 Especially if cutting in straight lines is difficult for you, be diligent about this. Use a straight edge (like a ruler) or you can fold neatly along the line you will need to cut along, unfold, and cut along the fold. Put the rest of the roll aside.
 This will make sure that the recipient of the gift, when opening it, will land on the top of the box instead of the bottom.
 On the horizontal side of the paper, take one side and fold it over to the bottom of your gift. Then take the other side, folding it over, too. Now is where you need that extra inch. Take the longer side and fold it under so that you have a nice smooth crease instead of jagged cutting. Put it on top of the other end and pull it tight. Then tape together.
 On one end of your package, fold the corners in so you have kind of like a triangle. Fold the straight end over, then pull it to the top of your package. Tape. Repeat on the other side.


If you want to, add a crease to the triangle flap by folding the straight side over on itself.
 Make sure your ribbon is long enough and can go around the gift in whatever pattern you decide. For the "classic" look of a cross on top and bottom, the amount of ribbon you will need will be twice the length, plus twice the width, plus twice the height, plus enough to tie it and make the bow.


To tie the ribbon, put the ribbon on top of the gift and center it. Wrap it to bottom and cross the two ends past each other and pull it tight. Turn the gift 90 degrees, the lift the ribbon up the two remaining sides. Pass the two ends under the middle of the ribbon and Tie a bow on top. Get your scissors. Pull one of the sides of ribbon and curl it using the scissors. With all the spare ribbon, cut it and then tie it under the bow, cut in half and curl again, do so until there is no un-curled ribbon.
 Take the index card. Write to and from, name, etc. If you are good at calligraphy, this makes a beautiful personal touch. If not, you could either type it or write it neatly.


If you have lousy handwriting, and no to/from cards or stickers, you can cut a square of coordinating wrapping paper, fold it into a "card", and tape it in place.
You could also neatly cut out an element of the wrapping paper design (like a snowflake, a balloon, etc.) and turn it into a card. Tape this about an inch or two from the corner of the box.
 There's a lot you can do to make your wrapping more unique!

Wrap a newspaper around your gift elegantly. It will look different and unique.
Cut up word search or comics from news paper and wrap it around the gift.
Write some inspiring and beautiful quotes on paper inn your best handwriting with markers and pencils.
Wrap the gift in ordinary wrapping paper and add finishing touches with colorful tulle.
Use tissue paper. You can use it creatively and it will look different.
Give it a 3D effect by cutting butterflies or making bows and pasting them on the wrapping paper.
Use weaving to wrap your gift beautifully. It will spice up your gift and will look excellent.
Use rose petals to make a pattern with it on a plain cream wrapping paper. The fragrance will be lovely, however you can use artificial rose petals if you want to. But be careful as the petals may dry up, if using real flowers.
Take an extra large or a large piece of cloth and wrap it around the gift and give it a chick and classic knot on the top.

