 Only medical professionals who work with children and infants can apply for PALS certification. If you're a paramedic, nurse, or doctor who responds to emergencies related to children and infants, you are actually required to have PALS certification., You can find courses to take online via a simple internet search. Make sure the course you're taking is conducted through the American Heart Association. You will need to provide basic information to sign up for the course.Courses usually cost money, ranging from $175 to $275. Make sure you budget for any fees associated with the PALS course., After you sign up for the course, you'll be sent an online textbook as well as a course manual. You will need to study this carefully to learn the necessary information to get your PALS certification.Some courses may mail you hard copies of course materials. If you don't like reading on a screen, review your hard copies instead.
 Online courses will have online course modules, assignments, and lectures you need to take to complete the course. Some courses allow you to take classes on your own time, while others may have specific times you need to "attend" class. Make sure to complete all your course materials to increase your chance of passing your test and becoming PALS certified., Online PALS courses almost always provide practice exams. These are the best means to study, as they'll give you a good sense of what to expect on your final exam. After completing your course materials, take all the provided practice exams to make sure you know the necessary information to receive certification., At the end of the course, you will take a test online. Most courses allow you to take the test on your own time whenever you are ready. To avoid having to retake the exam, wait until you feel completely prepared to start the exam.Before taking the exam, review the guidelines carefully. If an exam is timed, you'll need to make sure you're answering questions in a timely fashion.
 Usually, a score of 70% is required for PALS certification. Luckily, if you don't pass the exam the first time, you can retake it as many times as you need to pass.If you do need to retake the exam, make sure you carefully review your course materials and retake any practice exams first.
 With online courses, you will receive your certification in the mail after passing the exam. You can provide your address online so you can receive your certification. You will also have to pay any fees required for certification.