 If you plan to pursue a Ph.D. in the United States (or PsyD or equivalent degree) upon graduation from college, the single best use of your time as an undergraduate is to be working on research in your area of interest. Try to present research at several conferences and publish research in one or more professional journals before graduation.


With a publication/presentation record and the outstanding recommendations that will go with your research involvement, you have a good chance to be awarded funding through a university fellowship, a graduate teaching assistant position, or graduate research associate position from your graduate school. This funding will most likely pay for your university tuition plus a small stipend to live on.;
, For graduate school, your advisor is your most important point of contact and the person who will direct and help you in your research and writing. Email each person, explain who you are and that you are planning to apply to their program. Ask if they are accepting new advisees and what kind of information they might want from you. It’s important to cultivate a relationship with a few possible people with whom you could work, and then they can work to help you be accepted to their program. The graduate program you choose should be because of the adviser and because of the financial package you receive to attend that university.
 Keep in mind that the price on their materials will probably not be indicative of the price you would pay. Based on the possible assistantships and stipends, many graduate students, particularly for Ph.D.s, often do not end up paying any tuition at all. For other degrees, it is less likely that you will be fully supported, so the price matters. Prices vary widely so comparing costs will keep the expense of graduate school down. Many well-known public universities have tuition similar to that of private universities. However, there are still some very good public universities that offer less expensive graduate degrees.


Pay close attention to whether or not the public university to which you apply charges out-of-state students more in tuition than in-state students -- it depends on the university and the program., Everyone considering graduate school should fill out the FAFSA application to see if you qualify for federal aid. You could receive either a grant or federally subsidized loan based on income. You will need your Social Security number, along with identifying information for your parents if they still declare you as a dependent on their taxes. You should also have copies of your income taxes for the last three years, and if necessary, that of your parents.You can be considered a dependent on your parents' taxes if you are under 19 years old or are a student younger than 24 years old as of the end of the calendar year. It would be to your advantage to NOT be listed as a dependent on your parents' taxes, assuming you make a lot less money than they do.
Fill out the application online at the federal student aid website and submit it electronically for processing. Monitor the status of your application and view your eligibility once the results come in.

