 Instead of making the switch suddenly, it is important to prepare the toddler well in advance. This can be done by talking to the toddler about changing where they will be sleeping.


These conversations should be very positive and focus on the good aspects of the change, such as how the child is growing up. The parent should not mention anything about how much they will miss having their child in the room with them at night because that will only confuse their child.
Highlight the benefits of independent sleep. Point out that the child is big and so grown up, promise him that he will have more space and better dreams, or promise a reward in the morning if he makes it through the night.;
, There are always “what-ifs” that need to be dealt with when a toddler is first learning to go to sleep alone. They will ask many questions and it is important that the parents treat these questions seriously and try to give answers that will comfort the child.


Sleeping alone is a very big step for toddlers and they want to understand everything about how things are going to be different.
One thing to make clear is that the toddler is allowed to get up to use the toilet if they are not in diapers. However, they need to be aware that it is not play time or time to visit the parents.
 Most pediatricians recommend that children be started on a routine as soon as possible so that they, and their parents, know what to expect next. If a good bedtime routine is not in place, the parents should take the time necessary to set one up and get the child used to it before trying to get the toddler to sleep alone.


Most bedtime routines are more about a sequence of events than they are about having things occur at a set time. Along with getting dressed for bed, the toddler’s bedtime routine should include things like brushing teeth, diaper change or using the toilet, getting a small sip of water, and a calm bedtime story.
Many toddlers will try to delay bedtime by continually requesting to do these things more than once, but the parent needs to stay firm about limits that are set. elevision, especially very active shows, as well as loud or high-paced music, should be avoided because they are not very soothing or calming.
 Making the toddler’s new sleeping space more personally theirs is another way to get them to be more enthusiastic about sleeping in a different room than the one that they have been sharing with their parents from the beginning.


Since the toddler is likely to also be changing to a regular bed instead of the crib, it is a good idea to take them shopping to pick out the sheets and blankets for their new bed. Giving the toddler this responsibility will help them feel more grownup, independent, and ready to sleep alone.
If the toddler will not be sharing the bedroom with any siblings, they can also help pick out some of the furniture or other décor that will be used in their new room.
Do not put a television, a computer or other appealing games in the child's room. The environment should be as peaceful and free from distractions as possible.
 One of the main issues that toddlers have with sleeping alone is that they worry about no longer having their parents readily available, which leaves them feeling quite vulnerable. Sounds that they ignored while they were in the bedroom with their parents will suddenly seem ten times scarier and the toddler might even think there are monsters in their new room.


It is important that the parents do not simply tell the toddler that monsters do not exist, because they are very real to the child. Instead, the parents should have an open discussion with the toddler about where they think the monsters are hiding and then proceed to search those places to show the toddler that no monsters are hiding in the room.
Another way that parents can help their toddler deal with the issue of possible monsters is to tell their toddler that they will spray the bedroom with “Monster-Be-Gone” spray. This can be something as simple as a misting bottle of water as long as the toddler is unaware that it is not real.
 Some parents find it helpful to allow the toddler to have a small night light on when they first start to sleep alone. However, the night light should be put in a place where it does not shine directly on the toddler’s pillow. It also should be checked that the night light is not creating spooky shadows instead of chasing them away.


Some parents decide against a night light and give their toddler a small flashlight to keep under their pillow and use only when needed.
 If your child refuses to sleep alone because it requires your attention, give him enough attention during the day. Spend with him at least 20 minutes a day in a play, away from the TV or computer. This way toddler will separate from you more easily and agree to sleep alone.
 Kiss him good night, encourage him to sleep alone and let him sleep. Explain to your child that for nice and peaceful sleep it is important to think about something nice. Give him a task to close his eyes and think about a nice event. Thinking will get him tired and he will fall asleep.
 Let him to know that you're around and you can come whenever he needs. Promise you'll come back to check out his new room and make sure everything is okay.


Identify a specific time when you will be back to check if he is sleeping and if everything is OK. Make a promise just so he can sleep easier.
 In this way, you'll make it clear that you are there and you'll be back. Start with returning after 5-10 minutes and then gradually lengthen the time between returns.


If you return too soon, in less than 5 or 10 minutes, the child will likely still be awake. If you wait too long, it will be frightened and nervous. The period of 5-10 minutes is best to begin with. You put your child know that you are there and it will eventually be soothed by the fact and then be able to fall asleep.
 If your child does not easily accept that he must remain in the room, stay with him, but do not sleep with him or talk to him.


Sit a little away from him and read a book or do something, but do not pay attention to the child. He should be trying to sleep and nothing else.
Gradually move away more and more. Every day sit further continuing with your activities .
When you really mean that the child is ready, try not to stay in the room, but let him know that you are present and you can check it out and leave the room.
 Not all children respond calmly when left alone in the room. If your child starts to cry, proceed with your decision and return only after five minutes. Let him know that you are there, encourage him to sleep alone again and leave the room. Continue until the child calms down and falls asleep

, In the morning when you wake up, praise the child because he slept alone and reward him with a little thing, like going to the park. This will encourage him to continue to behave in this way.


If the toddler has trouble sleeping alone throughout the entire night, they can still be rewarded for their attempts. This will encourage them to keep trying. The parents can set up a sticker chart that allows the toddler a minor reward after a certain number of stickers are collected. Of course, the ultimate goal of eventually sleeping alone should be on the chart as well.
 Although the child insists that he cannot sleep alone, be persistent and praise him if he stays in his bed, and then get out again.


Do not let the child go back to your room, even when hr is particularly nervous or even when he is sick. If you want to succeed, follow the rules without exceptions.
 In the beginning check the child at night for a while, to let him know that you are there for him at night.
 During the night if he leaves his room, bring him back to bed. Explain that he is big, has his own bedroom and needs to sleep in his own bed. Repeat as many times as necessary. Your toddler will eventually learn and accept.

