 Chips and salsa are normally served as an appetizer, free of charge, at Mexican restaurants. However, those extra calories add up fast. A typical bowl of chips at a Mexican restaurant has about four servings of tortilla chips. This would equate to about 700 calories. Split between two people, this is 350 calories each. Assume the bowl gets refilled a couple times and you can quickly see how this turns into a full day's worth of calories. You might want to ask your server to hold the chips and salsa while you're eating out.


If you're dining out with friends, especially a big group of people, you might not want to ask the server to hold the chips as that might disappoint others. Instead, just try to keep track of the amount of chips you eat. There are roughly 300 calories in 20 tortilla chips, and that's just a small part of the meal not counting your appetizer, entree, and drinks. Try to pace yourself with the chips.You could also compromise with your guests and ask that you not get the chip dish refilled. Sharing a bowl of tortilla chips with a big group means you will probably be unable to eat too many chips yourself.;
, Appetizers are usually offered as something to munch on while you wait for your main course. If you're trying to eat healthy, skipping the appetizer altogether might not be a bad idea. However, if you do want an appetizer, make a wise choice.


Ceviche is an appetizer served at many Mexican restaurants. It is a seafood dish that consists of fresh fruit, citrus juices, and chili peppers. It is generally low in calories, so it might be a good choice if you like seafood.Many Mexican restaurants offer a variety of fresh, healthy Mexican salads as appetizers. Napalito salad, for example, is made from avocado and Mexican cactus and has a fresh, crunchy, somewhat tart taste. It may be a better option for an appetizer than other items on the menu., Guacamole is often considered vastly unhealthy due to the fat content, but avocados are actually high in monounsaturated fat which is a necessary component to a healthy diet and good for heart health and cholesterol levels.


Be careful not to go overboard as guacamole can be high-calorie. You might want to split with a few friends.
Also, ask the server how the guacamole is prepared. Many Mexican restaurants, especially chains, use sour cream as an ingredient in guacamole to increase the amount without having to pay for fresh avocado. If the guacamole is made with sour cream, it might be a good idea to skip it as it's probably higher calorie and high in saturated fat., Most Mexican restaurants offer some kind of soup on the menu. Instead of a conventional appetizer, ordering soup before your meal might be a healthier, lower calorie option.


As soup is liquid heavy, it helps fill the body up. If you have a bowl of soup before the main course, you're less likely to overindulge later in the night.Choose a healthy variety of soup, one that comes with plenty of veggies and lean meats like chicken.One downside to soups is that they're often high in sodium. If you order soup early in the meal, go easy with adding table salt and hot sauces, which also have a higher sodium content, to your entree., If you order a dish like tacos or quesadillas, the server will probably ask you if you want corn or flour tortillas. Choose corn, as they're a healthier and lower calorie option. Corn tortillas are made up of whole grain and have much more fiber than their flour tortilla counterpart.


Calorie-wise, corn tortillas tend to be much lower in caloric content. Two flour tortillas come in at almost 300 calories while four corn tortillas contain about 200 calories.Flour tortillas are also higher in fat, saturated fat, sugar, and sodium than corn tortillas.However, both flour and corn tortillas are fairly high in carbs, so if you're on a low carb diet it might be best to skip foods that use tortillas altogether., Mexican dishes are usually served with a variety of sauces, salsas, and creams. You also generally get a side dish if you order an entree. When selecting sauces and sides, go for healthier options.


If dishes offer sour cream on the side or as part of the entree, like sour cream in the burrito, see if you can swap sour cream for salsa. Mexican salsa is usually made from uncooked veggies and condiments, making it relatively low in calories and fat.Pico de gallo is a Mexican salad often used as a garnish made from diced tomatoes, onion, cilantro, and jalapeño. You could ask this as a substitute for sour cream or other heavy cream sauces in a burrito or taco.When it comes to side dishes, beans and rice can be a healthy choice, but you should stay away from refried beans. These are high in calories and fat. Ask for black beans and, if it's offered, order brown rice or Spanish rice, as such dishes have more nutritional benefits than white rice.It also might be a good idea to skip the beans and rice altogether as a side. Many Mexican restaurants offer grilled veggies, which are probably your healthiest option for dining out at a Mexican restaurant., Dishes like chile relleno, chimichangas, gorditas, and taquitos are usually deep fried before they're served. This ups the fat and calorie content. It's best to stay away from such dishes if you're looking for a healthy option while eating out., When the time comes to choose your actual entree, know what foods are the healthiest choices. Mexican food can actually be fairly healthy if you make the right choices.


Grilled foods over foods that are fried are a great idea. Enchiladas are usually made with grilled meats as are fajitas. Fajitas usually include a lot of grilled veggies as well and you can always ask for extra.When possible, ask for the server to go light on calorie heavy additions to meals. Ask for light cheese and light sour cream, for example. As a substitution for less of these items, see if you can get added veggies or avocados.If you're ordering a burrito, ask that the meat be grilled. Also, when selecting meats, go for chicken or seafood options over beef or steak, as the latter are higher in calories, saturated fats, and sodium., When it comes to choosing drinks, it's best to stick to water and black coffee. Such options have no calories. Also, drinking water before a meal and between bites is a great way to fill you up. This can result in you eating less during the main course.
 If you want to join your friends in a round of drinks, make wise choices when it comes to alcohol. Stick to lighter drinks that are lower in sugar and calories.


This is the one case where plain shots might be recommended. Once you add mixers, sugar content skyrockets and you're left with an additional slab of calories added onto your meal.
Go for light beer over regular beer. A light beer usually has around 100 calories, while a regular beer has about 150.Margaritas may be a bad idea if you're trying to eat healthy. They're high in calories, as well as sugar and alcohol. However, if you don't want to miss out on the fun when your friends order margaritas ask for yours on the rocks. Blended margaritas have more calories. Also, think about splitting a margarita with a friend to reduce the calorie content., If you want to save calories but still want a treat, diet soda may be a good route when eating out. Diet soda and unsweetened tea are zero calorie options that can feel refreshing during a meal.


Diet soda gets a bad reputation due to the chemicals in it. However, drinking a moderate amount of diet soda on special occasions is unlikely to harm you and it has no calories or sugars like regular sodas. If you want a treat while eating out, having one diet soda with dinner might be a better option than getting an alcoholic beverage or a regular soda.If you're not big on diet soda, try an unsweetened iced tea. Teas come in a variety of flavors and unsweetened tea is a great way to get a treat in beverage form without consuming anything too unhealthy.

