 Once your overall plan is complete, you'll need to work alongside top managers to make sure that they can develop a meaningful operations plan to accomplish their goal. For instance, it's not enough to install equipment that will save workers time to construct auto parts; you must also factor in the time and cost of re-training employees and details like installing and receiving the new equipment.


An operational plan may include things like re-training, or changing an existing operation to be more efficient or utilize newly acquired equipment or hardware.
Another operational plan may include notifying or sending out memos to employees on a change in policy.
 Holding team members accountable for their results will make a more reliable team. Having the right team is critical for implementing a strategic plan effectively. Make sure to be specific about deadlines and the consequences for not completing a task.Have an open and honest conversation with employees who meet deadlines. If they consistently miss them, consider finding someone else that can meet the requirements for the job.
If you must talk to an employee, you can say something like, "Bill, I know that there's been a lot of operational disruption this month, but you've consistently missed the last three deadlines in a row. Can you explain what you think is stopping you from meeting the deadlines?"
If you need to fire someone because they miss deadlines, you can say something like "Joe, your progress has been less than acceptable for the last month or two and your missed deadlines are affecting the rest of the team's progress. I'm going to have to ask you to pack your stuff and leave."
Check with HR to make sure that firing the employee is consistent with legal guidelines and company policy.
 Continue to monitor the progress of your strategic plan once you implement it. Consider whether your plan or tactics have helped you reach your goals. If you haven't reached your goals, it's time to evaluate your plan again and figure out if it's an aspect of the plan that's preventing you from achieving them, or if the plan and tactics are not being implemented correctly.Check in with managers and team leaders to see if your plan is being implemented. If the changes that your strategic plan have not taken place, then you can't hope to achieve your goals.
Use benchmarks to check in on the progress of your plan as it develops.
For instance, if your plan included increasing revenue in the first quarter of 2017, but you failed to meet your goals, go back and evaluate where your plan is failing.
 When you are developing your strategic plan, you should also develop a process on how to change and adapt with the market. New technology, changes in the industry, or unforeseen operational difficulties may make your plan ineffective. Instead of letting a weak program continue, you should change your course of action and alter it to fit the current reality of your company and industry.For instance, if you change your customer service system to an automated system which saves money on employee cost, but the majority of clients threaten to leave because of the modification, it may be time to alter your original plan and offer limited operator services as well.

