 Your stomach produces hydrochloric acid in order to digest food. This is a strong acid which is very corrosive and causes the burn in your chest. You can neutralize some of the acid by consuming a base, such as baking soda mixed with water. Compared with over the counter antacids, this homemade medicine doesn't taste very good. But drinking a mixture of baking soda and water will bring the pH of the liquid in your stomach and help relieve the burn.Do not use this method if you are on a low sodium diet because baking soda is very high in sodium.
 If you suffer from an occasional episode of heartburn, an over the counter antacid like Alka-Seltzer, Tums, Milk of Magnesia, Maalox, Rolaids, Pepcid Complete, or Pepto-Bismol may be all that you need to feel better. Keep one of these medicines on hand to help relieve heartburn when it strikes. Make sure that you read and follow the instructions before taking any over the counter medicine., If you have heartburn two or more times per week, then an acid reducer, like an H2 blocker or a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), may be what you need. Drugs like Pepcid, Zantac, Prilosec, and Nexium are all available over the counter. They have been approved by the FDA for up to 14 days of continuous use. Make sure that you read and follow the instructions before taking any over the counter medicine.


H2 blockers may take longer to work than other types of heartburn medicine, but the relief lasts longer.Types of H2 blockers include cimetidine, famotidine, nizatidine, or ranitidine.
PPIs may be helpful if you have heartburn more than twice per week. However, taking PPIs for more than a year may increase your risk for a broken hip, low blood levels of magnesium, pneumonia, and Clostridium difficile.Talk to your doctor before you start taking a PPI medication. Over-the-counter proton pump inhibitors include lansoprazole and omeprazole. Keep in mind that these medications can be expensive if you purchase them without a prescription.
If you find that you need to take these medicines daily for more than two weeks, then you should talk to your doctor about a prescription acid reducer., If your heartburn does not seem to respond to lifestyle changes or it is interfering with your daily activities, you should talk to your doctor about heartburn medication. Your doctor may prescribe an acid-blocking drug, like an H2 blocker, or a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) to help relieve your heartburn.


Keep in mind that even though these medications will help to relieve your heartburn symptoms, your doctor will probably still recommend that you make other lifestyle changes to control your heartburn., If taking medications does not provide adequate relief, or if you do not wish to continue taking medication for your heartburn, there are surgical options. Your options include:Nissen Fundoplication. A Nissen Fundoplication will tighten and strengthen your lower esophageal sphincter. The surgeon will wrap the top of your stomach around the lower part of your esophagus, which should prevent heartburn.
Linx. Your other option is to have what is called a Linx device put in place, which is a small magnetic ring of titanium beads that behaves like your lower esophageal sphincter.

