 The best cases are those made by Pelican, Starlight, and similar companies. These cases are tough! Supposedly a tank can roll over them without damage to the contents. TSA and airline baggage handling is rough on cases, so the best case is a requirement. The typical Walmart case simply will not do.


The best cases have foam linings that can be cut to fit your gun(s). In many cases, you must make cutouts since the guns will not fit without cutting. Do not cut openings for ammunition -- even for car travel it is often illegal to have ammunition packed with the weapon. You can provide for magazines and other gear, though.
Pistols can be packed inside of regular luggage. Since theft of any gun is a consideration, having a case that does not resemble a gun case can be an advantage. Obviously, having your pistols enclosed in regular luggage provides this obfuscation. Some people pack rifles in golf club travel containers. The Pelican-like cases are not as obviously "gun" cases as these are also used for demonstration equipment, tools, and instruments.;
, With cases such as suggested with very thick foam, this is probably not required but is a simple step that may prevent problems.
 While many will tell you to use a TSA approved lock, this is actually prohibited by 49CFR 1540.111, the regulation that governs firearm transportation. It should be noted that the TSA usually allows the use of TSA locks but in reality they are not legal as they are designed to be opened by a TSA master key, which is expressly prohibited by the above regulation. The TSA will ask you to unlock the case or provide them a key (do not give them the combination if a combination lock is used), then they will visually inspect the packing of your gun, after which they will either have you re-lock your case or they will re-lock it and return your key. TSA agents are not trained or allowed to handle firearm, so no contact should me made in that manner. If an agent feels the firearm requires in-depth inspection, they must have a law enforcement officer come over to perform that function. If re-inspection is deemed necessary after the bag is checked, they will locate the owner and have them open the case again, so it is wise to remain in the area or on the aircraft after checking the firearm. Buy the best non-TSA locks you can find.
 Declare to the attendant when you get to the counter, "I have a gun to check." (Note, airgun/air rifle/air pistol are not considered firearms and do not require declaration but do have to be placed in checked baggage and it is wise to alert the agent as to avoid a delay due to a misunderstanding.) Air tanks are not allowed past TSA without internal inspection. That said, a tank attached to a gun is considered to be part of the gun and not a tank. Thus, limit yourself to one attached tank -- if you must have additional tanks, either prepare them for internal inspection (X-Ray is not enough, unfortunately) or ship them separately. Just-in-case, it is a good idea to travel with the tools to allow internal inspection of an airgun tank. The tanks should all have air pressure released before inspection or take the tool to release the pressure if necessary. There is no danger of explosion from travel.
 There is a form you fill-out with this declaration that goes into the gun case. You will get a baggage tag for you gun and other luggage. Your gun will be sent to the TSA inspector for the next stage of processing.
 There are state restrictions on having ammo packed with the gun that may apply, too! There are usually airline limits on how much ammunition that can be carried, typically 5 kilograms (11 pounds) per person. Check with the airline for these limits. Again, you can always ship ammunition separately. While it is relatively easy to ship ammunition, shipping guns is not simple.
 As stated above, they are only allowed to visually inspect the firearms packing and the content of the case. They are allowed to search the case in depth which may require manipulating the firearm somewhat along with the packing, but no manipulation of the firearm in terms of opening the action, removing parts or magazines or dis-assembly of any type. If this is deemed necessary by the agent, they must have a law enforcement officer come to the area and perform that action. While unlikely, you may be asked to explain your reasons for travelling with a gun. If so, be nice. A short and simple answer is all that is needed. Something like "protection while on my trip," "hunting," or "attending a shooting event". Most likely nothing will be asked. The most I have encountered to date have been statements of positive admiration for my firearms by the inspecting agents.
 Your gun should then become "luggage" except for possibly being routed to special handling upon arrival at your destination. While the airline may tell you that your guns will arrive in a different area than you baggage (think skis), in practice they will often just be luggage and arrive with your other bags. Ask the agent where to expect them if not informed and immediately check with the staff at the arriving airport as well but be ready to check both special handling and regular baggage arrivals.

