 The scene culture leans toward "party music" that you can dance to and is often electronic. The music is much more pop-oriented and makes great background noise for socializing and having a good time. Emo music, on the other hand, is not danceable, and is much more rock-centric.


The typical emo sound is dramatic in its emotional range and often features a dynamic of alternating loud/soft extremes. It tends to emphasize emotion rather than socializing and partying.
Fast, punk-derived drum beats and heavily distorted guitars are common elements in the emo sound., Emo vocals are dramatic in mood and can even occasionally feature screams, moans and howls. Lyrically, emo musicians are introspective and focus on emotional issues like sadness, confusion, love, anger and pain.Later emo musicians developed a slightly softer, more mainstream sound, but the lyrical content remained just as brooding and contemplative.
Scene music does not put any particular emphasis on lyrical content and doesn’t feature the inward-looking, thoughtful vibe that is characteristic of emo.
 Recognizing and listening to the “right” emo bands is a key component of emo culture. Bands are slightly less important in the fashion-centric scene culture, but there are some bands that are overwhelmingly considered to be “scene bands.”


Some of the flagship bands in emo culture, both past and present, are: Rites of Spring, Embrace, Moss Icon, Drive Like Jehu, Fugazi, Jawbreaker, Sunny Day Real Estate, Dashboard Confessional, Jimmy Eat World, Get Up Kids, The Promise Ring, Brand New, My Chemical Romance and Fall Out Boy.Scene band names to look out for are Blood on the Dancefloor, Owl City, Dot Dot Curve, Brokencyde, Scene Kidz, Millionaires, Jeffree Star and Hollywood Undead.
Scene music also features a lot artists from electro-pop, dance-pop, dubstep and house/techno genres. Names to recognize are Skrillex, Knife Party and deadmau5. Occasionally, mainstream pop stars like Katy Perry and Nicki Minaj are also embraced by the scene subculture.

