 Standing exercises that you do around the office or next to your desk are much more obvious than ones that can be done while sitting. Make sure the people you work with don’t mind if you exercise next to your desk, in the break room, hallways, and near the printer. If they do mind, keep your exercises out of common or highly visible spaces., This is a great workout for your glutes. While you’re waiting for the coffee to brew, lift your leg behind you, keeping the knee straight. Repeat this 10 times on each leg.For an exercise aimed at your hamstrings, you can switch this up and do leg curls by kicking your leg up toward your buttocks, bending at the knee. Repeat this 10 times on each leg as well., Use the counter or the wall for balance. Lean over in plank position with your back straight and your core nice and tight. Place your hands shoulder-width apart and do 10 pushups by lowering your body down to the surface.Increase the number of pushups you do by five as this becomes easier for you!
Keep your elbows tucked in close to your body and your spine straight for good pushup form.
 Either lift your leg up behind you or cross it over your other leg. Squat down on one leg only and hold the squat for 10-30 seconds (or as long as you can). Work out both legs.Hold onto the counter for balance if you need it.
 Raise yourself up on the balls of your feet (the top of your arches). Do as many raises as you can in one minute. Try to beat your record every time.Be sure to do a quick stretch for your calves after this by placing one foot behind the other, leaning against the wall, and putting your weight into your back leg. Repeat on both sides.
You can use the wall or your desk for balance if you need it.
 Wall sits are perfect for working out your quads, back, and core muscles. Take a paper report or memo you need to read over to the side of your office and slide yourself down on the wall until your legs form a 90° angle with the floor. Read the report while “sitting” against the wall.You can rest in between several reps of wall sits if you’d like. Increase the amount of time you spending sitting and decrease your rests as you get better.

