


Read your vehicle's owner's manual to learn how to maintain your vehicle and what gasoline to use. Most vehicles will call for regular octane gasoline, but some will perform better and have longer engine life if high octane gasoline is used.;
,


Talk to the mechanic that regularly works on your vehicle or a local mechanic that specializes in working on your type of car about which gasoline to purchase. Your mechanic will likely be familiar with which types of gasoline result in optimum performance in certain vehicles and will also be able to inform you about warning signs to watch for if the wrong gasoline is causing your car to malfunction.



Gas pumps now have diesel fuel and fuel for hybrid vehicles alongside standard gasoline, so be sure to purchase gasoline that is appropriate for your vehicle. Read the signs at the pump carefully and double check that you've chosen fuel that is safe for your vehicle before you start pumping.



The first step to knowing which gasoline to purchase is to understand the differences between the available kinds of gasoline. Research octane levels in regular versus high octane gasoline and educate yourself about the benefits of different types of gasoline for specific vehicles or driving patterns.



High octane or premium gasoline can be worth the extra cost at the pump if you drive long distances on a regular basis, but might not be worth the expense if your driving habits don't warrant it. Log your regular drive times and distances and determine whether your driving habits and routes warrant purchasing premium gasoline.



Ask a local car dealer or customer representative for your vehicle's make about the best kinds of gasoline to purchase. The individuals that sell your type of vehicle will have more knowledge about the specific needs of your type of car along with feedback from other drivers.



Take the age and condition of your car into consideration when purchasing gasoline. An older car with an older engine might run more smoothly with premium gasoline, whereas a newer car with fewer maintenance needs or problems could be fine with cheaper gasoline.

