 If you try matching up a good friend with an acquaintance who you really don’t know much about, there is a risk that things can go wrong beyond the two not having any chemistry. That acquaintance might turn out to be an unpleasant person or even dangerous. Be sure you really know the two people involved before attempting to coordinate a romantic connection.;
, Variety is said to be the spice life, but your two friends will need to have something to talk about during the date you are trying to set up. When they have shared interests, it will be easier for them to connect with one another. Plus, shared interests tend to lead to more meaningful connections.At the very least, you want them to enjoy their time together even if they don’t make a romantic connection.


One method for opening up one friend to the idea of being introduced to another friend is to say something like, “Have I ever mentioned my friend Rick before? I was just realizing that the two of you have both been to Spain.”
Avoid setting up friends who could potentially clash over major lifestyle differences. For instance, if you know your guy friend can’t wait to find someone to marry and have children with but your female friend doesn’t plan to have children and prefers to take it slow in her relationships, that might not be a wise match.
 Let your friends know that you’d like to introduce them to someone because you think they’d hit it off. It’s best not to be sneaky when trying to bring two people together. Both parties should be open to meeting. Otherwise, things could get awkward if you thrust them together unexpectedly, which might squash any chance of them developing a romantic relationship.When speaking with each friend, be sure to highlight the positives about the other person.
Try saying something along the lines of, “I have this friend Jill who is really great at cooking. She’s funny too. I think you’d like her. Maybe I can introduce you some time, if that’s alright with you.”

, Before setting up two of your friends, first think about what might happen if things don’t go smoothly. Suppose they do go on a date but have a miserable time and never want to see each other again. That might mean that you cannot invite the both to the same social gatherings, such as cookouts at your place. Keep this in mind when considering setting up two people who have the potential to run into one another again after the date.If the two friends are coworkers, even if they work in different departments or separate buildings, it might be best not to play matchmaker. If things end badly between them, there is still the potential that they could run into one another in the workplace.
Another thing to keep in mind is how your friendship with both parties might be affected. If things don’t work out between them, you could find yourself caught in the middle should they choose to gossip about one another to you. You might even be asked to choose sides.
If things do not work out, offer each friend a simple apology. You can say something like, “I’m sorry things didn’t work out.” Then, avoid bringing up the topic again. Only discuss the situation if the other person brings it up first.

