 Before you decide how you will deal with your dog’s remains, you will need to find out what, if any, laws are in place that restrict how your dog will be laid to rest. Some cities, for example, have ordinances that prohibit dogs from being buried outside of specified pet cemeteries. Call your city or county government and ask about pet burial regulations in your area.When you call your city government, try saying, “My dog just passed away. Does our city have any regulations about where we can bury our dog?”

, Cremation is a cheaper option than burial in a pet cemetery, and allows you the flexibility of keeping your dog’s remains with you or scattering them in a meaningful place as part of the funeral service. In some places, city or county regulations only allow you to bury dog remains that have been cremated. Talk to your veterinarian about cremation options in your area.If you wish to keep your dog’s remains, be sure to ask for individual, instead of communal, cremation.
 If your local laws allow it, you can consider burying your dog on your property. In most locations, however, it is illegal to bury your dog on public property. This means, for example, that you cannot bury your dog in a local park on or public lands such as a national forest., Whether you decide to cremate your dog or bury your dog on your own property, you should decide exactly where your dog’s remains will be put to rest. For example, you might end a home funeral service by burying your dog under its favorite tree in your backyard. If you are cremating your dog, you might decide that your dog’s final resting place will be in an urn on your mantle.


You can also bury your dog’s favorite things as part of the burial and memorial process.
 Whether you bury your dog, cremate your dog, or bury your dog’s cremated remains, you will want to choose a receptacle that suits your budget and circumstance. Make sure you choose an urn or casket that is appropriate for your pet’s size. For example, each pound of your pet’s body weight will need one cubic inch of space in an urn.Talk to your vet or local pet funeral home about selecting an urn or casket.
You can also purchase urns and caskets for your dog online.
 After your dog dies, it is important to make sure they are properly memorialized. Consider erecting a memorial or gravestone in your dog’s honor. You can place it at the site where you inter your dog’s remains, or on your own property as a tribute to your dog. Memorials and gravestones can be purchased at your local pet funeral home or online.
 Once you decide on a physical memorial for your pet, you will want to make sure it is engraved with words that reflect your dog ‘s life. You can simply have your dog’s name, birthday, and date of death engraved on the memorial. You can also choose an epitaph that reflects your dog’s personality, such as a poem or words from a favorite song.

