 This book was written in the 1970s. There are many other good books on the subject, but this one originally coined the term, which refers to the DIY lifestyle as opposed to the DIY political viewpoint, and it is one of the best books on the subject.;
, Instructables.com is a good site to watch, as is Youtube.com.
 One of the best ways to do this is to buy a cheap piece of unimproved, unrestricted land and park a cheap travel trailer or old house trailer on it. Or you could even live in a wall tent, tepee, yurt, or plywood (or even cardboard, painted to weatherproof) shack. You may be able to sell your expensive vehicle and other non-necessary items to pay for this. Or, buy on a land contract and pay it off as soon as possible.
 Use an RV toilet, outhouse, or sawdust toilet to avoid the necessity of installing a septic system, with the permits and taxes that entails. Put together a battery bank and either use DC lights and appliances (preferably scrounged), or buy or barter for an inverter. If you are into electronics, you could even build your own inverter; they are simple. Build a wind generator, scrounge some used PV (solar) panels, and/or build, buy or barter for a gas or diesel generator.
 That way you can stay in communication with family and friends, without having a recurring monthly payment. Buy minutes when you have money, conserve minutes when you don't.
 If you get a gas generator, make a methane digester to run it on.
 Better yet, get two or three super cheap ones that have problems, and put together one good bike, and a trailer to go with it.
 If you need a car, buy a cheap one that you can pay cash for. A pickup truck is best for this lifestyle, better is a diesel pickup so you can make your own fuel for (biodiesel or WVO), and best yet is an old non-running mini-truck (Isuzus are cheap, and tough) into which you can swap an old Mercedes, VW or other small diesel engine. Advantages? 35-40 mpg on home-made, cheap fuel; and the ability to haul home scrounged goods. You may be able to put together such a vehicle for a few hundred bucks.
 Carry a multi-tool, a knife and other useful items on your person, in belt pouches, fanny pack, backpack or whatever; and carry a toolbox of more serious tools in your truck. Have more tools yet at home, including a welder and air compressor. Better yet, especially if your generator isn't big enough to power these items, convert a heavy-duty alternator to double as a welder, and mount it in your truck. Also find an older piston-type automotive air conditioning compressor, convert to an air compressor, and mount that in your truck, too. These tools are for fixing your stuff that breaks, fixing other folks' stuff for pay, barter or just to help out, and disassembling cast-off stuff you find on trash day, either to pick off the good parts on the spot, or break it down to a more manageable size.
 That's right; now that you have practically no bills, you can make what little money you need by picking up aluminum cans, fixing and selling cast-off appliances, odd-jobbing, etc.
 Have a garden and orchard on your small tract of land, and don't forget chickens and perhaps even pigs, which can be fed for free. You can also raise fish and crayfish in a plastic wading pool or similar.
 You will be amazed at how well you can feed yourself on wild game and fish, if you live in an area that is conducive.

