 In a heavy saucepan, heat the half and half to 175 degrees over low heat. Add in the sugar and salt while it cooks. Stir it until the sugar dissolves., Break your eggs into a bowl. Beat the eggs well. Next, take a small amount of the hot mixture and pour it into the eggs. Whisk them together. Pour the egg mixture into the saucepan, whisking the mixture constantly. Cook the mixture over low heat until it reaches 160 degrees.


It should coat the back of a metal spoon.
 Remove the pan from heat. Cool the pan down quickly by placing the pan in a large bowl of ice water. Stir the mixture while it rests in the bowl for 2 minutes. Stir in the whipping cream, vanilla, and milk. Put plastic wrap over the saucepan and place it in the refrigerator. Leave it in for several hours.


You can also leave it in the fridge overnight.
 Take the mixture out of the refrigerator. Mash the bananas with a fork. Stir the bananas into the custard mixture. Take the cylinder of an ice cream freezer and fill it 2/3 the way full with your mixture. Let the ice cream make to the freezer's specifications. Place the remaining mixture back in the fridge while you wait for the first batch to make. Once the ice cream is frozen, transfer it from the ice cream cylinder to a freezer safe container. Make the remaining mixture. Place the ice cream in the freezer for 2-4 hours before serving to get the desired consistency.


This recipe makes 3 quarts of ice cream., If you don't like custard or cannot have eggs, you may want to try a variation on this recipe. Blend 4 ripe bananas, 1 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoon of lime juice, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, and 2 cups of heavy whipping cream in a blender until smooth. Place the mixture in an ice cream freezer and make according to the directions. Serve and enjoy.


This recipe makes 4 servings.
You can put this mixture in a freezer safe bowl and freeze it if you don't have an ice cream freezer. Stir the mixture every few hours until it is the desired texture you want.
