 You can rank the relative importance of each job characteristic by using a scale from one (highest priority) to ten (lowest priority).


If your list has more than ten characteristics, you can continue ranking in ascending order from highest to lowest priority.
For instance, you could write the number one beside the salary range you decide upon to indicate this characteristic as your number one priority.;
, Consider whether you want to be doing the same type of work you are currently doing or something a little different. If you are a carpenter and spent most of your time in your last position doing framing, consider whether you would like to be framing at your next job or if you would prefer to spend more time on finishing work, cabinetry, or other types of carpentry.
 Reflect on the salary you want to be earning at your next job. Consider the salary you made in your last few positions and whether you want to be earning a similar or a higher salary., Think about the qualities you want to see in your next boss. Reflect on the qualities of your last supervisor and which of those qualities you would hope to find (or not) in your next supervisor.


If your last supervisor offered little or poor feedback about your performance, consider whether you want your next supervisor to be more proficient in offering constructive feedback.
 Think about the opportunities for advancement or professional development you hope to see in your next position. Ponder whether there are specific areas of professional development that you would hope find at your next position, such as funding for professional conferences.
 You can search for corporate values by looking at mission statements and “about us” pages on company websites or by talking to former or current employees at professional conferences and events.


For example, you can look at mission statements on company websites. Reading the mission statements, search for keywords that relate to the values you are looking for such as “personal growth” or “professional development.”
For example, if you want a job that values professional development opportunities, you should look for one that promotes this on their website.
If you want one that values work-life balance, you should look for this quality on their website. , Whereas some companies do a lot to promote social relationships in the workplace with perks like weekend retreats, others have a more hands off approach. You should make sure the corporate culture is a good fit for what you want in your career and whether it fits your lifestyle.


Explore the ‘About us’ or ‘Values’ pages of the company website. This should give you an initial sense of whether they value things that you are looking for in a company.Explore the ‘Careers’ page on the organization website. This can help you figure out if the culture is a good fit for you.
Set up a Google news alert for the company. This will help you get a sense of the values the company promotes to the public and how it is perceived in the news media.
Think about the kind of work-life balance you need and whether the corporate culture will support that balance in your life.Consider your current and future plans. For example, if you plan on having a child in the near future, then you might consider whether the company allows for telecommuting or flexible hours.
 Common review websites include Glassdoor and Vault.If you find trends in the reviews that raise red flags for you, you might want to look elsewhere. At the same time, remember to take the reviews with a grain of salt. Many reviews may be written by either disgruntled or new employees.Company review websites also often include information about similar companies that you might be interested in applying to.
 Observe the values promoted in their Facebook posts and whether they align with your values. Next, look at profiles of people who work at the company on Linkedin. Decide whether these are people you would like to work with.If you place a high value on work-life balance and you find a lot of posts that indicate the company values workhorse or nose to the grindstone type employees who work every weekend, perhaps the company values do not align with yours.
If you value social and environmental sustainability and you cannot find any posts relating to sustainability, perhaps the company does not have the same values as you.
 Talking with other people who work at the company is one of the best ways to determine if it is a good place to work. Talk to them about the company to figure out if it is a good fit for you. If it seems like a good fit, you can use the contact to help you get ready for the big interview.Ask them about what it’s like to work there, such as whether it is expected to work late and whether they give you free meals or other fringe benefits.You might ask: How do you feel about the company? Do you feel like it offers good opportunities for advancement? Are you happy with how they treat you?

