 There are many different kinds of muzzles available on the market, but the main criteria should be that your dog can sniff, drink, and pant while wearing it. The ability to accept treats through the muzzle is desirable too.


Basket Muzzles: These are the most commonly recommended muzzles for pet owners because they allow the dog to sniff, drink, and pant while wearing them. They also happen to make your dog look like Hannibal Lecter, especially if you get the kind with a wire instead of plastic or leather. Don't let that deter you. If you are going to muzzle your dog in any situation in which it is physically active (even just a walk), use a basket muzzle.
Fabric Muzzles: These look more comfortable (and less Hannibal) but they are only appropriate for short periods (30 minutes or less) and under close supervision because your dog will not be able to drink or regulate its temperature by panting. These are commonly used by veterinarians and groomers. This might be a good muzzle to use while clipping your dog's nails, though keep in mind they might be able to nip or pinch you.
Head Halters: These are mentioned here because many people think they are muzzles, but they are actually not. While they do wrap around the dog's muzzle, they will not prevent a dog from biting anyone or anything.
Police Muzzles: These are extra secure because they are used on police dogs which are trained to attack on command. This kind of muzzle is unnecessary and not recommended for pets.;
, While the ideal situation would be to go to a pet store and have your dog try on various muzzles, if you want to build a positive association, this is not the best way to start things off. If your dog reacts apprehensively to trying on muzzles, a negative association will be made and you'll have a much harder time muzzle training your dog. Instead, take measurements and compare this to a sizing chart provided by the manufacturer of the muzzle. There are usually two measurements needed:


from the tip of the nose to where the dog's own muzzle starts to slope upward toward the forehead
the circumference of your dog's own muzzle at its thickest part

, Put the muzzle on a table or hold it in your hand. Any time your dog looks at it, sniffs it, or shows any interest in it, reward your dog profusely. Give verbal praise, click, and/or give treats.
 Hold the muzzle in your hand, with the opening facing the ceiling. Put your dog's favorite treats (cheese, chopped up hot dog, anything high-value) in the bottom of the muzzle so that in order to get to them, your dog has to stick its nose in the muzzle., Allow your dog to put its nose in the muzzle so it can lick the sweet treat.
 This could take anywhere from a few days to a few weeks. Be patient.
 Just lift it and bring it back down. How does the dog respond? It might not care at all, or it might be wary. If your dog is wary at all, repeat this one out of every five times you give him treats through the muzzle until he is comfortable.
 Again, see how your dog responds and if wary, practice it sporadically until the caution wears off.
 Don't actually close it. Repeat sporadically until your dog is comfortable with this.
 This is best done with the frozen treat trick, so your dog can keep enjoying the treat while the muzzle is secured on his face. As soon as the treat is gone, remove the muzzle.
 Obviously, the muzzle removes fetch from the equation, but there's still wresting, chasing, and whatever else your dog enjoys that a muzzle doesn't interfere with.
 At first, it should be no longer than a few minutes. Eventually, your dog should be comfortable enough to wear the muzzle for a few hours.

