 If you fall into one of these categories, there’s no getting around pre-lightening with bleach before you move forward. Purchase a vol 20 or 30 bleach kit from a beauty supply store and follow the instructions that come with it. Your new hair color will not show up if you proceed without bleaching the current color out first.If you have red, dark or medium brown hair, use vol 20 developer.
If you have near-black or black hair, use vol 30 developer.If you have dark brown, medium brown or red hair that's never been chemically treated, you can skip the bleach and go right into dyeing.;
, Your bleach kit will contain both items, as well as an applicator and pair of plastic gloves. Put on the gloves before you open any packaging – these chemicals can burn your skin. Mix the bleach powder and vol developer until fully incorporated.Once mixed, you need to use the bleach immediately.
To protect your scalp from the bleaching chemicals, avoid washing it for several days beforehand. The natural oils will create a protective barrier., To ensure even results, you need to divide your hair into four manageable sections. Center part your hair from the crown down to the nape of your neck. Divide those sections in half by parting the hair at ear level. Use hair clips to keep the quadrants in place as you work.Drape a towel around your shoulders right before you apply the bleach to protect your skin.
 Start with the bottom quadrants before moving on to the top ones. Take the first clip out to release the hair. Use the applicator brush to apply the bleach from top to bottom. Do this as quickly as possible. Get as close to the roots as possible.Work carefully with the bleach, since it can burn your skin. Have a friend help you if this is your first time.
You might associate foil with the bleaching process. It's used when bleaching highlights into hair or for excluding areas that you want to protect. You need to bleach all of your hair for this process, so you won't be using foil.
 Continue applying the bleach as quickly and carefully as possible to each quadrant until your hair is completely covered in the bleach solution. Each time you finish a quadrant, carefully clip it back up out of the way., Each product will be different, and the darker your hair is, the longer it should sit on your hair. Bleach is damaging to the hair shaft, so leave it on your hair for the least amount of time possible. 30 to 45 minutes is typical.Check it every 5 to 10 minutes to avoid over-processing.
Never leave bleach on your hair for longer than an hour., Once the color has lifted from your hair, start rinsing the bleach out. The cold water will stop the bleach from processing your hair. Rinse thoroughly and shampoo your hair twice to make sure you’ve removed all of the bleach.After bleaching your hair, don’t be alarmed – your hair will appear to be bright orange. This is normal! The light brown hair dye will cover it.

