 If your partner’s parents disrespect you, speak up and ask your partner to defend you. If your partner loves you, they should not allow their parents to act rudely or mean towards you. However, because it’s their parents, they may feel uncomfortable speaking up.


Although your spouse shouldn’t allow any talking behind your back, you should also avoid telling your partner to choose sides. Doing so puts them in an impossible position. Try to understand where your partner is coming from, but also ask that they don’t allow their parents to speak badly about you.Try to come up with some respectful but firm responses for your partner to use to defend you. These statements should be strong enough to defend you without insulting your partner’s parents.
 You and your partner are a team, so talking about how to battle this together is ideal. Supporting each other is crucial during this hardship, and if you’re in it for the long haul, this may be something you have to deal with for a very long time. Come up with a plan and then do your best to implement it.


For instance, decide that you will both not hold what the parents do against each other. Also, agree to let go of anything negative the parents do as quickly as possible. This will allow you to move on with your lives and be happy without holding grudges. Lastly, decide to always be honest with each other about the things that upset you. Doing this can help the both of you understand where the other is coming from and possibly avoid bad situations., One of the biggest barriers to healthy communication is the way you and your partner listen to one another. Too often, people listen with the intention of replying; they don't listen to understand. When you follow some basic principles of active listening you and your partner can get on the same page and strengthen your bond in the process.


Make occasional eye contact. Use open body language with your body turned toward them and your arms and legs relaxed at your sides.
Share your feelings using "I" statements like "It makes me feel very small when your mom acts like I'm trash because I don't come from a wealthy family like yours. I really wish you would stand up for me." By focusing on your feelings, you will be giving your partner a chance to come to their own conclusions regarding their parents’ behavior.
Now, give your partner an opportunity to respond. They might say, "I'm sorry you feel that way, baby. My mom is very arrogant when it comes to money and status..."
Give your partner the chance to fully express their message and provide a summary afterwards, like "It sounds like you're saying your mom does that with other people, too?"
Make sure you have fully received their message before providing your own response., In-laws have the power to make or break your relationship, but only if you allow it. At the end of the day, you can't force your partner's parents to like you. However, you and your partner can make sure this doesn't negatively impact your relationship by presenting as a unified front. When you come off as a team, the in-laws are less likely to challenge you.


Stand together about your principles and don't fold when they apply pressure. For instance, if you have already expressed a boundary that you will be visiting one family for Thanksgiving and one family for Christmas, don't even consider it if one family tries to negotiate this boundary. Simply have your partner say, "Mom, Dad, we already told you our travel plans for the holidays. Please respect our decision."
In addition, to being united when together, you should also maintain unity when apart. Both you and your partner should clarify what is shared with the family and what is kept between you. When you are in their presence, stand true to this in to send the message that both partners respect and value one another's privacy and decisions.