 Lightly grease a muffin pan, or line it with paper muffin liners instead.
 Keep blending the oatmeal until it is finely ground and resembles coarse flour. This will replace the flour typically used in muffin recipes.

If you don't own a food processor, you can try using a blender instead. You can also use pre-ground oatmeal instead.
Leave the remaining 1 cup (100 grams) of oats wholes and unblended.
 Pour the 1½ cups (150 grams) of ground old-fashioned oat into a large bowl, then add the 1 cup (100 grams) of whole oat-fashioned oats. Add in the baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Stir everything together until evenly combined.

For more flavorful muffins, add in an extra teaspoon of cinnamon, nutmeg, or pumpkin pie spice.If you are vegan, you will need to use flaxseed eggs. Add another ½ teaspoon of baking powder for extra raising power., You can mash them up using a fork or a mixer. Keep mashing them until no lumps or clumps remain. If you don't like bananas, you can use 1 cup (255 grams) of plain, unsweetened applesauce instead., Keep whisking until everything is evenly combined, and there are no lumps or streaks. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often so that the honey doesn't settle.

If you are a strict vegan, try agave nectar instead of honey.
If you are vegan, use a non-dairy milk instead of dairy milk.
If you are vegan, use 2 flaxseed eggs instead of chicken eggs. Prepare the flax eggs by: Mixing 2 tablespoons (14 grams) of flaxseed meal with 6 tablespoons (90 milliliters) of water. Let it sit for 5 minutes, then stir it into your oil mixture., Keep stirring until everything is just mixed together. Don't worry if it looks too wet or lumpy., During this time, the oats will soak up the moisture from the eggs and milk. Once the 10 minutes are up, you can fold in ½ cup (cc grams) of tasty extras, such as dried fruits or chopped nuts., You have enough batter to make 14 muffins. Once you have the batter in the muffin tin, you can sprinkle the tops with some old-fashioned oatmeal; press the oats gently into the muffin tops to ensure that they don't fall off., They are ready when a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean., Allow them cool in the pan for about 10 minutes first. Then, take them out, and let them finish cooling—about 10 to 15 minutes more.