 This can be done by swiping up from the home screen. The first result should say calendar.
 It will probably open to a view of "Today." If it doesn't, you can click Today in the bottom left corner to see today's calendar entries. You'll see the days of this week along the top, with today's date circled. Below that, you'll see a timeline of today, with any existing calendar items visible on it.

To see what events you have scheduled today (or any another day being viewed), scroll up and down through the day's timeline.
To go to a different day, scroll the week left and right as needed. Tap on the date of the day you want to view, and you'll see the events timeline for that day, instead of today.
 This will ignore the days on which you have no events, and just give you a dated list of all the events in your calendar., Click the magnifying glass at the top right of the screen. Enter anything you remember about the event you're looking for, and it'll hopefully pop up in the results., This will take you back one step in the view mode. For example:

If you're on a day view, click the < (Month) arrow to go back to a grid-like view of the whole month. From there, you can click a different day if desired. You can also scroll up and down through the months.
If you're on a month view, click the < (Year) arrow to see an overview of the whole year. You can click on any month's box to jump to it.
 An event can be anywhere from a school meeting, a trip to Florida, or even a dentist appointment., Try not to be too specific, but make sure that you will know what it is when you get an alert in the future. To set up the location, tap the location and type the address or simply write out the name of the place. (You do not need a location.), Tap the Starts button and set the time and date. Tap the Ends To set the end time. You can also tap the All-day button if the event will last the whole day., Tap the Alert button and set the time at which you would want to be reminded of this. It can be as early as the start time or a week before., If you would like to be reminded a second time, tap Second Alert to set the time. It can be as early as the start time or a week before., Simply tap URL and type in a website that is relevant to your event. Than tap Notes and add some information about the event to remind you for later.,, If something is to change about your event, tap on the event, and tap Edit. An edit screen will come up., Change any of the information you want., If for some reason you change your mind while editing, tap Cancel on the upper left-hand side of your screen.
 You may need to scroll through different days or months to find it, or you can search (as described above). Once you find it, tap on it.,, If you've changed your mind, hit Cancel
