 When packing for camp, remember you will have to carry all this around and keep it in order. Don't over pack, you will regret it later even if you are concerned you might forget something. Pack lightly on the makeup and hair products if you're bringing any. Don't forget some little things to make your cabin feel homey, and pack for a little cold weather. Remember: if you feel good in it, you look good in it! Also, pack a small mirror, a brush, face care products and sun block.;
, You can get really dirty and sweaty in camp, and that often results with you having problems with your skin. Some pimples may appear, but don't go popping them right away. If you can't wash your face, use some anti-bacterial wipes on it. Concealer can help also, but use it in moderate amounts.
 No one wants to be around somebody who is mean or negative. Smile and introduce yourself so they will feel comfortable around you. Also, you should include everyone. Feeling lonely would not make someone's summer fun.


When talking to new campers, smile! Remember that it's nicer to see a smiling face than a sad frown. Be talkative; join activities; gain some friends.
 If you really want to be drop-dead gorgeous at camp, it just takes a little effort. Dress cute, accessorize, be friendly, and the most important part: be yourself. If you believe in who you are, you will have some positive energy around yourself that will truly make you beautiful and you will definitely stand out from the crowd.
 Girls, camp is not the place for salon-like hair-dos or curlers with gel and hairspray. You want to have fun, so you shouldn't focus completely on your hair. Take advantage of good hair days by brushing your hair until it's smooth. If you have bangs that do not cooperate, clip them back to show off your natural beauty and complete you hair style. After you shower, brush your hair with a wide-tooth comb and leave it to dry down, or put it up in a messy bun. Don't forget: Ponytails are classics that will always work. Also, two ponytails going down either sides completes the look. Guys, just leave your hair the way it is. But do bring a brush and/or comb.


If your hair often gets all frizzy, you can just tie it into a ponytail or pigtails if you want to. You may also make a beautiful French braid. If you really can't stand the frizziness of your hair and you just can't straighten it, then before camp get an anti-frizz spray or shampoo.
 You can pull off a natural look by drinking plenty of water to hydrate and help your skin, wash and moisturize your face, and a layer or two of chapstick before you go to sleep or outside to keep your lips from getting chapped. If you want to wear makeup, keep it minimal to just a tinted moisturizer, a little liner to open up your eyes, and maybe some clear mascara or use an eyelash curler. Camp is not about looking glamorous, but still feel great.
 Water makes up to 70% of the human body. You should drink at least 8 to 10 glasses of water every day. If you get dizzy, or get a headache at camp, you are probably dehydrated and should drink water immediately.

