 Before getting started, take off all rings, watches, bracelets and other accessories and set them aside. These contain metals and other materials that may react unpredictably when exposed to flammable chemicals. And besides, you don’t want to risk ruining them. Your hands should be free and clear while attempting to manipulate flammable compounds., It’s best to wear short sleeves or snug clothing that rests close to the skin. Roll up long shirt sleeves and be cautious when working with an open flame. Baggy, loose-fitting garments will hang nearer to the fire and flammable solutions, and may get too close for comfort. Long hair should also be pulled back tight or kept under a cap to keep it out of the way. If you have thick facial hair, be sure to keep your face a safe distance away from the flame at all times. In any controlled scenario involving fire, hair and clothing are a possible hazard.Keep the rest of your body a safe distance away from the hand that is holding the fire.
Fabrics like cotton, rayon and acetate catch fire easily and burn quickly., Submerge your whole hand in the alcohol or gas-infused soap solution to coat the entirety of the outer surface of your skin. Be careful not to leave any exposed spots or allow the skin to dry before lighting it. These types of fire tricks pose a relatively low risk of injury or mishap when executed correctly, but accidents may occur if you’re careless or unprepared.


Because of their high degree of flammability, gases like butane and methane burn extremely hot. Injury may result if any part of your skin not covered by the liquid solution is allowed to come into contact with the fire.
For maximum protection, consider wearing rubber laboratory gloves when lighting your hands. It’s not quite as daring, but you’ll have a much lower chance of burning yourself.
 Try out fire experiments by a running sink the first few times around, or keep a bowl or spray bottle of cold water nearby. In the unfortunate event that you do get burned, wash the area thoroughly and apply a burn ointment to soothe the pain. Also, it’s best if there’s another person around when working with fire. If something goes wrong, you’ll want someone else there to help.Keep a fire extinguisher handy in case the flames catch something that they’re not supposed to.
Serious burns should be examined and treated by a medical specialist immediately.
 Try lighting another object first to prevent accidental injury when experimenting with flammable solutions. A scrap piece of wood or a non-combustible material like hard metal or stone can be used as a control until you feel comfortable attempting the feat on yourself. Do not use any object that is flammable or explosive, or that might immediately melt or conduct enough heat to burn you.Almost anything will burn once it has been coated in the alcohol or gas solution. Choose a testing material that won't catch once the solution has burned out, such as metal, rubber, ceramic or fiberglass.Set up the experiment outdoors, or someplace where a fire won't spread if something goes wrong.

