 When a relationship ends, don't try to deny the truth by holding on to unfounded hopes. Don't try to convince yourself that she'll take you back or that he will try to change. Accept that the relationship is over. The sooner you do this the sooner you can move on.
 When you're still in love with someone, the end of a relationship can feel like a huge loss. You need to take some time to mourn the love that you've lost.


Try to handle your grief in a healthy way. Don't shut down your emotions or bottle things up. It's okay to cry.
Try taking out your frustrations on a punching bag at the gym or curl up on the couch with your favorite movie and a tub of ice cream. Whatever makes you feel good.
 It may sound harsh, but the best way to get over a broken heart is to go cold turkey and cut off all contact with the other person. Staying in contact will just make it harder to stop thinking about the other person.


Remove the person's number from your phone. This will remove the temptation to text or call, especially when you are feeling particularly vulnerable and might say something you regret.
Avoid going to places where you think you might run in to the person. Seeing them will stir up feelings and memories which might overwhelm you.
Cut off contact on social media. Unfriend them on Facebook and unfollow them on Twitter. It doesn't have to be permanent, but it will be helpful at first. It's difficult to move on when you're obsessing over status updates.
 Remove any photographs, clothes, books, toys or music belonging to the other person from your house. Destroy them if you think it'll help relieve some anger (and you won't regret it later!) Otherwise, put everything in a box and put it somewhere you won't have to look at it. Out of sight, out of mind.
 Don't agonize over what went wrong or what you could have done differently. You can't change the past and punishing yourself for previous (or imagined) mistakes won't do you any good. It might seem almost impossible, but try not to torture yourself with "what ifs."

, Talking to a friend, family member or even a therapist can really help take a weight off your shoulders. Cry, curse, scream, shout. Verbalize every sweet sentiment or mean thought you've ever had about the other person - let it all out. It's amazing how cathartic just expressing yourself can be.


Make sure you talk to someone you can trust, and go somewhere private to talk. You don't want your innermost thoughts and feelings getting back to your ex.
Don't overdo it. Most people will be sympathetic and willing to listen at first, but if you continue to mope for weeks on end you will soon start to sound like a broken record and wear on people's patience.
 It may sound like a meaningless platitude now, but time really does heal all wounds. Accept the fact that it's going to take some time to feel like your old self again, but rest assured you will.


Try keeping a journal to track how you're feeling each day. When you look back at what you've written in a couple of months time, you'll be amazed at how far you've come.
Don't put pressure on yourself to be over your ex or to start dating someone new within a certain time-frame. You'll know when you're ready.

