 Puppies and dogs love to eat cat food. However, cat food is so protein-rich that it often causes serious digestive issues for dogs. Take your cat’s food and water bowls are relocate them to an area where the puppy will not be able to access or reach. Perhaps move them to a countertop. Or, to a separate cat-only room.This will also make your cat feel less vulnerable as it eats. A bouncy puppy pouncing on them can be so stressful that some cats will forgo eating entirely, causing a whole other set of problems.
It is also a good idea to keep your cat away from your new puppy when it is eating as well. Your puppy could lash out in a bout of food protectiveness and potentially injure your cat., Puppies and dogs also love to eat cat feces, oddly (and grossly) enough. Get a box with a closing too small for your puppy to enter or one with a cat flap. You could also put the box in a cat-only room or use baby gates to create a barrier around the box area.Your cat is very vulnerable when using their box. If they feel unsafe, they might start using the restroom elsewhere out of a feeling of self-preservation. Once this outside marking starts, it is very difficult to stop.
 Most cats are climbers or hiders. Take a look at your home and make sure that there are ample spots for your cat to escape from the puppy, if desired. You can place bookcases in an accessible way. You can also clear a path to window sills and counters. Some pet stores even sell specialty cat climbers that you can install on your walls.Make sure that each room has at least one high-rise escape route for your cat. This will help to prevent a direct confrontation.
 Your puppy does not need to have the full run of your home. You can put baby gates in certain doorways or hallways in order to limit your puppy’s access. Your cat will then learn which areas are protected and which are open access. If your cat cannot jump over these barriers, then you will want to use them more sparingly., Putting your puppy in a crate for short periods of time can actually be a good thing for your puppy, you, and your cat. It teaches the puppy control. It gives you a break. And, it gives your cat a puppy-free period of time, as it used to be. Place your puppy in the crate and then issue the “Quiet” command.Don’t let your cat pester your puppy while it is in the crate. This will keep your puppy agitated and will make the crate seem more like a punishment then a training tool.

