 Write down all your hobbies, volunteer projects, classes you've taken, and similar experiences. Think about your experiences with each, and come up with several different options before choosing one to write about.When brainstorming, write down every idea you have – even if it seems silly at the time. Sometimes those odd thoughts can inspire a great idea.;
, Find a moment when you had to make a choice. Explain why you made that decision, and why your choice illustrates the kind of person you are, or want to be., Choose an incident or a period in your life that explains why you want to go into medicine. You could describe the person who inspired you to become a doctor, or talk about the specific moment when you decided to become one., If you don't have an original theme that you really want to work with, it's okay to go with the tried and true. Many medical school personal statements are based three common themes. Then flesh out your essay with original details that are specific to you – you can't afford to be boring.Why you want to be a doctor
Why you are an extraordinary person
Why you are completely qualified (for medical school, or for the medical profession)

, Avoid overly personal topics such as a romantic breakup, your parents' divorce, or a relative's illness. Choose a subject you can discuss openly without resorting to melodrama or cliché.Your essay does not need to be really heavy and serious, or describe an event that few people have experienced.
The central theme of your essay can be light. It just needs to illustrate the points you are trying to get across.Avoid discussing the death of a beloved grandparent who was a doctor. Instead, explain how you were inspired by interactions with their patients during a summer internship at their office.
Avoid discussing how you dressed up in scrubs for Halloween in 3rd grade – your early childhood dreams have little bearing on whether you are right for medical school, now. Instead, you might talk about how you learned the value of hard work and attention to detail by restoring a boat with your father last summer.
 Since you don't know exactly who will be reading your essay, or what their personal politics or beliefs may be, it's best to stick to neutral topics. If you do mention something that is potentially controversial, make sure your tone is neutral and you aren't being preachy or judgemental.Avoid discussing politics or religion, because you don't know the views of the person who will be reading your essay.
Try to avoid any subject that commonly makes people angry or defensive.
 If you need inspiration, there are many sources online that have sample statements you can look at. Just be sure your statement is your own work, and isn't too similar to something you've read.