 Dealing with depression can be really hard and can lead to physical issues in addition to the feelings you are having. Depression can also lead to negative, and sometimes suicidal, thoughts. Depression doesn't occur because of anything you did, it happens when chemicals in your brain are off balance. Make sure, during this time, you are taking care of yourself.


If you have any thoughts of hurting yourself or hurting others, tell an adult immediately. Your safety is the number one priority.Call emergency services (such as 911 in the US) or call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255).You can also talk to your school counselor about these thoughts.
Get enough sleep, about 8 hours, everyday.
Remind yourself to eat well. Depression can affect your appetite, so eat regularly throughout the day and try to make healthy eating choices.
Try to exercise 20 minutes a day, three days a week. Even if you don't feel like it, or even if the exercise is just a walk outside, it will boost your mood and keep you healthy.
 Unrealistic thoughts are common when you are depressed. It is important to challenge these thoughts. One thing you can do is to challenge the thoughts and turn them into more realistic ones.


For example, if you find yourself thinking, “Nobody likes me,” then you could challenge this thought and say to yourself, “Well, that is not true. Some people like me a lot, such as my mom, my best friend, and my teacher.” This is a much more realistic thought.
Practice challenging and rewriting your thoughts as they arise to help you steer clear of unrealistic thinking.
 Depression is very real and unfortunately, very common. You are not alone and you're feelings are important. Depression can make things worse because it affects the way you feel and the way you think. You might start to believe that things will never improve or that you will feel like this forever. That is not right, and is not healthy to feel that way. Take time to focus on your strengths, the things you do very well.


Write down five things you are good at.
Write down five things you like about yourself.
Write down something that you can do to feel better about yourself when you are down.
 When you are feeling sad, it may be tempting to cancel plans with a friend or to ask to stay home from school because you don’t feel well. While doing these things may seem like a good idea, it is better to stick with your normal routine no matter what.


Going out and doing something when you feel sad might seem impossible, but it can actually make you feel better.
If you feel like skipping school or an event due to feeling sad, try telling yourself something like, “I know this seems like a good idea now, but I will probably feel better if I just go.”

, Having hobbies and activities that you like can be used as a way to cope with your depression. Hobbies or activities can include sports, games, crafts, or whatever else you find fun. Take short breaks from the stress of dealing with depression, and do things that make you feel good.Allow yourself to pay attention to something else and be distracted from any negative thoughts you are having.This will not only help you feel better, but it will help you recharge, and make you that much more focused later on.


Make sure that you are taking time to do serious things as well, such as school. Make sure your depression does not cause you to fall too far behind in your studies.
Take a short break and watch an episode of your favorite TV show.
Do a craft or project.
Go out with friends to a movie.
 Learning how to use a relaxation technique can be a beneficial way to help soothe and calm yourself when you are feeling overwhelmed by your feelings. Try setting aside at least 15 minutes every day to just relax. Go to a calm, pleasant place, such as in your room or under a tree in your backyard. Some good relaxation techniques to learn include:



Meditation.

Yoga.

Progressive muscle relaxation.

Deep breathing.

