 The Lens feature in Snapchat requires the latest available version of the app. You can check for updates using your device's app store. You'll need to at least be running version 9.15.0.0, which Snapchat released in September 2015.


Make sure you're running the latest system software for your smartphone as well. You'll need to be running Android 4.3+ or iOS 7.0+. See Update iOS or Update an Android for details.;
, Lens mode works with both the front and rear cameras on your device, but you'll find it easiest to test out when you're taking a selfie. Tap the camera swap button in the upper-right corner to switch between cameras. You can use Lens effects with both photo and video Snaps.
 The Lens feature works best when your face is distinct on the screen so that the app can detect it. Hold the phone away from you a little bit so that your entire face fits comfortably in the screen.
 Press and hold your face on the screen before you start recording your Snap. After a moment, you should see a wireframe appear and disappear, and then the Lens options will appear at the bottom of the screen.You may have to hold your face for several seconds on older devices. Hold the phone steady while you're pressing on your face. You cannot activate Lenses after taking a Snap.
Lenses may not work on Android devices running 4.2 or lower, or on the iPhone 4 or iPod 5.
 Once the Lens feature has been enabled, you'll be able to cycle through the available effects by swiping the icons at the bottom of the screen.


The selection of effects rotates on a regular basis. An effect you use today may not be available tomorrow.
 Many effects will change when you do something like raise your eyebrows or open your mouth. You'll see instructions for the effect (if available) when you select it.
 Once you've chosen the effect you want to use, you can tap or hold the effect button to take your Snap. Tapping it will take a photo Snap, while holding it will record a video Snap.
 After taking the Snap, you can add filters, text, drawings, and stickers like you would any other Snap. You can save it to your device by tapping the Download button, and you can send it to your friends or post it to your Story.
 The available lenses rotate often, and include things like puking rainbows, zombie, sci-fi, funhouse mirrors, and much more. You may also come across "Featured" lenses tied in with your favorite pop culture, such as new movie releases.


If you purchased Lenses before the Lens Store closed, you'll be able to select them at any time.
 At the end of the list of effects, you'll see the Face Swap options. You can swap faces with someone else in the room, or swap faces with faces scanned from your device's saved pictures. Select the yellow option to swap faces with someone in the same room.When swapping faces with someone in the same room, an overlay with two smiley faces will appear on the screen. Line up your faces behind the smileys and Snapchat will swap your faces. See Faceswap on Snapchat for more details.
 Select the purple face swap option to swap faces with pictures stored on your device. Snapchat will scan the pictures on your device's camera roll and detect faces that can be swapped. Snapchat will display a list of detected faces you can pick from. Tapping one of these will swap your face with the face from the picture. See Faceswap on Snapchat for detailed instructions., You can get access to a special Lens effect on your birthday if you add your birthday to your Snapchat profile. Your friends will also be able to send you birthday greetings using another special Lens effect, if you allow it. Likewise, you can use this Lens effect on your friends' birthdays if they've enabled "Birthday Party" in Snapchat's settings. See Use Birthday Lenses on Snapchat for more details.Enter your birthday into your Snapchat profile by tapping the Ghost button and then the Gear button. Select "Birthday" and then enter your birthday. If you want other people to be able to send you special birthday greetings, enable "Birthday Party" in this screen as well. Your age will not be revealed to your friends.
You'll find the "Happy Birthday" lens in your list of available Lens effects on your birthday. To send a birthday greeting to a friend, look for the birthday cake emoji next to their name on their birthday. Double-tap their name and you'll be able to select the Happy Birthday lens.

