 The oven should be preheated to 350ʡF (177ʡC). Do this before you begin mixing the ingredients so the oven will be ready when you want to put the cake inside.


Grease a pan. You can use a variety of pans, but common sizes are 9-inch round pans or 9x13 baking pans.;
, Use it to melt the sugar and butter. Keep your heat medium or lower. Avoid overheating your pan and burning the butter and sugar.


Turn off heat and remove pan from the eye.
 The bananas need to be smooth and creamy. You can puree bananas with a fork, a potato masher, or a food processor. If you are pureeing bananas with a fork or masher, put them in a large mixing bowl first. When using a food processor, pour the banana puree into the mixing bowl.


Pour in the butter and sugar mixture from the pan and mix together.
Make sure your bananas are ripe. Ripe bananas are softer and easier to puree.
Choose a bowl that is large enough to mix all ingredients for the cake into.
 Crack the two eggs into a separate bowl before slightly beating them. Slightly beaten eggs are beaten with a fork or whisk until the yolk and white are mixed into a uniform consistency.When baking, eggs should be at room temperature for the best results.To warm your eggs to room temperature, take them out of the refrigerator 10-15 minutes before you begin baking.
 Pour the eggs on top of the butter, sugar, and banana mixture and then gently mix together with a spatula or spoon.


Make sure that the butter and sugar have cooled significantly before pouring in your eggs. Pouring eggs into a hot mixture can cook the eggs. To avoid unwanted scrambled eggs, wait until the mixture is cool., First, mix in the wet ingredients. You can mix them separately, or mix the milk first and the vanilla extract second. After you've added the wet ingredients, add the flour to the batter.


Stir well, making sure all the ingredients are blended. If mixing with a spoon or spatula is too difficult, use a hand mixer.
 Then, place the pan into the preheated oven. Bake for 40 minutes.


Many factors, such as the material of the pan, can influence cooking time. Keep a careful eye on your cake, checking it as it nears 40 minutes. The cake may be finished a few minutes early, or it may need to cook a little longer.
Insert a toothpick, fork, or knife into the center to check if the cake is done. If it comes out clean, the cake is fully cooked.
 Let the cake cool completely before cutting. Serve cake slices with choice garnish

