 Whereas making a stud relies on glue, making a hoop requires a bit more effort. You'll need a pair of pliers, a pen or pencil, a file, and either some wire or a headpin.









Use wire or a head pin depending on how you want your nose ring to look. For example, do you want your hoop to be thick (head pin) or thin (wire), gold or silver. Florists wire works well if you're interested in a thin hoop.
These supplies can be purchased at any craft store.
It may take a few tries to get your nose ring just right, but once you become comfortable working with these materials, you'll be rocking a unique hoop in no time.;
, Place your materials on a flat surface, ideally near a mirror. If you're uncomfortable working with any of these materials, ask a family member or friend to help you.
 You'll create the round shape of your hoop by bending your wire/pin around a pen/pencil.









Grab your wire/pin and pen/pencil and bend it around your pen/pencil to form a circle. Then slide it off the end of the pen/pencil.
 Take your pliers, and cut the ends of your wire/pin so that the ends meet. At this stage, your hoop should look like a circle. Don't worry about the ends meeting perfectly.
 You will use pliers to bend back the end of your wire/pin. Do not bend back more than 1/4 in. Once the wire/pin is properly bent, you should see a tiny "O" or closed "U" shape at the end of your wire. This round end will make your piercing safe and prevent it from scratching your nose. The "O" end will go on the inside of your nose.









File the other end of the pin/wire. Using a file on the other end of your wire/pin will prevent it from scratching the outside of your nose. , Slide your new nose ring in place, and squeeze it to secure. You should be able to bend your hoop fairly easily, and your nose ring should stay in place until you take it off.









Remember, this is not a real piercing, and could potentially slide off at anytime. For this reason, it's best to take off your nose ring while sleeping, showering, swimming, or doing anything overly active.

