 When you write romantic fiction, you write about two characters who fall in love. These characters need to be interesting and unique. Don't make them perfect - most people don't want to read about two perfect people falling in love.Try writing characters who are from different backgrounds or social classes. Or choose characters that have differing viewpoints about something. This can help you create conflict.
Make sure to give each main character a unique personality. For example, maybe Beth is the owner of a failing ranch who loves horses while Matt is an ex-rodeo star in need of a job.
Keep the focus on the main characters. Most romantic fiction is about the two main characters, not a bunch of minor characters.Ask your characters questions. Who are they? What do they want and why? What would they do if faced with conflict and difficult situations? What were they like when they were younger? Get to know your characters.Many romance stories have a sympathetic heroine and a strong hero.;
, The point-of-view helps you decide how you will shape the story. Decide whose point-of-view to tell the story from, or decide to alternate points-of-view with each chapter.


Decide if one character's story is more important than the other, or if both characters have an equally interesting tale.
Sketch out what will be gained by having both character's points-of-view. If you think you will struggle writing one of the characters, just stick with one point-of-view.
 Before you start writing your short story, novella, fan fiction, or novel, write a 100 word blurb. This is where you describe to yourself what the story will be about. Outline the main characters, the setting, the conflict, and the general mood.


After thinking about it for a few days, write an outline of 1,000 words. This should cover all the important scenes: the first meeting, the initial problem, important conflicts along the way, and the climax. This doesn't detail everything. This is only a skeleton so you can see where your story is potentially going., No romance idea is going to be new. Your job when writing romance is to put your own spin on it. This occurs when you have unique, believable characters, interesting situations, and good dialogue.


Write a story with a familiar trope. Go for: secret baby, forced marriage, blind date, one night stand, amnesia, working together, historical, friends-of-a-sibling, celebrity and normal person, or any other common plot set up you are interested in., Everyone knows the end of a romance: the couple lives happily ever after. What you have to decide is why the reader should care by the end. This is where the conflict comes in. Your conflict creates suspense and anticipation in the story. Effective storytelling centers around writing conflicts. Shoot for 2-3 major conflicts throughout the story. Remember each conflict has to be resolved by the end of the story.


Give your characters a goal. Then think about what is at stake if the characters don't reach these goals.A common romance conflict is something that keeps the two main characters apart. Your story is about the two characters overcoming obstacles to be together.
Another common romance conflict is that the two main characters don't like each other.
Other conflicts can be social stigmas, one of the characters is in a relationship, their jobs prevent them from dating, or one doesn't like the other.Make sure to include both internal and external conflicts. Internal conflicts are based on the characters. This can be based on motivations or personalities, or an emotional situation between two characters. External conflicts are things like misunderstandings, circumstances, or influence of another character., Dialogue in a romance is really important. You need to use each interaction to build the attraction, romance, and sexual tension between the characters.


Make sure your dialogue is gender specific. No matter if you are writing a story about a romance between a man and a woman, two men, or two women, you want your dialogue to ring true for them.
Each character should have a different way of talking. This doesn't mean you should write them with heavy accents, but think about giving each character his or her own voice. Maybe one character talks too much, while the other character holds a lot back. Also think about phrases that each character might say often.
Think about the way people talk around you. Listen to conversations and use that to help with your dialogue if you are having trouble.
Make sure the dialogue is relevant to the plot. Don't have them talking about things that aren't important. Unlike real life, dialogue in a story needs to be purposeful., You want to hook your reader from the first sentence. That means your two main characters need to meet as soon as possible. Don't spend thousands of words giving the reader unnecessary backstory or separate interactions with other characters. This is a romance - get the two characters into the same scene as soon as possible.


Start the story with the scene where the two main characters meet. Just jump straight into the romance., When writing romance, you need each interaction between the main characters to be charged. This may mean using "exaggerated awareness."That means that every touch, every look, every word spoken between the characters have to have meaning.


Sometimes both characters are aware of the attraction. Sometimes only one character is aware while the other is oblivious.
Focus on the way the characters look at each other, the sound of their voices, and even their breathing. Body language is really important when conveying sexual tension.
 Romances can be overly dramatic, cheesy, or trite. You want your romance story to be real and meaningful. You can do this by making your characters real.


If you have fleshed out your characters, then their love scenes should carry more weight. You need to show what the characters are overcoming to get to the love scene. What does it mean for these characters with all this emotional baggage to finally give in?, Most good romance stories have some kind of sex scene. When writing the sex scene, you can be as graphic as you want. The thing to remember is that it has to have a point. If it's between your two main characters, you want to make sure it occurs at the right moment.


Are the two characters hooking up, which will lead to disaster?
Is one of the main characters going to have sex with an ex? Or are they upset and going to have a one night stand? Is this sexual encounter going to affect the plot? If it's not, then it probably shouldn't be in there.Reveal something with each love or sexual encounter. You can reveal something that advances the plot, reveal a revelation about a character, reveal hidden emotions, or reveal a change in the character., Every romance has a happy ending, but that's not enough. You need to go through emotional ups and downs with your characters. By the end, you should be rooting for them. When they overcome the problems and get together, the reader should feel satisfied.


Make sure the story ends where it should. If you feel like the story isn't over, then keep writing until you feel satisfied.