 A warm oil scalp massage uses natural oils to improve the health of your scalp and encourage hair growth. Oils like coconut oil, olive oil, jojoba oil, and argan oil can all be used during your scalp massage. Keep in mind warm scalp massages have not been scientifically proven to lead to faster hair growth.Start by warming up the oil on a stovetop or in a bowl of boiling water. Test the oil before you use it to make sure it is not boiling hot; you want a comfortable temperature that will not damage your scalp or your hair.
Use your fingers to gently massage your scalp with the warm oil in slow, circular motions. If you have a partner or a friend close by, ask them to help you massage your scalp. Have them massage your scalp with their fingertips for fifteen to twenty minutes.
Then, run the oil through your hair and let it sit for about 30 minutes. Shampoo your hair well, possibly more than once, to remove the oil.;
, Give your hair some TLC and encourage your hair follicles to grow faster by applying a hair mask once or twice a week. You can make your own natural oil mask or buy over-the-counter hair masks at your local drug store./images/thumb/b/b6/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-2-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-2-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/b/b6/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-2-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-2-Version-3.jpg









Combine 1 cup coconut oil with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) almond oil, macadamia oil, and jojoba oil. Apply the mask to damp hair and leave it in for ten minutes. Then, wash and condition your hair as you normally would.
 Castor oil is known for its beneficial effects on skin care and hair.Using a castor oil hair mask may help your hair to grow faster and healthier./images/thumb/b/b8/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-3-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-3-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/b/b8/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-3-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-3-Version-3.jpg









Start by massaging your scalp with castor oil and allowing the oil to fall into your hair. Wrap your hair and head with a plastic shower cap so the oil stays put. You may want to spread a towel on your pillow so you do not get oil on your pillowcase.
Leave the oil in overnight. The following morning, wash and condition your hair as you usually would, making sure to remove all the oil.
 Apple cider vinegar can be very effective at removing dirt, grime, and oil buildup in your hair, as well as any residue from your hair styling products. You can use apple cider on the days you do not use shampoo as a natural alternative or apply it following your regular shampoo and conditioner routine.Add two tablespoons of vinegar to two cups of water and rinse your hair with this mixture. Though the water may smell strongly of vinegar, this smell will fade.

