 Before you start shopping for tantalizing goodies, think about the person you’re planning on giving the gift to. What sort of foods do they like? What don’t they like? Is there anything they can’t eat? Surprising someone with foodstuffs isn’t as simple as putting a bow on a fruit basket. Try to pick out something you know they’ll be able to enjoy.Find out about any unique allergies or dietary restrictions beforehand. It could be embarrassing to present a tray of cured meats to a vegan, and an innocent sugar cookie could make someone with a gluten sensitivity very sick.
Talk to mutual friends or do a little digging yourself to discover what might make a good gift.
 There’s nothing worse than getting an oversized tin of stale popcorn or some freezer burned tamales for Christmas. Whatever you decide to give, be sure that you have a way of guaranteeing its freshness so that it doesn’t go bad or underwhelm once it’s eaten. It’s usually best to have an idea in mind, then buy or make it right before you offer it to the recipient.Wait until as close to the gift-giving time as you safely can to get things ready.
Refrigerate the perishable items you buy or make so that they don’t spoil.
You won't have to worry about delivery goods going bad, since they'll be shipped out express from the maker.
 Remember, you’re giving someone a gift. Don’t skimp on the visual details. Put your item in a box, bag or covered container and wrap it, if possible. You can even incorporate touches like bows, tags and other decorations to complete the look.Even a covered tupperware container with a few simple embellishments can heighten the anticipation of opening the item.
 Tell the person you’re giving the gift to what made you think of them and why you chose the food you did. Include a handwritten card with some well-wishes, or a list of serving suggestions for enjoying the gift. It might also be a good idea to include instructions for putting the food together or cooking it if it’s not ready-to-eat.Come up with a touching or playful message, like “here are some sweets for a sweet girl” with a box of truffles, or “we just go together” with a wine and cheese pairing.
Briefly describe what they’ll find inside, especially if a food is uncommon or not immediately recognizable.

