 Cementing your place in politics requires a great deal of networking and socializing. Ensure that you do not get in the wrong side of people by being fair in your actions and judgments. Know when to roll up your sleeves and really make an effort -- with all types and walks of life; remember: Both a rich and poor person get one vote apiece.


You must be the servant in the eyes of your people. Do not be self-righteous and do not expect people to serve you just because you are in politics. Instead, you must extend your help whenever you can, and you must be willing to sacrifice some personal time for your constituents whenever they need you.
 Tackle the harder sectors of society, like the middle-class. Aggressive campaigning works well, but not all the time. Careful budgeting of your campaign could also gain you points, as you will not be accused of trying to "reimburse" your expenses via graft and corruption.


So if the money is rolling in, don't feel allowed to flit off to the Canaries. Your reputation is what you're banking on right now -- don't smear your good name.
 If you have existing adulterous relationships, questionable sources of income, and other scandalous assets, know that they will come out. There are few secrets in politics that don't eventually get exposed.


Do your best to avoid even being an accomplice in such a circumstance. There will be dozens of people who like to see you brought down a peg -- don't let them have the satisfaction.
 When you have the time, organize gatherings and speeches. It's better when the people have listened to you personally rather than remembering you on a banner. It makes them trust you and appreciate the fact that you took the time to talk to them and to reach out to them.


When you're in said town hall or high school gym, be approachable. Offer help to anyone and go out of your way to shake hands. The more down-to-earth and real you are, the more of an impression you'll leave upon your people.
Don't forget to exude a positive aura everywhere you are. Positive energy attracts publicity, but negative energy will only give mosquito press a chance to downplay your campaign. Not only that, your possible competitors will capitalize on your negativity and they will use it against you later in your future campaigns.
 You likely already have political ideologies. But make sure you have a firm stance on every issue likely to come up during your campaign, and any potential issues that could come up if you are in office. So called “flip floppers” are politicians who change their opinions on issues. They tend to be regarded very negatively by voters. Have opinions and stick to them.


Never, ever, ever cater your views to a certain demographic at a certain time. Your stances at a formal business dinner full of donors and your stances in a town hall should be the same. Sure, change your dress and your verbiage, but don't say what you don't mean. With all the types of media and technology available, everything you say can and will get recorded and be compared to your previous statements. You'll be automatically dismissed.

