 Looking for something a little more "intense" than the gentle sweetness of a fuzzy navel? Try adding a shot or two of vodka. The peach schnapps and orange juice do a good job of disguising the taste of the alcohol, so be sure to count your drinks carefully!


Note that this drink is basically a screwdriver (vodka and orange juice) with peach schnapps.
 For an even stronger spin on the classic fuzzy navel, use alcohol with a serious kick. 100- or even 150-proof vodka can make one fuzzy navel have the strength of several ordinary cocktails, so drink responsibly!


For reference, the percentage of alcohol in a liquor is half its proof number. In other words, 100-proof vodka is 50% alcohol and 150-proof is 75%.
 Vodka isn't the only kind of "hard A" you can use to give fuzzy navels more of a kick. The sugarcane-derived flavor of rum pairs well with the sweet flavors of the schnapps and orange juice. Dark rum even gives a tan navel a slightly darker golden-orange color that fits its name!

, The sweet almond flavor of amaretto is a good complement to peach schnapps. Try adding a shot of this liqueur to your fuzzy navels for a smoother yet more complex flavor.


You can also try adding a maraschino cherry, which have a very similar almond-y flavor.
 This unusual variation turns the basic fuzzy navel recipe "inside out." Here, you're using cranberry juice in place of orange juice and adding a shot or two of citrus-flavored vodka. The resulting drink has a flavor that's very distinct from a "normal" fuzzy navel, yet still contains hints of the original orange-and-peach combination.


Citrus vodka flavors include orange, lemon, lime, and grapefruit. Orange will taste the most like an ordinary fuzzy navel, but any works well.
 There aren't any rules about how to make a fuzzy navel "the right way." If you try something new and end up liking it, give it a name and write your recipe down for future use. Below, we've provided just a few examples of things to add (plus some fun names to go along with them).


Lemon juice — "Sour Navel"
Cream — "Pale Navel"
Grenadine — "Sunburnt Navel"
Blue Curacao — "Seasick Navel"
Champagne — "Bubbly Navel"
Bourbon — "Caramel Navel"

