 Compatibility is incredibly important. That special person may pass every future-spouse test with flying colors, but when you're together, you may find that there's just a lack of...something. Maybe you just don't really "get" each other; maybe you always end up bickering; maybe you just can't talk without running out of things to say after a few minutes. If you're not compatible, you're not compatible, and there's nothing you can do to change that.


Sexual attraction is different than compatibility -- it wears off. Compatibility means that your personalities really work well together, and that things just click for you more often than not.
 Though you may have been wanting to get married for twenty years, you shouldn't start running down the aisle after two weeks with the person you think is Mr. Right. Even if you just have "that feeling," it's very risky to marry someone you've known for just a few months, or even just a year. Give the relationship enough time to know that your feelings aren't just based on attraction, that you can get through some ups and downs together, and that you can really truly see a lifetime of happiness with that person.


You may think that you're absolutely sure after just a few months, but this won't give you enough time to test the relationship.
 You may be absolutely gaga for your special someone, but you need to have the sense that he's feeling it too. Or -- you need to make sure that he's not crazy about you, while you're just feeling "pretty happy." Both of you shouldn't be crazy about each other and completely excited for the rest of your lives together to move on.
 Though marriage will naturally change two people as they become bonded more closely, make sure that the person you want to be with lets you truly be yourself instead of trying to be some ideal person. If your friends or family tell you you're not being yourself around that person, it's a bad sign. But you will know if you really can't be who you are around that person, because you'll feel yourself holding back.
 You may love being with that person for a year or two, but you should make sure that you have the same vision of the future -- whether it's settling down in a nice house with two kids, or traveling the world and being nomads together. Though life is unpredictable and neither of you will be able to do exactly what you want, your visions of the future shouldn't be wildly different or you'll run into a lot of trouble.
 If you've really found your spouse, then you should be able to imagine being with that person for the rest of your life. That is probably a very long time, so make sure that you really mean that you want to see that person grow old, to have kids with that person (if that's what you both want), to support each other's careers or other pursuits, and to truly become life partners. "I do" means "I do want to be with you forever," not "I do want to be with you for a while."


If you really cannot imagine the rest of your life without that person, then congratulations -- you have found the right partner or spouse. Now have an incredible journey!

