 A leading lady believes that she is precious. She is a woman who is sure of herself and her decisions. This lady keeps her mind clear and focused. A Leading Lady knows her lines and what is going to happen next. Leading Ladies also get to, 'take 2', 'Take 3' and so on and so. If you want to be a leading lady, try to stay away from unpredictable situations and always know what you're going to say. Remember the only way you can be confident and know you can achieve anything is to know you are fully prepared to do it or draw on your experience of previous accomplishments. For example, you can't be confident you can pass your driving test if you never sat behind the wheel of a car, if you've had enough lessons and passed a mock test, you can be confident!

, A leading lady takes care of herself and always looks right from 're role'. This means eating properly and eating healthy foods. Working out is important. Most importantly a leading lady has body respect. She knows that her curvy/tall/petite/skinny/voluptuous body is so sexy! Think of the leading ladies in your favourite movies, be they GI Jane, Pretty Woman or Monsters Ball, or anything else.
 That's right, some men like leading ladies because they are intelligent - they take pride in themselves, they love and care for others, and they are feminine, like Ripley in Alien, Carrie from Carrie and Carrie from Sex in the City.
# Learn to act the part: Leading ladies dress differently! Say you are grabbing your morning cup of coffee at a Cafe before work. You spot this lovely woman carrying a baby, wearing a suit, and she exerts a certain confidence that shows she is happy with her life. She is a leading lady. You may also see a young artistic woman holding an art show for her paintings, she is a woman that is passionate about her career, and she is also a leading lady. Leading ladies are from all sorts of different career paths, relationship paths, and family paths., Be happy and count your blessings. Be the leading lady in the movie that is your life. Get good costumes, great make up and most importantly, a great supporting cast!
