 It's a blue app that contains a white "A" inside a white circle.
 It's a magnifying glass icon at the bottom-right of the screen., It's at the top of the screen.,, It will appear below the search field as you type., It's to the right of "Gboard.", It appears where "GET" had been.

If prompted, enter your Apple ID and/or password.
 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically found on your Home screen., It's in one of the sections near the top of the menu next to a gray gear (⚙️) icon., It's near the bottom of the menu., It's at the top of the menu., It's the last section on the screen., It's listed alphabetically in the "THIRD-PARTY KEYBOARDS" section., It's in the top section on the screen., It will turn green., The alert is an Apple-generated notification that appears on all third-party keyboard apps.To make Gboard your default keyboard, tap Keyboards in the upper-left corner, tap Edit in the upper-right corner, tap and hold ≡ next to "Gboard," slide it to the top of the list, then tap Done in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 It's a white app with a blue keyboard icon and a multicolored "G.", It's at the bottom of the screen., It's in the first section., It's near the top of the screen and wil turn blue., It's in the lower-left part of the keyboard in any app that uses a keyboard.

Tapping this button also switches between keyboards.
From an emoji keyboard, you may need to tap ABC in the lower-left to continue switching between keyboards.
 It's listed in the pop-up menu.

If prompted with a Glide Typing demo, tap GOT IT.
Gboard will work in any app that uses the iOS keyboard. You may need to perform this step in each app if you haven't set it as your default keyboard.
 Place your finger on the first letter of the word you want to spell.


Don’t hold your finger down too long, or the keyboard may switch to special character input.
 Slide your finger across the keyboard to each of the letters in the word, lifting your finger only after you have spelled out the word.


A blue trail will appear marking the path of your finger.
If you are having trouble, use angles and straight lines on the path between letters.
 Spaces are automatically between words.
 If Glide Typing entered a word other than the one you intended to write, check the suggestions above the keyboard for the correct word.


If none of the suggestions are correct, you can delete a full word entry with just one tap of the backspace key.
Single-tap delete will only work for the last word composed. Any words written before that will need to be deleted manually.
Glide typing is less likely to accurately guess unfamiliar words, like names or places. But if you enable Contacts Search in the search options, then your contacts’ names will be included in the dictionary of possible words.
 It may take some time to adjust, but try to stick with it. Once mastered, glide typing is a quick and convenient way to compose text.

