 You can find them in the laundry department of a supermarket, as well as in fabric stores and pet stores. Peel the wrapper off the tube part, and roll it across the garment. Use and up-and-down motion. As you continue to roll, you will notice that the lint roller is become less tacky. When this happens, simply peel off the sticky sheet to reveal a fresh sticky underneath. Keep rolling and removing sheets until there is no more lint.









When you run out of sticky sheets, you can buy a replacement roll of sticky sheets. You can also just buy a whole new lint roller.
You can also buy a re-usable lint roller. These rely on a sticky gel sort of material to pick up the lint. When they become dirty, you simply rinse them off using soap and water, and let them dry.;
, You will need a roll of wide, packaging tape and a rolling pin. Unroll a little bit of tape, and place the end against one of the ends of the rolling pin. Make sure that the sticky side of the tape is facing you, and the smooth side is facing the rolling pin. Carefully wrap the tape around the rolling pin in a spiral, like a candy cane, making sure to overlap each turn. When you reach the other end of the rolling pin, cut the tape off. It should hold together by itself, but it if doesn't, you can use a small piece of tape to stick it down to the pin.









To use this, simply place the rolling pin on your garment. Hold it by the handles, and roll it up and down until the lint is gone.
 Cut a piece of wide tape that is a little more than twice the width of your hand. Hold out your hand with your fingers closed together. Wrap the tape, sticky-side-out around your fingers, and overlap the edges. Lightly pat the affected area with your fingers. When the tape stops being sticky, simply rotate the tape around your fingers until the dirty side is facing you. Continue patting the garment with the fresh side of the tape.
 Find some wide tape, and cut a piece that is a few inches long. Place the tape, sticky-side-down, onto the affected area. Make sure that the tape is going in the same direction as the weave of the fabric (usually up-and-down). Rub your finger across the tape to smooth it down, then pull it off.









The wider the tape is, the more area you will cover. Try to find something that is about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) wide.
 This is a battery-powered device that you can glide on to your clothes to take care of the lint. Turn on the shaver, and run it gently across the fabric. When you are done, open up the lint compartment, and toss the shaved lint into the trash., This can also remove pilling. Make sure that you are going with the weave of the fabric, and not against it. Also, try not to rub too hard, or go over the same area too much. The pumice stone will take off the top layer of the fabric. If you keep going over the same spot, you may get a hole.









Avoid using this on cotton or wool. You also won't want to use it on delicate or shiny fabric, such as silk or satin.
Most of the lint will be dragged down towards the bottom of the garment. You can use some tape or a lint roller to pull the lint piles off.
Consider working on top of a table or tablecloth; this will make cleaning to lint debris a lot easier.
 Purchase some Velcro and cut a piece that is about the width of your hand. Find the rough side with the hooks and set aside the soft, fuzzy side. Rub the Velcro downward against the garment. If the lint gathers at the bottom of the garment, then pick it off using some tape or a lint roller.
 This is especially effective for lint that is stuck deep into the fabric. Take a shaving razor, and place it near the top of the garment. Gently drag the razor down the fabric a few inches. Lift it off and tap off any excess lint. Continue pulling the razor down the fabric, stopping every few inches to tap the lint off. 








If you do not have an electric lint shaver, a more inexpensive option would be to use a single-blade razor. Hold the razor at such an angle to skim the fabric surface and get rid of the lint, but be careful not to cut into the cloth and ruin the garment.
 Wet a sponge or scouring pad with water, and squeeze it to get rid of the excess moisture. Gently rub the rough side of the sponge or scouring pad against the fabric. Use a downward motion, and work in small sections at a time.







