 Do whatever it tells you to do, then log in with your new account.;
, Believe it or not, the quests give you the best bonuses on the game and help you in the best way anything can.
 Start to train them on a daily basis until all the training is done.
 Start to gain energy and health mashes to give your horses when they need health.
 When they run out of energy give them energy mashes.
 When ten days are done, go to Breeding, then click on sales. A bunch of things will pop up. There will be a box to search for horses using criteria, and below that a bunch of horses waiting to be sold., If you accidentally buy more than you can manage, sell the one you don't need.



If the horse doesn't have any Black Market items and is under 20 years old, sell it for 500 at auction. People will bid on it a lot and probably exceed the price it's worth from the competition of bidding.
If the horse is either over 20 or has lots of rare items, sell it for 100000. If it is pregnant you can add up to a 50000 equus to the starting price, but only if the stallion has a high (2000+) Genetic Potential
If it has a diamond apple/retired/5th element coat, and is immortal and/or has more than 10 black market items (a super rare item counts for 2 items,) sell it for passes. If it has a diamond apple, a good selling price is 100000 equus (e for short) and 12 passes. A retired coat (the apple icon is silver) is worth 2 passes and 25,000e -80,000e on average. Golden Apple coats are 500e-25,000e and 1 pass or 65,000-95,000e but no passes. If your fifth element coat is metal then it is worth 2 passes other fifth element coats are worth 1

, When you get to that point, then go on doing that and improve with time., Some people say that they are increasing in difficulty, and others are saying that they are getting easier, but really the difficulty is random. These promotions can give you useful items that you can use throughout your game. The Lottery is the most popular promotion, which happens twice every year. The promotions usually end after 29-31 days, and you will have to wait for a few days before another promotion starts. Some people support all the promotions, like me, but some others complain that Howrse is just targeting people to buy passes, however even non-pass buyers can win anything in a promotion. Just be patient and one day you'll succeed.
 Buy a lot of horses before you get the pass, then after you have the pass, sell the horses you don't want. It is good to save up your passes to buy something good. If you are inpatient, and do not save up, you will be limited.Waiting for another 30 days to happen may take very long, but it's worth it, once you have enough to buy your own special prize.



Private Sales and Direct Sales. In the Private sales you can reserve a horse for anyone at a certain price. Direct Sales are public and don't involve bidding. The very first bidder just gets the horse immediately. If you don't have much money but are good at clicking around really fast, try the Direct Sales! They might help you get some good horses and may even save your money.
Breeding Farm. At 60 days You can make your own breeding farm by naming it, and giving it a description. Breeding Farms are sometimes used to sort horses. You can make a certain breeding farm for a certain kind of horse only, let's say you're making a breeding farm for Arabians. You can restrict this breeding farm to the Arabian breed only. If you want to breed only Purebred Arabians in this farm, you can restrict the breeding farm to purebreds only. If you are in a breeding group, let's say it's called Musical Thoroughbreds. You can name the breeding farm that, and restrict the horses to whatever your breeding group breeds. There may even be other ideas to use breeding farms for. Some people prefer to leave their game without any breeding farms for a certain purpose. You can delete breeding farms and make a new one in its place.
