 Just after an accident, clean up as much urine as possible. Place an old towel over the urine and blot up as much of it as possible. Then, place a few drops of dish detergent over the area, as well as a splash of water. Lay a few pieces of paper towel over the water and detergent and gently press it into the carpet. Absorb as much of the urine as you can this way.Make sure to test dish detergent on a small portion of your carpeting that's not clearly visible. You want to make sure dish detergent does not react poorly to your carpeting before applying it to a urine stain.;
, After blotting up a stain, targeting the spot with an enzymatic cleaner is a good idea. These cleaners help disrupt the breakdown of bacteria that causes pet odor. This can help remove unwanted odor, which can encourage your dog to urinate in the same area again.Follow the instructions on your cleaner's bottle for use. Usually, you spray your cleaner over the stain and it then dissolves and dries. This process can take anywhere from two hours to two weeks.
Make sure to test your cleaner on a small patch of carpet that's not visible before applying it to the stain. You want to make sure your cleaner does not stain your carpeting.
Look for an enzymatic cleaner that's specifically designed to remove pet odor. These will be the most effective.
 If a stain is set in, a miniature wet vac may be necessary to deep clean the carpeting. This can also be helpful if an animal is going in the same spot repetitively. Miniature wet vacuums can run between $150 and $200. If you do not already have one, see if you can borrow one from a friend or rent one from a local hardware store.You usually run a wet vacuum over the stain, using a specific cleaning solution. Many wet vacuums sell solutions specifically made for pet odors and stains.
Each wet vacuum works slightly differently, so read over the instructions before using yours.
 If a dog is continually urinating in the same spot, the stain and odor may be deeply set into the carpet. In this case, consider consulting the internet and finding professional carpet cleaners. Urine cannot always be removed by spot cleaning alone. It can often soak into the padding underneath, as well as the subfloor. In this case, professional cleaning may be necessary.