 This holiday season, take the time to make someone feel good by complimenting them. You may compliment a friend on their bubbly personality and care for others. Or you may compliment a family member on their cooking skills or their problem solving skills. Spread joy by giving out meaningful compliments to those around you.For example, you may say to a friend, "I really appreciate how upbeat and positive you are. I think its great that you are so bubbly." Or you may say to a relative, "This meal you have prepared is really top notch. I appreciate the love and care you put into your cooking."

, Pick up a stranger's check at your local diner or quietly pay a stranger's bill while you are out for dinner. Paying for a stranger's meal can brighten up their day and give them the gift of kindness. They may then be inspired to pay it forward and pick up someone else's check in the future.If you are looking for a more affordable way to give out kindness, you may pay for a stranger's coffee at your local coffee shop instead. Or you may tell the cashier that you'll leave money for the next person's coffee so they get a nice surprise when they walk up to the cashier to pay for their beverage.
 Sometimes a simple phone call or email can be an act of kindness, especially to a friend or relative that you have not spoken to in a long time. Think about any people in your life that you have drifted away from or haven't spoken to in years. Reach out to them and give them a friendly call, letter, or email to let them know you are thinking of them. They may be pleasantly surprised to hear from you and be touched by your act of kindness in reaching out.For example, you may write to a long lost friend, "I know we haven't spoken in years, but I just wanted to write and let you know I'm thinking about you this holiday season. Hope you're well and sending you all the best."
Or you may call a relative and say, "I know we haven't talked in a long time after that fight, but I just wanted to reach out and see how you're doing. I miss our talks and hope we can chat sometime soon."

