 Remember that a happy, self-confident person does not put others down. Therefore, if someone is putting you down, then chances are they are not very confident themselves. Knowing this will enable you to detach yourself from the person and their hurtful comments.People who put others down are either trying to cover up their own insecurities, have experienced a trauma in their own past and do not know how to deal with it, or both.;
, Do not respond with similar put-downs. This will only bring you down to their level, which is exactly what the person wants. Plus, retaliating comments can bounce back and hurt you, and you might end up regretting what you said.Instead, throw the person off by thanking them, for example, “Thank you for your opinion.” This unexpected reaction might stop the conversation from moving forward.
Laugh it off, smile, and say, “Since I know that I am not stupid, I don't care what you think of me.” If you truly don’t believe their negative comments, then it will be easier to laugh them off.
 Remember that you do not need other people's validation, because you are valuable as you are. You are smart, good, and strong enough to do anything. The only person you need to be proving yourself to is you. Just worry about being better than the person you were yesterday.Instead of saying, "I'll prove them wrong," remind yourself that they do not really know and appreciate who you are and how far you have come. Remember that the people worth impressing are the people who want you to be yourself.
 It is important to be upfront about their comments, especially if they are personal attacks rather than feedback. By being direct, you will be setting your boundaries and letting them know what you will not tolerate. In a matter of fact way, not an angry way, tell them that their comments are offensive, for example, “Please do not dismiss my ideas like that. I find it offensive.” Say it in a calm manner and wait for them to respond.If you are at work or in a professional setting, you can say, “Let's keep this conversation professional since we are at work,” or “Instead of focusing on me, let's focus on the issue. Thanks.”

