 If your eyes are exposed to HF, they will experience rapid symptoms. If your eyes only have mild exposure, expect rapid irritation and possibly pain. This may be followed by a clouding of the cornea of the eye, which may be reversible.


If severe exposure occurs, expect a rapid onset of pain and damage to the cornea. The cornea may degrade and the eye may swell. Clouding of the eye may become permanent as well as any other visual defects in the eye. , As soon as your eyes are exposed to HF, flush them with large amounts of cool, running water for at least thirty minutes. This will flush out the acid and help prevent continued damage to the eyes. If only one eye has been contaminated, be sure to not wash acid into the other eye. Keep your eyelids apart and away from the eyeballs while washing.


Tilt your head to the side so that water runs off your eye from the side closest to your nose towards your temples. This will prevent the contaminated water from rinsing back into your eye, nose, mouth, or other vital areas on the face. , Once you wash your eyes out, seek medical attention immediately. Ideally, you should see an eye specialist so he or she will know the best way to treat you. This cannot be reiterated enough. HF is a highly reactive substance and can cause severe damage, visual defects, and blindness.
 On your way to the emergency room, you should apply an ice pack to your eyes. Applying an ice pack to the affected area may lessen the effects of the HF, while also helping to alleviate the painful symptoms., Once you get to the emergency room or eye doctor, he or she will assess the damage in order to limit the long-term effects to your eyes. You will most likely continue to receive flushing of the eye, as well as topical tetracaine ointment and a 1% calcium gluconate flush.


The goal of immediate treatment is to reduce your pain, neutralize the effects of burns, and then to assess and come up with a treatment plan based on the outcome.
 Prior to discharge, your doctor will assess your electrolyte balances with a blood test, test for any heart palpitations and arrhythmias, and review your Echocardiogram (ECG) to make sure it is normal.


Your doctor may continue with similar tests during any follow-up to make sure that long-term symptoms do not develop after you have been discharged. Just like with a skin burn, your doctor should follow-up with you at least once after 24 hours from the time you are discharged, which can be over the phone or in person depending on the severity of your case.