 Combine it with something else, perhaps. Your favorite candy bar? The name of your girlfriend from high school? Your hometown? These are all words you could add into a band name or just use as one. Having meaning behind your brand name can be important when it comes to publicity. You want your band name to have a good story, such as Led Zeppelin has. (Keith Moon of The Who heard one of their gigs and stated that they would go over like a lead balloon- in British English, a Lead Zeppelin.) They kept the idea but changed the spelling.
Make a list of your favorite people, places, and things. Do this without thinking too hard. You may find a good band name in that list (especially if you combine a few of the words).
 These can have staying power. A famous example is the band Veruca Salt, which took its name from the book Charlie and The Chocolate Factory.


Mikey Way was working in Barnes and Noble and saw the book by Irvine Welsh entitled "Three Tales of Chemical Romance," then came up with My Chemical Romance. Good Charlotte also got their name from the book "Good Charlotte." Matthew Sanders got the name Avenged Sevenfold from the Book of Genesis in the Bible.
There was actually a band called Natalie Portman’s Shaved Head. Not surprisingly, it ended up changing its name. Naming a band after a better known celebrity is rarely a good idea; basing it on a dated reference is more problematic.
Use a song lyric. Panic At The Disco were inspired by the song "Panic" by Name Taken, and All Time Low got their name from the song "Head On Collision" by New Found Glory.
 Flowers. Food. Sewing machines. You name it. Look around the house. You’ll find a lot of common things with interesting names.


Malcolm and Angus Young from AC/DC found their band name on a sewing machine. AC/DC (Meaning: Alternating Current/Direct Current) was printed on the back. They decided to use that.
Food names can also make good band names. Think Black-eyed Peas or Red Hot Chili Peppers.
 There are different ways you can pick random names. Sometimes bands will randomly flip through a dictionary. That's what REM, The Pixies, Incubus, The Grateful Dead, Evanescence and Outkast did. Apoptygma Berzerk did as well, using two randomly found words.


Use a band name generator. Some online sites will put together random words to generate lists of potential band names for you. The downside of a name generator is that you’re not tapping into your own creativity. And your band name won’t be something with meaning.
Still, random names can generate inspired pairings. A randomly creative name might be more unique. Some of the best band names consist of putting two words together that have nothing to do with each other. Think: Pearl Jam.
You can also just brainstorm random words that you think sound cool. And then put them together. Or put them together to create a new word (like Nickelback).
 This is always a possibility, especially if your band has a front man. For example, the Dave Matthews Band is simply based on a band member’s name – and it works.


There is risk to this name choice. If your brand changes the frontman, it will be tough to continue with the same name. Van Halen is an example. The other problem with such a name is that some band members might feel left out.
If you choose your own name, you might want to add to it to make it more interesting. Or just use your last name.
 You could create a new word that is a combination of parts of other words. Perhaps this new word (or phrase) will have some kind of significant meaning to you.


Metallica is an example of a band with a name that is a made-up word. Drummer Lars Ulrich made it up while thinking about a metal magazine.
Create a new word by misspelling a common word, like Korn.
Some bands combine parts of their hometowns’ names with other pieces of words. However, you might be called out as a fake if you choose a place name from somewhere you’re not really from. A band might name itself after a neighborhood in its hometown. Examples are Soundgarden, Linkin Park, Hawthorne Heights, Alter Bridge, or Cypress Hill (misspelling is optional).

