 Discipline yourself by only making charges on your credit card that you are able to pay in cash. This will help stop late and interest fees. You don't want to use a credit card for large emergency payments. Instead, build an emergency savings fund that you can pull from when unexpected expenses surface. Having a high balance relative to your credit limit can also negatively affect your credit score.Your credit begins to be negatively affected once your credit utilization ratio (the percentage of your credit limit on the card you are using) goes over 30 percent.
So, for example, you would not want to build up a balance of more than $3,000 on a card with a $10,000 credit limit.
When you reach this limit, pay down your balance or switch cards to avoid negative effects., Carrying your credit card without reason may be tempting if you are in the habit of making spontaneous purchases. Place yourself in control of your spending and make sure that all credit card purchases are preplanned, necessary, and within your budget.


You should also avoid spending just to earn rewards. This may seem like a good way to earn rewards for "free," but you may end up spending more than you should., You can simplify your financial life, and reduce your chances of missing payments, by reducing your number of credit cards. Many people hold card that they use only sparingly or never at all, and these can lead to a variety of fees if not properly attended to. To close a card, make sure that your balance on the card is zero and to cancel any recurring payments on the card. Then, call the credit card company to start the process.


Closing a credit card that you have held for a long time may have a negative impact on your credit score. Keep this in mind if you need to qualify for a loan in the near future., Many people apply for unnecessary store or rewards cards just to earn $50 here and there. While this may seem like a great deal, applying for too many cards can complicate your financial life. In addition, these cards may have hidden fees that you will suddenly be responsible for. Be sure to consider how much you really need a card before applying for it, and always read the fine print of the card agreement.