 Check the temperature to make sure that it isn't too hot. Add some rose or lavender oil to the bath to soothe your mind and relax. You could also use some lavender scented bubble bath. Dim the lights in your bathroom so it's darker or just go by candlelight.;
, Stores sell spa music, or you could buy some relaxing music off of iTunes or simply go on YouTube. Play the relaxing music before you get in the tub. Then, get in the bath and forget all your worries. Focus on your breathing; it will help you relax and feel calmer. Close your eyes if you want, but be careful not to fall asleep, as it could be dangerous.
 When you are feeling fully relaxed and clean, get out of the bath and dry yourself with a big, soft, fluffy towel.
 Put some on your legs, arms, feet, elbows, and hands.
 Once you're dry, put on some comfy, fluffy pajamas or a nightgown. Try to pick your favourite/comfiest pair, because you'll want to be relaxed.
 Brush, floss, and use mouthwash. Then take sugar and add water until it makes a paste, and rub it over your lips in little circles to exfoliate them. Apply chapstick.
 Try some hot chocolate, herbal tea, or even your favourite coffee. Put it in a nice mug and drink it either on the couch or in your bed. If you're hungry, make some nice healthy snacks like fruit, veggies, crackers with cheese, or some yogurt. Or treat yourself with an ice-cream sundae.
 While you're drinking your drink, watch some TV, a film, or listen to some relaxing music in your bed. You could also read a book if you'd prefer. A good thing is to watch a movie; the best ones for right now are chick flicks, romantic comedies, or just comedies. One my favorite movies is About a Boy and it's perfect for this occasion. Don't watch horrors, dramas, mysteries, or thrillers, as these aren't relaxing.
 when you are done with your drink, close your eyes and take a deep breath, before you go in to clean up your dishes.
 When the film/music/TV show has finished, turn off the TV/stereo. Get ready for bed. Brush your teeth, hair, etc. While you're doing this, think happy thoughts and relax yourself.
 Turn out the lights in your bedroom and think of relaxing or calming thoughts until you fall asleep.


If it's not night, take a nap. Even if it's only a power nap. When you wake up avoid drama and take it easy.

