 If you can't afford to pay your employees, you're not going to be in business for very long. As long as someone is working for you, they must be paid for their time.Keep in mind that the money you're withholding from paychecks for payroll taxes isn't really yours, even though it may be sitting in a bank account you control.
While it may be tempting to dip into that store of money, not having enough to pay your payroll taxes when the time comes could result in significant IRS penalties. The IRS also can seize funds or take control of business property if taxes aren't paid.
As far as payroll itself is concerned, if you're having trouble paying the employees you have over an extended period of time, you may want to consider reorganizing your staff.
In some states, penalties may be imposed if you fail to pay your employees on time – not to mention the fact that you could run afoul of federal law.
For these very serious reasons, and because payroll potentially affects the lives of other people who are working for you, make your payroll and payroll taxes priority one.;
, You could lose your lease if you end up behind on rent payments, and if your electricity gets shut off you'll have to cease operations. Either way, these bills must be paid if you expect to remain in business.If you're having trouble paying the monthly bill for necessary services such as electricity, telephone, and internet, contact your service providers and see if something can be done to make the expense more manageable.
Likewise, you may be able to make a deal with your landlord if you're having difficulty paying rent. Your landlord doesn't want to evict you – evictions can be expensive and time-consuming, and even if they get you out they still have to find a new tenant.
If you're behind in your rent, you may be able to talk to your landlord and agree to pay a specific amount each month that includes that month's rent plus a portion of the arrears until you are up to date.
If you make such an arrangement, make sure you get the terms in writing. Otherwise your landlord might decide to evict you anyway, especially if they have other business owners who have expressed interest in your space.
 If you have any debts that are more than 60 days past due, these are non-negotiable in the sense that continued failure to pay could result in a lawsuit being filed against you and your business.Call these creditors immediately and attempt to work out some sort of payment plan. If you are able to negotiate a solution you can afford, get the agreement in writing.
You want to get in touch with these creditors before they sell the debt to a collection agency. Having an account in collections will not only hurt your business's credit, but can damage your business's reputation.
Keep in mind that these accounts accrue interest while you're not paying the bill, as well as penalties and late payment fees. This means the longer you put it off, the more expensive it will be to set things right.
 Loans that are secured by property can be considered non-negotiable if the property is something your business cannot operate without. If you don't pay these loans, the lender can keep the property.If you have equipment loans that have been open for awhile, you might be able to get them refinanced at a better rate and lower monthly payment, which could make them more affordable.
You also may be able to call the loan company and renegotiate the terms of the loan.
Keep in mind that paying off secured debt can save you money in other areas as well. For example, you may be required to carry a level of insurance because the equipment or vehicle is financed that you wouldn't carry if you owned the property outright.
Paying off secured debt also gives your business assets that can be leveraged or liquidated if necessary, as well as improving your business's credit score.
 If you have contracts with vendors or suppliers for goods or services that are necessary for you to have a business, keeping up your payments to them and maintaining a good relationship is essential for your business's continued operations.This is especially true if you operate a retail store. If you don't have items to sale, your business won't make any money at all – putting you in a worse position than you were before.
If you're having trouble paying key suppliers or vendors, meet with them and explain the situation. Try to work out a payment plan that is mutually beneficial to everyone and maintains a positive business relationship.
Keep in mind that other business owners with whom you have a contract don't want to be kept in the dark. If you're transparent about your issues they may be willing to meet you halfway, but avoiding them and refusing to communicate about the situation can make you look like the bad guy.
 Unfortunately, if your business is organized as a partnership or sole proprietorship, you are personally liable for all of the business's debts. However, if you've created a corporation or LLC, separate out any debts you've personally guaranteed and plan to pay them off first.Keep in mind that anything for which you are personally liable could potentially impact your own financial health and well-being – not just that of your business.
If you're married, your spouse also could potentially be affected by any debts for which you are personally liable.
Assuming your business is organized as a corporation or LLC, focus on the unsecured debt you've personally guaranteed first, because if you fail to pay those the creditor can come after you and your personal assets will be in jeopardy.
For sole proprietors or general partners, you're already potentially on the hook for everything, so it makes sense to focus on the largest debts with the highest interest rates first.
 Even though unsecured debt is your lowest priority, that doesn't mean you should simply not make payments. A sound plan to prioritize your business debts must include a way to get your business out of debt.Gather account information for each of your debts, including the creditor name, the original amount of the loan, the date, the present account balance, and the interest rate.
Create a spreadsheet that includes all of your debts and order them by interest rate with the highest first.
Make a note of whether your payments are current or delinquent for each debt.
 You need to know what the minimum payment is for each debt that you have. The total of these payments is the minimum amount you must pay each month to continue operating your business.You can put information about the minimum payment on your spreadsheet where you listed your business's debts.
Keep in mind that your minimum payment typically is tied to your interest rate, and may increase or decrease as the balance on your account changes.
In most cases, your highest minimum payment will be for the debt that has the highest interest rate. However, if you have a larger balance on a different account, the minimum payment may be higher even if the interest rate is a bit lower.
Once you have all your monthly minimum payments, add them up. That represents the minimum amount your business must pay on your debts each month.
 Even if other accounts have higher balances, or are older debts, the debts with a higher interest rate are costing your business the most. Accordingly, you should work to pay them off first.While you may be tempted to pay off loans or credit cards with lower balances just to get them out of the way, you'll spend more money in the long run on interest.
Go back to your spreadsheet and highlight the debt with the highest interest rate – it should be the one at the top of your spreadsheet.
Review your business's finances and find out how much your business can afford to pay on this debt above the minimum payment each month.
Keep in mind that if you can only afford to pay the minimum payment, you're going to be paying mostly interest and not do much to chip away at the principal.
Set a fixed amount you can pay on the high-interest debt every month. For example, suppose the total balance on your debt with the highest interest is $10,000, and the interest rate is 15 percent. Your minimum payment is $400 a month. If you continue paying only the minimum payment, it will be more than 13 years before you can pay off this debt.
However, if you can pay $1,000 a month on this debt, you'll be able to pay it off in a little under five years.
While you're paying off the debt that has the highest interest, you'll be making only the minimum payments on any other debts.
 As you pay off the top debt on your list with the highest interest rate, apply the amount you paid to that to the next debt on your list, working down progressively until all debts are paid.To continue with the example from the previous step, suppose you've been paying $1,000 a month on your highest-interest debt.
After that debt is paid in full, take that same $1,000 and apply it to the next debt on your list.
Keep going down your list until your debts are paid off. Keep in mind this could take several years.
While you're applying additional money to your highest-interest debt, make sure you're staying current with minimum payments on all other accounts.
 Even if you're working responsibly to pay off the debt your business has, you won't get anywhere if you're continuing to borrow or open new lines of credit to cover your expenses.Particularly if you've been using a credit card to cover the basic expenses of your business, this may be the most difficult step toward paying down your business's debts.
Take a hard look at your expenses and income over the past three to six months to determine what you can cut and where you can potentially save some money.
For example, you may decide to only order office supplies once a month instead of every week, and encourage employees to reduce waste by only printing necessary documents and reusing paper and other materials rather than getting new replacements that aren't really needed.
However, keep in mind that if you're having to prioritize your business debts, this means you are unable to pay them all. You must find out where you can lower operating costs so you can afford to stay in business.
 Sometimes creditors are willing to work with you, particularly if you've been making at least the minimum payment on time. You may have more difficulty negotiating if you have a spotty track record with them, but it still doesn't hurt to ask.You also may want to investigate the possibility of a balance transfer, especially with credit cards. It may be possible to transfer a high-rate balance to another card with a lower interest rate.
Just make sure you don't add any more charges to the high-rate card after you've transferred the balance – that will defeat your purpose.
Another option to consider is a consolidation loan from a bank. If you can pay off business credit cards and other high-rate unsecured debts and make a single payment to the bank each month, this can free up some cash in your business and go a long way towards getting your business back on track financially.
 Sometimes the difficulty with paying a debt isn't because the money isn't there, it just isn't there when the bill is due. Creditors often are willing to work with you to change the due date to something more manageable.Keep in mind that while most credit cards will allow you to change the due date for your monthly payments, that change may not take effect for two billing cycles.
Particularly if you run a retail business, you may be able to create incentives for your customers or offer discounts that will increase your sales – and therefore your cash flow – during times of the month when money is tight or you have a lot of bills clustered.
Check the website of the Small Business Association (SBA) to find cash flow management tools including spreadsheets and templates that can help you analyze your business's cash flow.
 If you don't already have a budget, it's time to make one for your business that you can follow. If you do have a budget for your business, it's clear from the fact that you're prioritizing your business debts that you need to take a closer look at it and overhaul it to more accurately reflect your business's financial picture.Generally speaking, you should be reviewing your budget at least once a month and updating or revising it as necessary.
There are computer apps available that can help you with projections so you can make changes and see how those changes will affect the financial big picture over time.
The SBA website has tools to help you build your budget as well.
You also may want to work with an accountant or other business financial adviser to create the tools that you need to help your business be more financially stable.
 Overly optimistic goals and projections may have led to you taking on more debt in the earlier stages of your business. If your business has a problem with debt, more realistic projections can give you a better understanding of your business's future.When you started your business, you may have included sales projections as part of your initial business plan.
If you haven't looked at these numbers since then, it's time to pull them out and see how your projections stack up against reality.
Generally, you want to plan for some growth, but your projections should be based on past performance.
Focus on being realistic. For example, while it may be optimistic to believe that you will double this year's sales next year, that's not a realistic projection absent solid information that leads you to believe demand for your products or services will expand that much.
Keep in mind that ambitious projections could result in over-spending to attempt to meet those goals, which can negate all the work you've put into making your business solid financially.

