 In the legislative branch, there are two groups. One is The House of Representatives, and one is the Senate. Both are part of the legislative branch, with each group containing a certain number of people (The number is different for each state.) These two groups in the legislative branch will be referred as the two chambers of congress throughout this article.;
, In the legislative branch, anyone in the House of representatives or the Senate can propose a bill.
 After the House has listened to the bill, it is sent to the appropriate committee. (Ex. the Traffic Committee, Agricultural Committee, Electronics Committee.)

, Afterwards, the committee votes on the bill. If the vote has at least 51% support for the bill, it advances to the House of Representatives and Senates. However, if the minority of the people go for the bill, it is killed.
 At this point, amendments of the bill can be made. (For example, if the bill proposes that water supply be limited for each home, a person could say that drinking water would be an exception to the bill).
 If the majority of the people vote for the bill for each group, it progresses on. However, if less than half of the people vote for the bill, it is killed.
 To solve this problem, a committee of five people from each chamber is chosen to work out an in-between version of the bill.
 For the bill to move on, more than half of the people from the committee from each chamber must vote for the bill for it to progress. (In this case, at least 3 people from each chamber must vote for the bill for it to move on.
 At least the majority of the people from each chamber must vote for bill for it to progress.
 At that point, he or she has 10 days to veto or approve of the bill, after which the bill will come into effect without the signature of the Governor. If the Governor approves of the bill, it is taken into action. However, if the Governor wants to go against the bill, he or she can veto the bill and send it back to the two chambers of Congress.
 If at least two thirds of the people from both chambers votes for the bill, the veto is overruled, and it is taken into action. Otherwise, the bill is killed.

