 The recommended home treatment for a stye is to apply a warm compress to the eye for 10 to 15 minutes, 2 to 3 times a day.This will increase circulation to the area and speed up the rupture and drainage of the stye. It is important to start warm compress treatment as soon as you identify the stye. Untreated, styes can last for several weeks, but treatment can cut this to just a few days.Always use a warm compress on a closed eyelid. Make sure the compress is not too hot, or you might cause irritation or burns. Test the compress on a clean area of skin such as your arm for a few minutes. If it is too hot, let it cool for a few minutes and test it again before applying it to your face.
To make a warm compress, wet a clean towel with hot (not boiling) water and wring out the excess. Lie down and apply the towel to your closed eyelid for 10 to 15 minutes. Reheat the towel if necessary.
Alternatively, you can wrap a wet towel around a hot water bottle. Lie down and lay the bottle on your face with your eyes closed. This method keeps the towel hot longer.
You can also use a microwaveable heating pack from the back pain aisle of the drug store. Heat it up so that it is warm to the touch but can be comfortably held. If you can't hold it in your hand, it is too hot for your face. These stay warm for about 30 minutes.
Some people prefer to use warm, moist teabags on their eyelids. These are small and hold the heat well, but are no more effective than any damp cloth., There are many creams, ointments and even medicated pads available over-the-counter that will help to clear up the eye infection causing the stye. Look for treatments that contain the ingredient polymyxin B sulfate, which is an effective antibiotic in treating eye infections.Make sure it says that it's safe for use in the eye. Ophthalmologists do not like OTC antibiotics because they are not safe if they get in the eye, which these ointments always do.
Be wary of any product that claims to remove styes immediately or overnight. They are usually expensive and are unlikely to work as quickly as they claim. Stye treatment usually takes between 2-4 days., Although it may be tempting to squeeze the stye or pop it with a needle in an attempt to drain it, never do so. Rupturing the stye can make the infection worse by introducing bacteria from your skin into the stye.Apply a regular hot compress and wait for the stye to rupture and drain on its own.


Attempting to pop or rupture the stye can actually spread the infection from the stye to other parts of your eye., While you are suffering from a stye it is best to steer clear of eye make up such as mascara, eye liner and eye shadow. This will help to avoid irritating your eye and decrease your chances of reinfection.


Since the infection is often present before you are aware of the symptoms, it is best to throw away any eye makeup applicators that you were using when the stye developed. This will help keep you from reinfecting your eye., It is a good idea to hold off on wearing contacts while you're suffering from a stye. This is because contacts could irritate your eye further, causing unnecessary pain. Switch to wearing normal glasses until the stye has cleared.


Wearing contacts that you wore during the period of infection can reinfect your eye. Once your stye has cleared up, wear a new pair of contacts to keep your eyes healthy., Wash your hands with antibacterial soap and hot water before and after touching your eyes. If you touch your eyes with unwashed hands you risk transferring bacteria to the unaffected eye. You might even worsen the initial infection.
 Over-the-counter non-steroidal pain medication, such as NSAIDs like ibuprofen or naproxen, can help to ease inflammation and pain caused by the stye. Always follow package instructions.


If you are sensitive or allergic to ibuprofen or naproxen, acetaminophen can help relieve pain caused by the stye. It is not as effective at fighting inflammation as NSAIDs.Always check with your physician or pharmacist to prevent possible interactions with everyday prescriptions.
 It is important that your eyes get adequate rest while you are treating a stye. As you sleep, your immune system releases proteins called cytokines, which help fight infection and inflammation.Get plenty of sleep at night and avoid doing too much reading or other visually-detailed work. Reducing strain on the eyes can help relieve the pain styes cause while you’re awake, such as the pain caused by blinking.


Rest your eyes frequently during work to give them short breaks. Close your eyes for a few minutes and try to relax.
Treat a stye as you would if you were sick with other infections: get plenty of rest, drink lots of clear fluids, and take appropriate pain medications.
Do not “overdose” on vitamin supplements, as this will not increase your immune response. However, taking a daily multivitamin is a good idea for maintaining a healthy immune system.