 Gargling with salt water can help to reduce some of the swelling in your throat and this can help to reduce coughing.You can gargle with salt water every couple hours throughout the day to help with your wheezing cough.


To gargle with salt water, take about ¼ to ½ teaspoon of sea salt and dissolve it in one cup of warm water. Then gargle with the saltwater solution for about 30 to 60 seconds. Spit out the salt water after you are done.;
, Cough drops can help to silence a wheezing cough, but keep in mind that cough drops will not cure a wheezing cough.Look for cough drops that contain menthol, which has a cooling effect on your throat and breathing passages.


You can suck one lozenge every couple of hours to help silence your wheezing cough temporarily.
 Keeping the air moist in your home can also be helpful for a wheezing cough. Humid air helps to loosen up mucus and reduce coughing.You can run a humidifier when you are home to prevent the air from becoming too dry.


You can also try adding a few drops of essential oil to the humidifier to increase the benefits of the steam. Some good essential oils to add to a humidifier include eucalyptus, peppermint, ginger, and camphor.
If you do not have a humidifier, then taking a warm shower will help to moisten your nasal passages and calm down your wheezing cough as well. Try taking a warm shower before bed to help you relax and reduce coughing while you sleep.
 Rest is essential for recovery from any type of illness, so plan to get lots of rest. You may need to take a day or two off of work to allow yourself enough time to rest. Try to get at least eight hours of sleep every night while you are recovering.


You can also supplement your sleep by taking naps if you need to.
 Environmental irritants can also contribute to a wheezing cough sometimes. If you think that environmental irritants such as pollution, chemicals, and smoke may be aggravating or causing your wheezing cough, then you may want to wear a mask when you are exposed to these irritants.Cigarette smoke can be especially irritating when you have a wheezing cough.If you are smoker, then you should to try to quit smoking to get rid of your wheezing cough. Talk to your doctor about smoking cessation medications and programs that may help support your efforts to quit smoking.
 If your wheezing cough is a side effect of GERD, then eating smaller meals throughout the day may also help to get rid of it.Avoid eating large heavy meals and opt for smaller nutritious meals instead to help reduce the side effects of GERD and get rid of a wheezing cough associated with your GERD.


Make sure that you do not eat too close to bedtime either. Try to stop eating about three to four hours before bedtime as well.