 Before you can forget a memory, you will need think about the details of that memory. Doing so might be hard, but it is necessary. Write out your answers to the following questions to figure out the details of the memory:


what happened?
who was involved?
where and when did it happen?
what else was going on?
how did you feel?;
, Your next step is to pinpoint the most upsetting parts of the memory. Getting to the root of what bothers you the most will help you figure out what you need to forget. Write these specific things down so that you can work on forgetting them.


Keep in mind that you can't forget the existence of your ex-girlfriend or ex-boyfriend, but you can forget particular dates, events, or sense memories. For example, you might be able to forget the smell of a perfume, your first date, or something that your ex said to you.
If you find yourself dwelling on traumatic experiences, list the people who harassed you, the specific locations that caused you grief, and other sensory details like the smell of the lunchroom, the locker room, or the gym.
 You can use the details that you have identified to perform a ritual release. A ritual release is a mental exercise that may help you to forget a memory.To do a ritual release, all you have to do is turn your memory into a mental snapshot and imagine that you are setting it on fire.


In your mind, picture a part of the memory that you want to forget. Try to imagine this detail like a picture. Then, imagine that you are setting that picture on fire.Imagine the edges of the photo turning brown and curling up, then turning black and crumbling away. Imagine the fire burning your mental memory picture until the picture is gone.
You could also try using another image in place of the actual memory. For example, you could imagine your bully as a Honda Civic sinking into a pond or as a freight train slowly crashing into a wall.
 Certain objects or images may trigger a painful memory for you and make it harder to forget the memory.If you have any objects or pictures that trigger bad memories for you, then put them somewhere out of sight or consider getting rid of them.


For example, you may want to get rid of anything that reminds you of your ex, including photographs and gifts your ex gave you.
 You might also find that hypnosis can help you to forget unwanted memories. Hypnosis requires you to enter a relaxed state so that you will be more open to suggestions.Look for a professional hypnotist in your area if this is something that you would like to try.


Keep in mind that not everyone can be hypnotized, so it might not work for you. For those who can be hypnotized, there is also the chance that the effects will only last a short time.