 Make sure that the baking rack is in the middle of the oven. Lightly coat the inside of a 9 by 13 by 2-inch (22.86 by 33.02 by 5.08 centimeters) baking dish with butter.
 Cut the soft rolls into 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) thick slices. Then, use a butter knife to spread the butter onto one side of each bread sliceYou can choose any type of small, soft, round roll. Brioche is a great choice.
 Arrange the slices in neat layers, one on top of the other. You will end up with several layers of bread. Make sure that you are setting the slices buttered-side-up in each layer.
 If you don't like raisins, or can't find then, you can also use sultanas instead; they are very in bread and butter puddings. Set the dish aside when you are done.
 Pour the milk and heavy cream into the saucepan first, then stir them together. Stir in the salt next. Cut the vanilla beans open lengthwise, then use the tip of a knife to scrape the seeds into the saucepan. Stir everything together once more with a whisk.
 Stir the milk mixture often as it is coming to a boil to prevent scorching. Once the milk is boiling, take the saucepan off the heat, and turn off the stove.
 Crack the eggs open into a large mixing bowl, then add the sugar. Beat the two together with a whisk until the yolks break and blend in with the whites. This will take about 1 minute.
 Do not pour all of the milk into the eggs all at once. Pouring a little bit of the hot milk into the eggs will allow the eggs to heat up slowly without cooking. This will give you a smoother custard base in the end., Once you have the custard base mixed together, pour it through a fine, mesh strainer into a large mixing bowl. Discard any lumps or clumps that get caught in the strainer.
 The bread will float to the top, so use a spatula or a spoon to press down on the bread until it soaks up the custard and sinks to the bottom. Be careful not to squish or break the bread.
 The water inside the larger roasting pan will surround the baking dish, and help the pudding cook more evenly.
 Carefully place the roasting pan with the pudding inside it into the oven, careful not to spill any water. Bake the pudding for 30 minutes, then use a spoon or spatula to press down any bread slices that might have floated to the top. The pudding is ready when the custard sets and puffs up; it should still be jiggle-y in the middle., Once the pudding is done, take the roasting pan out of the oven, and set it down on a wire cooling rack. Let the pudding cool a little in the roasting pan.
 In a small saucepan over low heat, combine 2 tablespoons (40 grams) of apricot jam with 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of water. Stir the two together with a fork or mini whisk until the jam turns liquid; this will take about 1 minute. Once you are done, use a pastry brush to spread the sauce over the pudding.This is not completely necessary, but it will lend the pudding more flavor.
 Leave the pudding in its baking dish, and serve it while it is still warm.

