 Jumping rope before you lift weights can increase your blood flow and prepares your heart and nervous system for physical activity. It's important that you don't jump rope for more than three minutes because you don't want to deplete your glycogen stores and reduce your energy before you lift.Find a space like on a padded floor to jump rope, so you don't but any unnecessary stress on your ankles.

A jump rope can often be purchased for under $5.
Get a jump rope that is nine feet or longer if you are over six feet tall.Jumping rope will loosen up your muscles and increase your blood flow.;
, Jumping jacks work out your legs, core, and heart. Start by standing with your feet together, hands by your side. Jump while pushing your feet apart and bringing your hands together straight over your head. Return to the start position by jumping.Continue to do this 50 times or enough times to build a sweat but not get fatigued.

If you tire yourself out too much before having to lift, lactic acid will build up in your muscles and make your weight lifting routine less efficient.You don't want to tire yourself out before you start to lift, so if 50 jumping jacks get you tired, consider reducing the amount.
 Lunges help stretch out your hip flexors and activate your legs, glutes, and hip muscles.To perform a lunge, step forward with one leg and lower your hips until both legs are bent at a 90-degree angle. Keep your back straight and shoulders back. Your front knee should be above your ankle, and not pushed out too far, and your back knee should not be touching the ground. Come back to a standing position and alternate with each leg.Twisting your hips at the end of a lunge can also help stretch your upper and middle back.
Lunges are great when you are warming up for exercises like the deadlift.
 High knees will improve flexibility and power in lower parts of your body like your hips and legs. To do high knees, start in the standing position and lift and bend your leg to your hip, then return to the standing position. Alternate legs and pump your arms while you perform the exercise.

This warm up will prepare you for exercises like squats or the leg press.
High knees and lateral knees work out your quadriceps, hamstrings, glutes, and abductors., Pushups warm up your chest, shoulders, and triceps. To do a push up, place your hands flat on the ground, directly under your shoulders. Flatten your back so that your weight is centralized on glutes and hamstrings. Lower your body by lowering your shoulders and tucking your arms into your body. Push back up and repeat the steps.A standard pushup uses 50%-60% of your body weight as resistance.
Pushups are great warm ups for upper body exercises like the benchpress or curls.
 Protecting your ankles is necessary for leg exercises and standing lifts, such as the deadlift. To carry out a rocking ankle mobilization, start in a push-up position. Push your hips up higher above your torso so that your body looks pitched. Place one foot planted on the ground while resting your other foot on the planted foot's ankle. Rock back and forth so that your heel touches the floor then lifts off of it. Switch legs and repeat the process.You may have to perform more reps if one ankle is tighter than the other.
It's important to have stable ankles for exercises like the leg press and deadlift.
 Hundreds of other exercises exist and can help aid you in your weight training and help prevent potential injury. A personal trainer can help you target the parts of your body that you want to develop. They may also be able to assist you in other things like your diet.

Other popular weight training exercises used to warm up include foam roll exercises, leg swings, spiderman steps, and hip extensions.