 It is important to have people who you can talk to about what is going on in your life. Opening up to friends and family will give you a chance to express yourself and get help when you need it.

Try opening up to one friend or family member at first, and then open up to more people as you start to get more comfortable talking about what you have been dealing with.
Ask a friend or family member to help you find a counselor and get help for your depression.
 If you start seeing a mental health professional, you will undergo psychotherapy. This may include talk therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, or other methods to face your depression and learn how to manage and treat it. These treatments help you learn how to cope with your depression and take control of your life again.For example, talk therapy may help you talk through issues that are linked to your depression. CBT helps you replace negative thoughts with healthier ones.
You may need short term treatment or long term treatment. Don't feel frustrated if your depression needs long term treatment. As long as you are treating it, you are on the right track.
 Depending on the severity of your depression, you may need to go on medication. If you are not seeing a psychiatrist, you will need to see one since they are medical doctors who can prescribe medication. Medication can provide extra help if therapy is not enough.Talk to the doctor and psychiatrist about side effects of any prescription drugs. Ask how the medication will interfere with your diabetes, affect your blood sugar levels, and interfere with any medication you are taking.
Often, people take medication along with going to therapy.
 Another way you can help your depression is to join a support group. This can be very helpful if you feel alone or like there is no one you can talk to. You may want to try a depression support group or a diabetes support group. Either can provide support from others who understand what you are going through. Connecting with others and talking about what you are going through can be very helpful.Ask your doctor or mental health professional about support groups in your area.
You may also want to look for support groups online.
You can also find out more info about diabetes support groups through the American Diabetes Association., Closely following your diabetes management plan can help you with your depression, too. Sometimes, poor diabetes management can lead to depression or make it worse. Though it may be tough, taking care of yourself is a good way to ensure both physical and mental health.Management plans often focus on keeping blood sugar levels under control, improving fitness and increasing physical activity, and losing weight or managing weight. These things can help improve depression.

