 Keep hair clean , well-conditioned, shiny and combed/brushed at all times. Recommended shampoo/conditioners are Suave, VO5, Tresemme, or Biolage (all very cheap, ranging from 1.99-16.49) If you have an off day and don’t have time to wash, rub some talcum powder (0.50) into your roots, some anti-frizz (3.69) on your tips and brush it out, from roots to tip, to at least give some impression of cleanliness. If you choose to work against your natural texture buy an iron (straightening or curling, whichever) and use it smartly, with your heat-shield (3.99) and frizz-ease (7.17);
, Yup, that’s right: your face. Wash it 2-3 times a day, with a recommended face wash for your skin type, not too cheap and not too expensive. Keep bushy eyebrows plucked just the right amount. This means lugging your booty to CVS or Sally Hansen’s and buying a professional-quality kit. They’re only 7.99 when they’re not on sale. If you have embarrassing nose hair, trim it with those special little machines that go for about 15.00 at any regular beauty store. Point is: KEEP IT CLEAN-CUT.
 Not the clothes on your body, but your body in itself. You should always be showered with either a citrus or fresh scent. Orange, lemon, lime, and grapefruit soaps all fall under the citrus category, and are commonly on sale at Marshall’s in those cute little boxes shaped like books. Fresh scents are harder to distinguish. They’d be Granny Smith Apples, clean linen, freshwater, champagne bubbles… these are all examples of popular bar and liquid soap smells that are usually running for 2.99 in the box set at T.J. Maxx. Any moisturizer or self-tanner should match your soap. Shampoo and conditioner should be neutral, like “Waterfall” from Suave or “Freesia” from VO5.
 Pedicures aren’t always practical, but at least make an effort to keep them on the leash! This is classified as: cut to a reasonable length, filed to your desired shape, and slicked over with some top/base coat, to keep it from breaking off. Then, if you want, you can gloss them toe-toes over with a fun color like turquoise or coral, from the Hard as Nails collection (2.39 a bottle!) Avoid sparkles or crackle polish because it takes a lot of effort to scrape off, even with extra-strength polish remover (1.00)

, Is your hairstyle still holding, or slowly unleashing it’s frizzy wrath? Fix that! Do you have some smudge on your face, pointing out that tiny breakout on the tip of your chin? Fix that! Do your pits sort of, well… sting your taste buds when you raise your arms? Fix that! And are those doggies barking? Well… please fix that.
 School is a big chunk of your life, no matter what color's in this season. So set aside time for:


Read through notes and textbooks for an hour a day. Make sure to jot down a few key points to review and clarify before the big test.
Take good notes. It's pretty much rewriting the messy scribbles you take down during class into clean, legible notes, so that you always have material to fall back on when you have to cram.
Clarify. Just read a paragraph of the material. Find the main idea of that section. Write it down, and a quick sentence explaining what it is. Repeat for the rest of the material. You get it done quicker than expected, and it's better than just reading through boring texts and trying and failing miserably at memorizing stupid, pointless details.
 Fashion is pretty important in high school. Some girls live and breathe by it. But you shouldn't be so obsessed. Take note and buy some in advance. Wear them around to school and such, and when the trends become actual trends, move onto the next one. But only choose trends you feel comfortable in. What's the point of dressing like someone else if you're NOT someone else?

