 It could anyone. A friend or a family member. Your brother, cousin, sister, etc. Choose someone you know well.;
, If he/she is rushing out the door to work, that's not a good time. Pick a time when they're not occupied. If they don't live with you, and you have to phone them, it's time for you to do a little work. If this person is not in your time zone, find an appropriate time to contact them.
 Is there a game you and they both play? What about sharing stories? Think of creative ideas to do. If you're planning for you and your partner to blog about daily life, tell them that blogging could be a lifelong experience. Blogging is a chance to let your feelings let your feelings out on the internet with your own blog.
 This person might not be a blogging person. Don't phone them every day/week trying to get them into blogging. If you do this, they might get annoyed and just say yes, but they won't be thrilled about it, and there's a big chance they won't even post on their blog.
 Let them set up their own blog; it will make them feel happy and independent that they can make their own. If you make one for them, they won't feel as independent. They might feel babied.
 Since you're showing a new blogger what to do and where this and that is, be patient and helpful. Do they want to write a post? Show them kindly. If they don't understand where you guided them, don't get aggravated. Direct them with kindness. If they don't need help, then don't keep on guiding them where they want to go, or they might get a bit annoyed

, Don't peek over his/her shoulder everyone time they're on the blog. If you act like blogging mommy to your partner, they won't feel like it's their blog. Once they get the hang of things on the blog, and memorize where things are, let them have their blogging freedom. If you're watching them over their shoulder when they blog, they won't feel the freedom of blogging.
 Don't post anything rude about your partner, then he/she will end up getting off the blogging buddies rock where you and he/she are standing, and wander alone. If they post something rude or cruel about you, talk to them. Tell them that blogging is supposed to be about happiness, not a place where you post about hate.
 If your partner is struggling or having trouble with something, offer help and be kind. If you're confident about you and your partner, then you will be better blogging friends.

