 Place the cornmeal, salt, and sugar in a medium mixing bowl and stir to combine.


Note that the sugar is an optional ingredient. Add it if you like mildly sweetened cornbread. Leave it out if you prefer savory cornbread.;
, Toss both ingredients into the cornmeal mixture, stirring until the shortening melts and the mixture seems evenly combined.The resulting dough should be thick enough to loosely hold its form, but it will still be quite sticky and difficult to pick up with your hands.
 Scoop up heaping tablespoons of dough. Use your fingers or a second spoon to form them into flattened balls or patties.


You should be able to get roughly 10 to 15 patties out of this dough.
Place the formed patties on a plate lined with wax paper. Alternatively, wait until after you heat the oil, then form and drop the patties directly into the skillet.
 Pour 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of vegetable oil into a large, heavy-bottomed skillet. Set the pan on the stove over medium-high heat.


Cast iron skillets work best, but any large, heavy-bottomed skillet can be used.
Note that bacon fat, canola oil, or peanut oil can also be used instead of standard vegetable oil.
Test the temperature of the oil with a cooking thermometer. When the oil reaches 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius), move onto the next step.
 Gently place each dough patty in the hot oil. Fry the patties for approximately 5 minutes, or until the patties are golden brown on both sides.Only turn the patty once during the cooking process. Wait 2 to 3 minutes, or until the bottom edge of each patty starts to brown. Use a flat, heat-resistant spatula to carefully flip the patties to their uncooked sides.
 Remove the patties from the hot oil using a slotted spatula and transfer them to a plate covered in paper towels.


Try to position the patties in a single layer on this plate. If you stack them on top of one another, the oil may not drain completely.
Let the cornbread patties drain for 1 or 2 minutes.
 Enjoy the cornbread patties while they're still hot. You can eat them plain or add butter, maple syrup, honey, or fruit preserves.

