 Baking soda is good for getting stains out of cat floor mats.


The baking soda will also help neutralize odors from pets and food and other dirt.You could also put baking soda with water on the bristles of a stiff scrub brush, and then scrub the floor mats clean.
 You can add detergent to soapy water, and scrub the floor mats with a stiff brush to make them clean.


Make a mixture with two tablespoons of washing powder and an equal amount of any shampoo. Then, rub the brush on your car floor mat with that mixture. You can also use this mixture to clean your car bumper which is made up of plastic only. You have many different options for cleaning materials.
With a small hand brush (stiff bristles) or a deck scrubber brush, gently brush any debris away from the mat. Scrub hard. Wash all the soap off with clean water.
 You could spray a carpet cleaner over the mat and leave for 30 mins. Or you can buy special upholstery cleaner for cars at most auto shops.The carpet cleaner should either have evaporated or have been absorbed by the mat. Then, use the hand brush to make sure you work the carpet cleaner into and throughout the mat.
You could make your own spray by adding one bottle of white vinegar to the same amount of hot water, and then spraying it on the car mats. Scrub with the brush. This method is particularly good at removing salt stains..
If there is chewing gum on the mats, you can apply peanut butter and some salt, and then scrub the mats to remove the remnants of the chewing gum.
 Another option is to use a steam cleaning vacuum on the mats. This should work as well on car floor mats as it does on carpet inside your house.


If you don’t have a power washer at home, you can usually find them at car washes, and you could power wash your floor mats there.
You can also put car floor mats in your washing machine, using your regular detergent. Apply spray stain remover first. , This will help suck up some of the water and remove any remaining dirt particles from the mats.


A wet/dry vac (shop-vac) is recommended because they are designed to remove moisture.Vacuum cleaners with hose attachments also work well because they have suctioning power.Take a hoover with 680 watts or more power, so you have more power. Then, take the mat and hoover it clean using a thin hose for better suction.
 To dry cloth floor mats, hang them up somewhere or dry them in a dryer. Floor mats get a damp musky smell if not dry.


You could also spray them with a clean fresh scent. Leave them outside in the sun to dry. This will also help freshen the smell.
You could also put cloth floor mats in the dryer. Then, use a razor to remove any excess fur hanging off the mat (just razor the whole mat and all the extra fur will disappear)

