 Some dogs dislike car journeys because they feel fearful or anxious because they had a bad experience in a car, such as being involved in a crash. It could even be that a dog is hesitant to get in the car because it got too excited and the driver shouted at it.


It is immensely helpful to retrain the dog so that journeys become associated with a pleasant experience and therefore something to be looked forward to.
 If your dog hates car travel, then try to avoid long journeys while you are retraining it.Your aim is to build new associations with the car so that the dog thinks the car is a great place to be.This is a gradual process that can't be rushed, and will actually be set back if you rush it.
 Start with the car parked and with the engine off. Open a door and put an extra tasty treat inside. Encourage the dog to jump into the stationary car and give it lots of positive attention when it does. Then let the dog come out and do something pleasurable afterwords, like take the pup for a walk.


Then start feeding the dog meals in the stationary car. Protect the upholstery with a towel or puppy pad, place the food bowl on top, and get it used to taking meals in the stationary car.
Consider stuffing a Kong and giving it to the dog in the stationary car. Think of different activities which your dog enjoys and make them happen in the car. It could be it takes weeks or months until the dog is willingly jumping into the vehicle, in anticipation of the "good thing", but eventually he will learn.
 Once the dog is comfortable in the stationary car, start taking ultra short trips. Initially, these are as limited as starting the engine, letting it run, then turning it off. Then try backing out of the driveway, and straight back in.


Build up to a short trip round the block. Then a short drive round the neighbourhood.
This is all about gradual adjustments, so don't rush it. Make sure your dog is really comfortable with a phase before moving forward.
If you can have someone go with you to watch the dog for signs of distress or nausea. If this happens, stop the car, take the dog out and let it walk around for a bit to give it relief. Complete the journey and next time don't go so far.
In these early days, try to visit places that are fun, so the journey has a reward at the end of it, such as a park or woods.

