 The type of stamp you use depends a lot on the project you’re doing. Smaller stamps are great for cards, while larger stamps work for larger projects. Having a variety of stamps is probably best – it gives you some choice when you sit down to work on a project.

You can also get wood-backed or clear stamps. Clear stamps will give more control over placement because you’ll be able to see exactly where the edge of the stamp is.;
, The lines created with a rubber stamp that uses permanent ink are very sharp and will dry quickly. This makes permanent ink great for precision work like stamping addresses or words., Pigment ink takes longer to dry, but it will give you a brighter, more vibrant color. It’s good to use if you’re stamping greeting cards or decorations of some kind. It’s also great for layering, since the colors won’t get lost in each other., This is true regardless of the type of ink you use. Don’t just smash the stamp into the ink once. Check your stamp a few times in between presses to make sure the ink is evenly covering the stamp., Be extra careful if the paper is not much bigger than the stamp; you don’t want to lose part of your design. Don’t rock the stamp as you press down. Instead, apply even, steady pressure., This is especially important if you’re using a larger stamp. Running your finger over the top ensures an even application of ink without you having to rock and wiggle the stamp., After you’ve pressed down, pick it straight up to avoid smearing the ink., Depending on the type of ink you use, it can take between a few minutes up to a half hour for the ink to dry. If you're not sure if it's dry yet, very gently dab your finger over the ink. If any color comes away, it's not dry yet., Let the ink dry in between stamps if you want clear and distinct colors. You can also stamp over still-wet designs to create a more integrated look. This is an especially cool look if you’re using water-based markers, since the inks will often bleed into one another.