 If the amount that you owe is truly more than you can afford, especially in light of other obligations you may have, you might consider filing bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is a legal process that discharges your obligations to pay certain debts. To be eligible for bankruptcy, you will have to demonstrate that your total debts exceed your total assets, with some exceptions. A bankruptcy attorney or financial adviser will be able to help you with this review.For more help with deciding to file bankruptcy, you may want to see File Bankruptcy in the United States or File Chapter 7 Bankruptcy Without a Lawyer.
 Not all debts can be discharged in bankruptcy. You will want to check with your attorney to find out if your obligation to the plaintiff can be discharged. In most cases, the amount of the judgment itself will be dischargeable, but the amount of any additional fees or court costs that are included with the judgment may not be.Some other types of debts might not be dischargeable either. If the judgment against you was as a result of willful injury (assault) that you caused or for a debt caused by fraud on your part, the plaintiff may be able to get a ruling from the Bankruptcy Court that you still owe the money.
 A bankruptcy case begins with the filing of a bankruptcy petition. The petition itself is a single page, but along with it are sets of documents known as the bankruptcy schedules. These report all of your assets and obligations to the court and your creditors. You can obtain copies of the paperwork either from your attorney, from the Bankruptcy Court clerk’s office, or online.The forms you need are available at www.uscourts.gov, by following the link to “Services & Forms” and then “Bankruptcy Forms.”
You should consult with an attorney for help in completing the bankruptcy petition and schedules. In many areas, you can find bankruptcy attorneys who will offer their services for a low flat fee.
 Immediately upon filing a bankruptcy petition, you receive a form of protection known as the “automatic stay.” This is a legal order that any collection efforts against you must cease immediately. If the plaintiff tries to contact you for payment, or if a sheriff arrives to arrest you on the capias warrant, you should produce a copy of the bankruptcy petition and notify the plaintiff or sheriff of the automatic stay protection., If you comply with all the requirements of the Bankruptcy Court, you should receive a formal discharge of your obligations within about six months. In most cases, you will be required to attend one meeting with a bankruptcy trustee, known as a “Meeting of Creditors” or a “341 Meeting.” At that meeting, the trustee will review your paperwork and may ask you questions about your assets and debts. If there are no unusual complications, your case will be discharged within a few months.