 A disability means that you face extra challenges in the world, and many people have different abilities than you do. It does not mean that you are broken or a burden. Plenty of people with disabilities, including people with Down Syndrome, live happy and wonderful lives.
 Everyone is good at some things and bad at others. It isn't helpful to compare and see where you aren't as talented as other people. You are talented in your own way.


Remind yourself that life isn't a race or a competition. You don't need to be the best or be the first.
For example, maybe your sister is better at science than you are. That doesn't change the fact that you might have a beautiful laugh, work very hard, and be great at cheering people up when they're sad.
 Look for Down Syndrome groups or disability groups in your area. You can also check social media sites like Facebook or Tumblr.
 Down Syndrome is one piece of you, and not all of you. What do you like to do? Think about things from dancing to painting to helping other people. Find your way to shine.
 If you ever feel bad about yourself, it helps to have reminders that you are a good person. Here are some ways to do this...


Write a list of your favorite things about yourself. Try things like "I'm good at giving hugs when people need them" and "I'm funny."
Keep a box filled with nice notes about yourself. Try notes from teachers and therapists, thank you cards, and nice things on your report card (like "hard worker"). You can even explain to your family members what you're doing and ask if they'll write you a little note!
Look at pictures of yourself with your family and friends. Remember how much they love you.
 You are not going to be like other teenagers. This is okay. Instead of worrying about fitting in, focus on what makes you special. It's okay to be unique.
 Some days will be challenging. Sometimes you will feel frustrated, worried, or sad. This is normal. You are still okay.


If you are often feeling this way, then it's important to tell someone, because you may have a sickness called depression.
 Everyone has challenges and gifts, and you can't change what you were given. However, you can choose to make the most of it. Work to do your best, bounce back from your bad days, and stay positive.

