 You cannot sit at home and expect to meet the man of your dreams. Going places where men are will help you increase your chances of meeting someone. Think about the values and qualities that are important to you and go places where you are likely to meet those type of men.If you want a man that cares about the community, go volunteer for a charity organization.
If you want a man that is an animal lover, visit a dog park or animal shelter.
If you are interested in a man of a certain religion, visit a church, mosque, or temple that is in line with your beliefs.
If you are into art, visit art galleries and art shows.
If you have a specific man in mind, go places where you know he likes to hang out.
 Tell people that you are single and are trying to meet someone. Let them know the kind of man that you are looking for. Ask them if they know of any single men that might be a good fit for you. Your friends know you well and can help you find a good mate.If your friends know of someone, ask them to introduce you to the person in a group setting. A group dinner or a group activity can help you get a feel for the person.
If you are feeling bold, have your friends set you up on a blind date.
If you have a specific person in mind, find out if he is single and ask for an introduction.
 Online dating is great way to meet people that you may never come across in your every day life. Choose a dating site that fits your needs. For example, if you are Jewish and you want to meet other Jewish people, you could try jDate. If you are gay, try a dating site that caters to your community.Be honest on your dating profile and use up-to-date pictures.
Be specific when you are looking through profiles. If you are looking for men in a certain age range or geographical area, filter your search to these criteria.
Don't be afraid to send a message to the guy first.
 The more you put yourself out there, the more likely you are to meet the type of man you are looking for. Do not rely on a single method to meet someone. You can online date and try to meet people in person at the same time.


Also vary the places that you visit. For example, do not go to your favorite hangout every Friday night where everyone already knows you. Try somewhere new instead. This may introduce you to people you have not seen before.
You should also spend time with different groups of people. Hanging out with different people can showcase different parts of your personality. For example, you are probably different with your coworkers than you are with your best friends.