 Remove any potential distractions before your loved one starts talking about what happened. Shut down your lap top, put away your cell phone, and turn off the TV to avoid becoming distracted by these things.You may also want to plan a quiet time and place to meet with your loved one. Choose a time when you will be able to devote your full attention to your loved one, such as after your children are in bed or on a weekend morning when you are not in a rush to get anywhere.
Try meeting somewhere quiet, such as in your home or in the corner of a café.
 Showing your loved one that you are listening can help him or her to feel heard. You can show that you are listening by doing things like nodding, making eye contact, and facing your loved one.


Neutral phrases can also help your loved one to feel heard. You can say things like, “uh-huh,” “yes,” “go on,” and “I see” to help your loved one feel heard., Asking questions is another important part of being a good listener. You can ask your loved one questions to clarify what he or she just said or to encourage your loved one to expand on something he or she said.To clarify something your loved one just said, try saying something like, “It sounds like you were laid off due to budget cuts. Is that right?”
You can also ask leading questions to get your loved on to expand on something he or she said. For example, you might say, “You said your boss said something odd to you a few days ago. What did he say?”
Other leading questions you can ask include, “What happened next?” “What are you going to do now?” and “How are you feeling about what happened?”

, While you may feel like you are being helpful, telling your loved one what you think he or she should do is likely to cause stress and anxiety for him or her. Focus on just listening to what your loved one has to say about the situation and do not offer advice unless he or she requests it.


If your loved one does ask you for advice, use “I” statements to express your advice.For example, you might say, “I think it might be a good idea to apply at some of the other local construction companies, since you have such great experience working in construction.”

