 Locate the app on your iPhone and tap on it. The app logo has a picture of a periscope on cyan background.;
, If you’ve used the app before, you won’t need to log in again; otherwise, log in by tapping “Log into Twitter.”


You will be brought to your main dashboard screen. The list of people you are following that are live and that have recently broadcasted will be shown.
 This will open the “Broadcast now” screen, but you are not broadcasting yet. You should set a few parameters before you begin.
 A text field appears at the top of the “Broadcast Now” screen. Before you begin broadcasting, it will be good if you type something about what you’re going to play in the text field.


Below the text field are icons (arrow, padlock, chat, and Twitter) denoting some broadcast options.
 Tap the arrow icon to enable Location Sharing. This means that people watching your video will know where you are. Enable this so that people near your location have the option to visit and watch you in person.
 This way, you can reach more people. Do not have a private session, unless you only want to show your music to a select audience.
 People watching your video can leave comments and messages as you play your music.
 Once you start broadcasting, it will also be posted on Twitter account, which means everyone following you there can also see it.
 You are now live, and people can watch you live, so start pointing your camera to yourself or to the areas you want captured.
 People watching your video can type messages for you. These messages appear in a chat stream coming from the lower left corner going up. It’s visible to all your viewers and it takes a portion of your video. Take time to read and respond to them. Your viewers will appreciate it.
 People watching you live can send you hearts to show that they like what they’re seeing. These hearts flutter from the lower right corner going up. Hearts add to your statistics on Periscope, and the more you get, the more popular you become. Encourage viewers to tap on their screens so they can send you hearts.
 Take time to watch live videos of other musicians as well. Follow them too. Get yourself acquainted with them to increase your social network presence and connections. You can also do collaborations with other musicians on Periscope to get more buzz going.
 Tweet about your music videos and get people excited to watch your replays. Promote your upcoming live sessions so that people can watch you live.