 Teams of two will take turns throwing the ball each time they get a turn.;
, You can vary the amount of beer per cup so each side has an equal amount of beer in each cup.
 While sanitation isn't exactly the cornerstone of beer pong, nobody wants to drink a tainted cup of beer. Have some clean water handy so players can clean their balls before throwing, and keep paper towels on handy to soak up spills.
 The point of each triangle should face the opposing team. There will be one cup in the first row, two in the second row, three in the third row, and the base of the triangle will have four cups. Do not tilt the cups.You can also play with 6 cups.
The more cups, the longer the game will likely last.
 Many games are started by a member of each team playing rock, paper, scissors. Winners go first. Another variation to choose who goes first is playing “eye-to-eye.” To do this, teams try to make a cup while maintaining eye contact with the opponent, and the first one to do so goes first. You can also flip a coin.
 Each team gets to throw one ball per turn. The goal is throw the ball into a cup of the opposing team. You can throw the ball directly into a cup or bounce a ball off of the table into a cup.


Try to arc the ball when you throw. It is more likely to land in a cup.
Aim for a cluster of cups as opposed to the edges of the triangle.
Try underhand or overhand throwing and see which works best for you.
 When the ball lands in a cup, alternate drinking the beer between you and your partner—if you drink the first cup, let your partner drink the second. Set the cup aside once you drink it.
 Once 6 cups of beer have been drunk, restack the remaining 4 into a diamond. This will make shooting easier for everyone.
 Once 8 cups have been drunk, arrange the last 2 into a line.
 The team who has no cups loses, and the other team has won.
 There are many variations to the rules of beer pong. In this variation, the same team continues throwing 2 balls per round until there is a miss. After the turn is completed, the opposite team throws at the first team's cups, and the process repeats.
 This is one of the most common variations on beer pong. If you hit the cup you called, your opponent drinks that cup. If you miss your target and it goes in the wrong cup, it counts as a miss, and that cup remains on the table.
 The opposing team gets a last turn; this is called a “rebuttal.” They keep shooting until they miss, at which time the game is over. If they make the ball into all of the opposing teams’ cups in their last turn, then a 3 cup overtime is played. Now, the teams compete in sudden death to figure out the final winner.
 In this variation, a bounce shot counts as 2 cups, and the player that made the shot can pick the other cup that he/she wants to be removed.

