 Family-friendly cruises provide an array of fun activities that kids can do on their own with other kids their age or that families can do together. A cruise can be fun for the entire family.For example, there are cruises that have family-sized staterooms with bunk beds, special mealtimes where kids can dine with their favorite Disney and DreamWorks characters, rock climbing walls, waterslides, and Olympics-style competitions.
There are a lot of kid-friendly cruises. Just search for that criteria and you check out the unique activities and programs that are offered. There will surely be a perfect match based on the ages and interests of your children.
 No one wants to go on a romantic getaway and spend the afternoon in a pool full of splashing kids.


There are tons of different types of cruises! There are cruises specifically for singles, couples, senior citizens, business groups, religious groups, special interests, and more. You name it and there is probably a cruise for it!
Search for adult only and or your specific criteria for a list of great options to check out. Your search might look something like this: adult-only cruise for honeymooners.
 Cruises offer a lot of onboard and off board activities. Each cruise is different though. You want to make sure the cruise you take offers activities and excursions that you would potentially be interested doing.


If you are interested in water activities, you will want to pick a cruise where the weather and water is warm. Caribbean cruises are ideal for those who want to spend their time poolside, in the ocean, snorkeling, deep-sea fishing, paddle boarding, and sunbathing.
If you are interested in outings that include tours through ancient cities and wine tastings overlooking historical landmarks, a European cruise might be what you are seeking.
If you want to marvel in the presence of giant glaciers and snow mobile over vast ice caps, an Alaskan cruise is calling your name.
An example of a good Internet search: kid-friendly Caribbean cruise

, It is your vacation and you should have everything you want and need. It is a good idea to think a little bit ahead about some the features and amenities that are most important to you. This will help you narrow down your choices. Answering the below questions will point you in a better direction.


Do you want to dress up every night or be able to wear jeans to dinner? Some cruises have a more formal dress code for dinner and events.
How important is food? Are you looking for a culinary experience every night or are you into more causal dining? There are cruises that are renowned for their exquisite dining options.
Are you a night owl and want exciting entertainment and party options or are you just looking to unwind and rejuvenate?
Do you need babysitting and child supervision services?
Do you mind crowds? If you are looking for a quieter and more intimate setting, a smaller cruise line might be a better option.
On the cruise website, you will easily be able to find out what amenities and features are offered for the specific ship you are checking out.

