 There are a variety of different pesticides that can harm your dog. These can cause diarrhea, seizures, and even death. Knowing which chemicals are toxic to your dog can help you avoid products that may harm your dog. The following pesticides can be harmful to your dog:Organophosphates such as Chloryprifos and Diazinon
Carbamates such as carbamyl
Phenoxy and bezoic acid herbicides such as MCPA and MCPP
Pyrethroids including permethrin
Organochlorides including PCBs, PCE, and DDT;
, Chemical companies and commercial manufacturers are increasingly producing law and garden products that are safe for man’s best friend. Recognizing what pesticides you can use on your lawn and garden can ensure plenty of enjoyment for you and your dog. Safe pesticides for your dog include:Bacillus thuringiensis or BT
Insecticidal soaps used to control fleas

, If you are using a chemical on your lawn, it may be confusing which products to select. Reading the labels of potential pesticides or herbicides can provide you information on its safety for pets. You can also ask your vet or a local pet store for suggestions. Look for the following information on labels to alert you to potentially harmful chemicals for your dog.Poison, danger, warning or caution alerts
Active ingredients
Target pests
Hazards
Precautionary statements
Usage, storage, and disposal

, Once you’ve found a safe pesticide for your dog, it’s time to spray it on the lawn. Make sure to follow the manufacturer’s instructions closely to ensure that you don’t inadvertently use it in a way that may harm your dog.Limit application to areas that need the chemicals. You should also avoid over applying the chemical to the lawn.
Keep your dog off the treated area for a week.
 Think about fencing in your yard, especially if it is large. This can keep your dog from running into neighboring yards and ingesting harmful chemicals.


Ask neighbors what type of pesticides they use. This can help you figure out if it is safe to let your pet roam. Neighbors with pets may want to consider using dog or pet safe pesticides.
Consider your area and needs when deciding on a physical or invisible fence. If you live in a rural area with a lot of wildlife, a physical fence may be a better choice because it can keep out predators such as bears, cougars, and wolves. More suburban areas may be better with invisible fences. These don’t change the appearance of your home and still keep your dog from straying outside of your yard., You and your dog can have a lot of fun in the lawn or garden. Using dog-safe herbicides and pesticides on plants as well as your lawn. Caring for your garden and lawn while thinking of your dog’s needs can ensure its safety while outside.


Check for any plants that are poisonous to your dog. Beautiful plants such as daffodils and azaleas are toxic to dogs.Check with the ASPCA’s extensive database of toxic plants for dogs to figure out if you have potentially poisonous plants.Parasites such as fleas, ticks, and worms can harm your dog. The easiest way to prevent them from harming your dog is by getting a broad range flea and tick or heartworm medication. Be aware that most heartworm medications can prevent other worm and flea and tick infestations., Attached or stand-alone garages can also contribute to poisoning your dog if pesticides are not stored properly. Putting potentially harmful chemicals in places your dog can’t reach can help prevent accidents or death.


Store chemicals and pesticides in secured containers. Set them on high shelves or behind secure doors.
Keep the floors clean to minimize the risk of your dog ingesting pesticides that may have leaked onto them., You want to make sure that you’ve made your lawn and outdoor area as safe as possible for your dog. Getting down to your dog’s level can help you see if there are any potential areas that your dog could access harmful lawn chemicals. Ask questions as you inspect each area including:


What can I eat, drink or chew in this space?
Can I climb or use “ladders” to access forbidden chemicals?
What items can otherwise injure me?Fix problem spots. If you identify areas where your dog can access harmful lawn chemicals, take the steps to remove these spots as soon as you can. This can prevent injury and even death to your dog.
 In addition to your lawn and garden, you may want to spend some time walking your dog at a local park. Outdoor spaces and parks can present the same poisoning hazards to your dog as your own home. Finding local parks or outdoor spaces designated pet safe or that use pet-safe lawn chemicals can minimize your dog’s risk of poisoning.


Look for local dog parks, which are generally safe for your dog.
Contact local officials and your county extension to see what types of lawn chemicals are used in public spaces. You can also ask for suggestions on public spaces that are safe for your dog. You can find your local county extension at http://npic.orst.edu/pest/countyext.htm.
 Lawn chemicals can affect your dog in a variety of different ways. Fertilizer, herbicides, and pesticides can irritate the sensitive skin on your dog’s paws or body. These chemicals can also transfer to your dog’s system through licking itself.Your dog can also ingest chemicals from your lawn and garden by licking or eating plants and grass.Watch your dog closely when walking outside to minimize the risk of it eating any grass or plants that may contain harmful chemical fertilizers, pesticides, or herbicides.
Wipe off your dog’s paws after every walk to minimize the risk of ingestion or skin irritation.
 If you’ve treated your lawn, it’s important to watch for signs of poisoning even if you use dog-safe chemicals. Identifying symptoms in a timely manner can ensure that your dog gets proper treatment to avoid injury or even death. Seek immediate veterinary attention if your dog has any of the following symptoms:Fever
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Anorexia
Depression
Seizures
Muscle tremors
Hypersalivation
Constricted pupils
Increased heart rate
Lack of coordination such as trouble walking
Respiratory failure or trouble breathing

, If you suspect poisoning, schedule an appointment with your dog’s vet as soon as possible. The vet can diagnose poisoning and provide prompt treatment for your dog. This can minimize the risk of potential injury or death from lawn chemicals.Contact your vet’s office as soon as you notice any signs or suspect poisoning. If you cannot reach your vet, take your dog to an emergency animal clinic. You can also call the Animal Poison Control Center at 855-764-7661. They are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

