 An unused side yard can easily fall into disarray. Before making any changes, you will need to clean up the space. Clean up and throw away any trash and unused objects. If you have grass, mow it to make it even and tidy. Pull up any weeds that you see. You will want to start with a clean and empty space.Try to make room by getting rid of or moving any old furniture or toys that are taking up space.;
, Locate an open space for gardening. For a narrow space, up against the house is ideal. If you have a wider space, you can plant in multiple locations around the yard. If necessary, take measurements or section off the space you will use for the garden.Test the soil in the space you choose for gardening to see what kind of plants would thrive there.
 If you have a fence, it is also an option to plant climbing plants, like cucumbers, ivy, Morning Glory, golden hops, and St. Vincent Lilac. To prepare and plant climbing plants, you need to attach wire supports on the fence. Then, you should dig a hole about eighteen inches away from the plant. The hole should be twice as wide as the plant pot and slightly deeper. Next, place bamboo canes in the holes in a fan shape. After that, remove the plant from its pot, place it in the hole, and cover it with soil. Finally, tie the stems to the wire with twine.Digging a hole too close to the fence is not advised because the soil is usually dry in that area.
The bamboos will serve as support for the plants until they reach the wires.
A long, narrow garden is great in any small side yard because it leaves space for walking.
 You may not need mulch if the soil in your garden is good for planting. But mulch can help regulate soil temperature and moisture, suppress weeds, and it looks nice aesthetically. Mulch can be picked up at a nursery or at many home improvement stores.You can also pick up weed fabric to put below the mulch.
 Depending on the amount of space you have, you may want to limit the amount of flowers you plant. Choose at least two varieties of plants and/or flowers. Consider flowers that are colorful and aesthetically pleasing. It is good to purchase flowers that will bloom at different times of the year so that there is always a touch of color in your yard. You can start with seeds, or choose flowers that just need to be planted into the ground. For instantly sprucing up a space, purchase some seedlings potted plants/flowers from a local nursery.


Some perennial flower options are catmint, coneflower, coreopsis, and gaura., Choosing to grow vegetables can make your garden useful, not just aesthetically pleasing. Think of vegetables that most or everyone in your household would enjoy. You should also consider the amount of space you have and the time you are willing to put into the tending to the vegetables. If you’re a beginner, some vegetables that are easy to grow are snap peas, carrots, and radishes. Cilantro, parsley, and thyme are a few herbs that are easy to grow.Consider how much time you will be able to invest before planting vegetables.
 To add extra appeal to your garden, hang a few flower boxes. They are typically placed outside of windows. Flower boxes can be purchased at your local nursery or home improvement store. For a sunny window, bright flowers like Dusty Miller and Verbena are ideal. Plants with colorful leaves, like Dark Star and Dappled Apple, are best for shady windows. Succulents are great to plant if you won’t have much time to tend to the boxes. To plant the flowers, put potting mix and fertilizer into the box and place the flowers into the soil.Think of flowers that would complement the flowers in your garden.
 Use long planks of wood to section off the garden. This can be useful to keep kids from stepping on the garden. Surrounding the garden with wood can also be done purely for looks. All you need to do is purchase planks of wood, set them up around the garden, and attach them with a hammer and nails.