 When life is a challenge, it can seem as though nothing is going right. Overgeneralizing is something people do often because they look at the world through negative lenses.The truth is that there are still a lot of great things about your life.


If you have a roof over your head and food to eat today, you are doing much better than many people in the world.
If you have friends and family members who care about you, that's something to be thankful for right now.
If you have a job, you are receiving a paycheck that help you pay the bills, and that is something to be thankful for even if it's not your dream job.;
, These positives can be as little or as big as you want them to be. If you’re having a hard time seeing the good in your life, start by practicing gratitude, even for the small things in life and write them down


Job
Food
Shelter
Clothing
Loved ones
Vehicle
Health

, Journaling has a positive effect on your physical and mental well-being.When you journal about all of the great things in your life, you will start to remember many more of them. As you start to gather all of the positives in your life, you may just start to feel better about things because you will remember your life is not so bad.


It’s best to journal a little each day. That way you can go back and look at all of the great things that have happened in your life.
Reserve one journal for what you’re proud of, so you can read it when you’re feeling down. If you like to write about the bad times too, have another journal for that. If you’re having a hard time coming up with ideas on what to write, try these topics: What I Like About Myself, The Basic Needs I Have Right Now, What I Am Grateful For Today, and Why My Friends Love Me.
 Friends are there for you when life gets difficult. They help you remember why you're so great. Remember, they must think you are special if they are your friend. To help you focus on the positives, ask a friend to point them out for you. You can then use some of the other suggestions such as making a list or journaling about them later.


Ask a friend to go out to lunch with you and discuss what has you so upset.
Invite a friend over your house for a pow-wow on your couch.
Call your friend to talk about ways your life is better than you believe right now.
 When you are down in the dumps, the last thing you probably want to do is be active, but it is the best thing you can do for yourself.Spend time with friends.
Take a bath.
Have a mug of hot chocolate. A comfort drink can give you the security you need during difficult times. After you allow yourself to be comforted by something that is warm and yummy, you may feel just a bit better about your situation. Cuddle with a pet. Take time to love your pet for a few minutes. Research shows that petting an animal has amazing health benefits. It reduces stress, which lowers your blood pressure. Engage in a hobby you enjoy. You may not feel like it because you are feeling low, but if you force yourself to get started, you may just end up seeing your mood change. It is your hobby for a reason. You enjoy it. Use it to help you during difficult times.
Find a new hobby. If you’re just not interested in doing any of the hobbies you have enjoyed in the past, it might be time to find a new one.
Listen to music. People who are sad tend to listen to depressing music. Avoid the urge to do that because it will only make you feel worse. Research has found that listening to upbeat music can improve your mood. 