 Whether you’re interested in a serious romance or a more casual fling, let them know what you want in no uncertain terms. Although Scorpios are eager to meet their soulmate, they will often accept chemistry as they find it, whether it be with a longterm partner or a friend with benefits. Avoid confusion and hurt feelings by asking them exactly what they’re seeking from you and by stating your own expectations., If they seem to lose interest after the first date or two (or fail to respond to your signals to begin with), they may have genuinely lost interest,or they may be so interested that they’ve backed off to rethink their strategy, especially if you’re already friends with a risk of losing you altogether if things don’t work out.If it’s the former, accept it, because there’s not much you can do to change their mind.If it’s the latter, assure them that you really do want to move forward.
 Scorpios are prone to mood swings, so brace yourself. When something’s wrong, expect them to fly off the handle one minute and freeze you out the next.Stay calm and collected, because what they need is someone who’s more grounded. Avoid mirroring their behavior and making things worse., When they shut you out, gently probe for the reason why. Scorpios expect such a strong connection between the two of you, they think you should be able to figure out what’s wrong on your own. If you have no idea what’s up, ask them what’s wrong. The longer you let silences grow, the more they might resent your inability to suss out what’s wrong on top of whatever was bothering them in the first place., When they rage out, bite your tongue. You don’t have to accept what they say or let them win the fight, but ensure that you’ll be heard by remaining calm. Avoid being drawn into a screaming match and escalating the situation. Let them get it all out, and then reply with calm, measured responses., Scorpios love to be in control and tend to be jealous and possessive.If this causes them to cross a line, call them out on it. The best ones may be conscious of their behavior and admit when they’re unreasonable. If not, walk away if these qualities are too much for you to handle, because your Scorpios isn’t likely to change any time soon.At their worst, Scorpios may become physically and/or verbally abusive in their quest for control. Pay attention to how they treat you when you fight or disagree. If they handle you roughly (beyond a playful manner), insult you, or ignore your hurt feelings, take it as a warning sign that they care more about control than about you.

