 Place a bamboo sushi mat flat on a cutting board. Lay one soy wrapper directly on the mat. Wet your hands and scoop 5 ounces (150 grams) of cooked Pink Himalayan rice onto half of the soy wrapper. Use your fingertips to gently spread the rice evenly on the half nearest to you.








If you don't have Pink Himalayan rice, you can also substitute plain cooked sushi rice.
Avoid pushing down on the rice. Instead, just ensure that the rice is evenly distributed.
 Cut an avocado into thin slices. Lay 4 or 5 slices of the avocado on top of your rice. The avocado should be spread across the length of the wrap so that each bite of sushi gets a little avocado.








You could also substitute any of your favorite sushi fillings like seafood, cucumber, tamago, or crispy seafood skin.
 Hold the side of the bamboo sushi mat that's closest to you with your fingertips. Lift the bamboo mat up and over the avocado roll. The avocado roll will now be cylindrical inside the bamboo mat. Press the mat down firmly so the roll is compressed and lift back the bamboo mat. The sushi roll with the soy wrapper will now be in the middle of the mat.








Soy paper doesn't seal as well as seaweed (nori) wrappers do.
 You should see the end of the soy wrapper sticking out from under the roll. Dip your fingertips in water and spread them across this end of the soy wrapper. Roll the sushi to the end of the roll so that the moistened end of the wrap seals to the roll.








You can lift the sushi roll away from the mat at this point and set it back onto your cutting board.
 Take a sharp sushi knife and carefully trim off the ends. You can discard them. Cut the sushi roll into 8 even slices. It may help to slice the roll in half and continue slicing the halves in half until you get 8 pieces.








Be careful when cutting the soy wrappers. Soy wrappers tear more easily than seaweed wrappers.
 Set your avocado roll slices on the serving plate. Consider placing sliced or curled carrots and cucumber next to the pieces. Place a dab of wasabi paste and a bit of pickled ginger on the serving plate.Offer soy sauce along with the sushi roll.

