 Unlike red, blond, and black, there is a shade of brown to suit every skin type. Brown is great if you want a low-maintenance color. The upkeep for brown is minimal and the kits for brown hair color that can be bought over the counter are almost impossible to mess up. Brown is also great if your hair is damaged. Browns reflect well in light and minimizes breakages and tresses.If you have light skin, opt for a medium brown or brown with red tones. Steer clear of dark browns unless you have naturally dark brown hair. Otherwise the color might cause you to look too pale.
If you have medium skin, opt for a medium brown, like a caramel or auburn. Steer clear of neutral shades and blondish shades.
If you have dark skin, opt for dark shades of brown like an espresso. Steer clear of shades that are more than two shades lighter than your natural color.
 Red is a versatile colour and there's usually a shade to suit anyone. Keep in mind that certain shades of red will look better on you depending on your skin tone.If you have light skin opt, for a lighter red like a strawberry blond or copper red. Steer clear of darker shades of red like burgundy because they may wash you out.
If you have medium skin, choose a medium shade like medium copper or auburn. Steer clear of purple hues like eggplant because they may make your skin look yellowish.
If you have dark skin, go for a medium auburn or chestnut brown. Steer clear of ultra-red hues because they may make your skin look greenish.
 Maybe you want to lighten or brighten your blond hair or you are considering going blond for the first time. Blond hair is a great choice if you have a light or medium skin tone.Just keep in mind that if you are not a natural blond, maintaining your color will be expensive. You will need regular root touch-ups and toning products to make the color last longer without turning brassy.If you have light skin, opt for a light or golden blond. Steer clear of shades that are white, ash, or reddish because they may wash you out.
If you have medium skin, opt for a medium toned blond like a golden or beige. Steer clear of ashy or orangey blonds though because they may wash you out.
If you have dark skin, opt for darker shades of blond like caramel. Or you can just add some highlights. Steer clear of blonds that are white, platinum, or orange because they can make your hair look fake.
 Black hair is dramatic and beautiful. Dark and medium skin tones work best with black, but if you have light skin there are some lighter shades that may work for you. Keep in mind that black is very difficult to remove, so be sure that you really want black hair before you commit. If you have light skin, opt for a brownish shade of black or a dark brown. Steer clear of ultra-black shades because they can make you seem unnaturally pale and even make your skin look reddish.
If you have medium skin, opt for a dark brown or almost black. Steer clear of blacks that have red tones because it can make your skin appear yellowish.
If you have dark skin, opt for a dark, jet black. Steer clear of any blacks with blue tones because this can cause your skin to look greenish.
 Brown, red, blond, and black come in a wide variety of shades, so you will need to pick one that suits you. Remember to choose a shade that complements your coloring type.Choose a cool shade if your natural coloring is warm.
Choose a warm shade if your natural coloring is cool.

