 American shorthairs have an uncommonly large head, particularly in relation to their body size. If you're trying to identify an American shorthair, see if the head seems a bit too large for the cat., One defining characteristic of an American shorthair is a wide face, particularly in the cheeks. The cheeks should seem round and full, which can make the cat look happier. A narrow face is not characteristic of this breed., American shorthairs tend to have shorter ears than other cat breeds. In addition, the ears tend to be pointed. Check the ears on the cat in question to see if they seem shorter than average., American shorthairs were breed to be hearty, muscular cats. Their primary job early on in America was rodent control, particularly on farms. Therefore, over the years, they began to develop strong bodies, so look for sturdy cats with a muscular build.These cats will often have a full head and neck, as well as stout legs.
 Obviously, a shorthair cat is going to have short hair. However, these cats also tend to develop hearty coats during the winter to protect themselves form harsh weather, so their coats will get thicker and longer. In addition, their fur isn't particularly soft, as its main purpose is protection.As far as coloring goes, they come in a wide variety of colors, from tabby to tortoiseshell and calico., If you are looking for a purebred American shorthair, you need to look to the lineage, which is why using a reputable breeder is important. One of the defining characteristics of any cat breed is the fact that it can reproduce cats in the same breed, rather than a collection of different breeds., A male cat of this breed is typically 11 to 15 pounds. The female is a bit smaller, usually 6 to 12 pounds. This cat is a medium-sized breed, so it should look basically like an average-sized cat if you're trying to eyeball it., As a medium-sized breed, American shorthairs are about average height. Most cats in this breed are 10 to 14 inches tall, so see if the cat is in that range when trying to identify the breed.