 Most likely all you have to do is think about how you handled a few social or professional situations in your twenties (or even thirties) and cringe. With age comes wisdom (hopefully) so it’s time to embrace everything you’ve learned and love the fact that you are a more enlightened human being.


Realize that with age comes wisdom. Even though you may not still have the same body as you did in your twenties you have something more powerful--knowledge. Eye candy can only take you so far in life, but knowledge and life lessons can open an entirely new dimension. Love the fact that you have lived enough to know better and use that knowledge to your advantage.
Tap into knowing that you are only as old as you want to be. You can certainly act like you are in your 80’s even though you are only 42. You are only limited by your desire to live in the here and now so know that if you truly want to feel young, you have to remove mental limitations and open your mind.
Use your age to become more bold. Perhaps in your twenties you would have been too meek to ask for a raise at work or afraid to ask that cute server out on a date. However, you may find that in middle to old age, those insecurities are gone, providing you with limitless opportunities.
See middle or old age as being a time where opportunities abounds. In addition to having more knowledge, middle and older aged individuals most likely have more capital in their pocket, providing more opportunities. When you were struggling in your twenties you would have loved to travel. However back then you could only afford a youth hostel and a backpack. Now that you are more mature you may have the dough to fund not only an international trip, but one where you can afford to stay in upscale accommodations and see the sights in comfort.;
, One of the easiest (and best) ways to stop feeling too old is to adopt a healthy way of living. Toxic food such as fast food or overly processed meals not only make you put on weight, but they corrode your organs. Not only will you feel healthier, you’ll feel younger eating a diet that consists of whole, organic foods derived from nature.


Start (or continue) exercising. Exercise does wonders not only for creating a hot bod, it can help to improve your mood and give you more energy throughout the day. You don't have to run a marathon in order to get on the path to feeling younger. Just doing cardio for an hour a day for at least five days will rejuvenate muscle mass and rev up the metabolism.
Leave kid food for the kids. If you are still eating chicken nuggets, pizza, fries and other culinary delights typically reserved for college kids, it’s time to progress to adulthood. Eating kid food will not make you feel young and it can actually make you feel older than you really are. Fresh vegetables, lean meat and whole grains are the only way to regain your youth.
Reflect and meditate at least once a day. Stress can add years to your life both mentally and physically. While most adults cannot just avoid stress, there are ways you can combat and reduce it’s effects. In addition to eating a healthy diet and exercising, meditation or reflection at least once a day, in a quiet peaceful setting will help you quell the stress demons.
Visit your physician. Body and hormonal changes continue to occur throughout middle age and well into old age. Visit your doctor to have necessary tests performed and possibly medication prescribed to keep you at the top of your game.
 If you are middle aged or beyond and feel as though your best years are behind you, you will most likely feel extremely old. If you find yourself saying that you would have loved to have been a doctor or actor but are too old, stop yourself. It is never too late to realize your dream, no matter your age. Set goals and go for the gusto--you’ll feel years melt away.


Pursue dreams you had, but never had time to address. Perhaps you were too busy raising children or just trying to make ends meet, but now have time and possibly the money to re-focus on what you want. Don’t use age as an excuse--find out what it will take to pursue your goals and enact a plan to make your dream happen.
Use your education and life skills to reach goals. Perhaps in your twenties you had no idea how you would ever reach a certain goal. However later in life you’ve not only acquired more knowledge, but also more connections and cash to make things happen.
Bring someone along for the ride. There’s nothing like having a partner in “crime” while you are pursuing your dream. Whether its your spouse or a close friend, get them involved and inspire that individual to also pursue goals and dreams.
 Those who are in a more positive, youthful mindset will give off the vibe to others and create a more progressive way of living.


Join an organization or club that attracts individuals that share your passions. Whether your passion is animal rescue or ballroom dancing, join a group where you will meet others of all ages who share your desires.
Don’t take age into consideration. Age is only a state of mind so don’t seek out others because of their age (young or old).
Embark upon an adventure with friends. Try something new with others who have a lust for life. Take a cooking class, go skydiving, zip lining or run a half marathon. Plan an adventure and try something new.

