 When you first obtain your British Shorthair cat, check its health and medical records. Take it to the vet so that you can determine when your cat can be spayed or neutered, and set up a schedule with the vet so that your cat receives regular checkups (at least twice annually).Reputable breeders should have administered vaccinations and worm medications already, but your cat will still need regular checkups. Plus, your Shorthair will need to get neutered or spayed as soon as possible.;
, British Shorthair cats are at special risk for gingivitis, so brush your cat’s teeth daily using a specially formulated feline toothpaste.To get your cat acclimated to getting to its teeth brushed, let it lick something tasty off the brush – a snack or some chicken broth, for instance. Once you’ve familiarized your cat with the feel of the brush, have it sit somewhere comfortable. Add toothpaste to the brush, then part your cat’s lips and scrub its teeth gently in an up-and-down motion using the brush.Talk to your cat throughout the process to help it stay at ease.
You may wish to use a finger brush – a small plastic gadget that fits snugly over your fingertip. Finger brushes have very short bristles appropriate for a cat’s teeth.
Like human toothpastes, cat toothpastes are available in a variety of flavors like malt, tuna, and so on. Find a flavor that your cat enjoys to make the process more pleasant.
 If you see your cat excessively licking, chewing, or biting its skin, something might be wrong. Check the cat’s skin for redness, wounds, and irritation. These symptoms and behaviors could be caused by any number of conditions, including fleas, infections, or allergies. Consult your vet for more information and provide them with as much information as possible regarding when your cat’s skin problems first developed and what sort of behaviors the cat is engaged in.If your cat’s chewing or scratching goes on for long enough, you might also notice bald patches where the skin is irritated.
 British Shorthair cats need their litterbox emptied of feces daily. The litter should be removed and replaced at least once every week, and in some cases as often as two days. Check the litter box often for clumping litter, foul smells, and wetness. These are all signs it is time to change the litter.Place the litter box in a place where your cat can get some privacy and feel secure. For instance, place it in an out-of-the way part of the house. Don’t place it in a noisy part of the house (like near the furnace or dryer) and don’t place it anywhere near their food or water.
If you have a multistory home, place a litterbox on each level.
Don’t add too much litter. Most cats do not like litterboxes that are filled more than two inches deep.
 Despite the British Shorthair cat’s short coat, they must be combed regularly (at least once per week) to limit shedding. If you notice tangles or mats in the cat’s fur, comb them out as soon as possible. Use a stiff-bristled comb or brush to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils.Brush your British Shorthair cat more often when it sheds in the spring and fall.
Brush your cat more often when it gets older and can no longer engage in self-grooming with the same level of consistency and enthusiasm that it used to., Cats rarely need their ears cleaned, but you should check them once a week anyhow. If you see waxy buildup, ask your vet for a special product to wipe out your cat’s ears. Do not attempt to clean its ears with a cotton swab or other product designed for humans, as doing so risks hurting your cat.