 The best way to find skin cancer early is to keep a check on any skin abnormalities through a monthly full body skin exam. Stand in front of a full length mirror. Examine the whole front of your body, checking each part of your body. Turn around and look over your shoulder, examining the back area of your body, paying special attention to the back of your legs. Next, raise your arms and examine your underarms, inner arm area, elbow, forearms, upper underarms, and palms.


Make sure you also look at the tops and bottoms of your feet.
Using a hand mirror, check your buttocks, genitals, neck, and scalp.
If there are areas you can’t reach, ask a loved one to help.;
, As you examine your body, track your moles on a mole map. This map needs to be a representation of your body, with a front and a back, so you can keep track of where all your moles are. Each month, pinpoint where your moles are and write down the general appearance of them.


The American Academy of Dermatology has a premade map that you can download every month as you do your examination., While making your examination, you need to watch for problem moles. You should notice is your moles change shape, size, or color, start to ooze or bleed, and feel itchy, swollen, or tender. To keep track of problem moles, you need to follow the ABCDE rule. The rules to notice melanomas are:


A: Asymmetry, when moles have different halves and one side looks different than the other
B: Borders, which tend to be ragged, irregular, or scalloped
C: Color, which can be different shades of brown, tan, red, or black, with rare ones turning white
D: Diameter, which tend to be larger than 6 mm
E: Evolving, which means they change size, shape, and color over time, In order to note the progress of your moles, you need to make sure you perform this examine once a month. This will ensure that you know how your moles are doing and you will be able to catch any changes as early as possible.


Create a new map every month so you can notice any changes.