 If you live in a large municipal/metro area, it is likely that your city has its own transportation system. If you are in a smaller town, your transportation system may be funded by your county government, and cover your whole county. Search online using the name of your city or county and the phrase “bus pass.” Look for search results that name your city/county and include the words “public transit” or “transportation district.”, Look for a tab with information about fares or passes. Read about the types of passes that are available. You should find information on prices, retail locations, and other terms and conditions., “Pass outlets” are places where you can buy a bus pass in your city or town. Choose the one that is easiest to access.Outlets that sell bus passes usually include the transportation administration office, the main bus terminal, and a few other kiosks. In big cities, they may also include retail stores, like Walgreens or Walmart.
 Many cities provide discounts for disabled people, seniors, students, and children. You may need to provide proof of your age, school, or disability when buying your pass.
 Some employers will pay for bus passes, or give you a transportation credit for using public transportation to commute. Speak to your boss or someone in Human Relations about the possibility of getting such a credit and how to use it.
 It is a good idea to purchase your bus pass at the beginning of the month. Some bus passes are good for one calendar month.In some places you may be able to purchase a prorated bus pass.
In other place, passes are simply good for 30-days (as opposed to a calendar month) so it doesn’t matter when you buy it.
 When you go to purchase your bus pass, you will need a photo I.D., as well as proof of age, disability, or student status (to qualify for a discount). You will also need to bring payment. Some venues will accept cash, while others may only accept debit or credit cards.In some locations, you may be able to pay with an unemployment or welfare debit card.
 Select the purchasing location most convenient for you and go there in person. Ask for the type of pass you need. Most passes are monthly, but you may be able to choose a weekly or daily pass if you are traveling for a shorter period of time.For residents, monthly passes are usually the best value.
In some locations, you may be able to purchase your bus pass online and receive it in the mail.
 Take some time to speak to the agent about types of passes available, discount options, types of payment accepted, and bus stations. Speaking directly to an agent is often the best resource for bus information in your city or town., Show your ID (and proof of special considerations) and provide the appropriate payment. You will receive your bus pass right away, and you can begin traveling that day.
 You may want to buy a small plastic protector or sleeve, so that you can keep your pass safe. Or you may simply place it in your wallet. If you lose your pass, you will not be able to replace it, so keep your bus pass someplace safe.

