 Before you apply any makeup to your face it's important to moisturize your face. Choose a lotion that is suited for your skin type to help restore natural oils to your face and to keep it from drying out. You might try a anti-aging moisturizer or tone correcting moisturizer to help begin fading those freckles and evening out our your skin tone.
 Taking a concealer that is a slight shade darker than your skin tone, swipe lines of it under your eyes, across your forehead, on your chin and cheeks, essentially wherever you have a lot of freckles. Gently dab it into your skin by using your middle finger to smooth it out.You don't want to use too much force here, because if you rub it in too much it won't be able to cover up your freckles. You want the concealer to look as natural as possibly while still doing the job it is intended for. Using a corrective concealer may be more helpful than a generic concealer as it is designed to even out your skin tone.
 After you have applied your first layer of concealer, to better cover up your freckles, try using a concealer or foundation in liquid form that can be used with an airbrush. Lightly spray the makeup onto your face for even coverage. This type of makeup is helpful because it won't create a "caked on" look like it might if you used a thick layer of concealer.


If you don't want to add any more concealer to your face you can choose to use a bronzer here, which will also be effective in fading those freckles as it should darken your skin a little.
Make sure that when you apply concealer and makeup to your face that you apply some to your neck as well, especially if your neck has freckles.
You can also do this step before you apply the first layer of concealer if you prefer to apply your foundation first.
 The final step to fading those freckles is applying powder to your face. Choose a powder that is a similar shade to your natural skin color. Then, taking a thick makeup brush, dab it in the powder, and gently brush over your face, including your eyelids and your neck area. This will help the powder blend in with the rest of your skin., After you have concealed your freckles you can proceed to apply your eye makeup and blush as usual. Your freckles may still be noticeable, but with concealer and powder you should have been able to fade them somewhat.

