 Experience (or XP) determines your rank or level in multiplayer mode, and so matters more in online rankings. The faster you gain XP, the faster you’ll level up and unlock weapons and perks. Start joining online matches by choosing Multiplayer on the CoD:BO menu screen.;
, You can obtain XP on any game mode but some game modes just reward players with more XP.


Search and Destroy (S&D) - This game mode rewards players 500 XP per kill, 600 XP for killing an enemy or planting/defusing a bomb, and 1000 XP per headshot.
Demolition - This game mode rewards players with 50 XP for a kill, 100 for killing a defusing enemy, 100 for planting the bomb and letting it explode, and 500 for defusing a bomb. Unlike S&D, this mode allows player respawn.
 Before the game begins, you will have time to customize a class and add suitable perks for the game mode you have chosen. These perks can help you level faster by providing helpful bonuses to increase your performance.


The Scavenger perk will help the player “scavenge” for ammo and extra magazines, thus preventing the player from easily running out of ammunition.
The Flak Jacket perk decreases all explosive damage taken by 35%, thus making this an important perk for Demolition and S&D, especially when a player is planting or defusing a bomb.
The Ghost perk makes the player invisible to spy planes. This is useful in sneaking into the enemy’s territory since a player with Ghost is not shown in the enemy radar.
 Familiarizing yourself with the map will definitely give you an edge in navigating the map while the match is going on. Take note of the usual hiding places and shortest routes to important spots on the map.
 Choose a weapon that suits your gaming style. If you like running around, then you might want to use an M16. It’s a decent weapon which is readily available at level 1. You might want to use a sniper rifle if your game style involves waiting for enemies, instead of you coming to them.
 In Demolition and S&D modes, taking down enemies is a sure way of gaining XP quickly. However, for a fast boost on XP, make sure you land some headshots, especially in S&D mode. Planting and defusing bombs rewards a decent amount of XP too.
 After awhile, when you’ve already mastered how Demolition and S&D works, you may want to shift to the major leagues: the hardcore Headquarters mode. In this mode, it takes fewer bullets to kill and to get killed. That being said, make sure you have already gained enough XP for additional perks and more powerful weapons, or you'll be toast in this mode. Adjust your perks wisely since this mode eliminates the mini map. Shifting to burst weapons might be a good move, too.
 You may average about 14,000 XP round, and some players have earned as much as 26,500 XP in a single round. The rounds can be fast if you are on a good team or against one, but the XP can be fantastic. Due to Headquarters’ game style, as long as your team has a base you are earning 50 XP every 5 seconds, even if you are dead (more so if you're alive without killing a single enemy).
 This is important, especially if there are lots of players in the room you are currently in. With a good team, you’ll be acquiring lots of XP after a couple of rounds.
 Sometimes CoD:BO announces double XP weekends. Make sure you play online during those days to double the amount of XP you’ll be getting.

