 While antibiotics are not commonly given for most mouth infections, if you have a severe infection or abscess, you may be prescribed a pill or topical ointment. Follow your dentist’s instructions for taking or applying this medication. Some treatments include:



Antimicrobial mouthwash: like normal mouthwash, you will gargle this before spitting it out into the sink.

Oral antibiotics: these are pills that you swallow by mouth.

Antiseptic chip, antibiotic gel, or antibiotic microspheres: these are applied or implanted by a dentist or periodontist if the infection is not too advanced and is located near one or two teeth. They slowly release medication over time. Follow your doctor’s advice for treating these properly.;
, If you have pain from a toothache or abscess, you can take pain medication such as ibuprofen (which includes Advil and Motrin) or acetaminophen (which includes Tylenol). Follow the directions on the box.


A common folk remedy calls for you to apply the pill directly to your gums or toothache. This is not advised as the medication may cause burning or irritation to your gums causing even more trouble and discomfort. Always swallow the pill.Check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking over-the-counter medicine to make sure that it will not conflict with any current medications that you are taking. Inform your dentist and pharmacist of any allergies you may have.
 Toothaches can cause pain not only in your gums and teeth but also in your jaw, ear, and neck.Prepare an ice pack, and press it against the sore area until the pain starts to disappear.You can make an ice pack by filling a quart-sized plastic bag with ice, and wrapping it in a dish towel pressing it on the cheek where the pain is. You can also find reusable ice packs available at pharmacies or convenience stores.
 Salt water rinses may give you some minor pain relief while preventing bacterial infection after dental surgeries.Stir ½ teaspoon of salt into eight-ounces of warm water until dissolved. Rinse your mouth with the water for 15 to 30 seconds before spitting out. Do not swallow., Benzocaine gel can help reduce pain in toothaches and other painful mouth conditions.Put a small drop on your finger or on a cotton ball. Gently apply to the affected tooth or area. Follow the dosage information on the box very carefully. Use the smallest amount necessary to cover the affected area. Keep it on for about 10 to 15 minutes and avoid swallowing during the procedure. If the gum turns red or it starts to burn, then remove the gel right away and rinse.


You can buy benzocaine over the counter at pharmacies or drug stores.
Do not eat within an hour of using benzocaine in your mouth.
If you develop a headache, fatigue, confusion, fast heart rate, shortness of breath, or a gray/blue color in your skin, lips, and nails, seek medical attention immediately. You may have a rare side effect called Methemoglobinemia., Clove oil may be able to reduce the pain of the tooth while you heal. Apply a drop or two of clove oil to a cotton ball. Gently pat the cotton ball against the infected tooth.