 If your guy is a prankster, get him back with this cute trick! You can either design your own "ticket" or print one out from the internet. Write the question on the slip of paper and then leave it for him on his windshield. He'll go from feeling confusion and anger to having a big smile spread on his face when he sees that you got him good. Remember that it doesn't have to look too convincing -- just seeing an envelope with a piece of paper in it on his windshield will be enough for him to think it's legit.;
, Get some car markers that can easily be washed off and invite your crush to prom on his back windshield. If you're feeling artistic, then you can draw something to accompany your message. Think of something that relates to his interests, such as football, soccer, a musical interment, or a cartoon character. You may not want to take up his entire back windshield -- make sure he can still see when he drives. If you really want to do it up, you can even tape some balloons to his car.
 Not every guy has a car, right? You can find lots of other places to stick the post it, from his locker to one of his textbooks. Just make sure it's in a place where he will definitely see it and that it won't blow off. You can even go fancy and spell out "Will you go to prom with me?" or just "Prom?" by writing just one letter on each post-it.


This option is a little bit less risky, since post-its are easier to remove. Take into account how well you know the guy and gauge which method would be more appropriate.
 The next time the two of you hanging out watching movies or playing video games, suggest ordering delivery pizza. Make the phone call yourself (discreetly) and ask the restaurant to spell out "prom?" in pepperoni or veggies. Remember to make sure he opens the box first! You can also get a friend to "deliver" the pizza for you, or you can even have it delivered to his house when you're not there.


You may want to consider calling and ordering the pizza beforehand so that he doesn't overhear anything.
 Invite him out to a sushi dinner and ask the chef to arrange the sushi so that it spells out "prom?" Again, you will need to either call the restaurant beforehand or sneak over and talk to the waitress when your date isn't looking so that he will be surprised! Alternatively, you can invite him over for sushi and arrange the pieces on a dish yourself. Though handling fish with your bare hands may not be the most alluring thing in the world, he'll be impressed by your creativity.
 If you are on a sports team or a member of a club at school, ask a few of your teammates to pose next to each other with the letters "p" "r" o" "m" and "?" spelled out on their t-shirts, swim caps, shorts, or whatever is applicable. How can he say no to a photo of five smiling, beautiful faces? You can also take a photo of your friends dressed this way and send it to him, if it's too hard to orchestrate this live.
 Everybody loves cat pictures; that's just science. Write "will you go to prom with me?" on a notecard and tie it around your (or a friend's) cat's neck. Snap a picture and send it his way!


If he's a dog-lover, do the same thing with a canine friend instead. If you really want to do it up and you have a dog, you can take a walk by your crush's house with a note saying "Prom?" attached to your dog's collar and have the dog go up to him. This can be a little hard to pull off, but if you do it right, you can get major bonus points for cuteness and style!

, Okay, this is definitely the less romantic route, but if your guy has a sense of humor (which he hopefully does!) snapping a goofy prom invitation will definitely win him over. Take a picture of yourself either wearing or doing something silly, and write "will you go to prom with me?" in the text line.


Use the drawing feature to decorate the picture and make it more interesting.
 If you play an instrument and/or sing, then write a little jingle that incorporates lyrics asking him to prom. This will not only get the message across in a thoughtful way, it will also remind him of your musical abilities, which will be sure to win his heart.


You can either play it for him in private, or if you are feeling daring, do it in front of the whole school at the next assembly or football game! Just know that, if you do it in public, you'll be putting the pressure on both him and yourself.
 Ask your teacher for an extra scantron next time he or she administers a multiple-choice test. Fill in the bubbles to spell out "prom?" and either hand it to him in class or slip it in his locker. You can even hand it to him and say, "You dropped this" or "You forgot your chem test" and then walk away with a smile.
 Sure, there are plenty of creative, funny, artistic ways to ask him out, but there's always the option to just walk up to him in the hallway at school and ask him straight-out. He may even appreciate it more if you just talk to him straight from the heart instead of looking for fancy ways to impress him. This is especially a great move if you're really close to the guy and know each other on a deep level; then, it won't be such a leap to tell him that you want to take him to prom without any fanfare.


Remember that if he's going to say yes, he's going to say yes no matter how you do it. If you're running out of time or can't think of any ideas, then ask him now before he agrees to go with somebody else!

, If he likes basketball and even often plays outside or after school, then you can write "Prom?" on a cheap basketball in black marker and bounce it in his direction. It may take him a minute to realize that something is written on the ball, but once he does, a big grin will spread on his face.
 Prom, anyone? If your man is more of a tennis player, then you can get a bucket of tennis balls and stick them in a fence to spell out, "Prom?" He'll be impressed that you made such an effort.
 Tie a balloon to his locker or his car and write "pop me" on it. He'll pop the balloon and inside, he'll find a note you write asking him to go to prom with you. You may even want to write that he should search for the note inside!

, The old note approach can never be overdone. Just pass him a note in class, put it in his locker, or have a friend pass it to him in the halls. In the note, you can ask him if he'll go to prom with you and leave a super-big check box for "yes" and a tiny box for "no." If nothing else, the note will make him smile! Also, asking him this way is still cute but a bit more private.
 Write your question in chalk near his car or in a place where you know he's bound to see it. Just make sure you're not writing anything on private property in the process.
 Ask him to borrow a textbook or a notebook of his (if you have a class together or something -- otherwise, it may be too obvious). The next day, you can return the book to him with a cute bookmark made of construction paper that asks him to prom. He'll be impressed by how much thought you put into asking your question. This will be an especially good move if you and the guy have been study buddies together in the past.
 Who doesn't love a note left in Tootsie Rolls, M&Ms, or Reese's Pieces? You can also use bite-sized versions of Snickers, Milky Ways, or another piece of his favorite candy. Leave your candy note in a place where he's likely to see it, such as in front of his locker (or taped to it), on the hood of his car, or even his doorstep, if you're feeling bold.
 Does he have an obsession with Legos? Or is he just the kind of guy who would think it was awesome if you prom-posed in Legos? It won't take long to write out "Prom?" with Legos, and he'll love the gesture. Just find a good place to pose your question, such as his normal seat at lunch.
 What guy doesn't love cookies? Bake him a batch of his favorite cookies and write one letter of "Prom?" on each cookie, so he gets the message. And hey, who says girls have to bake? If that's not your thing, get him a hamburger and ask in the lid. The important thing is that you give him something he loves to eat while racking up some creativity points.
 This works best if you have French, Spanish, or another foreign-language class together. You can write him a note in the language you're studying that asks him to prom. You can hand it to him and be sly, asking, "Hey, do you have any idea what this means? I can't figure it out." He'll be solving a little riddle while translating the message "for you." Obviously, he has to be game for this to work!

, When's the last time you wrote -- and even mailed -- a letter? This can be a cute and unique way to ask your guy to prom. If you're too shy about mailing it to his house or don't want to come off as too intense, you can have a friend hand deliver it to him.
 So what if what you're doing is considered atypical? You should go for what you want instead of waiting around for the phone to ring. If you know who you want to go to prom with, then you should take the initiative and ask him. The worst that can happen is that he says no and you end up finding another date. The best that can happen is that you impress him with your creativity, your confidence, and just the fact that you're not like a lot of other girls. Be proud of yourself for asking and know that it's worth the risk. Many guys go through the same worries, and it's perfectly natural to be afraid that things may not go your way.
 Though a fun, wacky, crazy, or showy prom-posal can be a great way to snag a date, you have to think about where the guy is coming from, too. If he's a really shy guy who keeps to himself, he may not be into a huge prom-posal in front of half the school. This may actually embarrass him and make him feel bad if he doesn't want to go to prom with you. Doing something cute and private may be the better route to take, depending on the guy. When you decide how to make your decision, just make sure you're thinking as much about what you want to do as how he will react.
 Though there are no hard and fast rules about what not to do when you ask a guy to prom, there are a few things you should stay away from, if you have any doubts. Here are some things to think about:


Ask around subtly, if you can. Make sure the guy hasn't been talking about asking another girl or doesn't have "a thing" with another girl before you ask him. If you do, this can make him feel bad.
Don't have your friends ask him for you. Show that you're confident enough to do the asking yourself -- even if your friends help you with the process!
Most of all, don't be down in the dumps if things don't turn out the way you planned them to. If you didn't take the initiative to ask the guy, then you would have been in the same place you'd be in if you asked and he said no. This way, you can be at peace with his answer and start your search for the perfect prom date anew.

