 Brush your hair to remove any tangles, then spray it with some heat protection spray. Comb your hair once more help distribute the product. If you just washed your hair, spray it with dry shampoo to help give it more hold and volume.This method is will work best with hair that's goes past your shoulders, but you can try it if your hair reaches your shoulders too.
This method will focus on using a curling iron. If you want to use regular hair rollers instead, start with wet hair.;
, Slide the handle of a rattail comb through your hairline above your eyebrow. Angle the handle towards the center-back of your head as you slide it through your hair. Use the handle to part you hair off to the side. Smooth down any stray hairs.It does not matter which side the part is on.
 Gather a small section of hair from the thicker side of your part. Use a ¾ to 1-inch (1.91 to 2.54-centimeter) curling iron to curl your hair downward towards your scalp. Rolling the curl downward, not upward, will help give your style a little more volume.You can also use regular hair rollers instead. Make sure that your hair is wet., Carefully slide the curling iron out of your hair. Use your fingers to roll your hair back into a spiral. Hold the curl gently with one hand, then use your other hand to pin it in place with a pin curl clip or a bobby pin. This will allow your curl to hold its shape as it cools., Work your way in straight rows. Once that side of your head is filled, make similar curls on the other side of your head. Finish off with a final set of curls on the back of your head. Make sure that all of the curls are facing downward towards the floor.

When you reach the back of your head, it might be helpful to turn your back to the mirror, then hang a smaller mirror up in front of you. This will allow you to see what you are doing.
 This will take about 30 minutes. Your hair must be completely cooled off. If you take the curls out too soon, your hair will lose its shape.If you are using wet hair and hair rollers, let your hair dry completely. You can also speed things up with a hair dryer.Set your hair with a little finishing spray. This will help your hair retain its shape. Once again, let your hair dry before moving on to the next step., Start from the bottom-most curls and work your way up to the top of your head. Work your way in rows so that you don't miss any curls by mistake., Comb through the curls with your fingers or a wide-toothed comb. Next, use your fingers to gently loosen the curls and twist them away from your face. At this point, you can adjust the shape of the style to better suit your face shape.For example, you can gently backcomb your hair to give it more volume and lift.If you have bangs, you can use a fine-toothed comb to backcomb your bangs and give them volume.
 Brush the hair on the thinner side of the part back. If you have long hair, you can tuck your hair behind your ear and secure it with a pretty clip or flower. If you have bangs, you can comb them back towards your ear with a boar bristle brush, then secure them with bobby pins.Hide the bobby pins from view by draping a few strands of hair over them.

