 Dogs do not defecate in gardens due to malicious intent. They are merely looking for a spot to relieve themselves and your garden looks welcoming. If you're dealing with your own dog, or a neighbor's dog whose presence you don't mind, you can try to create a welcoming atmosphere for the dogs away from the garden.


Pick a shaded area. Dogs prefer to stay out of the sun if possible. Make sure there is adequate room for dogs to run and play, and provide toys, food, water, and treats to entice the dog to enter that area over the garden.Use a dog-friendly surface, like wood chips, bark chips, or leaves. A mix of sand and soil is a particularly good option as dogs love digging and such a mixture is soft and easy on their paws.Use positive reinforcement. Praise dogs for entering the doggy zone and reward them with treats.
 Sometimes, dogs end up going in gardens because they pass through on their way elsewhere. Create a pathway near the garden, but one that does not go through it. If it's smoother and more welcoming, the dog will likely opt for this path and forgo disrupting your plants.


Soft, dog-friendly mulch can be used to make the path. A spare piece of carpet, if you have it, is also a good choice, as is a soil/sand mixture.For a choice that's pleasant for dogs and adds beauty to the garden, you could try stone steps or colorful tiles. Cement pathways are also a popular choice, and can be used by humans as well as dogs. The only downside, however, is making a cement path can get costly and installation may be difficult., If you ever catch a dog in the act, take this as an opportunity to make it clear to the dog that this behavior is not okay. Dogs are natural people pleasers and generally respond well to training.


Clap your hands loudly to get the dog's attention and interrupt his actions. Say, "No," and immediately direct him out of your garden.If you have a designated dog-friendly zone in your yard, redirect the dog there. If not, take him to the street and allow him to relieve himself himself on a curb or sidewalk.
Get your neighbors on board. If you have a neighborhood where dogs run free, and they seem to have chosen your garden as a bathroom, discuss this with your neighbors. Ask them politely to join you in your efforts to discourage the dogs from using your garden as a restroom.

