 Get the water flowing as soon as you wake up. This may help push toxins leftover from excess alcohol out of your system, but the main goal of hydration after a night of drinking is to save you from getting dehydrated. While experts don’t know for sure what causes hangovers, most people agree it has a lot to do with not having enough fluids in your body.Doctors recommend that you drink eight 8 oz glasses of water a day. You may have to drink more than this in order to get your fluids back in balance. One trick is that sports drinks are a good source of electrolytes and fluids and these drinks may help you stay hydrated.;
, Nausea plays a big role in morning-after misery. There are things you can eat to quell your upset stomach. Brew some ginger tea—which calms down your stomach—while you prepare some other helpful dishes.Bananas, tomatoes, and artichokes are all on the list for calming down feelings of nausea.


Bananas prompt your stomach to produce more mucus, thickening the stomach’s mucus barrier against gastric acids that cause heartburn and an upset feeling. If you are having heartburn after drinking try a proton pump inhibitor or H2 blocker to alleviate the discomfort with the acid. Take this with water or a sports drink.Tomatoes provide simple sugars which keep you from losing blood sugar while your liver works to metabolize the alcohol.Artichokes have been shown to relieve nausea and lower bloating.A virgin Bloody Mary (called a Virgin Mary), for example, contains tomato juice, lime juice, salt, and hot sauce, a combination that revs your metabolism, restores blood sugars and electrolytes, and provides Vitamin C., A food that assists your liver in metabolizing toxicity is asparagus, which is full of amino acids and needed minerals. It works by actually reducing the toxicity of cells in the liver. It is also a diuretic, which means it stimulates the flow of urine, quickly washing away toxins as your liver cleanses your body., Another way to use food to reduce symptoms of a hangover is to eat light, easy-to-digest foods like crackers, and lean protein/low fat things like egg whites or plain Greek yogurt. Food is important for restoring blood sugars so that your body’s processes can return to normal.Try a sports drink like Gatorade or Powerade to help restore blood sugar and replace electrolytes and fluid levels.
 Revving your metabolism helps your body to burn leftover toxins from alcohol more quickly. Light exercise like yoga is enough to increase circulation and heart rate without making you sweat (which further dehydrates you). Coconut water is low in sugar and restores electrolytes., Headaches are a common part of hangovers. To minimize your headache, it is permissible to take over-the-counter headache medications like ibuprofen and aspirin—otherwise known as NSAIDs. You can also practice holistic remedies to calm a pounding head.Avoid acetaminophen (most commonly found in Tylenol) as this drug combined with alcohol can cause liver damage.
At-home remedies for headaches include herbal tea (like ginger root and butterbur) and massage.
 There’s no proof that going back to sleep when you wake up with a hangover makes it go away, but sleep is important for our nervous systems to function properly. Lack of sleep can lead to memory and concentration loss.Sleeping in can help your body relax and heal itself, possibly leading to reduction in hangover symptoms. If you choose to sleep if off make sure you get up and get some fluid in you and take some medication like NSIAD’S for pain relief and headache.

