 It is important to get your hands working as soon as possible to gain knowledge, practice, and skills. Apply at local jewelers to see if you can get your foot in the door in anyway possible. Even working in the front of the store as a cashier can teach you a lot. You can learn how jewelry is displayed and presented to the customer, and listen to the feedback they have about the pieces.


Be sure that any jewelers you work with know the direction you are headed so that as positions open, or help is needed designing or creating jewelry, you can be considered for the job.
 Spending time in an art, craft, or jewelry setting, and put the word out there that you have a passion for design. This is a great way to start a meaningful relationship with designers and other people who can help you launch your career in jewelry design.


Bring value to those relationship by letting people know what skills you can provide such as reliability, quality, sincerity, creativity, business and marketing knowledge, or dedication. Sell yourself and your skills so other people in the industry want to have a connection with you., Jewelers work closely with employees and customers to figure out designs and talk jewelry. You will have to communicate with your customer about what they are looking for in their piece. This will require you to have great interpersonal skills so you can build strong relationships to help you to successfully sell jewelry.Consider taking a communications class at a local college.
Remember to always be polite and friendly when talking to fellow employees and customers.
 Jewelry designers need to know what the latest fashions in jewelry are, as well as the history of jewelry, so they can stay current, and sell jewelry. This will require research, attention to detail, and input from other people. Regardless of the education you receive, or the skills you learn, you will not be a competitive designer unless you have creative ideas that appeal to other people.


Try to get internships with designers, or volunteer at fashion events to learn about great styles.
Read as many books as you can about the history of jewelry. Great books to start with are, History Of Jewelry by Black and Georgian Jewellery 1714-1830 by Ginny Redington.

