 Typical symptoms include:Feeling hopeless, listless and disinterested in activities
Gaining weight, an increase in appetite (such as eating more sweets and carbohydrates to try to counteract the blues)
Feeling lethargic, having less energy than usual, sluggish and drowsy
Inability to concentrate, feeling "foggy"
A desire to withdraw from other people and to forgo social occasions you'd normally attend or be a part of
Feeling irritable, unhappy and melancholic
The symptoms have occurred two consecutive winters.;
, Here are some of the more common factors behind SAD:SAD can affect anyone, although it tends to begin during the teen years or adulthood.
It is more likely to affect women than men (between 60 to 90 percent of sufferers are women).
People living in areas that have long winter nights, dull winter days and lots of grayness in the winter weather are at greater risk of suffering from SAD.
If you suffer from depression, you may be more prone to SAD.
A close relative suffering from SAD can signal the possibility that you'll be prone to it too.
 While the symptoms may add up, it is best to get reassurance from your usual medical practitioner, as the symptoms could be related to something other than SAD. SAD can be treated using anti-depressants and therapies, while the suggested relief ideas in the following section can be of some benefit.
 Keep in mind that sledding, hot chocolate, sweatpants, snowball fights, and building a snowman or igloo wouldn't be as enjoyable in the heat of July. Many holidays come in the winter in North America, such as Valentine's Day, New Year's Eve, and Christmas. Several television shows begin airing in January, and many sports (such as hockey and basketball) play the majority of their seasons from November to February.
 Darker days and earlier nights provide a great excuse to dig into your favorite books, DVDs, board games, novel writing and more. Many people use this time to pursue their hobbies in depth, something that the longer days of summer can distract them from.
 It can be tempting to curl up in baggy sweatpants and oversized sweater and stay inside when the cold weather chills you, but see winter as a time to refresh your wardrobe. If you have comfortable winter clothes that you feel confident and warm in, though, you're more likely to go out and enjoy the world despite the cold. Fresh clothes will give you a brighter outlook on winter.
 Though nothing in the world may sound better than lying on the couch and spacing out in front of Netflix, it's important to get up and get moving, as exercise is a proven stress reliever. Also, as weight gain is typical during the winter, exercise can help maintain a healthy weight. Go for a run, swim a few laps, or just walk around the neighborhood to keep the blood pumping and keep the pounds off. Learn how to snowboard, ice skate or snowshoe.
 As the doldrums of winter can seem to drag on for years on end, do something different to mix it up and shake yourself out of the rut. Get a new haircut, try a different makeup trick, go on a spontaneous vacation, strike up a conversation with a new girl/guy, or visit another spot in town that you haven't checked out yet.
 Going out on the town with your girls or spending Super Bowl Sunday with the guys can instantly pick up any bad mood and get your mind off of your funk.
 Even if it's too cold outdoors to get some direct rays, sit close to a window with a cozy blanket and some good books.


Your doctor can arrange for "light therapy", a therapy that uses a special lamp or light box that mimics sunlight. This must be done with care, to avoid eye strain or headaches but when performed properly, it can really benefit some sufferers of SAD. Ask your doctor for advice relevant to you.
 Winter can take a toll on your body, and you're more likely to feel down when your body isn't in top shape.


Shorten your showers, and turn down the water temperature a few degrees to prevent drying out your skin.
Slick on a layer of lotion to your hands, elbows, legs, and knees whenever you think about it.
Use quality conditioner to moisturize your hair and keep the ends from drying out and splitting.
Treat yourself to the occasional manicure or spa day to lift your spirits.
 Remember, winter is only a few months that anyone can survive.

