 Kids are not simply smaller versions of adults, so it’s important not to take a child to an adult dentist. Not only are pediatric dentists specially trained in kids’ oral health, they are more familiar with methods that help kids relax in the dentist’s chair. They are also more likely to have a kid-friendly disposition, better word choices, and more patience with little ones’ fears.Pediatric dentists are also more experienced at calming down children and their offices are decorated in a way that is meant to create a fun place for children.
 Depending on a child’s age and personality, it may or may not be appropriate for a parent to be present during a filling. Additionally, some dentist offices prefer one or the other, so if you’re a concerned parent, consult with your pediatric dentist. If you’re more comfortable with one or the other, you can do some research and find a dentist whose practices match your preferencesIf you do stay in the room during the filling, stay in a place where the child knows you’re present but can’t see your face. They’ll respond to even subtle faces you might make and could become anxious or move around. Keep a calm, pleasant expression on your face and say reassuring things.
If you aren’t in the room, stay in the waiting room. Don’t leave to run errands in case you are needed for anything.
If you’re not in the room and are worried, the office’s staff will keep you informed about what’s going on with the procedure. Ask them for an update if you’re concerned.
 Pediatric dentists are typically very sensitive about the words and tone of voice they use with a young child, and parents should follow suit. It’s important to explain things in terms that are appropriate and make sense for the child. Speaking in a calm, controlled, and positive tone of voice is just as essential as using kid-friendly words. Try explaining that one of their teeth has a cold or is sick, and that the dentist is going to make it feel better.
Use positive reinforcement to remind a young child how great of a job they’re doing, that you’re very proud of them, and that going to the dentist is part of growing up that they should take pride in. Promising a reward after may also help, so you might remind your child of this if you are allowed to be in the room during the procedure.
 Dentists are using nitrous oxide as an anesthetic for children more frequently in recent years. There are no harmful effects or side effects associated with nitrous oxide, regardless of age.This method of sedation can be especially beneficial for children who are extremely afraid of needles or would otherwise require restraint, as it’s much safer for kids than general anesthesia.