 Many people accused of being witches in the past, dressed like everybody else. The choice is yours, if you believe Witches tend to be fond of dark colors, wear dark colours. Have a necklace with a symbol on it like a moon to complete the look. Always wear the necklace, as if it aids your powers. Try a wiccan symbol, an inverted cross or garner jewel.;
, Create smoky eyes If you think it'll help to convince others you are a witch, in the opinion of some, they give you that perfect mysterious look.
 Be an observer, and a little bit of a loner. Talk to people, but always in a smooth, intelligent voice.
 Be able to Cold Read people as well, as it makes it look like you've got their mind at your fingertips and will enforce your image as a witch.
 Get good grades and try your hardest, but act as though school is easy (sort of like Hermione).
 This is optional, but will make you seem more mysterious and knowledgeable.
 If anybody asks about it, say that it is very important to you. Then be very vague and excuse yourself or bury your nose in a book.
 Oils, a wand, and an assortment of herbs works well, as long as the herbs can't be mistaken for contraband. You could also keep something in a little bag and pretend to whisper spells into it.
 If anybody asks, say "it's just the moon. I need to make arrangements before it..." Then excuse yourself or get yourself busy with something.
 Pretend you don't think anyone is listening. If anyone asks you what you're singing, say it's nothing and busy yourself with whatever you're doing. This works especially well if you're singing voice is low and spooky. If you don't fancy yourself a singer you can skip this step.
 But, before you change the subject, comment quickly in a low tone, "you know, it's not all that impossible".
 For instance, if someone is making you angry, Make Smoke Come Out of Your Fingers. Act as if you don't even realize you're doing it until somebody points it out, Then quickly run into the bathroom and begin washing your hands. Pretend that it never happened afterwards, or attempt to pass it off as a weird coincidence, but make it sound unconvincing to keep people suspicious.
, This would include people who claim to be a vampire, mermaid, or another witch. Such action will set you apart from normal, run-of-the-mill people.
 Constantly refer to it, but do not let anyone see it ever. If someone asks, just say "Oh, it's nothing", but act worried.

