 Have the child talk about what it is they fear about the fire alarm, why they have those fears, and how the fire alarm makes them feel. For example, you might ask:


“What does the fire alarm make you think of?”
"Are you afraid of the fire or the sound?”
"Does the sound hurt your ears?”
"What do you think a fire alarm means?”

, Share some of your own fears with the child, and talk about other fears.


Talk about the difference between bigger and smaller fears. How is the child’s fear of the fire alarm different from other, less debilitating fears?
You do not need to call the fear “irrational” with the child. Talk about the value of overcoming fears in general.
Have the child talk with friends and classmates as well. Peers can be a great source of strength for overcoming fears.Determine if the fear is severe enough to require the assistance of a mental health professional.
 Some kids can become so sensitive to the fire alarm, they become anxious and hyper-vigilant whenever the stove is on or a candle is lit.Find out which events trigger anxiety in the child and talk about those events. Common triggers might be:


Walking by the physical smoke detector in the home.
Hearing the “beep” that signals a low battery in the smoke detector.
Lighting a candle or a fireplace in the home.
Smoke or steam coming from the stove during cooking.
 After taking note of the different triggers for your child’s anxiety, figure out what the origin of the phobia is. For example, is the child afraid of the sound of the alarm or the fire that the alarm represents?


Talk to your child about the probability of an actual house fire and how owning a smoke detector does not mean that your family is expecting a fire someday.
Make and practice a fire safety plan for your family. This can reassure and empower your child in the face of a real emergency.
 Try any of the following:


Make your family’s fire escape drill fun.
Personify the fire alarm as a friend to your family.Encourage your child to talk to the smoke detector as they would a stuffed animal or toy.
Write a little song or jingle to sing while testing the fire alarm each month.
Show your child diagrams or videos about how smoke detectors are made.
Be careful not to belittle the seriousness of the smoke detector too much. It is a life-saving device, and a fire alarm can save the life of your child.
 It’s a simple matter of tying better, positive experiences to the sudden noise. For example:


Whenever you test the smoke alarm at home, have a small celebration or offer your child an ice cream treat.
Connect home smoke detectors to more exciting elements of fire safety, such as fire engines, dalmatians, super tall ladders, or sliding down poles.
Tie any individual triggers (such as candles or stoves) to positive experiences as well.
 Kids can benefit from exposure therapy as well as adults. In fact, according to recent research, children can show improvement with exposure therapy in even less time than adults do.Start small and work up to the more stressful triggers.


Accustom the child to the sound of a fire alarm by playing videos of fire drills online. Gradually increase the volume as the child becomes more comfortable to the sound.
Consider letting children control the volume of the video themselves.
 Acknowledging milestones on the road to recovery cuts the process into smaller pieces and helps give the child a sense of empowerment. For example:


Make a list of all the triggers associated with the larger fear of fire alarms and check them off one at a time.
Create a chart you can hang on your child’s wall and decorate with stickers after small victories.
For example, when the child no longer fears a video of a fire alarm, congratulate them and mark the success on your chart.
 Overcoming one irrational fear makes overcoming the next fear easier. Don’t let your child forget how far they have come!

, While especially young children may not be able to verbally communicate their fears, fire alarms can be a source of anxiety and hearing damage to infants and toddlers.Cover your child’s ears while you remove them from the loud environment safely but quickly.
Comfort the baby or infant immediately to start attaching a positive association to the sound.
Consider purchasing noise protection devices for your infant that can be readily available in case of a fire alarm.After the alarm, try a three-fold method of reassurance: explain, expose, and explore.Informed exposure therapy can work with young children in as little as three hours.