 Alternative medicine practitioners are strong advocates for the benefits of ear candling, but many medical doctors believe that candling is ineffective and dangerous. Being aware of the risks and concerns about ear candling can help you make an informed decision if it is the best way for you to remove your ear wax.Studies by otolaryngologists (ear, nose and throat doctors) have shown that ear candling can cause burns, blockages in the ear canal, ear infections, and ear drum perforations even if you use the candle according to the packaging.Most medical doctors believe that ear candling is ineffective for removing wax.;
, It can be difficult to perform ear candling by yourself. Have a friend or family member assist you during the process. This can help minimize the risk of burning yourself or causing other trauma to your ear., The candle should be fitted to the size and contours of your ear. This can help ensure the most safe and effective candling process.Use the scissors to trim the end, making the opening slightly larger so it fills the ear canal.
Make sure the opening is passable. There should be a clear pathway from one end of the candle to the other. If necessary, use a sharp, pointy object to remove any obstruction from the small end.
 Before you begin candling your ear, wash your hands and wipe off your ear. This can minimize the risk of spreading bacteria that may cause an infection.Use a soft soap that is antibacterial and antimicrobial.


You can wash your hands with a simple and basic soap.
You may want to use an soft soap that is antimicrobial and antibacterial.
Wipe off your ear with a moist cloth., Moisten a large towel with some water and cover your head and upper torso area. This can help prevent a flame or any ashes from hitting you during the candling process.Make sure to cover your head, hair, shoulders, and upper torso., It will be easier and safer for you to sit upright during the ear candling process. This can help ensure that falling ashes don’t contact or burn you.Be careful; if you do not do this correctly, you could burn yourself. Physicians often do not recommend using ear candles because of this risk.
 Before you begin the candling procedure, massage the area around and behind your ear. This can help relax you and stimulate circulation in your ear area.Massage the area behind your jawbone, around your temple and your scalp.Rub for at least 30 seconds to open up the area around your ear., Cut a small hole in either a paper plate or pie tin and place it over your ear. This can help ensure that you don’t get burned with the flame or falling ashes.Use any type of paper plate or pie tin, which you can buy at most grocery stores.
Make sure the hole corresponds to the size of the end of the ear candle. Fit the candle into this hole and hold it up over the ear being cleaned.
 Place the small end of the candle in the paper plate or pie tin and then position the tip of the candle in your ear canal. This can help ensure a safe and effective candling procedure.Keep the candle in a vertically upright position. When sitting upright, the candle should be at an approximately 30 degree angle., Have your assistant light the large end of the candle with a lighter or match. This will start the candling process and can help ensure that you safely light the candle without burning yourself.You will know if the candle is properly in place if no smoke escapes from between your ear and the small end of the candle.
If you do not have a secure fit, readjust your position or the candle. It is important to get the secure fitting. If this takes a while, you may need to try again using a new candle.
 It should take about 15 minutes for the candle to burn down to the desired length. This can help minimize the risk for burning and maximize the amount of wax you’re able to remove., As the candle burns, trim it into a bowl of water every couple of inches. This can keep ashes or flames from falling close to and burning you.You can remove the candle to trim it into the bowl of water.Simply replace it securely in the canal when you’re finished.
 After the candle has burned down so there is only about 3 inches (7.6 cm) remaining, ask your assistant to extinguish the candle in the bowl of water. This can minimize your risk for getting burned by the candle.If the burn takes a while, have your assistant check the small end's opening after a few minutes to make sure it is not obstructed. If necessary, use a toothpick to swiftly clear the opening and reinsert the candle in the ear.
 Once you’ve removed the candle stub from your ear canal, you may be able to observe a mixture of ear wax, debris, and bacteria on the stub. This may help you to assess if you removed the wax or need to repeat the candling procedure.If you put the candle into water immediately, you may not see any wax., Once you’ve finished the candling process, clean the outer area of your ear and ear canal. Be careful not to push any wax or remnants back down into the ear.You can use a cloth or cotton swab to clean the ear. Just make sure to not put a cotton swab all the way into your ear, which can push wax further into your ear or perforate your ear drum., If both of your ears have a wax buildup, repeat the process on your other ear. Be sure to follow the steps closely and according to the product packaging. This may prevent burning or other trauma in your ear.