 In order for her to like you, she needs to feel comfortable around you. Most good relationships start in the 'Friend Zone', especially when you're only in 7th grade. Talk to her casually and learn a little bit about her. Let her learn a bit about you too.;
, This may come as a surprise for some people, but girls really aren't impressed with your armpit farting skills, and they don't care about how loud your burps are. Most guys have figured this out by 7th grade, but if you haven't, get a clue!

, It always helps to look good. Shower every day as well as after a sport. Wear clean clothes. Brush your teeth and hair. Wear deodorant. There's nothing worse than trying to impress a girl when you smell like a gym sock. Since you're in 7th grade, wearing cologne is over-doing it a bit. Try to look presentable and smell good. This will make a great impression on the girl.
 Talk to her as much as possible without seeming obsessive and do not be a creeper. Casually try to start a conversation with her. If she's not really into it, don't keep following her and trying to talk to her. Do not stalk her. You will come off as desperate.
 Smile at her and compliment her. If she comes to school with a new haircut, tell her that you really like it. Give her casual compliments such as "your shoes are awesome". This is a very subtle way of flirting, and it will make you seem like a really sweet guy as long as you sound like you mean it.
 Does she have a cell phone? Ask her for her number. Does she have email? Ask her for her address. Skype is also a good way (so you can actually see her face). If she asks you why you want it, get a little flirty and say that you want to talk to her more often. Don't make this sound creepy, though!

, Don't go all-out and flirt with her constantly. Act your age. Tell her jokes, even if they're cheesy. She'll probably laugh and think that you're funny. Smile at her. If you're really daring, and you think that she'll like it, wink at her. 

, It sounds hard, but girls know to put their friends before guys, so if you're mean to her friends, she probably won't like you back. Be nice to her friends, no matter how much you hate them. Chances are, if you're nice to them, they'll be nicer to you back. If you really can't be nice to them, tolerate them. Don't be mean to them. If you're nice to the girl's friends, she'll like you more. However, don't be too nice or she'll think you like them and not her. This will really upset her.
 Help her with her math homework, pick up some books that she dropped, open the door, or something else. Don't go way out of your comfort zone (or hers). This step should only be used if you know her well and she feels comfortable around you.
 If school dances are coming up, don't skip 'em! Ask if she's going. She will most likely go (girls love social things like dances). If she's going, you should go too. While you're there, ask her to dance. It will show her that you're into her. Slow dances are the best.
 This step is optional because for some guys, this is way out of your comfort zone, which is fine. If it's in your comfort zone, on her birthday or on Valentine's Day, give her something. It doesn't have to be huge, or cost you a fortune. Something like a pair of earrings, or even just a chocolate bar would work. It's so simple, yet it tells her that you really care about her.
 Again, if this is totally out of your comfort zone, don't do it. If it is in your comfort zone, occasionally lightly touch her shoulder or hand, or brush your foot or leg against hers. If she reacts well, that's a good sign. If not, stop doing it.
 This is probably out of yours or her comfort zone.
 If you're not allowed to date yet, do not go out with her behind your parent's backs. If they find out you're in major trouble. If you are allowed to date, go up to her when she's alone, and say something like this, "Hey , I really like you and I was just wondering if you wanted to go out with me?" Don't worry if she says no she will do it nicely.
 Just be observant. Don't make eyes at a girl if you know she is taken, or if you are, but if you ask a friend if she's single, that friend will immediately go up to your crush and start rumors. You don't want to cause any unnecessary drama. Keep it to yourself. Don't tell anyone!

