 Cast four stitches of green yarn onto your size 10 (6.0 mm) double-pointed needle, then work an i-cord measuring 12 rows long.


To knit the i-cord:

Cast on four stitches, as usual.
Knit one row across the stitches but do not turn the work.
Slide the stitches to the other end of the needle, then knit a second row by bringing the yarn behind the work and starting in the first stitch again.
Knit a total of 12 rows in this manner, starting in the first stitch each time.


Check the “Tips” section of this article for further advice about casting on yarn or creating knit stitches.
 Knit once into the first stitch, then work one knit stitch into the next two stitches (decreasing the total stitch count by one). Knit once into next stitch.


Doing this will create a second i-cord with three stitches. The second, skinnier cord will sit on top of the first cord and become the top of the stem.
 Continue the i-cord for five more rows.


Work this i-cord the same as previous one, starting each of the five rows in the same stitch.
 Bind off the yarn. Pull all ends to the inside of i-cord.


You may need to use a yarn needle or crochet hook to help push the extra yarn tails through the center of the i-cord.
After drawing all the ends into the cord, trim away any excess still sticking out from either side.
 Create a foundation by casting 28 stitches onto your size 4 (3.5 mm) double-pointed needles.


Note that you should have four of these needles, and the stitches should be distributed evenly among all four. In other words, each needle should have 7 stitches on it.
 Work one knit stitch into each stitch across the first round.
 You'll need to work a series of slip stitches and knit stitches across the second round.


Slip stitch once and knit once, then slip-slip knit to decrease the to decrease the round by one stitch.
Knit one, then make one new stitch by using the left needle to pick up the bar between stitches on the right and left needles; knit into the back of this bar using the right needle.

Repeat this process once more (a total of two times).


Knit once into the next stitch, then knit once into the next two stitches to decrease the count by one.
Repeat this entire process, from the first slip stitch to the final knit decrease, four more times to complete the round.
 Work four more repeats of rounds one and two, creating a total of five round pairs or ten rounds.
 Work one knit stitch across the next two stitches, then knit stitch once into the stitch that follows. Repeat eight times.


Afterward, knit once into the next two stitches and once into the final two that follow.
You may need to slip several stitches around on your four double-pointed needles to create all of the decreases.
 Work one knit stitch into the next two stitches. Repeat this pattern across the entire round.
 Use scissors to cut the yarn, leaving a tail that measures roughly 6 inches (15 cm) long.


Do not bind off the thread yet.
 Insert the stem through the hole at the bottom of the blossom, then insert the blossom tail through the remaining open stitches. Pull the tail to tighten the blossom around the stem.
 Pull any of the remaining tail through a few inner stitches of the stem, using a yarn needle or crochet hook to do so. Tie a slip knot at the end to keep it secure.


The final flower will be between 4 and 5 inches (10 and 12.5 cm) long.

