 Certain circumstances are understood to make a major impact on your life and your ability to finance your education. If you experience one of these events, your school can reconsider your financial aid, once you write to it explaining the situation. Qualifying factors may include:An illness, injury, or disability that has affected your ability to pay for your education
Outstanding medical expenses
The birth or adoption of children that have affected your ability to pay for your education
The death of a close family member

, Discretionary expenses—those which you or your family have control over—will not qualify you for a change in financial aid, even if those expenses make it difficult to pay for your education. Common discretionary factors include:Credit card debt
Mortgage payments
Car payments
Voluntary early retirement
Parents or guardians that do not support your educational expenses

, Your school may have a financial aid counselor who can advise you on requesting more aid. Your school’s financial aid office can also advise you on where to submit your letter, and whether or not there are any special forms to fill out or information to include.
 Write your letter in a formal, business format. It should be typed, dated, and signed, and use a formal tone.Begin by giving thanks for any aid you have already received. This is courteous, and lets your school know that you appreciate the aid and would value any more that you can receive.


Try writing something like: “I am a student at , currently receiving financial aid. I deeply appreciate the financial aid I currently receive, which is helping me to succeed in .”

, Your letter should specifically describe what has changed in your life, or what hardship you have experienced, and how it has impacted your financial aid status.


Start by writing something like: “Since my financial aid status was last reviewed, I have experienced . This change has impacted my ability to contribute to my education, and so I am appealing for an increase in my financial aid award.”
Next, explain what has changed, being as specific as you can. For example, if you now have a child that will need daycare if you are to attend school, list the exact cost of the daycare.
Provide as much documentation of your need for financial aid as you can. For example, if you are requesting an appeal based on childcare costs, include a copy of a bill or statement from the childcare give.
Be honest about the event, and about the amount you can contribute to your education-related expenses. Explain exactly what has happened, but do not exaggerate or lie. If you are dishonest, it will backfire and likely disqualify you from receiving any financial aid.
 Close your letter by thanking your school for its consideration of your request, and assure the financial aid office that you will continue to succeed in your educational program.


Try writing something like: “I appreciate the Office of Financial Aid taking the time to review my appeal. An increase in my financial aid award will provide the support I absolutely need to continue my academic program. I am proud to be a member of the community at , value the education it provides, and look forward to completing my program in .
 Once you have written your letter, you should deliver it to the address you have been instructed to, such as your school’s financial aid office (in hard copy or electronically, according to its specification).

