 YMCA staff take prospective members on guided tours of the site and can answer all membership questions. Services vary from one facility to another, so be sure to ask about programs of special interest to you.;
, Members can upgrade or cancel their plan at any time and also enjoy drop-in privileges with on-site fitness classes.


Full fitness centers with free weights, exercise machines, and the use of stationary bikes, treadmills and stair-steppers are included in all membership plans.
Additional amenities include all-day pool access, with the option of swimming lessons, use of the gymnasium, and other activity courts.
For members with children, day-care plans, including before (and after) school programs, are available at the YMCA.
Specialty programs ranging from CPR instruction to classes on nutrition and emotional well-being are also available at the YMCA. Drop-in privileges allow members to participate in special activities at designated times.
 This is the most commonly chosen membership plan.


Gym members that fall underneath the youth membership category (6-17), the young adult category (18-25) and the adult membership category (26-64) have use of all the facilities and are granted membership rates for appropriate programs.A family/household is considered two adults (26-64) with or without dependent children under the age of 25 that live together in one household. With one adult membership, two more adults can be included in the membership for an additional $10 per person.Other membership categories include single-parent family and senior citizens (ages 65 and up).
 Standard applications include completing a membership application, a PAR-Q (physical activity readiness questionnaire for ages 15-69), a liability waiver, a member engagement survey, and a monthly payment form (either for a credit card or a checking account).Photographs will be taken of members at the time of application and fee payment. If you submit your application and fee electronically, pictures will be taken on the first visit.When you first enroll, bring a valid picture ID and a voided check to set up an automatic monthly bank draft.
 There is no contract. All new members must pay a sign-up fee in addition to monthly dues.


YMCA dues can vary but are similar at most locations. Fees are based on the member's age and membership group: young adult (14-28), adult (29-64), senior (65 and older), adult with dependent children, and husband and wife with children.
For youth (0-12), rates range between $15-$25. For young adults (18-25), rates range between $30-$55. For adults (26-60), rates range between $55-$70. For seniors (60+), rates range between $50-$55.