 If you drop the lens while standing, it can shatter.;
, The plunger you will use to insert the lens has a small hole in it. This hole can be used to get a sense of how you’re lining up the lens with your eye. You cannot see the hole if it is dark.
 It can wind up inside the lens, causing blurred vision.
 Pour out solution from lens case. Never reuse contact solution! Reusing solution can cause the contact to become dirty, causing blurry vision. Eye infections can also occur if solution is reused.
 Fill the lens up to the top with sterile saline solution. If you do not fill the lens up all the way, bubbles will form after insertion.
 Make sure it is not resting at a tilt.
 Hold the plunger, which is holding the lens with your left hand. For your left eye, use your left hand to hold your eyelids open, and use your right hand to hold the plunger.
 If your face is not parallel to the floor, the saline solution will spill out of the lens before it is inserted.
 You should see and feel the excess saline solution begin to drip out once the lens hits your eye. This is ok. Keep pushing until the saline solution ceases to drip out from the hole located at the bottom of the plunger.
, If there are bubbles you will need to remove and reinsert the lens. Removing the lens is done with a similar, albeit smaller plunger.
 Congratulations! Now lets move on to removing your scleral lens.
 If you drop the lens from standing height it can shatter.
 Your makeup will get messed up upon insertion.
 You will use the same solution for this as you would to fill up your lens. Wetting the plunger helps it suction to the lens better.
 Do not let go of your eyelid until the lens is completely out of your eye. The lens is made out of hard material, and if you blink when only half of the lens is suctioned off, the hard edge is forced into your eye. This causes severe pain.
 Make sure you do not suction the plunger to the middle of the lens where it bulges out. Apply the plunger to the bottom half of the scleral lens. Use a mirror to make sure you are placing the plunger to the correct part of the scleral lens. Remember: once you make suction to the lens, the lens being removed from the eye is the only way to get the plunger and lens out of your eye. This is why it is very important to make sure you make contact with the correct part of the lens.
 Pressing too hard can make the suction too strong which makes removal painful.
 It helps to use a flicking motion with your wrist.
 Use a twisting motion so the lens does not crack. Never pull the lens straight off.
 Cleaning the lens gets it ready to be inserted the next day!

, It is important to follow these instructions so you avoid injuries and avoid accidentally breaking your lens. You did it, congratulations!

