 Relationships take time to form and this situation is no different. Don’t expect your cat to instantly love your puppy or vice versa. Instead, try to get them to get along first in a safe manner and then keep your fingers crossed for something more to develop., Your cat will expect the same treatment that it experienced before, so make sure to keep up the cuddling and treating. Make sure that both your puppy and cat have sufficient toys to play with. And, watch to make sure that toy stealing is minimized. As your cat and puppy behave nicely, make sure to praise them by offering treats and saying, “good job!”Get all of your family members involved. Everyone can help to make sure that both your cat and dog are healthy and happy with one another., Search for a class in your area by typing your city’s name and “puppy obedience courses” into a search engine. Then, take your puppy on a regular basis. They will learn a variety of useful commands, such as “leave it.” These commands can be used if they get out of control when around your cat. This is also a great way to expend a puppy’s natural energy., Keep a close eye on your cat during the first few weeks of puppy cohabitation. Your cat may appear fine on the surface, but could be subtly indicating that they are stressed. Watch to see if your cat is marking the furniture (by scratching or spraying). They may also be using the restroom in hidden places, like the corners of your closet. Your cat may also show more obvious stress by hissing or arching its back.Another warning sign is a lack of grooming. If your cat stops grooming itself, this could mean that it doesn't feel safe doing so with the puppy around. Make sure to give your cat a safe space to tend to these needs.
 Try to adopt an attentive, not a dismissive, attitude. You may see that your cat is only aggressive when the puppy enters a certain room or approaches a particular family member. Or, you may notice that your puppy is only snippy when your cat tries to steal a certain toy. Tailor your responses according to the particular issues that you see., As you bring both your puppy and cat in for their annual visits, discuss with your vet how the animals are getting along. Ask any questions that you have and try to get as much advice as you can.


For example, you might say, “How can I keep the puppy from tearing up all of my cat’s toys?”

