 Living Christmas trees should not be kept indoors for more than 7-10 days at most., Slowly bring your tree indoors so as not to shock an outdoor tree by exposing it to warm indoor temperatures. The warm temperature will encourage tree growth which is to be avoided.Transition your living tree by first moving it to a garage or enclosed porch before bringing it indoors.
 Before moving the living tree into your house, you want to ensure you’re not bringing any other living creatures with you.
 During the transition time, it’s important to ensure that your tree is still receiving moisture. Soak the rootball so that the soil around the tree is always moist but not overly wet or drowning., This spray will prevent the needles of the tree from dropping and help your tree to maintain moisture.Anti-desiccant and anti-wilt products can be found under the names Wilt-Pruf or Cloud-Cover.” To use, shake the bottle well. Spray the tops and bottoms of the leaves and needles of your tree. Allow the spray to dry outdoors for several hours. One application of spray will last for three to four months. Please see the label of your specific anti-desiccant or anti-wilt spray for detailed directions.
 Keep your tree in as cool a spot as possible away from any heaters, radiators or direct sunlight.
 In order to protect your living tree, use LED lights that don’t give off heat and hang lighter ornaments that won’t weigh down or damage your tree., Continually water your living tree while it is indoors so it doesn’t dry out. If the tree dries out, it may be unable to recover.Check the water level in your tree’s basin regularly.If the root ball of your tree is wrapped in burlap, place the root ball in a tub. Add mulch on top of the root ball to help increase moisture.Ensure there is 1-2” of water at the bottom of your tub or container. Any more than that may drown the roots.To add more moisture, use a spray bottle to spray water onto the leaves and branches of the tree. Be careful when spraying near lights or ornaments.
As an alternative to adding water, you can place crushed ice overtop your tree’s root ball.
 Before planting it’s important to consider if your tree will be able to successfully grow in your area.


Check if your tree is suitable and able to thrive in your area’s climate.Determine if your space can accommodate the full grown height and width of your tree.
Ensure your space is protected from high winds and that it receives adequate sunlight.
 If frozen soil is an issue in your area, be sure to dig the hole for your tree early in the winter before the ground freezes over.Dig a hole about four to five times the size of your tree’s root ball in diameter and slightly shallower than the root ball in depth., Livings trees that spend more than 7-10 days indoors may lose hardiness and be unable to thrive once replanted.
 Just as you acclimated your tree to indoor temperatures, you must do the same when preparing to bring it back outdoors. Spend about a week slowly transitioning your tree from inside your home to outside using your garage or enclosed porch.During this period, keep your tree away from high winds, direct sunlight and warm areas.
 Only natural burlap or biodegradable containers are safe to be planted. Treated burlap, nylon or plastic containers must be removed.If after removing the covering your tree’s roots are bound tightly together, gently break up the massed roots on the outer layer of the root ball.
 Plant your tree slightly higher than the surrounding soil to help with drainage.If the area where you plan to replant your tree is still frozen, you will need to wait for it to thaw before replanting. Keep your tree in a sheltered spot outdoors until the soil is thawed.
 Level the soil to the top of the tree’s roots. Spread 2-3” of mulch over top of the area.
 During the replanting process, your tree will still need water. If your area is dry in the winter, you may need to continue watering your tree once it is replanted. Monitor the soil to determine if your tree needs additional moisture or not.Do not add fertilizer to your tree’s soil until the spring. In the first year after replanting, be careful not to add too much fertilizer as the roots are not fully established yet.