 Dream interpretation definitely gets better with practice, since with each interpretation you gain a better understanding of your own subconscious. While dream interpretation is fairly intuitive and self-directed in nature, it can be helpful to have some generalized examples to guide you in ways that people choose to interpret their dreams. Here are some examples to give you an idea are provided next:


Let's say you're stranded on a desert island in your dream. If you've recently broken up with your partner, this could easily make sense. Maybe you feel guilty about the break-up and think it's partly your fault. Or maybe you're still angry about it. Sometimes the feelings you have as you're drifting off to sleep spill over into your dreams.
You dream you're back at school again trying to pass exams that in real life, you passed ages ago. And no matter how hard you try to pass them, the pencil keeps snapping, or the exam paper flies out the window, or you're just stumped for answers. Swing back to everyday life and you're doing really well, successful at all you have undertaken. A dream like this can simply be telling you that you don't need to worry about something that's worrying you right now because you got over that hurdle in the past; alternatively, it could be warning you that you're skating on thin ice and can't rely on winging it this time, and that you need to stick your head in the books and learn something new - and fast!

, Over time, you'll start seeing the same things pop up in your dreams. Take note of them in your dream journal, and pay attention to what emotions surround them. In the future, these dreams will be easy to interpret. For example, if you dream of a bluebird, you may not know at first what it symbolizes for you. Eventually you might come to realize it's associated with times of extreme change in your life. When you dream of a bluebird again in the future, you'll already have the groundwork laid for interpretation.
 The key thing to remember is that there are no rules to dream interpretation and so there are no rights or wrongs to the interpretation process. It's all down to your self-honesty, self-knowledge and willingness to apply your dream knowledge to your waking life situations. A successful dream interpretation really comes down to the following elements:


Your interpretation resonates with you and the path you're following in life.
Interpreting your dreams adds something positive to your personal growth and emotional or spiritual fulfillment.
Acting upon your dreams is not only becoming second nature, but is giving you good, positive results.
If it's not working for you, are you allowing yourself to get over the initial hurdles of confusion or skepticism before finally tossing in the towel on using dream interpretation as a means of self awareness?
Keep in mind, dreams are a subjective thing; murky at best, but always entertaining.

