 The first step to cleaning any clear plastic item is wiping away dust, dirt, grime, oils, etc. from the surface. Opt for non-abrasive materials so that you don’t scratch the plastic surface.Add a small amount of a gentle detergent, such as dish soap, to clean, warm water.
Use a clean microfiber cloth or soft cotton rag (like an old t-shirt). Paper towels are too abrasive.
Wet the cloth thoroughly with the soapy water, and gently scrub the surface with a circular cleaning motion.
Rinse the residue away with clean, cool water and dry the plastic with another clean cloth.;
, Commercial window or multi-surface cleaners can also be used to wipe away surface debris from clear plastic. In some cases, though, they may add further cloudiness and streaks by leaving a film behind. If you’re cleaning a clear plastic windscreen, for instance, test an small area first to evaluate the results.


Use a non-abrasive cloth like microfiber or soft cotton.
You can also make your own multi-purpose cleaner by combining clean water and white vinegar (at a 1:1 ratio) in a spray bottle., Surface cleaning alone will probably not restore the clarity of your plastic item or reduce yellowing. In this case, instead of avoiding abrasion, you may want to use a mild abrasive to scrape away the surface damage done by UV rays and wear and tear.Some people find that plain white toothpaste works well; others prefer mixing baking soda with vinegar to make a foamy cleaner with some grit.
Or, try mixing baking soda and oil soap (such as Murphy’s Oil Soap) into a thick paste equal or slightly thicker in consistency than toothpaste., In this case, a microfiber or cotton cloth is still fine to use, but you can also enhance the abrasion a bit further by using a woven scouring pad (not steel wool) meant for non-stick or coated cooking pans.Clean and rinse the surface first.
Use a circular cleaning motion with relatively mild pressure. Think more “exfoliating your skin” and less “sanding down a piece of wood.”
Rinse the cleaner away with clean, cool water.
Dry the plastic with a clean, soft cloth (with no abrasion this time).
 Scrubbing away the surface cloudiness of your item may, unfortunately, leave it more vulnerable to UV damage in the future. Depending upon the importance and function of the plastic item — such as a car headlamp cover or boat windscreen, for instance — you may want to add surface protection to slow down the deterioration process.UV protectants for plastics come in clear-coat sprays and wipe-on waxes. Consider which application and process is best suited to your needs, and follow the product instructions explicitly.