 The table might only be shaky because of the way it has been positioned or bumped. Check that there is nothing caught under any of the table legs, such as the end of a curtain or a small item like a pebble, utensil, etc. And check to see whether a table leg has become lodged on the edge of a baseboard or some other item jutting out from a wall. Another common issue is where the table is situated on a varied floor surface (such as a mosaic, grout, a floor crack, etc.) and one of the legs is on a different surface from the other three. If any of these issues apply, the table probably simply needs pushing away from this different surface or pulled off whatever it's caught on.


Sometimes the previous patron has stuffed something under the table that is actually making things worse, not better. Remove it to see what the result is.
Check to see if the floor is sloped. If the building foundation has settled or you're outside in the beer garden, there could be a problem with floor sloping. If the slope is too defined, re-seating is probably a good option, or you could try using a wedge hack, as explained later.;
, Physics has come to the answer of shaky square tables. According to physicist Andre Martin, a table can be forced to stop wobbling if you keep rotating it somewhere between 0 and 90 degrees until the no-shake spot is found.Martin even has a mathematical proof to back this solution up, provided the table is square, has a leg in each corner with a narrow tip that touches the ground at a single point and that the floor isn't sloping more than 15 degrees or has a sudden drop-off.So just keep rotating until it hits the sweet spot.
 In case you're shy about rotating the table or feel it just isn't working for your particular table, there are some tried and true methods that have likely been around as long as tables. These engineering solutions are good to try before you bother the waitstaff (often they'll resort to these methods anyway). Just be sure to tell your fellow diners that you suspect there is a problem and that you're about to try to fix it––you don't want someone placing their full weight on the table while you're precariously balanced. You could try any, or all, of the following:


Place a napkin (serviette) under the leg that seems to be causing the problem. You can fold a single napkin over several times or use a stack of napkins, depending on how much of a gap presents itself. Generally, if there is less than an inch (2.5cm) between the leg and the floor, the napkin trick may be the perfect solution.
Stack a few menus underneath the table. If the restaurant offers plastic menus that are easy to stack, try a few shoved under the leg. Or, better yet, a book-menu with a cover will provide the leg with even more height.
Find a piece of cardboard off a box or any other item, or tear out a few magazine pages from the free magazines in the establishment (if they complain, show them the wobble). Wedge the cardboard or pages under the offending leg until the table ceases to shake.
Cram a few matchbooks under the broken leg. An old restaurant trick is to use one or two matchbooks to level an uneven or wobbly leg. Given changing laws about smoking though, some restaurants no longer provide a dish of free matchbooks, so this step may not be an option.
 In some cases, a table leg might be loose if it's attached by screwing on. If you can see that this is the issue (give it a quick look to check), try screwing the loose leg back into place. Grasp the top of the loose leg and twist to tighten it. Once you can’t tighten anymore, test the table to see if it worked. Gently try to rock the table back and forth––if it appears to be sitting steady, your plan worked.

It is a good idea to contact your wait staff before any modifications to a table at a restaurant. If it's obvious that a screw is loose, let them know and ask if you can turn the screw/turn the table sideways.






Not all table legs screw in an easy, circular fashion so make sure you can even attempt this.
If you can tip the table slightly sideways, this will allow you to get a better grasp on the leg. Don't tilt it if drinks and plates are on the table already!
It's recommended that you wash your hands or use hand sanitizer after handling the leg. Anything could be lurking on the inside leg from old gum to squished bits of food someone's kid tried to hide.
 It is possible to purchase an item called a "WonKey" that consists of a silicon key shaped wedge, perfect for propping up the shaky leg anytime needed. The idea is that it's always with you because it's on your keyring and if you leave it on the keyring, theoretically you should remember to take it home because you should remember to collect your keys at the end of the meal or drinks. Of course, if you're the forgetful type or you have one drink too many, you might actually forget both the wedge and your keys, so only choose this method if you're usually pretty good at collecting up your belongings after.


You could also try making your own wedge from hard foam or silicon. Simply cut a small wedge shape about one inch (2.5cm) high at the highest end, and descending in wedge shape (like a wedge of cheese). Drill a hole through it for attaching to your keyring or bag so that you can carry it everywhere. In fact, if you attach it to your bag, you won't usually forget to recover the wedge––and potentially the weight of the table on the wedge could be a deterrent to having your bag stolen!

, If you can, simply move to a table that isn't wobbling. If you can't find one, ask your server to assist, explaining what the problem is. Don't be shy or embarrassed––few people want to sit at a wobbly table and most waitstaff will be glad to assist you.


Try booth seating. Such seating isn't usually prone to shaking. Or look for three-legged tables rather than four-legged ones. From an engineering perspective, they're more stable!It's best to let staff know that there's a problem so that they can deal with it. If they roll their eyes with a "we know" look, cheerfully suggest that they might consider fixing it rather than continuing to put up with it all the time.

