 The larger the area, the larger your bamboo will be able to grow. Those focused exclusively on the vigor of bamboo recommend as much as a 30 feet (9.1 m). diameter for large species. However, it is possible to have a reasonably large healthy plant with as little as one square yard of ground for it to grow in.;
, Killing well established bamboo is very difficult, so removing the rhizomes upfront is probably the better option.
 Bamboo can be very strong, and rhizomes have a sharp tip when growing. Concrete will crack over time and allow the bamboo to escape. Metal will eventually rust through, and poses a hazard where it must stick up above ground. For best results, use a true HDPE (High Density Polyethylene) barrier of at least 60 mil thickness. The American Bamboo Socia In hard clay soil, some say it is okay to use only a 24 inch (61.0 cm) wide barrier. However, a 30 wide barrier is safer. For areas where the soil is sandy and loose, a 36 inch (91.4 cm) wide barrier may be required.
, Keep the topsoil that you dug out from falling back in. You want this to be hard uninviting clay in case a rhizome ever makes it down that far.
 Get it where you want it to be, and do your best to angle it away from the enclosed area. You want any rhizome that hits the barrier in the future to be directed up by the barrier. You do not want the rhizome to go down, as this can lead to a rhizome escaping under the barrier even if it is good and deep.
 Either use steel closure strips with a less than 3 inch (7.6 cm) overlap, or overlap the ends by at least four feet and seal the overlap at both ends with double sided tape. Bamboo can escape through very small openings, so make sure the seal is really good.
 Keep the barrier angled outward. Pack the bottom half of the fill as tightly as possible. Let the top half remain loose.
 Your bamboo should not be able to escape underground. It will eventually send rhizomes over the 2 inch (5.1 cm) high above-ground part of the barrier. However, these are easily spotted and clipped with a quick inspection once or twice per year.

