 You can get one or both of the cards (subject to Amazon approval) if you want, but before you get one, it is always best to know the pros and cons of the card.


Each credit card is supplied by different banks. The Amazon Store Card is provided by Synchrony Bank and the Rewards Visa card by Chase. Each banks have their own terms and policies, so it is always important to research a bit about the banks behind the cards to get an idea of the good and bad of each.;
, The Amazon Store Card has no interest rates if you pay purchases of $149 or more in full within 6 months and purchases of $599 or more in full within 12 months. Some select items sold by Amazon (except items sold by third-party) are actually interest-free if paid in full within 24 months.


Fees for the Rewards Visa can be quite extensive. You can check out official pricing information here.
 Fees, credit card or otherwise, can often jump at you, surprising you with exorbitant amounts if you don’t read the fine print when applying. For Amazon Store Card and the Rewards Visa card, there’s no annual fee.
 This is important. Always read the fine print of what is being offered when applying for a credit card, and its terms and conditions. You may be surprised that you’ll find something you don’t want.


Learn more about Amazon Store Card here.
Learn of Amazon’s Rewards Visa card here.
 Once you’ve gone over and chosen a card to apply to, you can log into your Amazon account, fill in the credit card’s application form, and submit it to the banks via Amazon.
 For the Amazon Store card, go to this page, and for the Rewards Visa card, go here. You may be asked to log in again; this is only for security purposes.
 The first section or page (for Rewards Visa) of the application process will ask for information about you—full name, physical address, and email address. The physical address must be a US address. Click “Continue” for Rewards, and for the Store Card, scroll down the application form to the next section.


The next section or page will ask for your phone number, social security number, date of birth, and mother’s maiden name. Fill it in accordingly, then scroll down or click “Continue” for Rewards.
In the third section or page, you will be asked for information on your finances (e.g., annual net income). Provide all the information asked, and scroll down or click “Continue.”
The last section or page will display the terms and conditions as well as the fees and prices of the card. READ THROUGH THEM CAREFULLY.
 If you’re amenable to the terms and conditions, click the “I agree” option at the very bottom of the before clicking “Submit.”

, Now all you have to do is wait for the approval (or rejection) or your application. If your application is approved, you will get a response within a few seconds, and you can begin using your card immediately.


The actual card will be mailed to the address you entered, and you should receive it within 7 to 10 business days. If you did not receive the card within 10 days, contact the bank (Synchrony for Store Card, and Chase for Rewards Visa) immediately.
If not approved, you will receive a notification from the bank(s) within 2 to 4 weeks.

