 Especially for dinner, it’s important to book your table ahead of time. If your resort has multiple dining options, check them each out early on and book your meals at the one you prefer as early as possible. You may even want to make multiple reservations at the same spot, if you prefer it strongly to the other options., In much the same way that the most desirable dining options will fill up quickly, the most intriguing activities will too. In fact, the better the amenity, the quicker it will get booked. These activities can include nightly entertainment with a capped audience, or daytime outdoor activities.For instance, if the resort offers sunset cruises or other popular activities, see what it takes to get yourself a spot.
The resort may compile a list of interested guests for each activity, each day. If so, get your name on the list first thing in the morning on the day you'd like to participate.
 Many resorts will have concierge staff to help you plan your day or explore the area. In particular, they will be the best folks to talk to about shuttles, tours, attractions, and more.It may even pay off to introduce yourself warmly upon arrival. Say something like, “Hey! We’re really excited to be here. I just wanted to say hello and introduce myself. What’s your name?”

, Not all restaurants at all-inclusive resorts will allow it, but it’s always worth it to ask. Getting your food to go means your crew can stay on the beach while one of you goes to pick up the food, and everyone can eat at their own speed while you continuing enjoying yourselves.Better yet, some resorts may even include room service.
 All-inclusive resorts will do what they can to make you happy, especially in terms of your dining experience. If the buffet keeps running out of the one dish you find appealing, feel free to mention it to staff. You may even wind up with a fresh portion straight from the kitchen.Most resorts will be ready and willing to accommodate dietary preferences. That said, it’s worth reaching out beforehand if you have a serious dietary restriction, such as Celiac disease, or are vegan.

