 Locate the app icon on your home screen or app drawer. Tap to open.


If you don’t have Pie Control, you can get it from the Google Play store.;
, Upon launching the application for the first time, a welcome pop-up should appear. It details the instructions for saving your settings and tells you that every time you make a change in the configuration, you must tap the “Apply” button at the bottom of the particular settings tab you are configuring. Tap “OK” at the bottom right of the pop-up to continue.
 By default, you will be taken to the PIE tab in the app. Here you will be able to set the activation locations of the PIE control menu by tapping on the icons at the topmost of the screen. You can select all three of the activation locations (left, bottom, and right), or choose a combination of any of them.
 In the PIE tab, you will find the Options menu located below the activation location icons. Tap it to access the various options you can configure. The customization options are described in order from top to bottom.


By default, Pie Control will display a notification control icon in the notification panel. If you want to disable notifications, tap “Remove Notification” and hit “GO TO SET” on the lower right corner of the pop-up. This will take you to the App Info screen in Android settings for Pie Control. Uncheck the “Show Notifications” box below the “Force Stop” button to disable the notification.
Enable Pie to use the Back button of your device by tapping on the “Advantage of Accessibility” option. Tap “GO TO SET” and you will be taken to the Accessibility menu of Android, where you can tap the checkbox for Pie and then tap the toggle button on the upper right corner of the screen to turn it on. Now you can map the Back button to a particular button on the Pie. Once you enable this option, the “Remove Notification” button below it will become controllable; tap this if you want to remove its constant notification on the notification panel.
Toggle the animation by tapping the check box opposite the “Animation” option. This will turn the Pie opening animation on or off, depending on whether you checked the box or not.
Uncheck the “Show Longclick Icon” if you wish to disable icon changes in the buttons of the Pie when you drag your finger on the button for a long period.
Longclick delay will set the time at which the function will execute when you perform a long click (long tap) on the Pie. Tap “1,000” at the right of the option to change the delay in milliseconds.
 Tap the “Activation Area” section below the “Options” section to expand it. Here you will be able to change the width, height, and position of the activation area by dragging the sliders for the particular parameter you wish to change.
 The Pie Size section below “Activation area” gives you access to options for changing the dimensions of the Pie menu itself. Tap “Pie size” and it will give you configuration options, such as the Pie size, Icon size, and Long icon size. Drag the sliders for each parameter to change them.
 Tap the “Color” section to customize the color palette of your Pie. Normal is the base color of the Pie, while Focus is the color that the Pie sections will change to when you drag your finger over them. The Outline is the color of the lines that surround each of the Pie sections. Tap the color block under each of the three options to change them, then drag the dot on the color palette to select a shade. Drag the slider on the right to change the base color, and then tap an area in the Alpha slider at the bottom to change transparency. Tap the “OK” button to set the color.
 Tap the “Vibration” section to expand the menu. Drag the slider for “Select Vibrate” to set the vibration duration for when you release your finger to execute the function in Pie. “Focus Vibrate” is the vibration duration for when you drag your finger over a Pie section.
 From the PIE tab, you can simply swipe right to left to change tabs to the CLOCK tab.
 Tap the checkbox opposite the “Use 24-hour format” to change the clock format to 12-hour.
 The Pie will also have a battery bar at the outermost section of the Pie. Set the bar to be the background of the clock by tapping on the checkbox opposite the option. Make the battery bar rounded by tapping on the checkbox opposite the “Rounded Battery bar” option.
 You will be able to change the size of the clock and battery bar by dragging the slider below the “Rounded Battery bar” labeled “Size.” Dragging it right will make the clock bigger, and dragging it left will make it smaller.
 You can change the clock text color by tapping on the color block below the “Text Color” header. Drag the dot on the color palette to select a shade. Drag the slider on the right to change the base color, and then tap an area in the Alpha slider at the bottom to change transparency. Tap the “OK” button to set the color.


The same goes for changing the battery bar color, which is right below the Text Color header.
 From the CLOCK tab, you can swipe from right to left to bring you to the LEVEL1 customization tab.
 Each button has a Shortclick that you can map a function to. You perform a Shortclick by simply dragging your finger over a button on the Pie and releasing it. Tap on the Shortclick function in Button1 to begin. A panel will slide out from the right, with three collapsed sections: Apps, Tools, and Settings. Selecting one of these sections will expand them and show you the complete list of functions you can map to the Shortclick on Button1.


The process is the same for Shortclick and Longclick mapping on each button in any level.
Tapping the X icon at the right of the Shortclick or Longclick mapping will disable the function, essentially removing the section from the whole Pie.
 Each button also has a Longclick mapping that appears when you hold the button with a finger, depending on the Longclick delay you have set in the “Options” menu, under the PIE tab. Tap the Longclick function in Button1 to begin, and a panel will slide out from the right, with three collapsed sections: Apps, Tools, and Settings. Selecting one of these sections will expand them and show you the complete list of functions you can map to the Longclick on Button1.


If you want to add another level to the Pie, simply swipe from right to left to go to the LEVEL2 tab. Then, you can map functions to that level using the same procedure.
 Once you have finished your customization, tap the “Apply” button at the bottom of the screen. You can use the “Apply” button at any time, and is especially useful for when you want to test out changes and see if you like them.