 When you feel badly enough about forgetting a person’s birthday that you want to make it up to them somehow, it signals that you have a special relationship of some kind. It indicates you truly care. Making that person a happiness jar can show this. All it takes is a Mason jar with a lid, paper and a pen. Of course you can get more creative, but what matters most is what you write. On each piece of paper that you put in the jar, write down a memory you have of the person – something you experienced together, something you remember the other person saying or doing one day, the way he or she looked on a special occasion, how you feel about the person now and at different times since you’ve known one another.


Include one larger piece of paper or a small card saying you’re sorry for missing his or her birthday.
If there’s room left, throw in their favorite candies, tokens to the arcade if you do that together, small items the person might collect and so forth.
Decorate the jar if you’d like. Tie a ribbon around it, paint on it, hodge podge a photo of the two of you on one side., Sometimes the person doesn’t live nearby, and while you can call, email, send a card or a traditional present, maybe you’re also looking for something with a bit more punch behind your apology. Here’s one idea. Videotape yourself as you make the person his or her favorite kind of birthday cake. You could make it humorous or you could pretend as if you’re the star of a cooking show, which the other person might also find quite funny. You could even light the candles, sing him or her “Happy Birthday” and then express your apologies.


Burn your video to a disc, write out the cake recipe and wrap it like a birthday present before you send it in the mail.
If you think the cake will survey the journey, send it, too, or perhaps just a slice.
 If you’ve never looked online before, USB flash drives now come in all shapes, sizes, colors and materials. There are even action hero USB flash drives. You can also have them customized from a variety of online sites, which is exactly what you want to do. Since they’re small and you won’t have much space to convey your message, keep it simple, or consider using a symbol or photo. Then fill it with the other person’s favorite music (music that you own, of course).Add photos of you together. Create a special playlist.
Before you give it to the other person, go online and print a piece of blank sheet music. Write your apology and birthday wishes on it when you present the USB drive.
 If you have access to the person’s home, buy a package of multi-colored Post-It notes and write a variety of messages on them, tailored to the person and your relationship – memories, quotes, feelings, jokes. Tape small photos or other mementos, such as a ticket from a concert you went to together, to some of them. While he or she is not home, stick them in both obvious and more hidden places throughout the house so they’re found not only when the person comes home and sees them everywhere, but also over time.


Then tape several together to create a card expressing your apology that you can either leave after you’ve gone Post-It note crazy or that you can be waiting to hand deliver.