 When a dog's vision begins to suffer with age, you may notice a change to the eye color itself. Cataracts are often a cause of loss of vision related to age, and can be easily seen by looking at your dog's eyes.Cataracts are marked by a cloudy appearance around a dog's pupil.
Monitor your dog's eyes frequently as it ages, as cataracts are easier to treat and reverse if caught early. Take your dog to the vet the moment you notice cataracts developing.;
, Changes in your dog's vision can actually be detected by observing your dog's eyes on film. Usually, if there's glare on the photo, it will lead to red eye. However, if a dog is losing its sight, changes in the eye will cause a greenish appearance in response to camera glare., If there's a tacky discharge in or around your dog's eyes, this may indicate that your dog might have a condition called dry eye. It is not an indication of problems inside of the eye, but your dog may have trouble seeing if the discharge is thick enough. If you notice discharge in or around your dog’s eyes, make an appointment with your vet.
 Many owners assume their dogs are simply losing interest in playing as they grow older. However, sometimes a lack of activity can be due to vision. While it's normal for a dog's desire to play to decline, watch how your dog responds during play. This can offer clues regarding your dog's vision.Does your dog simply not react to toys anymore? If you, say, throw your dog a chew toy, does it offer no response?
If your dog does not look at a toy at all when it's thrown, it may simply not see it. You may also notice that a dog will bring you its toy, but be unable to retrieve it after you throw it. This is a sign your dog may be losing its vision.
 What appears to be a decrease in appetite can be a problem related to your dog's vision. If your dog is suddenly eating less, it may be struggling to find its food. If you notice your dog's food and water bowl do not need as frequent refilling, keep an eye on your dog around its food.Your dog may have to sniff in order to locate the food bowl. It may not realize food is present until it's close enough to smell the food.You should always have changes in appetite evaluated by a vet. They can indicate a number of health conditions in addition to a loss of vision.
 Dogs who are losing their vision suddenly become clumsier. Your dog may trip more often and bump into people and objects frequently. Your dog may also move less overall, and may be hesitant to move around if he is struggling to see.If a dog's vision is going, it may also be hesitant to jump on and off furniture or go up and down the stairs., When a dog's vision goes, it may rely more on its owner. Lacking the ability to see on its own, your dog may suddenly become clingier. A loss of vision can cause a lot of anxiety. You may notice your dog follows you around the house more and becomes increasingly agitated when you leave for work or school. Your dog may, for example, frequently whine or howl when it sees you leave your home., If a dog's vision is going, it will become easier to startle. This can sometimes result in aggression, as you may unintentionally frighten your dog. The dog will not be able to see you coming, and may nip or growl when startled.You may, for example, notice your dog starts growling at very small noises or jumps when petted.
 Changes in behavior and appearance should always be evaluated by a veterinarian. If you suspect your dog is having vision problems, a vet can do a checkup, determine the level of vision loss, and recommend a treatment program. Make an appointment with your vet as soon as possible to address your dog's eyesight.Changes in behavior such as increased anxiety, aggression, and appetite can indicate a variety of problems besides loss of vision. Tell your vet about all your dog's symptoms. The vet may want to run some basic tests to rule out other possible health conditions.
 If your dog has cataracts, surgery is sometimes an option. This removes the cataract and places an artificial lens in its place. It generally has a high success rate, but it is only safe if your dog is currently in good health.There is an intense amount of postoperative care required for cataract surgery, so make sure you understand your dog's needs after the procedure. You will need to keep your dog in a protective collar, offer it eye drops, and keep a relaxed and calm environment in your home.
 Sometimes, there is no cure for canine blindness other than management. If your dog's loss of vision is irreversible, work to leave non-visual cues around your home to help your dog get around.For hardwood floors, put stair runners near the top and bottom of the staircase. This will help your dog realize where the staircase begins and ends.
Make use of sound so your dog can identify you and other household members. Try clapping your hands when you enter a room, talking to your dog before petting it, and calling your dog for meal times.
Use scent to guide your dog. You can douse toys in vanilla extract or use strong smelling food.
 Safety is important if your dog goes blind. You want to make sure to keep your dog safe from hazards that it cannot see.You may have to block off places like staircases and swimming pools.
You may want to confine your dog in a crate or room in your home when you're away.
If you have other dogs, you may need to separate them during meal times. A dog that can see may steal a blind dog's food.
 It can be difficult to adjust when a dog loses its vision. It can take a while to make the necessary alterations to your home and schedule. However, know that most dogs who lose their vision still have fulfilling lives. Try to stay patient and have hope as you adjust to your dog's medical condition.