 There are many educational apps available for download that can assist you in memorizing where different countries are on a world map. Using these apps will give you the convenient option of studying on the go whenever the opportunity presents itself (e.g. during a bus ride). Download these free apps to try:


Learn World Geography, a free app for the iPhone and iPad that repeats flashcards for optimal memorizationTapQuiz Maps World Edition, a free app for iPhone and iPod that can help you master geography by way of a fun quiz gameWorld Map Quiz, a free app for Android that slows you to play a world map game in flag or capital mode, There are a variety of geography websites available to help you improve your knowledge of world countries in a fun way. Websites offer games, quizzes, and trivia to make memorizing countries on the world map less tedious and more interactive. To learn in a fun way, visit:


Seterra Online, a website offering free map quiz games that use outline map exercises for memorizationLizard Point, an educational website offering free quizzes and triviaWorld Atlas, an interactive website that allows you to explore the world map country by country with detailed visual aids, To build strong visual memories of the world map and the countries on it, try decorating a wall in your home with a large wall map. To make a more interactive map, hang a large map on a cork bulletin board so that you can mark countries with push pins while studying. Look for wall maps (as well as a bulletin board and push pins) at an office supply store, or online., To memorize countries, print out copies of a world map to color or use for study. Color coding different continents and countries can help to build visual associations, and be a fun, relaxing activity. Blank maps can be useful for studying and quizzing yourself on the location of countries.


Visit https://mapchart.net/ to make a free custom world map with your own color choices and descriptions

, Working on a jigsaw puzzle exercises several brain functions simultaneously - notably the abilities to reason , sequence, and solve problems. While you are already flexing your brain muscles, capitalize by incorporating your study of the world map into the activity. The prolonged examination of the world map puzzle, in addition to your mind working on an analytical level, will help you retain country locations.Purchase a world map jigsaw puzzle at a toy store, hobby store, or online.

