 Having positive thoughts leads to positive emotions, which can increase your overall resilience.Sure, it's not easy to have a positive attitude when you broke your arm in a car accident that wasn't your fault, or when you've been rejected by the last five girls you've dated. It's a tough situation-- but that doesn't mean it's impossible. Your ability to be optimistic and to see your setbacks as isolated incidents instead of indicators of your future success is precisely what will make you succeed in the future. Tell yourself that just your positive attitude alone has the ability to help you seize more opportunities, be creative about ways to improve your life, and to feel more fulfilled overall.


Find a way to nip your negative thoughts in the bud. Any time you notice that you think or feel something negative, try to think of three positive thoughts to fight those negative ones.
You know what will go a long way in helping you be more positive? Hanging out with positive people. Positive attitudes, just like negative attitudes, are infectious, so spend more time with people who see opportunity at every turn instead of whiners and complainers, and pretty soon, you'll be noticing the change within yourself.
Avoid catastrophizing. Though something truly awful may have happened to you, chances are it's not the end of the world. Try to think of an alternative or more positive outcome.
Focus on your past successes. What have you done well? What have you achieved? Make a list of all of the positive things you have done in your life.You may begin to see just how resilient and accomplished you already are.
 One major aspect of being more resilient is learning to deal with and accept change.Studies show that if you view the changes in your life as challenges instead of threats, you will be much more equipped to deal with them. Learning to adapt to new situations, whether it's moving to a new place or becoming a new parent, is a survival skill that will help you find creative solutions to new problems and to face adversity with relative calm and ease.Work on being open-minded. Avoid judging people for how they look, what they do, or what they believe. Not only will this help you learn something new, but being aware of a variety of perspectives can help you see the world in a new way if you're forced into an unfamiliar situation.
A way to get better at embracing change is to always be trying new things, whether you're making new friends, picking up a new painting class, or reading a new genre of books. Keeping things fresh can make you less resistant to change.
View change as an opportunity to grow, adapt, and transform.Change is necessary and good. Tell yourself, "I accept this change. It can help me grow and become a stronger, more resilient, person."
If you are spiritual or religious, prayer or other traditional practices can help you accept change. Have faith that things will work out the way they are supposed to, even if they aren't exactly how you imagined them.Ask your higher power for help in accepting change.
 Part of the reason some people struggle with being resilient is because they don't know how to face their problems. If you develop a workable method of dealing with challenges, you'll be more likely to feel capable of solving them and of not feeling hopeless. Here is a helpful approach for dealing with a problem in front of you:


Understand the problem first. You may feel that you're unhappy with your job because you're not being paid enough, but if you dig deep, you may see that it's really because you feel that you aren't following your passion; this presents an entirely new set of problems than the one you thought you were faced with originally.
Find more than one solution. Be creative and identify multiple solutions; if you think there's only one solution to the problem (i.e. quitting your job and trying to play in a band full-time) then you'll run into issues because your approach may not be practical, doable, or may not be able to make you happy in the long run.Make a list of all of the solutions and pick your top 2-3 candidates.
Put it into action. Evaluate your solution and see how much it was able to help you succeed. Don't be afraid to get some feedback. If it didn't work out, don't look at it as a failure, but as a learning experience.
 Focus on what you can control - yourself.Another quality of resilient people is their ability to learn from their mistakes and to see them not as setbacks but as opportunities to grow.People who are resilient take the time to think about what didn't work so they can avoid running into the same kind of trouble in the future.


If you find yourself feeling depressed or anxious after rejection or failure think about how it can help you grow stronger instead. You can think something like, “What doesn’t kill me only makes me stronger.”
As the saying goes, "A clever man learns from his mistakes. A wise man knows how to avoid them." Though you can't always avoid your first mistakes, you can gain the wisdom that will help you not to make the same ones in the future. Focus on solutions or ways to avoid the same situation in the future.
Look for patterns of behavior. Maybe your last three relationships haven't failed just because of bad luck, but because you've failed to invest the necessary time into them, or because you keep trying to date the same type of person, who just may not be compatible with you in the end. Identify patterns that may be occurring so that you can begin to prevent them from re-occurring.
 Individuals who feel in control of the outcome of their lives are more resilient in the face of challenges.A person who is not resilient faces a setback and tends to think that it happened because he is somehow unworthy, that the world is unfair, and that things will always be that way.


Instead of thinking you do not have control, look at setbacks and think that they happened because of an unfortunate situation, not because it was 100% your fault or because the world is a terrible place. Focus on the option that it won't always pan out this way.Let go of things you cannot control and try to adapt.

