 You should italicize the titles of long creative works in your paper. These include books, long poems, plays, television shows and films, artworks, or musical compositions. If you are writing in Chicago or MLA style, you should also italicize these titles on your works cited page or bibliography and use title case (i.e., Capitalizing Each Major Word in a Title). In APA style, italicize but do not use title case.Italicize:Book titles: I just can't stop reading Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein.

Anthology and collection titles: I need the Norton Anthology of English Literature for a class I am taking next fall.

Long poems: The Bhagavad Gita is a long Hindu poem written in Sanskrit.

Plays: Sophocles is one of the most famous ancient Greek playwrights. He wrote plays such as Antigone and Oedipus the King.


Movie and television show titles: We watched Halloween last night, and it terrified us! Fortunately we followed it up with Brooklyn Nine-Nine to lighten the mood.

Album titles: In Utero is my favorite Nirvana album.

Long musical works: Mozart’s Don Giovanni is one of my favorite operas. I also really enjoy Beethoven’s Moonlight Sonata for piano.

Works of art: Mexican artist Frida Kahlo painted many self-portraits, including the famous Self-Portrait with Thorn Necklace and Hummingbird.

An exception to italics exists for citing titles that incorporate other titles. For example, if you wanted to cite the (made-up) book titled Shakespeare’s King Lear and the Pagan Tradition, you would need to de-italicize the title of the play because it is present in another book’s title.
 You should italicize the titles of newspapers, journals, magazines, and radio series. News programs with a specific name should also be italicized. As with the literary examples, italicize these titles on your works cited page or bibliography in Chicago or MLA style and use title case. Italicize without title case for APA style. Italicize:Newspapers: My mom subscribes to the New York Times.


Journals and magazines: I read articles from the New England Journal of Medicine for school, but when I’m reading for fun I prefer People.


Radio series and podcasts: I listen to This American Life whenever I get the chance. Like nearly everyone else in 2014, I was also hooked on the podcast Serial.


News programs: The Rachel Maddow Show is one of the top-performing news programs on cable news networks.
 You should italicize the titles of specific editions of sacred texts, such as the The New American Standard Bible.However, you should not write the names of holy books, such as the Bible, in italics.This rule applies whether you are including the title within your paper or on your works cited page or bibliography.
 Names of documents like the Declaration of Independence or the Magna Carta are not italicized.However, some academic styles such as the American Sociological Association (ASA) recommend that you italicize the titles of specific public documents, but not well-known documents (e.g., the Constitution). For example: Telecommunications Act of 1996, Public Law 104-014, 110 U.S. Statutes at Large 56 (1996)., Even if “the” is part of the official name, such as “The Wall Street Journal,” most style guides recommend that you do not capitalize or italicize “the” when it comes at the beginning of a title.Obviously, if you use the title as the beginning of your own title or a sentence, you would capitalize the word “the.” You would not italicize it, however. For example: The Wall Street Journal is the premier source of business and financial news in the US.
 Words like alumni do not need to be italicized, but words like semper fi do need to be italicized. The difference is that alumni is understood by English speaking people as graduates of a particular university, whereas semper fi requires translation to be understood.This rule, like several others, is open to interpretation. A general rule of thumb is that if the foreign word is in an English dictionary, you do not need to italicize it., You should italicize the names of ships, airplanes, missiles, and man-made satellites. Do not italicize modifiers on the name such as “the” or “U.S.S.” or “H.M.S.”.The Enola Gay

U.S.S. Cole

Don’t italicize types of vehicles, such as the Learjet.
 When you need to provide the name of a legal case in a paper, italicize the case title including v.. You should also italicize the legal case name on your works cited page or bibliography.The famous case of Gideon v. Wainwright was a landmark in American legal history.
 The Latin names of species, varieties, and subspecies need to be italicized, but common English names do not need to be italicized. For example:For example: Homo sapiens is the binomial nomenclature for the human species. Homo is the Latin genus name, and Homo sapiens is our species name.
In scientific writing, it is customary to give the full binomial nomenclature in the title and the first time it is used in the paper. After that, abbreviate like so: H. sapiens.

You would not italicize “humans,” the common English name for H. sapiens.
 While most style guides recommend using italics as shown in the above examples, some don’t. The AP (Associated Press) style does not use italics in news stories at all, even to refer to titles.In APA style, if you are not sure whether something should be italicized, the preference is to not italicize it.Many writers for the web prefer to use underlining or quotation marks to highlight text. This is because italics can be difficult to distinguish on a computer screen. Use your judgment to determine whether italics or other forms of highlighting are appropriate for your purpose.