 Doing so will demonstrate that you are competent and capable of doing your part. Go above and beyond in your workplace by giving your all on the job. If you make pizzas, make the best pizza you can, every time. If you mop the floors, scrub them to a high polish.


Take pride in your work and doing it will be a pleasure, not a chore.
Keep your office or workspace clean and well-organized

, This quality is universally admired. The help you give your coworker depends on the type of work they’re doing. You could choose to do their work for them if they are too busy, or you might choose to collaborate with them on something or provide feedback.


For instance, if you work at a restaurant and your coworker needs to mop the floor, wash the dishes, and refill the soda fountain, offer to complete one of his tasks when you are not too busy.
Do not help your coworkers at your own expense. Take care of your own duties before taking on those of others.
Do not let your coworkers walk all over you. If they are not struggling with their work, they should be left to do it themselves.
 Do not suck up to your superiors.

Stand up to your boss when he or she is wrong. For instance, if your boss criticizes a coworker’s logo design during a meeting, explain that you like it because it demonstrates many features which customers would find attractive.

Make suggestions about how things could be improved if you see problems in a project or in the work-flow. For instance, if your department and another both need to use the same computer during your design phases, suggest that the company invest in a second computer so both departments can get their work done simultaneously.
People who suck up to their bosses are generally considered untrustworthy and do not receive workplace admiration.
 People who are insecure hire people who are good, but not great, because they fear being usurped by their subordinate. This characteristic is not worthy of admiration.


Demonstrate that you trust and rely on your staff by delegating various responsibilities to them. Do not delegate important tasks to individuals who cannot accomplish them.
Use your knowledge of each person on your staff to identify how much and what kind of work they can handle. It is important to push people in the workplace to make them feel they are being challenged and engaged, but be careful not to overwhelm them.
 When your staff does a great job, let them know. You can let them know in verbal and material ways. For instance, after meeting your quarterly earnings, send an email round the office explaining that you’ve done so and inform your staff, “I am extremely proud of all the hard work you’ve been doing. It has paid off handsomely.” Invite them to drinks after work, or organize a workplace pizza party. Give your staff a bonus for meeting the sales quota.


People who treat others kindly and recognize their successes -- as well as their failures and flaws -- are worthy of admiration.
Do not publicly berate or embarrass your staff. Always speak to them with respect in a calm, even tone. If you have a problem or issue with one of your employees, ask them to your office or another private space where you can address any problems or concerns you might have with them.
Do not play favorites among your staff.If you pit them against one another in divisive ways, you will not inspire honest and virtuous behavior, and your workers will not be driven to work as productively as they could.

