 When you delete your Dropbox account, you'll no longer be able to sign into the Dropbox website or the Dropbox mobile app. This means you'll lose access to any files that you haven't already saved. Because of the way the app works, it doesn't make offline files accessible without the app. So, the best way to back up your files is to use a computer.;
, Hold ⌘ Command / Ctrl and click each file and folder that you want to download.
 This will download all of the selected files as a single ZIP file that you can open later when you need access to them. It may take a while to download large ZIP files.
 You cannot delete your account using the Dropbox app. You'll need to visit the website.
 You can only delete the account from the desktop version. You'll probably need to zoom in after switching to the desktop site so that you can read the links.
 Before you can delete your Dropbox account, you'll need to cancel any active Pro subscription. Visit https://www.dropbox.com/downgrade in your mobile browser and tap "I still want to downgrade" to cancel.
 Zoom in if you're having difficulty tapping it.
 This will load a new page.
 You may need to zoom in again to tap it easily.
 You'll find this towards the bottom, underneath "Connected services." This will load the account deletion form.
 You'll need to enter your password to verify that it's you.
 You'll need to select a reason before you can proceed, but none of the choices will affect the actual deletion process.
 Your account will be closed and your files will no longer sync. You won't be able to access the files on your mobile device, because you cannot use the Dropbox app or website. Any files synced on your computer with the Dropbox program or downloaded from the Dropbox website will be available.
 Visit dropbox.com and sign in with the account you want to delete.
 When you close your Dropbox account, you'll lose access to any files stored on it that aren't synced to your computer. If you never installed the Dropbox program for your computer, you'll need to make sure you save the files you want to keep:


Select all the files and folders you want to save. Hold ⌘ Command / Ctrl and click each file and folder that you want to select.
Click the "Download" button at the top of the list. This will download all of the selected files and folders into a single ZIP file on your computer.
Open the ZIP file when you need to access the files. Doubel-click a ZIP file to open it, and then click "Extract" to copy the contents to your hard drive so that they can be edited.
 If you have a Dropbox Pro account, you'll need to cancel your subscription before you can delete your account.Visit https://www.dropbox.com/downgrade and click "I still want to downgrade" to cancel your subscription.
 This will display a small menu.
 This will open your account settings page.


You can also visit dropbox.com/account to visit the page directly.
 This will display your storage usage.
 This will load the account deletion form.
 As a security measure, you'll need to enter your password again before the account is deleted.
 It doesn't matter which option you pick, but picking an accurate reason may help Dropbox improve in the future.
 This will close your account and your Dropbox files will stop syncing. You will no longer be able to access your files through the Dropbox website or app, but they will still be in the Dropbox folder on your computer if you installed the Dropbox program.