 If it is not available, you will be less tempted.
 Fueling yourself properly at the beginning of the day ensures that you don’t put your body in starvation mode by lunchtime. Starvation mode essentially means that your body holds on to fat, even if you don’t eat much. It also ensures that when you do eat, you will overindulge to compensate.


Try to make sure your breakfast is balanced nutritionally, including a good source of protein. Many popular breakfasts are very carbohydrate-heavy with little protein, making you hungry much sooner.
 Make sure to take at least 20 minutes to eat your meal or snack. Eating slowly gives the brain a chance to be satisfied.Slow eating will help you avoid eating more than is necessary to feel full. Take the time to appreciate the foods that you are eating. You will receive more satisfaction out of your meal by savoring it than if you quickly scarf it down.
 Try replacing three large meals a day with six smaller meals. There is evidence that suggests an association between more eating occasions and lower BMI.The theory is that eating more frequently will help keep you fuller throughout your day because your energy levels will be more stable, as will your blood sugar levels.


Try having protein at meals and snacks. This will help keep you full for longer periods of time. Beans, lean meats, and nuts are effective for this purpose.
Consider eating a snack like cottage cheese before bed. Your body takes longer to break down the casein protein contained in cottage cheese; therefore, your metabolism will be working all night.
 Treating yourself with junk food once a week can undo all of your week’s hard work. One slice of cheesecake, for example, can be over 1,000 calories.If you really need something sweet, try eating a piece of fruit instead.


Dessert usually consists of bad carbohydrates that also leave you feeling hungry quickly.
If you want a frozen treat, try freezing grapes or blueberries. You can also mash a banana and add a teaspoon of honey for an ice cream-like treat.
 Besides being tempted to order something you know is unhealthy, you may order something you think is healthy only to consume more calories than you thought.


For example, the Garlic Rosemary Chicken at Olive Garden is 540 calories;however, when you add the sides, you could end up eating over 1,000 calories for a meal without knowing it.

