 This is a great way to encourage your child's imagination and creativity. It will also give your child a small space to do something quiet, such as play, read, or draw. In this section, you'll find lots of ideas on how to transform your child's closet into the ultimate hideout.


You do not have to do everything in this section. Simply choose the ideas that appeal the most to you. Your child will appreciate anything that you do.
 This will help give you a fresh start. If you plan on painting or redoing the inside of the closet, then you will need to take everything out anyways.


If you don't have a closet, consider using a wardrobe or a cabinet instead. As long as your child can sit comfortably inside of it, you have the basis for a hideout!

, This will help you choose what sorts of colors and decorations you should use. Start with something that your child enjoys, such as princesses, superheroes, jungles, or pirates. If your child's interests change often, choose something that matches his or her room, or use your child's favorite colors.
 Stepping into a closet can be like stepping into a different world. You can take this concept further by painting the inside of your child's closet a different color. Here are some more tips and ideas to get you started:


Paint a mural. Give the closet a fresh coat of paint first, then paint some designs or scenes onto it. You can do this freehand, or you can use stencils.
Give the closet an accent wall. Paint the side walls white or off-white, and the back wall your child's favorite color.
Paint the walls a lighter color, and the ceiling a darker color. This will make the closet appear bigger. You can extend the dark color by a few inches to make the closet appear even bigger.Add some white trim if the walls are colored. This is a great way to anchor down your design, and add some variation to the closet.
 This is not necessary, but it can help your child's closet feel like a completely different world. This does not mean that you have to completely rip out the old carpet and install a new one; you can purchase a solid-colored rug, cut it down to the right size, and set it down on the closet floor. Try to match the carpet to the theme. Here are some ideas to get your started:


If you are going with a desert, pirate, or ocean theme, consider putting down a light tan carpet to resemble sand.
If you are going with an enchanted forest theme, consider putting down some green carpet or fake grass.
If you are going with a winter wonderland theme, consider a light blue carpet or a light grey carpet. Avoid white, as this will be difficult to keep clean.
 Colorful walls are a great start to transforming your child's closet into another world, but they can get boring if they are plain. You can make the walls look more interesting by hanging things onto them that match the theme. Here are some ideas to get your started:


For a forest or jungle theme, you could hang floral or ivy garlands along the top of the walls.
For a magical look, consider hanging some Christmas lights along the top of the walls. If the closet does not have an outlet nearby, use battery-operated lights.
Make use of wall decals and wall stickers. These are great if your child's interests change. Once your child gets bored of a certain theme, simply pull the old decals off, and apply new ones.Use paper cutouts for something quick and easy. For example, if your child likes the ocean, you could always cut some fish shapes out of colorful construction paper, and then stitch it onto the walls using tape.
Add some sensory or educational play for a young child. Felt boards with alphabets, numbers, and shapes are a great way to keep your child engaged while teaching him or her new things.
 This is a part of the room that is often over-looked, but it can really take your child's hideout to the next level.Here are some ideas:


Paint the ceiling a dark color, then stick on some glow-in-the-dark stars.
Paint the ceiling light blue, then add fluffy, white clouds.
Paint the ceiling to resemble a forest or jungle canopy, complete with green leaves, branches, and colorful birds. You could even add a fairy or two!
If the closet has a light in it, change the bulb and fixture to something the matches the theme.
Suspend lightweight items from the ceiling using fishing line. Depending on the theme, you can use fake birds or butterflies (from the floral department of an arts and crafts store), model spaceships, fish cutouts, snowflakes, etc.
 Depending on how big your closet is, and what you plan on using it for, there are lots of things that you can do. Plan on storing items that your child will use in his or her hideout. For example, if your child will be using the hideout to play, you will need something to store his or her toys. Here are some ideas for you:


If your child likes to read, turn the closet into a reading nook. Add some shelves to one of the walls.If your child likes to draw, mount some baskets, cubbies, or folders onto the wall. Store your child's sketchbooks and coloring books in these.
If your child likes to play with toys or do arts and crafts, add some baskets to keep the closet clean. You can use loose baskets, or you can use a plastic storage unit with drawers.
Add some hooks. These are great if your child needs to use the closet to store some clothes, such as coats and hoodies. Your child can also use them to hang his or her backpack., A hideout can look magical, but your child may not want to spend a lot of time there if it isn't very comfortable. For something quick and easy, throw some pillows into the corner of the closet.You can also add a folded blanket as well. Here are some more ideas:


Install a bench into the closet, one that goes from wall-to-wall. Add some cushions onto the bench, and baskets for your child's toys or art supplies under it.Take the door out, and install a curtain. This way, you won't have to worry about your child accidentally looking him or herself inside the closet. Slip a curtain panel onto a suspension rod, then stick the rod near the top of the doorway.If you are using the closet to store your child's clothes, hang them towards the top; this way, they will be out of your child's way when he or she sits down.Add some lighting. If the closet doesn't have a light fixture or outlet, get a battery-operated light instead. You can get free-standing desk lamps, and mini lights that you can mount onto walls or shelves.

