 There are a number of companies that can help you transfer money from one bank account to another. Two common ones are Western Union and PayPal. Companies usually require that you establish an account with them and pay a fee for transfer service. Depending on the company, the recipient may also be required to establish an account.


Ensure you have enough money in the transferring account to cover the transfer as well as any fees associated with the transfer service.
You may need the recipient bank account and routing number, or you may be required to provide the recipient’s account information for the company you are using to conduct the transfer.
 PayPal is a web-based company that allows you to send and receive funds online. If you already have a PayPal account that is tied to your bank account, this process can be fairly simple, if not, both you and the recipient of the funds will need to establish accounts. If you and the recipient both have PayPal accounts, the transfer will be free. PayPal transfers can be completed the same day, but the recipient may have to wait three to four days to transfer the money from their PayPal account to their bank account.Simply click on “send money to a friend” on the top of the page.
Type the e-mail address or phone number of the recipient of the funds transfer, then provide the amount to transfer. Click next when you are done.
Review the information and click “send.”

, You can use Western Union to transfer funds in much the sum way as PayPal. You will need to create a Western Union account in order to transfer funds using their service. The recipient will not need a Western Union account if you transfer money to a bank account. The fee Western Union charges is based on the amount you transfer and the location of the recipient bank. Western Union transfers can take up to three business days.Click on “start transaction” within your Western Union profile.
Enter the recipient bank account, routing number and name.
Choose “bank transfer” as your payment method and indicate the amount you want to transfer.
Review the information you have filled out and click “send.”

