 Drinking plenty of water can dilute the sodium in your bloodstream causing your sodium levels to decrease. It also increases the risk of water retention in the body -- the more you consume, the more you'll retain.


You can safely reduce your daily intake of water. Instead of drinking 2000mL or more each day, if you know you already have hyponatremia, try drinking 1000mL to 1500mL of water each day. This will help the sodium in your body not to be diluted and excreted away through urine or sweating.
Increase fluid intake only in certain conditions, like warm weather or exercising Sweating may cause fluid loss and thereby you become easily dehydrated, which is not the goal.;
, If you’re an athlete or a person who performs a lot of activities and who sweats a lot, you may find sports drinks helpful. Drinking sports drinks will help you negate the lost sodium electrolytes in your blood stream.


Any sports drink like Gatorade contains the electrolytes that you will be needing if you released excessive amount of fluid, such as sweat or vomit.
Sports drinks usually contain the essential electrolytes that are most helpful, especially sodium and potassium electrolytes.
 Not everyone enjoys sports drinks and, what's more, sports drinks aren't always available. Here are some viable alternatives:



Saline water. You can make this at home and it will quickly replace your lost sodium in your body. Just have a glass of water with a pinch of salt, mix, and then drink.

Coconut water. This contains a lot of electrolytes and is good for dehydration. It contains sodium, magnesium and a lot of potassium.

Banana. Eat 1 to 2 pieces of banana after vigorous activity because of its high potassium content.
 If you think you lost sodium through sweating or by any other means, you can easily replace them in your next meal. This can help increase and replace back the sodium lost between activities. Example of high sodium foods are:Table salt. 1 teaspoon of table salt is the daily recommendation (2300mg)

Broths or soup. A 5mg bouillon cube contains about 1200mg of sodium

Salami. One slice of salami contains 226mg of sodium

Bacon. One strip of bacon contains 194mg of sodium

Cheese. 100g of cheese contains 215mg of sodium

Olives. 100g of olive contains 1556mg of sodium

Soy sauce. 1 tsp. of soy sauce contain 335mg

Caviar. A 100g of this food contains about 1500mg of sodium

, Sodium is readily available in most foods that we eat. The healthiest way to increase sodium in the blood is to take in fruits and vegetables containing sodium. Processed foods are also rich in sodium, but most health experts suggest eating fresh products.A cup of vegetable juice has 500mg of sodium. Add shredded cardoon, carrots and celery in a blender added with a pinch of salt to make a tasty juice.
Sweet potatoes and spinach are also rich in sodium. If you’re too busy to prepare that, try canned navy beans with 1,174 mg of sodium per cup or canned olives. One serving with 5 pickled olives can add 550 mg of sodium.
Fruits like mammy apple, guavas and passion fruits contain 50mg to 130 mg of sodium.
Processed fruits contain additional 50 mg sodium according to the U.S Department of Agriculture.
 Meat soup and soup stock from bones are rich sources of sodium. Meat loaf and beef stew are also high in sodium. If fruits and vegetables don't strike your fancy, know that you can get it from animal sources as well.


Lunch meats are a major source of sodium. In fact, most processed meat has plenty of sodium to add in preservation. That ranges from chicken nuggets to pizza to fast food hamburgers. If you're not careful, it's an easy, unhealthy way to get too much sodium., Unless you have a pre-existing medical condition and have a prescription from your doctor, don’t take diuretics. These are better known as “water pills” because they produce a substance that stimulates urine production thus preventing water retention in the body. However, you'll also lose sodium; as a result, you'll be dehydrated.


The function of this medication is to get rid of water and sodium in the body. By taking this type of medication, it will cause further loss of sodium which can be dangerous for an individual’s overall health.
Commonly known diuretics are Chlorothiazide (Diuril), Furosemide (Lasix), and Spironolactone (Aldactone).
 The National Health Service (NHS) in the UK recommends a maximum of 6g of salt per day for the average adult. This is equivalent to approximately one full teaspoon. It is rare that a high sodium diet is recommended.


Active individuals may require higher sodium levels than the average person. However, in some conditions where patients suffer from hyponatremia, increased sodium levels may be advised. Talk to your doctor if this applies to you.
Statistics show that 85% of Americans consume very high amounts of sodium. It's possible that your sodium levels are different than what you think they are.
Toddlers require 2 grams and young children only need 3g to 5g of salt. The maximum level of sodium recommended for average individuals, once again, is 6g (2300mg) per day.
 It’s important to note the right amount of fluid intake during exercise is different than when at rest. Estimate the amount of fluid loss from sweat and urination to determine the right amount of water intake.


Do not drink more than 800 mL of water per hour. During vigorous trainings, athletes may tend to drink a lot and overload the body with water. Clinical studies showed that marathon runners are found to experience hyponatremia relative to over consumption of water to replace fluids or in quenching thirst.
Vasopressin, a natural ant-diuretic hormone, increases during bouts of physical stress. The body tends to conserve water despite excessive sweating. In fact, physical stress brought about by running can reduce the excretion capacity of the kidneys to 100 milliliters per hour (normally 1 liter).
 Keep in mind that there are special conditions that require medical attention before starting a high sodium diet, especially in people with kidney disease, cardiovascular problems and osteoporosis. Before you change anything, consult your doctor.


There are very few people who require a high sodium diet. Most physicians recommend low sodium, as a matter of fact. A low fat and high protein diet is standard to prevent hypertension and cardiovascular disease.
 Decreased sodium electrolytes in the body can be harmful for you. Having severe hyponatremia can be fatal if it is left untreated. These are the following symptoms that will indicate a low sodium level:


Headache
Nausea and Vomiting
Fatigue or body weakness
Muscle twitching
Confusion
Irritability and restlessness

If you experience unconsciousness, seizure, and/or coma, this is a medical emergency. Go to the nearest hospital immediately.
 Note that all of these symptoms of hyponatremia happen because the brain is considered to be sensitive whenever there is low sodium levels (thereby manifesting these list of symptoms). This is why this condition can be so serious -- in the end, it wreaks havoc on your brain.Brain sensitivity is caused by very low blood sodium levels that cause an excessive amount of water to enter into the brain cells. This causes the cells to swell. When it reaches this point, medical intervention is necessary.
 If you experience these symptoms or otherwise suspect that your sodium levels are low, it's wise to visit your doctor. The right amount of sodium for you is a fine, fine line between enough but not too much. Your doctor will know what is best for your body.


This can be a serious condition if left untreated. Do follow the steps above, but don't hesitate to visit your doctor if you have any questions or concerns. While this can be alleviated with an adequate sodium/fluid balance, medical advice is always wise to seek to protect your health.

