 If you are currently using multiple skincare products and are experiencing problems, stop using all of them. Avoiding applying anything to your skin should help clear up any problems associated with application of these products within a few days.


Try reintroducing each product, including creams, lotions, and makeup, one at a time. Give it a couple days before adding in a new product.
Look for changes in your skin each time you re-introduce a new product (mentioned above).
 Whenever you want to try out a new cream, lotion, or makeup product, do a patch test first. Patch testing involves applying a small amount of the new product to a small patch of skin.


Try patch testing on the inside of your wrist or forearm. Some areas of skin are more sensitive than others. For example, the underside of your forearm is more sensitive than the topside of your arm.
Apply a small amount of product to your skin and don’t wash it off. Leave creams, lotions, and makeup on for 24 to 48 hours. When testing cleansers or soaps, wash thoroughly, rinse, and then pat dry as you would with typical use.
Look for signs of irritation, such as redness, itching, or rash. These signs would indicate that your skin is too sensitive for these products.
 Recognize common ingredients in products that cause adverse reactions with your skin. Some chemical compounds are more likely to cause problems (see above) and you may notice that several products that cause problems contain these same ingredients.


For example, you may notice that your skin reacts to a variety of scented products, like lotions or perfumes. If this is the case, you may be sensitive to this particular scent or scented products in general. As a rule of thumb, people with sensitive skin should avoid using any scented products as they contain more ingredients that have the potential to cause reactions.
 Lotions with or without corticosteroids, such as hydrocortisone cream, can help reduce symptoms associated with sensitive skin. These can be particularly helpful to reduce itching and pain and may reduce redness associated with allergic contact dermatitis.


Some studies have shown benefit of using topical corticosteroids with irritant contact dermatitis, but these studies are controversial. No randomized trials of corticosteroid use with irritant contact dermatitis exist, but a few small observational studies show no effect or slight improvements.It is possible to have both irritant and allergic contact dermatitis simultaneously. Therefore, using corticosteroids, which do improve the symptoms of allergic contact dermatitis may be useful.Lotions help to keep the skin moisturized and reduce water loss. Studies have shown reductions in scaling, dryness, redness, and itchiness with daily moisturizer use. 