 Bowling balls are all made differently, spinning and hooking at different rates. You want a ball you can comfortably raise and lower, but not so light you could throw it around with ease. It's always best to get a ball of your own instead of borrowing it or renting it, as you'll have a better fit and better results.


The average weight for adult men is 14lb and 13lb for women or smaller men. Children usually start at 12lbs.Make sure your fingers are firmly in the holes but come out without sticking. You shouldn't be squeezing your finger or thumb muscles to keep the ball on your hand, just lightly gripping it.
Balls come with a variety of "Flare Potential" and "RG Radius" ratings. These tell you how likely the ball is to curve back to the middle after a throw. The higher the ratings, the more the ball hooks. Think about your throw -- straight on or hooked, and buy accordingly.;
, Your bowling shoes are just like regular shoes-- they need to be taken care of and it's always best if they are your own. Good shoes have a smooth, regular sole and fit you comfortably. Get a half size bigger than your regular shoe size so that your feet are comfortable as you bowl.
 The most important thing is where you hold the ball. Put your fingers in the holes and balance the ball on your palm around stomach or chest height, using the opposite hand to support the weight. The ball should be slightly to the right side of your body in alignment with the right seam of your shirt (right handed bowlers). Your knees are slightly bent and your shoulders relaxed, and your left foot is on the big dot in the center of the lane (right-handers).


Keep your wrist strong so that the ball appears like a natural extension of your arm. You don't want your wrist to droop down towards the floor., There are seven arrows on the lane. Do not aim for the middle, as it usually leads to a split. If you're right-handed, aim for the arrow just to the right of the center. If you are left handed aim for the arrow just to the left. This mark is the best starting place for strikes.


If it is easier, move your feet to the right or left before you start approaching the lane so that your feet are lined up with the correct marker, then just throw straight ahead.
Almost all balls will hook, at least a little, and the lanes are designed for this. You want your ball to hit between the first pin and the next one in line behind it for strikes. This is called the "pocket."

, The classic move is the 4-step approach, landing with the foot opposite your throwing arm. For right-handers, step forward with your right foot, then comfortably walk forward so that your left foot lands within 6" or so of the lane. Your right foot will then swing out of the way behind your left foot, allowing you to throw the ball freely. Practice a few times without the ball until you find a good starting spot that lets you arrive at the line, left foot down, every time. There are 2 lines of dots along the approach to the lane that are good starting points for you to begin.Practice taking 4 even steps each time, landing your left foot comfortably, before practicing the throw. You could also start at the foul line (beginning of lane), and walk four steps backward to determine the best starting spot for you.Reverse this is you are left-handed. The foot opposite your throwing arm should be planted at the lane. If you are left handed, you will land and plant with your right foot.
 As you take the first step of the approach, push the ball out in front of you so that your arm is extended. Use your left hand to support the weight of the ball as your hold it in front of you. The following steps will be for a right-handed thrower.


Remember to keep the ball out to the right side, not in the middle of your body.
 As you take the first step with your left leg, the ball will drop so that your right arm and left leg are roughly even. Keep your grip on the ball and let it fall freely. Your elbow will be slightly bent, but gravity is doing most of the work as the ball comes down.
 As you step again with your right foot, the ball will continue behind your body and up, reaching its apex as you plant your right foot. You will be swinging it back here.


Focus on keeping your wrist strong as you do this, not letting it rotate around.
 Come down with the ball, planning to release it as you pass your leg. Your right leg should swing behind the left leg, getting it out of the way for your shot. It doesn't have to swing way out, like a pro bowler, just out of the way enough that you don't hit it with the ball.
 As the ball leaves your fingers, snap them up as if you were closing your hands. Think of the children's game where you have a quarter in your hand and someone is trying to take it before you close your hand. You should release as the ball passes your planted leg, at its lowest point.Look at your mark when release. Don't look at the pins or you will get distracted and throw off key -- the arrows are your target, and the ball will do the rest. Remember you are aiming for the the first or second arrow to the right of the center arrow.
 To protect your arm, continue your arm back up on its arc towards your head. Think of drinking from a soda can, bringing your fingers and wrist up to head height.

