 If you want to insulate an area in your crawl space, attic, or basement, spray foam insulation might be appropriate for the job, using a low-pressure sprayer and the proper safety equipment.


For the most part, roofs and other major renovation jobs require a lot of spray foam to insulate, meaning that it would probably be more cost effective to hire professional insulators with a spray rig, high-pressure applicators, and safety gear.
Use spray cans of insulation for small jobs, like gaps between windows and doors, around dryer vents, fan outlets, and other plumbing. Spray cans are good for fixing small leaks, but not cost effective for insulating a wall.
 Generally, disposable and refillable spray insulation tanks are sold as part of a spray foam insulation kit. It's not cheap, but you'll be able to quickly and easily insulate a small area. Each manufacturer will vary slightly in its


You'll also need protective equipment. This means you'll need eye protection and a respirator. A full work suit would be ideal, but long sleeves and pants will also do in a pinch.
 Closed-cell insulation is rigid and dense, with a higher R-Value than open-cell. Most closed-cell spray is rated around 6.6, with open-cell insulation rated around 3.9. The advantage of open-cell is that it's super-fast and cheap, included in most individual small spray cans of foam.


In wall-insulation, small holes are usually made in the drywall, into which the sprayer nozzle is inserted to fill the cavity with the spray inside the wall. For this method, open-cell is most often used, especially for ceilings and interior walls. It's sound-proof and used in the same locations as fiberglass. Closed-cell is usually used on external walls.
 Remove exposed nails, debris, and other impediments from the walls to be insulated. Identify drafting areas–seams where you feel air leaking, see daylight, or see a gap. Mark these areas with tape, or a pen to make sure you address them with the insulation.


It's a good idea to cover nearby furniture or finished flooring with plastic tarp to avoid getting any of the insulation on it. It's difficult to get out.
It's best to apply spray insulation when the temperature is between 60 and 80 degrees F.
 Attach your sprayer to the canister or bucket of insulation and start spraying, as if you were washing a window or car. Don't get too close, but stand a few feet back and spray as evenly as you can, back and forth across the area to be insulated. If you're spraying inside a wall, count to three, then stop and examine your progress to make sure that you aren't over-filling the wall.


Insulation needs to be kept in a layer no deeper than an inch. Over-applying foam insulation can stress the walls and can also clump up and fall off the surface.
If you miss, or get insulation somewhere you don't want it, don't panic. Stop and allow the insulation to dry and scrape it off the surface with a putty knife later. Trying to smear it now will make it worse.
If you need to add multiple layers, because you're spraying an external wall or want extra sound-proofing, wait until the first layer has dried before going back over it as you did before. This will build up the R-Value of the insulation accordingly, and should stick perfectly well.
 Spray foam is not a finished surface and will ignite quickly in the event of a fire. After applying, it's common to drywall over the insulated area to finish the job.

