 Use pint (0.47l) or quart jars (0.9l), depending upon preference; however this dill pickle recipe makes 4 pint jars of pickles. You cannot substitute table salt for pickling salt.;
, Make sure they are firm, and place any that are not aside for other uses. Dry them and refrigerate them overnight.


For the crunchiest pickles, can your cucumbers within 24 hours after picking. Also, choose cucumbers that are 4 inches (10.2 cm) or under in length. Do not use waxed cucumbers from the supermarket.
 The following 3 choices are common for homemade dill pickles:

If you like whole pickles, many people believe leaving them whole while canning will ensure the crispiest pickle texture.






If you like to serve pickles on sandwiches, you may choose to slice them horizontally. They will lay flat easily on bread and can be given in smaller servings.






If you like smaller portions and want to serve pickles on the side of meals, then quartering them vertically is a good option. Pickling in spears may sacrifice some crunchiness, but they will be better portions for most people.
 Rinse well.
 Allow the water to boil. Boil your jars and lids for 10 to 15 minutes. Carefully remove them with oven mitts and tongs.


At elevations below 1,000 feet (305m), you should boil for 10 minutes. Add an additional minute to the boiling time for each 1,000 feet (304.8 m) of elevation after 1,000 feet (304.8 m).
 Add 3 peeled garlic cloves to each jar.
 Make sure to wash and dry the dill before placing it in each

, (1.5g) of whole peppercorns and 1 tsp. (3g) of mustard seeds to each jar. Some people also like to include 1 tsp. (2g) of onion powder or some chopped fresh onions.
 (3g) of crushed red pepper flakes.
 Place 2.5 cups (591ml) of white vinegar, 2.5 cups (591ml) of water and 1/4 cup (59ml) of pickling salt in a saucepan. Heat until the boiling point and then remove from heat immediately.
 You should aim to try to fill it up to the top.
 Leave only 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) of space from the top of your lid.
, Set the time for 5 minutes and take them out when it goes off. Do not leave them in the bath for longer than 5 minutes, or they will lose crunchiness.



Many people make "refrigerator" dill pickles. This means that they do not get a water bath and they are stored in the refrigerator before serving. If you plan to do this, place the lids firmly on the hot jars, allow them to cool on the counter and then place them in the refrigerator afterward.
Using the water bath canning method will prevent yeast and mold from ruining pickles.
