 You might think that money is an inappropriate gift for a one year old, but remember that a) kids are expensive; and b) it’s never too early to start saving. A nice contribution to the piggy bank (or even better, the savings account) may not send the kid into a frenzy right now, but it is certainly a thoughtful and useful gift.If you must, buy a cheap little board book for the kid’s immediate gratification, and slip the cash or check into the birthday card. Just let the parents know it’s in there before the kid shreds or chews it!

, Some parents may specifically ask that, in lieu of traditional gifts, you contribute financially to a special, larger gift, or donate to a specific charitable cause. Even if your inclination is to buy a fun and/or cute toddler gift, fight this urge and abide by the parents’ wishes. Remember that they’ve made the request for a reason.You could, of course, gift a donation to charity on your own initiative. Most parents would probably welcome and appreciate such a gift, but use your best judgment in regards to how such a non-tangible gift might be received.
 Some parents will simply want only your “presence,” and not any “presents,” and will spell this out on the invitation. While there is still some debate over the propriety of requesting no gifts (for birthdays, weddings, etc.), it is best to go along with the request. Remember, a one year old doesn’t know to expect gifts, and will have plenty of fun at the party regardless.If such a request really bothers you, talk to the parents directly and see if there is any kind of gift or contribution you can provide. Maybe you could even offer to help set up before or clean up after the party.
 If you know the parents would prefer a “no gifts” party but are concerned about stating this explicitly, you might mention the idea of having a book exchange instead. There are many variations here, but essentially, every invited group brings a kids’ book to the party and they are either drawn, swapped, or otherwise distributed to all the kids in attendance. Any leftovers can be kept by the birthday child or donated to a library or family shelter.