 Are you aware about the kind of dependency you have with the other person? If not then you could figure that out to help yourself in that area.


Is the dependency financial?
Is it emotional?
Is it an overall dependency? Some people depend on a sibling or a friend. Any news or new thing is taken to them to get their opinion. Do you like their opinion on any and everything? This form of dependency could also mean that you think of them as smarter or more experienced than you. While it is this other person's responsibility to guide you to be independent if they are closer to you or are more matured or elder than you, you could try to follow your path and start your work on your own as far as you are comfortable. Let this dependency go away with time and practice.;
, If it's something extremely taxing and impossible for you to do, don't hesitate to ask for assistance from a variety of people who are available. If it's something you know you could do, don't rely on them to do the task for you.
 Be bold enough to present yourself as your own persona, not simply an addition of this person. You are an individual, not a dual part of someone else, however close you may be.
 Analyze what led you to be dependent on anyone. Was it that you felt that you could not do something?


Did he or she told you things that made you feel that you need them?
Is someone always critical of what you do?
Do you think that you are lesser able to tackle things?

, Believe in yourself and try to remember of any incident when you managed to work something out on your own. Make a list of the qualities that you like about yourself. No one is free from making mistakes. Each one makes mistakes and learns for the next times, what not to do and how better to work on it. Give yourself the time and consideration regardless of what someone or probably everyone thinks. You are free to try to be self-dependent and get stronger with time.
 Always return any borrowed money as you could to ensure that you are seen as responsible and trustworthy, as well as allowing for others to loan money to you again in the future.
 Mixing with others will help boost your social awareness, and is a chance to develop relations with those around you. Dragging that person with you around every social gathering will not only make them feel uncomfortable, but also trapped.
 They have been asked for help till now so your sudden change may confuse them or even disturb them. Be pleasant if they seem confused. If they are not supportive of you being independent, be calm at first and be vocal about your choice thoughtfully. They deserve a good treatment for being there for you so long as they are nice to you.

