 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has the Star Wars logo on it with some cards in the background. Tap on it.;
, Tap the exchanging cards icon on the middle part of the bottom toolbar. You will be brought to the screen with your trades. Tap the title on the header toolbar to see a drop-down list of filters, and then tap “Pending Trades.” The trades will be listed for your review, with the most recent ones at the top.


Pending trades are trades that are still active, either waiting for your action or your partner’s action.
 Swipe up and down on the list until you see a trade you want to counter. You can see your trade partner’s username, the current status of the trade, any messages left, the cards being traded, and some action buttons at the bottom.


If the trade is offered to you, you will see “Accept,” “Counter,” and “Decline” buttons. If the trade is offered by you, you will see “Cancel” and “Counter” options.
 Tap the “Counter” button at the bottom of the trade. The trading screen will appear with your partner’s cards displayed first. The cards you will get are located at the topmost panel.
 Swipe up and down on your partner’s cards to view all of them, and find the cards you want. Tap, hold, and drag the cards you want to get in the trade to the topmost panel, or just double-tap the cards. You can select up to nine cards per trade.


Tap the “Next” button at the top right corner of the screen.
 The next trading screen will appear, with your cards on display. Swipe up and down on your cards to view all of them, and find the cards you want to give. Put the cards you want to give on the top panel by tapping them one by one and dragging them there. You can also double-tap the cards to add them to the top panel. You can select up to nine cards per trade.


Tap the “Next” button at the top right corner of the screen.
 A summary screen of your trade will be displayed for your review. Carefully check if this is the trade you want to counter offer. The partner’s user name will be in the top left corner, the cards you’re getting will be in the left box, and the cards you’re giving will be in the right box.
 Tap the “Send” button at the bottom to proceed with the trade. The trade will be sent to your partner. It’s now up to him to decide if he thinks you have submitted a fair trade. You will see this trade under the Pending Trades screen.

