 Whether you are an adult or a child, you can speak up against bullying and help protect a person who is being bullied. Most bullies maintain their power by isolating their victims, so when you gather with others to speak out against mistreatment, the person’s power is diminished.If you are a teacher or employer, you might say, “ Mr. Beach, we don’t discriminate here. Please stop calling Mr. Bernstein out because of his name. If I see this happen again, I will be forced to write you up.”
If you are an adolescent, you might say, “She’s not doing anything to hurt you, so leave her alone. It’s not even funny. You wouldn’t like it if someone picked on you because you were different.”

, Sometimes, victims of prejudicial bullying are selected because it seems no one else is including them. They appear to be outsiders, and are picked on because of their differences. If you are a bystander who has witnessed a classmate or coworker getting picked on, you can offer your support by including this person.


Make an effort to say something like “Hey, why don’t you walk to class with us?” or “Do you want to join us for lunch in the break room?” Perhaps after the bully sees the person with others, they will be less likely to continue the mistreatment. Plus, having a few allies may help raise the confidence of the victim and help them feel more capable of standing up to bullies., If you don't have the authority to stop bullying, use your voice to tell someone who is. Don’t just stand by and watch someone get bullied because of their race, religion, or disability. Talk to someone who can do something to end the injustice or, at the very least, reprimand the bully. Key people might include teachers, coaches, parents, supervisors, or HR representatives.At your school or job, talk to someone in authority. You might say, “Hey, Mrs. Horne, I saw Billy teasing Jorge about being gay yesterday. It made him very upset. I didn’t know if Jorge would tell, so I’m speaking up on his behalf.”

, One of the best ways you can work to put a stop to bullying is to spread awareness about prejudicial injustice. Because there are so many ways that a bully can victimize those who are different, there are also just as many organizations who are taking a stand against prejudice. Decide on a cause that you are willing to stand behind and join an organization in your local community or at the national level. The more information you provide about people who are different can help generate more open-mindedness and encourage others to take a stand against prejudicial bullying.


Visit Prejudice Tracker to learn about hundreds of anti-discrimination organizations that stand against racial inequality, disability discrimination, women’s injustice, homophobia, and other instances of prejudice.