 Make a Twitter account and follow your favorite celeb. Tweet at them directly by using the @ symbol followed by their account name. Use tags that your celebrity is using to improve the chances of them seeing your posts.

Follow Twitter accounts that your celebrity follows. Doing this may make your tweets more visible. Try to connect with these accounts as well. They might put in a good word with the celebrity.
Make sure you’re following the verified account for your celebrity. This is indicated by a blue checkmark beside the account name.;
, If you can, add the celebrity as a friend on Facebook. Otherwise, "like" their page. Many celebrities turn off private messaging on this platform, but in many cases you can still communicate with them by posting on their wall. If you can send private messages, do so with a friendly, polite request for contact.

Respectfully tell the celebrity in your message how you feel about them and why they are important to you. Making your message personal may improve your chances of being contacted., Although some celebrities may disable private messaging, it never hurts to try sending a direct message. Comment on photos and posts made by your celebrity. You never know when a celebrity will respond to a comment.

Upload photos similar to the ones you see on the celebrity’s Instagram. Connect with the celebrity through pictures of shared interests.
Hashtag the celebrity in your uploaded photos or use the same hashtags as the celebrity. Avoid hashtagging too much, though, as you may come across as over assertive or obnoxious., Official fan or celebrity websites may have message boards your celebrity reads and comments on. Post on community online spaces like these to increase the chances of reaching your celebrity and getting a response.Look for recent posts or responses by the celebrity to other website members on the site. Inactivity is a good sign that your chances of contact are slim. In these cases, contact the celebrity through other platforms.
 Target the platform(s) on which your celebrity is most active. Check their usage history to see if they have responded to other users. Twitter, especially, is a common platform users often get a "shout out" from favorite celebrities.

If you notice that your celebrity rarely or never uses a certain platform to interact with fans, focus your efforts on one where they're more active.
 Write a thoughtful message expressing your feelings to the celebrity. Request a personalized response in your message. Send follow up messages after some time has passed.


Try to respect the fact that this person really doesn't know you, even though you may feel like you already know them well.
Send a follow up messages two weeks to a month after messaging. Summarize your previous message. Reiterate that you'd appreciate a response.
Limit your follow up messages to two or three per month. Send more messages than this might be interpreted as coming on too strong, though it may also be taken humorously. Use your best judgement., Messages that are too long or that ramble without a point might be overlooked. Focus on specific experiences, like the moment you recognized how much you appreciated the celebrity’s work or the first time you saw them live.

Write a unique and engaging message to your celebrity. Talk about the impact they've had on your life. Include a related childhood story. This will help you stand out from all the other fans.
Remember to include a brief request for a response, like, “If you could write me a short, personal message with your signature, I’d really appreciate it.”, You should be sensitive when attempting this. In some cases, flooding a celebrity with messages through all their electronic accounts might be interpreted as coming on too strong. You might try two different platforms at first, then two others, and alternate between these., Fan communities often put together gifts for their celebrity on special dates, like their birthday or the day of their first big release. Joining in activities like this could put you in closer contact with your celebrity.

Some gift ideas you might suggest as a present for your celebrity include things like collages, gift baskets, handmade crafts, and more.
Question and Answer (Q&A) events. Think up engaging questions and follow the directions of the event to submit these.
Kick off gift giving or the celebration of a special event by posting something like, "Hey guys, I realized that so-and-so's birthday is coming up and I thought we could do something nice for it."

, Depending on the celebrity, they may be getting dozens or even thousands of messages a day. It may take some time for the celebrity or their publicist(s) to sift through all these message and find yours.While you’re waiting, join fan community activities. Through these, you might hear about meet-and-greets or other contact opportunities.

