 It’s the white briefcase icon with a multicolored flag in the app drawer.;
, It’s at the top of the screen.
 You’ll see a list of search results that match what you’ve typed.
, It’s the green button beneath the name of the app. The app will download and then install to your Android device. When the installation is finished, the “Install” button will say “Open.”

, If you’re still in the Play Store after installing the app, just tap the Open button. Otherwise, tap the green chat bubble icon with a winking face in the app drawer.
 If you already have an account, tap Log In and enter your username and password. Otherwise, tap Sign Up With Email and enter your personal information into the form.
 If you’ve already created your character, you’ll see a menu of Bitmoji instead. You can skip to Enabling the Bitmoji Keyboard. If you’re new to Bitmoji:


Select a gender.
Choose either Bitmoji or Bitstrips style. Bitstrips-style has more customizable options (including adjustable hair length), but Bitmoji-style has more cartoon like features.
Select your character’s features. As you select your ideal face shape, jawline, hairstyle, and other features, the preview image will update. Tap the blue arrow at the top-right corner of the feature options to move through feature types.
When there are no more features to customize, tap Save & Pick Outfit to continue.
Select an outfit, then tap the white circle with a checkmark at the top right corner of the screen. Your Bitmoji is ready!

, It’s the gray gear icon in the app drawer.
 It’s in the “Personal” section., It’s under “Keyboard & input methods.”

,, The switch will turn green and a pop-up will appear containing a security notice.
, It’s usually at the bottom left corner of the screen. You are now ready to start using the Bitmoji keyboard.
 Many Android social apps support Bitmoji, including Facebook Messenger, Hangouts, and Twitter.
 Your regular keyboard (in most cases, this is Gboard) will appear.
 It’s to the left of the spacebar. A pop-up will appear.
, Browse the options by tapping one of the categories on the main screen, or swipe left to see all available scenes. When you find the Bitmoji you want to use, tap to select it.
 Some apps will give you an option to choose how to send the Bitmoji. In most cases, you can just tap the app’s Send icon to share your Bitmoji.
 Your keyboard stays in Bitmoji mode until you switch back to the default. Tap the text area to open the keyboard, then tap and hold the globe icon to view your options. Select Gboard (or the keyboard of your choice) to return to normal typing.

