 Farming often produces a good amount of biodegradable waste in the form of decayed crops and grass, and many farmers use these materials to create and sell compost. Buying from organic farmers is the only way to guarantee a completely organic product, however, since compost from other farms will likely contain trace amounts of pesticide residue from grass clippings and leaves. These pesticides will like break down during decomposition, creating a mostly organic product, but the compost will not be 100 percent organic unless it comes from an organic farm.
 Many municipalities sell compost and other farming materials, especially if those municipalities include agricultural regions. Contact your municipality or nearby municipalities to find out if they sell organic compost and how you can obtain it.
 Compost is a common soil amendment, and most garden centers will carry some even if the store is small. As time passes, the interest in organic farming and gardening continues to grow, organic composts are found more easily at a range of garden supply stores. You can further increase your likelihood of success by going to an organic garden center, though, since organic garden centers specialize in carrying organic products.
 You can find high quality, certified organic composts at big box or chain retailers, but your likelihood of running across low quality composts is increased at a big box store. Many of these products are poorly labeled and tightly sealed, making it difficult to check the content and quality prior to purchase. If you do purchase organic compost from a major store, make sure that you check the quality once you bring it home. Do not use it if it appears poorly made., If buying from a manufacturer, buying in bulk rather than by bag is generally more cost effective. Moreover, since you cannot check the quality in person before buying the compost, you should only buy from reliable manufacturers and you should also check the quality of the compost once it is delivered.

