 If you believe you had bladder problems, you should go see your doctor. Your doctor can help you decide on the proper treatment and offer you various medical options if you need them.


Symptoms of bladder trouble include urine leakage, sudden urges to urinate, involuntary leaking of urine, burning when you urinate, urine leakage when you cough or sneeze, or dark or strange smelling urine., There are medications that can help control incontinence. These medications include:Anticholinergic medications. This is a class of drugs that can be used to calm an overactive bladder and reduce incontinence. Examples of these drugs are oxybutynin (Ditropan XL), tolterodine (Dettol), darifenacin (Enablex), fesoterodine (Toviaz), solifenacin (Vesi-care), and trospium (Sanctura).
Muscle relaxants. These can be used to increase the amount of urine that the bladder can hold. These medications include mirabegron (Myrbetriq).
Alpha blockers. These help men with prostate problems.They include tamsulosin (Flomax), alfuzosin (Uroxatral), silodosin (Rapaflo), terazosin (Hytrin) and doxazosin (Cardura).
Estrogen. At a low dose, estrogen can be applied around a woman’s urethra to improve symptoms.
Antibiotics. This can help with urinary tract infections., Electrical stimulation can be used to strengthen bladder muscles. This can help reduce the urge to urinate and help reduce incontinence. Electrodes are inserted and used to help strengthen the pelvic floor muscles.This usually requires a number of treatments that can last for several months.
 Inserts may be a treatment option for women. Devices such as urethral inserts or pessaries can be used to support the pelvic area and reduce incontinence. They can also help reduce leakage. The insert is a plug-like device that you can use before activities that may lead to incontinence. Pessaries are rings that can be worn all day., There are some herbs and herb combinations that may be useful for incontinence and overactive bladders. Though considered a "natural" treatment, these can still interact adversely with other medications and prescriptions, so it's important you speak with your doctor and/or pharmacist about whether or not it is safe to take supplements. Many of these herbs have been shown to decreases urges and help decrease pressure on the bladder. These include:Gosha-jinki-gan
HorsetailSaw palmetto
Corn-silk
Capsaicin
Hachi-mi-jio-gan
Buchu
You should know that many herbs traditionally used for kidney and bladder health often promote urination. If you have a problem with urinary incontinence, discuss the herbs with your doctor or research them to decide if they will help lessen your incontinence or not.
 There are a few other alternative medical treatments you can try to help. Interventional therapy is one method, which includes injecting bulking materials into the tissue around the urethra and botox injections. These injections help reduce leakage and lessen incontinence.You may also want to try working with a physical therapist who can help you with Kegel-like exercises to strengthen your pelvic floor and may also help you manage pain.Surgery is generally the last option considered, but can be performed to reduce bladder problems.

