 This is an easy trick that makes it look like you're moving a coin from your left hand to your right, and then making it disappear in your right hand. In reality, you'll keep the coin in your left hand the whole time while tricking your audience into thinking you moved it. Here's how you do it:Hold the coin between the thumb and first two fingers of your left hand.
Move your right hand towards the left, pretending to reach down to pick it up with your three middle fingers, while really letting it "drop" into the left hand.
Pretend that you're holding it between the index finger and thumb of your right hand.
Blow on "the coin" and open up your right hand, showing that it has disappeared.
Reach your left hand toward your elbow and reveal the coin, making it look like that was where you made it disappear.;
, This simple trick is called the "throw away" card trick. For this trick, you have to place the card in your hand, snap it, and make the card in the hand appear to have disappeared. Here's how you do it:Hold your hand with the index and pinkie fingers up and the other three fingers touching each other, doing the old "Rock n' Roll" symbol.
Place the card so the last inch or so (2.5 cm) tucks into the area between the middle and ring finger and thumb.
Gently snap your fingers and straighten out your hand. The card will be clipped between the first and second finger and the third and fourth finger, and will appear to have disappeared. Just make sure you're facing the audience with your palm and they can't see the card on other side of your hand.
If you get more skilled, you can practice bringing the card back and making it disappear again.
 All you need for this trick is a pencil and to wear a loose, long-sleeved shirt. This simple trick requires you to first hold a pencil by its edges with both of your hands and then make it look like it has disappeared into thin air. In reality, you'll be snapping the pencil to the side of one arm and then making it disappear down your sleeve. Here's how you can pull it off:Hold the pencil's edges with your thumb, index, and middle fingers, turning your hands so the backs of your fingers face the audience.
Apply a bit more pressure to the pencil with the fingers of your right hand, making the pen bend a bit toward your right inner wrist.
Move your hands up and down a bit to create some movement.
Appear to snap the fingers on your left hand, making the pen move so it is lying along the right wrist.
Discreetly move the pen into the sleeve on the right hand, showing that the pen has disappeared.
The faster you can do this, the more convincing it looks.

