 Try to outline your content before making the actual flash cards. This will streamline your creation process later.


For example, if you're making flash cards for a science test, you might want terms and their definitions.
If you plan on using pictures in your flash cards, download or locate them now.;
, You can make simple flash cards on any version of PowerPoint., A blank presentation presents you with the most potential for custom formatting.
 From here, you can add slides and pictures., With this template, you can place your "question" part of the flash card as the title, and answer as the body text.
 This will make the slide available for editing in the main window.
 For example, you might write "What is the study of living organisms?"

, For example, you might write "Biology".
 You can edit the text style and font from here.
 The goal is to make them match in size and appearance. Formatting your text to match will make it less distracting, allowing you to focus on the content.
 From here, you can edit your slide transitions.
 This transition means that your "answer" will fade into view when you click the mouse button during the slideshow.
 This action ensures that all of your body text (your "answer") will fade in at once. You will also want to select this option for photos.


For multi-part answers, you should select "By Paragraph" instead, and then make each section of the answer a new line.
 Pictures make your presentation content easier to remember.
 Although your default location for uploading from is your desktop, you can browse other folders for photos.


You may have to re-size your photo. You can do this by clicking and dragging one of the corners of the photo.
 Go through the process of creating the rest of your flash cards in this manner.
 You can edit your Slide Show preferences in this menu.
 This will start your slide show from the first slide.
 When your first flash card appears in the slide show, you should only see the title ("question") until you click your mouse.

