 Ask mutual friends about the boy’s hobbies or favorite past times. Snoop on his social media to find out his favorite music, movies, and television shows. Pay attention to any sports he plays at school or when he is around friends.


For example, you may ask his mutual friends, “What is his favorite thing to do outside of school?” or “Can you tell me what his favorite television show is?”;
, Find him on social media platforms like Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, and Facebook. Follow him so you can get to know him better through social media. If he follows you back, this can help to build your friendship.You can also use social media to learn more about his interests as well as a direct line of communication. This may help you feel more comfortable with talking to him and help your friendship blossom.
 People are generally attracted to others with similar backgrounds and it will be easier for him to connect with you if he sees these similarities. Think about interests you have in common with the boy, such as a favorite television show or sport. Then, use these shared interests as icebreakers for your first conversations.For example, you may find out that you both like action movies. Or you may discover that you share a common interest in video games.
Do not pretend to like things the boy likes just to become friends with him. You will likely find at least one thing you have in common with him so you do not have to fake it.
 If you have not had a lot of interaction with him, you may feel more comfortable getting to know him within a group. If you have mutual friends, ask them to help facilitate an introduction when you’re all together.If you do not have mutual friends, you could consider becoming involved in a group or club that he attends. This will not only aid in increasing your interaction with him, but will also create an instant common ground that may feel more natural.
 When you are around the boy, try to project an open, friendly demeanor. Avoid aggressive body language such as clenching your fists and crossing your arms. Instead, maintain open body language by keeping your arms relaxed at your sides and smiling or nodding at him.When you chat with the boy, you should also maintain eye contact with him to show him you are engaged in what he has to say.
 Although it can be nerve-wracking, spending one-on-one time together is a great way to strengthen friendships. Decide on an activity that you will both enjoy and invite him to join. When you invite him, try to find a balance between being open and specific.For example, if you know he enjoys bowling, ask him if he would like to go bowling soon. Not providing an exact date allows for flexibility, while specifying the activity shows you have taken note of his interests and takes the pressure of planning off of him.
 Your brain associates positive experiences with good feelings, so try to keep your conversations and shared activities upbeat and fun. Soon, he’ll associate spending time with you with enjoyment and will want to spend more time with you., Do your best not to make promises you can’t keep. When making plans, try to choose a date and time that you know you can keep. Keep in touch and be communicate with him consistently. Failing to do so may make you seem “flaky” which, in turn, may make him feel that you don’t care about him., Once you are more comfortable, ask for his advice on a personal matter or consider disclosing personal experiences with him. Trusting him with personal matters can help bring an intimacy to your relationship that only the closest friends have.For example, you may have a one-on-one hang out with him where you tell him about issues you are struggling with at home or at school. You may tell him about how you find it hard to get along with your parents, for example, or that you are having trouble in a subject in school.
 Another way you can build a meaningful relationship with the boy is by being a good listener to him. Pay attention when he speaks to you and ask thoughtful questions to show him you are engaged. Maintain eye contact and nod when he speaks.


Try not to interrupt him when he speaks and encourage him to keep talking by saying, “Tell me more,” or "I'm so interested in what you have to say."
You can also ask thoughtful questions like, “How did that make you feel?” or “Why do you think you reacted in that way?”

, Show him that you can be a good friend by being trustworthy and upfront about what you think. If he tells you a secret or confides in you, tell him you will not tell anyone what he told you. Keep any personal information he tells you to yourself, unless he is okay with you sharing it with others. Trust can be difficult to earn and must be maintained, but it truly the foundation to all successful friendships. You should also try to be honest with him so he knows you are not pretending or lying to him. Tell him how you feel and what you think honestly and openly.
 Trying something new can be scary, but consider inviting him to participate. Not only will it help ease the anxiety associated with the unknown, but can also prevent your friendship from going stale.For example, if you’ve both never gone camping before, you may invite him to go with you so you can experience something new together.

