 You want to reduce poverty, and that’s a laudable goal. But the number of people who want to increase poverty approaches zero. So why is poverty still a problem? One reason is that poverty is a big problem, and most people don’t know where to start.So if you try to organize a group to “fight poverty,” people are going to want to know how you plan on doing it and where they fit in. Unless you can give them an answer that will make them understand how their specific action will lead to the tangible result of less poverty, it’s going to be a tough sell. That’s why you narrow your message.
In the beginning, your issue should be as concrete and specific as possible. People might not understand how they can reduce poverty, but they will understand how to build 500 tiny houses of 300 sq. ft. to get the homeless in your town off the street., Even if you have a perfect message and an ingenious strategy to solve the problem you want to solve, you need to have comrades-in-arms to execute the strategy. You’ll make much better progress if you approach them than if you wait for them to approach you, so identify who those people are.Rate your allies and enemies on a spectrum from friendliest to most hostile. Leading activists and active allies should be on one end with active and leading opponents on the other end.
For example, if you want to make the Tiny House Project a reality, leading activists and active allies might be those that already help the homeless, like directors of soup kitchens and shelters. The leading activists will be those with a public profile, and the active allies are those that are involved in the work but have a lower profile. Leading and active opponents might be developers, members and leaders of Not In My Backyard (NIMBY) groups, and their elected officials.
 Once you’ve identified who is likely to be with you and against you, you need to work out the basic details of how you will accomplish your goal. You don’t have to account for every cent of your budget and plan out an itinerary for every day of the next year. But you should estimate the cost, and you should project how much time it will take to hit your goal.You’re sketching your basic plan so that you can have an effective pitch when it comes time to recruit your allies. Therefore, try and work out how the success of your plan will benefit your prospective allies. So explain to the director of the shelter how many beds the Tiny House Project will free up for her shelter., Start by approaching the leading activists and work your way back. Look for people with ties to the community who have experience in fundraising, communications, field organizing, and working with elected officials.


Always try and “warm up” your lead before you approach a target ally. A warm lead is just a possible ally you have a personal connection with—even if it’s just through a mutual acquaintance. It’s always easier to persuade a warm lead than it is a cold lead—a target you have no connection to.Face-to-face meetings are the most effective form of contact, followed by warm phone calls, warm emails, cold phone calls, and cold emails. Don’t be surprised if 90% of your cold emails go unanswered., Feedback and input is absolutely necessary, especially in the beginning stages of an issue organization. Unless you already have a legendary reputation in the activist community, people are going to want to do more than take orders from you.Remember, you’re recruiting a team from a base of allies. They wouldn’t be allies if they didn’t yet have ties to your cause, and they wouldn’t be in the core group of activists if they didn’t have the qualifications for it. Your venture will benefit from their input and contacts in unexpected ways. For instance, one of your core team members might have a connection to a dealer in discount building supplies, which could help the Tiny House venture tremendously.
 Power is the ability to do something. You want to be able to do something, and you’ll be more likely to do it if a lot of other people want to do that same thing. The most successful issue organizations have strong popular bases of support—they aren’t just mailing and donor lists. If you want your organization to be successful, you need to build a base of support within the community.Start your base building efforts by tapping the connections of those in your core team. Ideally, they recruit members and volunteers, who in turn recruit members and volunteers, and so on and so on.
Next, connect with other sympathetic organizations. It’s always best to have a connection to the organization, so if someone on your team is a member of a church, a union member, or just part of a club (like the Kiwanis, Rotary, or Lions), start there. But even if you don’t have a connection to a large local church or club, you need to reach out. They can offer volunteers, possible members, and in-kind and financial assistance.Finally engage in direct outreach to the community. Direct outreach is an activity like clipboarding at a local event, or conducting a door to door canvass. With the Tiny House Project, you could explain to them the purpose or the project and it's benefit to them (getting homeless people off the streets), and it's benefit to the recipients (creating shelter).Since these are cold leads, they’re the least effective—but still worthwhile., You’re building an organization to address an issue, and you’ll need a strong commitment from your membership to make it happen. The best way to rally the members around the issue is to talk about it—a lot. Hold meetings open to the community and lead by your members and core leaders with the goal of raising awareness of your specific issue and coming to a consensus plan of action.


The number one rule of a meeting is to start on time and end early. The second rule is to have a structured discussion—not aimless debate. This isn’t a college bull session; whether or not the attendees know it, you’re building a plan of action. One way to apply this to the Tiny House example might be to hold a meeting related to advancing the goal--like clearing a lot to prepare it for the start of construction.
 You and your team need to listen to what the membership and the community have to say about the problem, how it affects them, and what a successful resolution to the problem means to them.


Going back to the Tiny House Project example, you might have a lot of homeless and former homeless who attend your meetings. Obviously they’ll want a home, but what if you hear feedback about how they want work as well? Use the feedback to your advantage—if you can have the homeless provide all or some of the labor for the construction of the houses, it can help your budget, their lives, and the local economy.
 If the powerful had the intention of solving the problem you’re organizing around, it would have been solved already. But no one with power is going to listen to your requests (or demands) unless you show you have the power to complicate their lives. The pain of saying “no” to you has to outweigh the pain of saying “yes.”Since power is the ability to do a thing, you need to demonstrate your organization’s ability to do things. Don’t undermine the perception of your power by picking a fight you’re sure to lose.
For example, you probably don’t want to try and storm City Hall for your very first demonstration of power, because City Hall is an intimidating and well defended target. However, if the local developers are the ones standing in the way of the Tiny House Project, you can probably execute a very disruptive (but peaceful) demonstration at the local Chamber of Commerce Picnic. A demonstration of that type grabs a lot of attention, which generates notoriety, which generates membership, which further increases your power.
 Practice makes perfect.Before you launch your demonstration, make sure that everyone knows their roles and tasks. Make sure the demonstrators know what to do in the event that law enforcement makes an appearance or the crowd where they are demonstrating turns hostile.


A lot of people think role-playing is kind of cheesy, and they’re right. Nonetheless, role-playing is one of the most effective ways to prepare people for the anger of a hostile crowd.
 A successful demonstration of power can begin a positive feedback loop. The success increases your power, which should allow you to pick a more significant target. You need to keep picking fights you can win until your opponent gives in.For example, the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 60s was kickstarted by the Montgomery Bus Boycott. The municipal bus system of a small Southern town is a relatively minor target, but the success of the Boycott strengthened the Movement. The Movement went on to target progressively larger targets, like Woolworth’s, the state of Mississippi, and the 1964 Democratic National Convention. Your Tiny House Project probably won’t require quite as big of an effort, but the same principle applies.

