 This method should be used with round cabbage varieties, including savoy cabbage, green cabbage, and red (purple) cabbage.









You could try this method with a long cabbage variety, like napa cabbage, but you may not have much success. Long varieties of cabbage tend to have looser leaves, and you may lose too many of the inner leaves while trying to remove the core via boiling, as called for in this method.
 Fill a stockpot 2/3 full with water. Bring it to a boil over medium-high heat on the stove.









If you want to help add flavor to the cabbage, you can add up to 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of salt to the water after it reaches a boil.
 Peel off any torn, damaged, or wilting leaves before proceeding to core the head of cabbage.









Most of the outer leaves will drop off once you dunk the cabbage in the boiling water. Since the good leaves can be preserved, however, it is still advisable that you separate the bad leaves ahead of time.
 Use a sharp kitchen knife to trim off any portion of the stem that extends below the bottom of the cabbage head.









Hold the cabbage steady with your non-dominant hand and cut with your dominant hand.
 Apply firm pressure so that you can shove the prongs of a metal fork as deep into the center of the core as possible.


Ideally, the fork will be inserted so far that the individual prongs will be just barely visible from the outside of the cabbage. A good portion of the fork needs to be stuck inside. To test whether or not enough has been inserted, try lifting the cabbage with nothing but the fork. If it does not drop off or show signs of doing so, you have inserted enough of the fork into the core.
 Use a smooth knife to cut a circular incision around the core of the cabbage head.









Hold the fork with your non-dominant hand and cut with your dominant hand.
Cut carefully, especially as you turn the knife toward the hand holding the fork. Being careful can help prevent you from accidentally cutting yourself while working with the cabbage.
If you want to skip the boiling part altogether, try cutting into the core at an angled circle, with the knife tip facing inward toward the center of the cabbage.
If you plan to follow through with the boiling steps, however, cut a vertically straight circle all the way around the core.
 If you were unable to remove the core, dip the head of cabbage into the boiling water and let it cook for a few minutes, just until it begins to soften.


Work carefully to avoid burning yourself with the boiling water or the hot steam.
After about 5 minutes, the outer leaves should start falling off. This is when you can remove the cabbage from the boiling water.
 Use a narrow, smooth knife to cut into the circular incision, this time going in at an angle. The core should be easier to remove at this point now that it has been softened.









The tip of the knife should point toward the center of the cabbage as you work around the core.
 Since this method is a little more involved and more difficult than the standard method, it is generally only used for recipes that require a whole head of cabbage, such as stuffed whole cabbage.


This method is also ideal when you want to cook the core whole, since the other methods require you to cut the core into sections before removing it.

