 It’s always helpful to have all your supplies laid out in front of your before you begin your project. This way you can stay focused without the interruptions that would otherwise occur as you had to search for new materials.


Depending on what kind of greeting card you plan to make, you’ll need glue, scissors or a paper cutter, paper or blank cards, envelopes, small decorations to put on the card, and a pen or pencil.
Buy some materials at the store to start off with when making cards. You can also recycle things around the house. Items such as buttons, ribbon, and old belts, all look great when properly attached to cards.;
, If you decide to use a piece of paper you have plenty of options. You can cut the paper down to a smaller size using a paper cutter, or even cut it into different shapes. Consider using construction paper if you want a tougher material or something more colorful.If you plan on cutting your paper with a paper cutter, use a ruler to define the lines before you start cutting. This will make it easier to keep everything straight and even.
 You can draw something running throughout the card, like a sea monster or a landscape. You could draw a scene in the daytime on one side, and another scene in the nighttime on the other side. If you know the person you’re giving the card to, try to make something that would appeal to them. If you’re just trying to make a general card, try to decorate the card in such a way that would match the theme of the greeting.


For example, if you’re making a birthday card maybe you should include cakes and balloons.
Another option for decorating is to use scrap book materialsor other craft items. You can cut out pictures from magazines and glue these into your greeting card.
 Most greeting cards have generalized text before you get into the personal greeting. You can skip this part if you want, but if you’re trying to emulate a greeting card that you would find at a store, you might want to include some sort of greeting. Write something that matches the occasion. For example, you could write “Congratulations on your wedding and your many happy years ahead” for a newly married couple.
 Take letters from newspapers or magazines of varying sizes and fonts and paste them around your card in a mix-matched manner.You could even choose to take your greeting from a line of text in a newspaper story.
 Buy some patterned paper and cut a piece about the size of your card. Now tear it in half diagonally so that you can see the tear running across the paper. Paste this torn piece of patterned paper on top of your greeting card to give it a unique distressed or vintage look., Generally this text wishes the person well and includes more detail. If you’re making a greeting card to give to someone else so that they can write in it and give it as a gift, skip this step. Consider putting your signature on the back of the card so that the person it is being given to knows who made it.
 Place the card in an envelope that fits the size of the card. If you’re planning on giving the card away or writing in it immediately, you’ll need the envelope eventually.

