 If you have a new piece of clothing you’ve been dying to wear, consider anchoring your outfit around that one piece. If it’s a nice shirt, find pants and shoes that complement that shirt. If your inspiration piece is a new dress, add a statement necklace to take the dress to the next level.You can also use shoes or an accessory as your base piece. If you have a cool new hat, you might want to choose a more subdued outfit so your hat can take center stage.
Try the entire outfit on in front of a full-length mirror (including the shoes). Shoes can make or break an outfit, so it’s important to see what the outfit looks like with all the pieces.;
, If you’re running late, you may not have the time to put together an entirely new outfit. Think back on outfits you’ve worn in the past and gotten compliments on. Save these outfits and wear them when you find yourself in a hurry or style rut.Take pictures of your standby outfits and save them on your phone. This will help you remember what you wore the last time you wore the outfit.
To change the outfit up slightly, substitute new shoes and accessories.
 A color scheme should consist of two main colors, with the option to add in additional colors as accents. If you’re dressing yourself in the fall, combine mustard yellow and gray. If you’re planning an outfit in spring, try pairing two different pastel shades.Your color scheme should serve as a jumping off point. Don’t feel like you have to restrict your entire outfit to only two colors.
Instead of choosing a color scheme, choose a printed piece of clothing and track down clothing pieces that pair well with that print.
 If you constantly find yourself struggling to pick out an outfit in the morning, consider selecting your outfit the night before. You’ll have more time, so you won’t feel as stressed, plus, picking out a fun outfit to wear will give you something to look forward to in the morning.Try your outfit on in front of a mirror to make sure you like it and all the pieces work together.
Make sure to check the weather before planning your outfit; there’s nothing worse than picking out the right outfit for the wrong weather.
 Everyone is shaped differently and sometimes, if you don’t like your outfit, it might be because of the way it fits. On days where you feel uncomfortable in your own skin, reach for pieces that you know show your body off to its fullest potential.If you have an hourglass figure, select a dress with a belt to show off your small waist.
If you carry weight around your middle, try a high-waisted skirt to draw the eye to the smallest part of your torso.
If you carry weight around your hips, wear boot cut jeans to make your lower half look more proportional.
Make sure your figure enhancing pieces are comfortable. You’re not going to reach for them if they’re too tight or restricting.
 When all else fails, ask someone to weigh in on your outfit choice. Take pictures of one or two outfits you’re considering and send them to someone you trust, like your best friend or mother.


If you can’t reach anyone and you need to make a decision quickly, you can also utilize apps like StyleIt to help plan your outfit.Invest in a full-length, tri-fold mirror. A mirror like this will allow you to see your outfit from all angles and will aid in the decision making process.

