 A classroom that feels tired probably won't be very inspiring. Take action to make sure that your classroom pulses with energy. Start by pumping up your own enthusiasm. Try not to come to class tired. Get up early in the morning so that you are fully awake by class time.
If your students seem lethargic, try having them get up and move around. Even a quick stretch can wake people up.;
, Students might feel more inspiration if they are having fun. Try organizing your lesson around a game. You can adapt this strategy for any age level.For elementary school kids, you could adapt the common game Simon Says. Students only get to move a step forward if they can correctly answer the math question, for instance.
Try a version of Jeopardy for high school or college students. This quiz game is a great way to review for exams.
Don't feel like everything has to be a game. They can be used every once in a while to insert some energy into your classroom.
 Each class is bound to have a few students who are reluctant to participate. However, it is important to make each student feel actively involved in the lesson. Try to get most (if not all) students to participate in activities.Some students may not like participating in group discussions. You might need to get creative to make it more appealing.
Try a lightening round. Set a time limit (maybe 30 seconds) on each question. Make it seem fun and exciting to shout out the correct answer.
 Technology can be a great way to bring inspiration into your classroom. There are a number of tools you can use to get your students excited about whatever subject you're teaching. Have fun trying new items together! Many schools provide iPads or tablets for student use. Download some fun math games for your students to play.
If you teach a college course, have your history students create entries for educational apps such as Clio., Try to energize your students by taking them out and about. Field trips are an excellent way to inspire and wow your class. Just make sure to tailor the trip to fit the needs of your students.Try a children's museum for young kids. For example, the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago offers an entire wing of exhibits geared towards children.
If you teach high school or college students, try a walking tour. The Freedom Trail in Boston is a great option if you teach in that area.

