;
, Tuck your trousers into your boots so you can show off the white fluffy trim on your boots.
 If your belly doesn't quite wobble like a bowl full of jelly, you can bring it up to Santa's standard by adding some padding. Tie with a bow on both sides.
 Put on a red jacket to match the trousers. The furry borders around the sleeves and the hood keep Santa Claus warm on a cold Christmas Eve. Of course, if Santa's doing the rounds of the Southern Hemisphere, make sure the jacket is lightweight so that Santa doesn't overheat.
 Add a wide black leather belt with a gold buckle over your jacket. This should be quite tight so that your tummy spills over it slightly.
 If you are wearing long sleeves underneath your jacket, make sure they are completely hidden and tuck them up out of sight. You should also take off your watch if you are wearing one, unless it is authentically in the style of St. Nick.
 You've got the suit right but you probably still look a little too young to be the real Santa Claus. If you don't have a real beard already or the time to grow one, wear a fake white beard and moustache. The elastic should sit at the back of the head near your crown. Fix your beard so you can see your mouth just below your moustache.
 Wear a wig of wavy white hair to go with your beard. You should be starting to feel quite jolly around about now.
 Santa Claus is a very old man so his eyesight isn't what it used to be. Wear some half moon spectacles at the end of your nose. Don't push them too high up your nose so that you can peer over them and look down at children who come to see you with bright, happy eyes.
 Put on a bright red hat with white fluffy trim. Hold the rim at the front and slide the back over your head. Let the pom pom dangle down at one side over your shoulder.
 To complete the look, slip on some white gloves to hide any signs that you're not the real Father Christmas.
 Finally, put your hands on your belly or rest them on your belt buckle and let out your best "Ho Ho Ho!"

