 Apply one coat of black gel nail polish to each of your fingernails. Make sure you apply it evenly and cover the entirety of your nail. If necessary, apply a second coat.

When using mirror powder, which is sometimes called chrome pigment, it’s best to work with gel-based nail polishes.
Allow the black polish to cure for the recommended amount of time before moving on., This product is sometimes referred to as a non-wipe top coat. It is clear and can be obtained at any beauty supply store. Be sure to coat each nail completely with the top coat, starting at the cuticle and brushing it all the way to edge of your nails. This will seal the nail. Allow the top coat to cure.

It’s crucial to layer mirror powders on top this specific kind of gel top coat for best results., Choose a dark silver or dark gold chrome pigment to get the mirror look. Then choose two additional colors that you like to go along with it to create the multi-tonal sunglass look. Make the mixture in a small container until you get the result that you want. Keep the three powders nearby in case you want to adjust the mixture as you work.

Mirror powder/chrome pigment can be purchased at any beauty supply store. These products can be pricey so choose wisely.
The powder is very fine. Work with it carefully so that you waste as little as possible.
 Dip the end of the sponge applicator into the mixture, picking up a small amount of the powder. Starting at the cuticle, use a bit pf pressure to press the powder down lightly. Use the applicator to work the powder down to the edge of the nail, then continue to brush the applicator from the cuticle to the nail edge with increasing pressure.The mirror effect will become more pronounced as you push down harder.
A little bit of mirror powder goes a long way, so don’t load the applicator with it. You can always add more if you need to.
 Use a fan brush to quickly brush away the excess powder from your nails. Carefully apply one last layer of the non-wipe top coat right on top of the chrome pigment. Make sure you work the top coat very close to the cuticle and all the way to the edges, which will seal in the pigment. Cure the topcoat for thirty to sixty seconds.The better you seal the pigment with the top coat, the longer the look will last.

