 When you do exercises in a chair, make sure the chair is stable and you can put your feet flat on the floor with your knees at a 90-degree angle and your thighs parallel to the floor.If you're in a wheelchair, make sure you apply the brakes or otherwise immobilize the chair before you begin exercising.;
, If you have limited mobility, start from a chair with this basic exercise. As the name suggests, all you do is sit in a chair, stand up straight, then sit back down again.Sit up straight at the edge of the chair with your feet flat on the floor. As you stand, try to keep your knees directly above your ankles.
Start off with 10 repetitions of this exercise.
 For this exercise you'll need a chair with arm rests. Resting your feet flat on the floor, grip the arm rests and extend your elbows to raise yourself off the chair.Lower back down with a slow, controlled movement – don't simply drop back down into the chair.
Do 10 repetitions of this exercise to start, making sure you keep your feet flat on the floor.
 If you need to exercise in a chair, that doesn't mean you can't lift weights. Many strength training exercises you normally would do on a weight bench or with dumbbells can be modified for a chair.If you're interested in starting with a class, check in your local area for a gym that offers wheelchair strength training or weightlifting classes. You also might be able to find some videos you can follow online.
 Even if you're in a wheelchair, you can still get cardiovascular exercise with chair aerobics, which involve a series of upper body and arm movements.Your local fitness center or health club may have chair aerobics classes. You also might check at your local community center or even a senior care facility.
 Yoga and tai chi improve your physical strength and flexibility as well as your mental balance. These practices have been adapted so that people with limited mobility can still participate.Look for chair classes in your area. Retirement communities can be a good place to look. You also might ask a local instructor if they're aware of any classes nearby.

