 Most electronic component soldering is done to fasten components to a PCB (printed circuit board). Therefore, an iron with a smaller tip is recommended. Consider a small flathead tip for ordinary work, or a conical point tip for fine detail soldering.


Soldering irons don't have exchangeable tips, so you'll need to buy the one(s) you want. Fortunately, they start at around $15 in price, and a good quality iron can be had for around twice that.
A typical soldering iron for electronics work will be a 40-watt iron that has a temperature (or a temperature setting) of 900 degrees. This allows the iron to easily melt electronics solder without damaging the small wires of the components themselves.
 Both solid wire and Rosin-cored solders area available at stores and online. Be sure the solder you choose will bond to the materials you are trying to solder. Using solid wire solder may require a separate flux to break the oxide coating and allow the solder to bond.


60/40 tin and lead solder used to be the standard for electronics soldering, however due to the toxicity of lead it has fallen out of favor. Tin and silver solder is generally preferred today. The silver raises the melting point slightly to 430F, raises the price, but helps the solder to bind more smoothly.

The numbers in solder descriptions are percentages of the element in the solder alloy. (60Sn/40Pb = 60% tin and 40% lead)



, Plug in the iron and let it warm up on its stand for a few minutes. Be sure to gently wipe it across a sponge if it's been used previously, as described above. Tin it (as described above) once it's clean. When you're ready, set out your components, clips, and solder.
 Put a component in the spot you want to solder it. If soldering to a PCB, be sure the wires of the component are appropriately placed through its pinholes.


For most components, use a small clip or clamp to hold them in place once you've set them.
 Hold a length of solder with your non-dominant hand. Use a long length to ensure that you'll be able to keep your hand well away from the tip of the iron.
 Touch the tip of the iron to the component you want to solder. Only touch it for about one second. This warms the metal so that it can handle the solder more flexibly.


Quickly touch your solder wire to the soldering point, and apply the iron to it. The solder should melt immediately. Soldering to a PCB board should never require more than about 3-4 seconds' worth of molten solder.
If more solder is required to secure the connection, feed it smoothly with your hand.
Your solder should pool loosely, forming concave sides as it spreads around the component wire. It shouldn't ball up or look lumpy.
 Pull the solder wire away first, wait one second, and then pull the iron away from the soldering point to let the molten solder cool. Again, this should only take 5 or 10 seconds at most.


Be sure not to blow on the solder or otherwise try to help it cool. This can make it lumpy or add impurities.
 Repeat the above steps for each point you wish to solder.


Re-tin your iron's tip every several applications, and once more before you put the iron away. This helps extend the life of the iron.

