 Incorporate 14 grams of fiber for every 1,000 calories you eat every day. If you eat a 2,000 calorie diet, that translates to 28 grams of fat. This is equivalent to 4 cups of raspberries per day or a range of fruits, vegetables, and grains.Fiber adds bulk to your stools and can stimulate your bowels, though too much can make constipation worse.Choose any of following high fiber foods as a part of your regular meals:Fruits such prunes, pears, plums, peaches and pineapples
Cruciferous veggies such as broccoli, cabbage, and cauliflower
Beans
Wheat, bran and other whole grains
FlaxseedsPeas
Brussels sprouts;
, An imbalance of intestinal bacteria can cause irregularity. Eating foods high in probiotics, such as fortified yogurt, can restore the beneficial bacteria and aid in proper digestion. You can get probiotics from foods such as:Probiotic yogurt
Dark chocolateGreen peas
Sauerkraut
Kimchi
Green olives
Pickles

, Psyllium husks are very fine flakes of psyllium bran. They are usually sold under names such as Metamucil, FiberCon and Citrucel. Adding psyllium husks to your diet can keep your stools soft and make them easier to pass.Mix 8 ounces of water with ½ teaspoon psyllium husks.Consider adding them to a fruit and yogurt smoothie. This combination can keep you regular and give you vital nutrients.
 Eat processed foods in moderation. They are often high in calories, fat, and sugar. This can throw off the balance in your intestines, causing diarrhea and constipation. Types of processed and junk foods to avoid include:Fast food
Fried food
White bread, pasta and rice
Dairy products such as cheese
Candy and baked goods

, Getting too little or too much water can cause irregularity. Drink 6-8 ounces (180 to 240 milliliters) of water every hour can keep you hydrated and regular.Steer clear of carbonated and flavored waters. They can cause gas and bloating.Tote a reuseable water bottle. It can remind you to sip throughout the day and may even stay on track with your fiber-rich diet.
 You can boost your fiber by incorporating a small amount of fruit juice into each meal. Drink 2-4 ounces (60 to 120 milliliters) juices such as prune or pear juice.Mix one part juice and one part water if the juice is too intense for you or your taste buds. These can keep the balance in your intestines and maintain your regularity.
 Have a cup of coffee or two as part of your liquid intake. The caffeine can also help relieve mild constipation, since it's a diuretic. Avoid putting too much cream or sugar in your java, as it can contribute to intestinal issues and weight problems., Alcoholic beverages such as spirits, wine, and beer can dehydrate you. Caffeine can have the same effect. Dehydration can make it hard to pass stools and stay regular. Let yourself enjoy a cup of coffee or an alcoholic beverage no more than once a day. This can help to keep you regular in the long run., You can further boost your fiber intake with supplements. Add the package-recommended dose of fiber powder powder with water and drink the mixture. This can bulk up your stools and help maintain regularity.Follow dosing instructions for fiber. Getting too little fiber can cause irregularity, but so can consuming too much., Physical activity can get your blood flowing and stimulate your intestines. Aim for at least 30 minutes of light physical activity most days. Recognize that 15 minutes of exercise can stimulate your bowels. This can help ease fecal material into your bowels and keep you regular.Try some of the following types of physical activity to stay regular:Running
Walking
Biking
Swimming
Yoga

, It may difficult to move your bowels by sitting on the toilet. This is because sitting forces your anus into a straight position, which isn’t conduice to pooping. Squat down on to your toilet by placing your feet hip distance apart and bringing your knees close to your torso. to keep your anorectal angle in its natural position. This can help you more easily and regularly evacuate your bowels.Consider getting a foot stool on which to rest your feet while squatting. This can help you get your knees closer to your torso.
 Waiting to poop or resisting the urge to go can cause constipation. Get to a bathroom as soon as you can if you feel the urge to move your bowels. This can prevent constipation and keep you regular.Put yourself on a schedule if possible. For example, try having a bowel movement every morning. Your body will gradually adjust to the schedule and may respond by staying regular., Some people use natural oils, laxatives and enemas to stay regular. Use these only as necessary because they can cause chronic constipation. They may also injure the muscles of your colon and anus and create laxative dependence. Ask your doctor if laxative use is appropriate and safe to keep you regular.