 Optionally, you can aerate your lawn first to provide nutrients deeper into the soil.Mulch the leaves into small pieces with your mower, about dime-sized. You may have to mow over them a few times if the leaves are large or the layer is deep.When you cleanup a yard like this, you will leave the small pieces on the lawn to work their way into the soil. Leaf mulch suppresses weeds and fertilizes the ground. Mulched leaves will enrich your soil in the spring.You should be able to see about half of the grass through the chopped leaves if you want them to decompose quickly.
 One you have collected the leaves, you can shred them for use in compost or mulch. Put the leaves into a large trash can. Then break them down with a weed whacker.You could use a leaf shredder instead.Leaves make great natural mulch. They don’t transfer black spores onto houses and buildings the way wood mulch does, which can damage siding and harm plants., Turn your leaves into “black gold!” Compost is excellent natural fertilizer for your lawn and garden. You may want to break the leaves down into mulch before putting them into the compost pile if you want them to decompose faster. You can use the decomposed leaves to fertilize your garden in the spring.You can leave your leaf pile to weather and add it to your compost pile in the springtime., Shred the leaves first. Then you can till the chopped leaves into the soil with a tiller. This will provide organic matter and nutrients to feed your lawn in the spring., Contact your local township, city or county and ask about an autumn cleanup policy. If they don’t have one, find out how to dispose of leaves and other backyard waste. Some county and city officials have specific regulations for you to follow when you cleanup a yard.Try asking, “Do you have a community recycling program for autumn leaves? Is there a municipal composting system with curbside pickup?” If there is no municipal program in place for autumn cleanup, ask how to dispose of general yard waste.
In some towns you simply bag your leaves and put the bags at the curb so a designated party can pick them up on a specific day of the week. Other areas rake leaves into the street gutter and leaf collectors drive down each side of the road to collect them.
 Your trees should seem healthy with no known fungal or other diseases. Bag your leaves and offer them to neighbors who may want mulch or compost. This can be especially helpful for neighbors with gardens or flower beds., You may choose to burn the leaves if you live in an area that permits this. You may need a fire permit to dispose of leaves in this way. Some states and towns require a member of the fire department to be present for the duration of the fire, while others require you to notify the fire department in advance.


Check with your locality by contacting them or searching their website for keywords like “burning” and “fire.”

, You can use fall leaves as fun craft projects. There are various ways you can preserve leaves. You can then use them to make bookmarks, coasters, wall art, candle holders, and many other crafts for kids or adults.