 If you can't be home to accept the package yourself because you work, find out if your workplace will accept personal packages for you. It's wise to ask first, and not to overdo it. Your company's receiving department or receptionist does have other things to do. If you can have it delivered to work, there's nothing more to do. It's in the hands of someone you trust, until it's in your hands.
 Some carriers are better able to honor this request than others. As soon as you have a tracking number, log into the delivery service website and adjust the delivery options., For retailers with an online presence and a physical location near you, see if in-store pickup is available. You might also save on shipping costs this way, too., If you have a post office box or mailbox with a private shop, send the package there.

The USPS will not accept deliveries from other carriers, such as FedEx or UPS.
 Requiring a signature means that somebody has to be home, and has to answer the door. If the delivery service can't deliver a package, they may try again, or they may notify you to pick up the package later. Either way, it doesn't sit on the porch while you're not home.

Even if requiring a signature may cost a bit extra, it's a wise choice for high-value packages.
 If you know a friend, relative, or neighbor who is home most days, perhaps someone who is retired, ask if that person would be willing to receive your package for you. Be sure to tell that person when to expect it, and what to do when it arrives.

If you receive a text or email alert that a package has arrived while you're not home, call a trusted neighbor to collect it and hold it for you.


The USPS has lockers installed in some areas, usually shared between multiple residences. They place the package in a locker, then place the key into your locked mailbox. This option is available only for USPS deliveries.
Amazon offers locker deliveries for selected items. You'll need to make sure your item is eligible, and check for a locker location convenient to you.
Install your own locker. It may be costly, but it's a one-time expense. If you shop online a great deal, a home locker might be the most convenient security option.
 Concealed packages aren't theft-proof, but they're less attractive than packages left in plain sight in front of a house.

For UPS and FedEx, you can make one-time requests or leave standing instructions for all packages.
 Most major carriers can hold your package at their store or another location for pickup. You will need to visit this location during business hours to collect your package.,