 Sitting for long periods in front of a desk or computer screen puts lots of pressure on your back and on the disks in your spine. A proper chair is key to preventing back pain. Try to get one that can be easily adjusted for height, back position, and tilt.


Adjust the chair height so that, when standing, the highest point of the seat is just below your kneecaps. Sit on the chair and put your feet on the floor, then adjust the backrest so that it fits the hollow of your back. Tilt the seat back or forward if you prefer; your knees should be slightly lower than your hips.;
, For proper sitting posture, sit up with your back straight and your shoulders back. Your buttocks should be flat on the seat, touching the back of the chair. Make sure that all of the natural curves in your back are supported by the chair-back.You should be distributing your body weight evenly between both hips. Also, consider using a rolled towel or other pad to give your back added support, if the chair does not already do so.
 If you are working on a computer, your screen should be set directly in front of you. Place the monitor about an arm’s length away, with its top roughly at the level of your eyes. You will have to bend your neck if the screen is too low or too high, which over long periods can be uncomfortable.Place the keyboard close to you. Your keyboard should be in front of you when typing, at a distance of about four to six inches from the front of the desk. Rest your wrists in that gap. Your wrists should also be straight when typing and level with the keyboard, your elbows held right below your shoulders and at your sides. A wrist-rest can help you to keep your wrists straight while typing and is quite inexpensive, about $20.Proper keyboard use can improve your posture just as it can help to prevent carpal-tunnel syndrome, a repetitive use injury of the wrists.Keep the mouse as close to you as possible, as well. You can also find mouse pads that have built-in padding to keep your wrists level.
 If you find that you frequently use certain objects like the phone, stapler, or paper clips, place these within easy reach. Avoid repeatedly stretching or twisting your body to reach them. Also, avoid phone strain. Think about investing in a headset if you are often on the phone, the use of which can strain muscles in your neck., Use safety if you often lift boxes or heavy objects at your workplace. When lifting, spread your feet wide to give yourself a wide base of support. Then, squat and lift slowly from the knees – not your back! Instead keep your back straight, neither bending nor twisting it, and hold the object as close to your body as you can, at the level of your belly-button.Get help with heavy objects. Don’t try to lift more than you can easily manage, and don’t overestimate what you can handle. If an object is heavy, ask for help from a co-worker or two to lift it. In the case of very heavy warehouse objects like pallets, you may also have the option of using lifting machines like forklifts., Any task that requires repeated movements or working in fixed positions for a long time can put you at risk of an overuse injury – this includes sitting in an office. Try to modify these tasks so that the stress on your back is lessened. For example, alternate demanding tasks with less demanding ones. If you work at a computer, make sure to limit unnecessary bending, twisting, or reaching, and that your workstation is correctly positioned.