 The drugs used to treat rheumatoid nodules are known as disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) and work at the molecular level of the disease and drugs known as biologics which work by inhibiting specific immune system proteins.


DMARD drugs options include methotrexate, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide, azathioprine, and cyclosporine.
Note that treatment of rheumatoid nodules is not required, but there is usually a spontaneous regression or reduction when a specific RA treatment is administered.Use caution with some DMARDs. Some medications may actually cause or worsen the nodules. These include methotrexate and leflunomide for unknown reasons., ,, Tell your doctor if new nodules appear or the previous nodules are getting bigger or painful. You may need a new drug therapy to avoid the appearance of the nodules while treating the rheumatoid arthritis.
 Your doctor might also recommend a biologic response modifier drug. These include etanercept, adalimumab, infliximab, certolizumab pegol, golimumab, anakinra, abatacept, rituximab, tocilizumab, or tofacitinib.Many studies have been completed that saw reduction in these nodules when treating RA with these medications., , , Arrange an appointment with your doctor to discuss your treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. Your doctor will give you a prescription for the medications you may need, and take these medications as directed.
 Injecting steroids within the nodules have been proven to reduce size of the nodules. Therapy though may require weeks of injections by your healthcare provider.,Steroids help reduce the inflammation process occurring at the nodules.


Your doctor will clean the area of the nodules with rubbing alcohol or alcohol pads. A numbing agent/spray or anesthetic may be applied to reduce pain. A needle with steroids will be injected at the site of the nodules.
After receiving the shot, you may feel discomfort at the location, and flushing of the face or chest can occur. Do not excessively move the area, and apply ice to the site if pain occurs.
Note if you are diabetic, steroids can increase your blood sugar., Excision of the nodules may be warranted if nodules remain, worsen, become infected or ulcerated, meaning that the skin is damaged and blood is exposed. The nodules may also be impinging on nearby nerves and producing sharp diffuse pain, and/or obstructing your everyday functioning, as would be the case with nodules on the foot.Your surgeon will assess what kind of anesthesia to provide, either through injection at or around the site or through IV sedation. Your surgeon may ask you not to eat or drink anything after midnight the night before surgery.
The area will be properly cleaned and the surgeon will use a scalpel or other cutting tool to cut the nodule. The surgeon may use a wide margin technique where an oval-shaped excision will be made around the nodule, removing the nodule and small amount of surrounding normal tissue to assure full removal.