 Dry hair is more prone to getting broken or frayed. Each time you shampoo, you should apply conditioner as a way to protect you hair shaft from damage. Conditioner also gives your hair a soft, shiny appearance.


Massage a dime or quarter-sized amount of conditioner through your hair from roots to tips. Rinse well.
Look for a conditioner made for dry, damaged hair. It will contain extra moisturizing properties to help replenish your hair's natural moisture.
 Just as a face mask can give your skin a boost, a hair mask can add shine and moisture to your hair. A hair mask is applied in the shower after you wet your hair. Leave the mask on for five minutes, then shampoo your hair as normal. Here are a few nourishing hair masks to try:1 lightly beaten egg
1 tablespoon honey
1 tablespoon aloe
2 tablespoons yogurt

, When your hair is dry and brittle, deep condition it with oil. Oil will seep into your hair shaft restore your hair's brilliance and shine.Massage 1 to 2 tablespoons of the oil of your choice into your hair, focusing on the tips. Put on a shower cap and let the oil sit in your hair for at least one hour or overnight. Shampoo your hair as normal and rinse until your hair doesn't feel oily to the touch. Here are a few oils you can try:


Coconut oil
Olive oil
Jojoba oil
Sweet almond oil

, After you've washed and dried your hair, use a finishing oil to add some shine. Finishing oil acts as a leave-in conditioner, protecting and beautifying your hair all day. It also prevents frizz and flyaways. Don't add gobs of oil to your hair. Just use enough to lightly coat the tips and add some texture. You can buy a finishing oil blend, or try one of these oils:Coconut oilArgan oil
Jojoba oil
Grapeseed oil

, This is a special type of brush made with natural fibers that mimic the texture of human hair. The brush is designed to pull your scalp's natural oils (sebum) from your roots down the length of your hair. That way all of your hair gets the benefits of your body's natural hair protectant. Use this type of brush when your hair is dry.Select a brush made with natural fibers. Do not use a plastic or metal brush.
Working one section at a time, brush your hair in long strokes from the roots all the way to the tips.
The best time to do this is an hour or so before you plan to shampoo your hair.

