 If you only know one or two genres, you won't have as wide a variety of music to choose from - and you won't know much about music. Do some research, and pick one or two genres that you think you'll probably like. Always remember to experiment; you never know when you might come across something great! These are the typical Scene Kid genres:


Alternative Rock and Pop Punk
Glam Rock and Metal

Skate Punk, Electronic Punk Rock
Metalcore, Deathcore, Hair Metal
Indie
Techno, Dance, Trance, Posicore (Positive Hardcore), Crunkcore, Electronica/Electro,Dubstep, Nightcore;
, The more you know about these types of music, the more likely you are to find something really great. You may look at a genre name and think nothing of it, but it might be just the type of music for you. Select a few genres and do some research on them - find out their history, style, popular artists and bands, etc.
 If your friends are into the Scene, ask them to recommend you a couple of bands or singers. Don't be shy or embarrassed - you may discover some really great music. If you know anyone else who might know some music you might like, ask them who their favourite singers or bands are.
 When you're hanging around in the mall with some spare time, step into a good music store. Check out the different genre sections and look around; you may find something that you really like or would like to try out. You may want to look at genres that you know you like, or just pick at random. Don't be afraid to experiment and try something new - you won't get anywhere otherwise!

, If you're really into a certain singer or band, try finding someone who is a little like them; for example: if you really like a certain artist, try listening to someone who's voice or style is a little like theirs. You may find another great artist or band that you haven't discovered before. Try some online music recommendation sites like last.fm.com or ilike.com. they will take what you listen to and try to find similar artists.
 Find underground bands, so you know them before they get famous, and go to local shows, even if you have no idea who is playing. Go with your scene friends to any other shows. Seeing bands play before they are really famous is a great way to actually get to know and talk with the band members personally - who knows, if you wanted to get into playing guitar or bass, they might be able to give you a few pointers!

