 Each stack will get two tortillas. This will make the tortillas faster and easier to cut.;
, You can do this using a pizza cutter or a sharp knife.
 You can use olive oil or vegetable oil for this; the olive oil will give the tortilla strips a little extra flavor. Once the oil starts to sizzle, you are ready for the next step.
 Toss and stir the strips using a rubber spatula so that they cook evenly and don't burn.
 While the strips are draining, you can start preparing the rest of your soup. Don't put the saucepan away yet. You can use it to cook the soup in; this way, you don't have to dirty up another pan.
, You will need about 1 tablespoon of oil total. You can use either olive oil or vegetable oil; the olive oil will give the chicken more flavor, however.
 This will be more than enough for your chicken. You can save the rest of the spice mixture for another recipe, or use it in your soup.
 Be sure to coat both sides of the chicken evenly.
 Place the chicken breasts onto a roasting pan or into a casserole dish. Bake the chicken until it is well-done. Do not undercook the chicken breasts; they should not be pink in the center.
 If you'd like, you can cut the strips in half to make them shorter, or pull them apart using two forks.
 You can use olive oil or vegetable oil; olive oil will lend the soup extra flavor. Once the oil starts to sizzle, you are ready for the next step.


You can use the same saucepan that you used for the tortilla strips.
 Cook the ingredients over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until the onion, garlic, and bell peppers soften. This will take about 2 to 3 minutes.
 If you can, try to use the reduced-sodium and sodium-free chicken stock. This will reduce the risk of your soup turning out too salty; you can always add more salt later.
 Raise the temperature to medium-high or high heat and wait until the soup starts to boil. As soon as it does, reduce the heat to low, and let the soup simmer for 7 minutes.
 You can use canned or frozen corn. If you use frozen corn, however, you might want to thaw it first; if you don't, you may have to cook your soup longer.


If you don't like corn, you can use canned black beans instead; be sure to drain them first, however!

, For example, if it is not salty enough, you can add more salt. If it is too flavorful, you can add a little bit of water.
 Put a sprinkle of tortilla strips into each bowl, then top it off with some chopped cilantro. Don't stir the soup; let the garnishes rest on top.
 You can also add more garnishes as well. A great idea would be to have little bowls filled with optional garnishes, and let the guests serve themselves. Here are some ideas to get you started:Diced avocado
Diced red onion
Grated Monterey Jack cheese
Salsa or Pico de Gallo
Sour cream

