 Because the Bhangra is fast-paced, exercises like jumping jacks and jogging in place helps build up your stamina. Another more-difficult exercise is jumping squats, where you leap up and down while keeping your knees bent and your body low.;
,, Hop on your right foot and lift your left leg with your knee angled to the left. Angle your body to the left as well.
 Hop on your left foot as you lift your right foot from the ground and angle your body to the right. Work on lifting your knees higher and higher while still staying with the beat of the music.
 When you face front again, lift your left foot and your right foot before turning in a circle again.
 Step forward with your right foot and hop while lifting your left foot and turning your body to the left. Raise and lower your arms as you rotate your hands (similar to Queen Elizabeth's wave). Do the same with your right foot. Continue the steps all the way around the circle.
 Exaggerate the movements of your hands to make the rotations crisper.
 Pick up your left foot and tap your heel on the ground at an angle from your body. Return your left foot to the original position and tap your right heel on the ground. Remember to turn your body in the direction of the heel that's tapping on the ground.
 Work on making the movements more fluid and allow your head to move from side to side in time with the music.
 Add arms movements to the steps. As you step forward and tap your left heel on the ground, place your back of your left hand against the small of your back and raise your right hand over your head and wave it. As you step forward, tapping your right heel on the ground, reverse the position of your hands.
 Step forward and to the side with your left foot. Rock back on your right then again on your left. Turn in a circle to your left as you continue rocking back and forth on your feet with your left foot before you. Move in a circle with your left foot leading and angled to the side. Raise your hands before you and clap with each beat.

