 Instead of blaming your mother and making accusations (which may very well be true), focus on your own feelings and how you are affected. You cannot change your mother’s behavior, but you can change your reaction to her by the way you feel.Even if she dismisses your feelings, you have created your emotional boundaries to show her she is over-reaching.


Instead of saying, “You are so cruel”, say, “It really hurts my feelings when you talk to me like that.”

, It may drive you crazy how your mom behaves, but remember that you can’t change her behavior but you can change yours.If you tend to blow up at her when you argue, try responding differently, like responding calmly or not engaging her anger. See how you changing your behavior affects the relationship and how she responds to you.


If your mother constantly criticizes your lack of effort in one area (say, putting away the dishes), see how she responds when you do the task thoroughly and on time.
 You may want to set physical and emotional boundaries with your mother. It may be time to move out of your mother’s home, or cut back visits with your mother. You may want to create boundaries regarding her coming into your home unannounced or cleaning for you. Emotional boundaries may include being firm in how you choose to be treated. You may say, “I want a relationship with you, but when you criticize me I need to leave because that is not healthy for me.”You may want to clearly communicate your boundaries with your mother. Say, “I do not want you in my room when I am not home, and I hope that you respect my need for privacy.”

, You can fight and run in circles until you realize there are certain topics that you may never see eye to eye on, which can include religion, dating, marriage, parenting, or career choices.Learn to respectfully hear each other’s opinions and then drop the issue. Accept that there are fundamental topics that you will disagree on, and leave it at that.


Don’t make decisions to make your mother happy when it leads to your own unhappiness; ask yourself, “Is it worth it?”

, If you feel you are unable to change anything for the positive and having your mother in your life feels toxic, it may be time to take a break or cut ties.Consider your options if your physical and emotional health are suffering as a result of the relationship. Recognize that this is an extreme option and must be carefully considered. If your mother is a hurtful or hateful person, you are not required to see or spend time with your mother.


You may want to cut face-to-face contact and consider communicating by phone or email.
Ultimately, do what is best for you. Prioritize your health and happiness.

