 Mindfulness is a mental state in which you are actively aware of the present moment. Mindfulness-Cognitive Behavioral Therapy has been used with some success to treat depression rooted in chronic regret.Being mindful means observing your thoughts from a distance. You're able to objectively evaluate your past and your mistakes, which allows you to be reasonable about the true impact your regrets have on your life.Basic meditation can help with mindfulness. Focus on your breathing or a particular word or phrase. Allow thoughts to enter your brain and withhold judgment as you experience them.Pay attention to any sensations in your body, such as itching and breathing. Take note of all senses, such as sight, smell, sound, smell, and taste. Try to experience each moment fully aware of your surroundings and feelings.Experience emotion without judgment. Allow yourself to experience sadness, fear, anger, and pain without trying to eliminate or repress the emotions.If successful, mindfulness keeps you focused on the present moment. This keeps you from succumbing to thoughts of the past and past decisions. Focusing on what you can control, that is the present, can reduce self judgment over former decisions or moments. Mindfulness therapy has been particularly helpful in elderly patients who have chronic regret over their lives., Many times, disappointment and regret are related to failing to achieve certain goals. Shifting how we think about goals and achievement can help us better cope with regret and accept the present moment.


Tie your longterm goals to abstract achievements. Say, "In five years, I want to feel happy most of the time" rather than "In five years, I want to be at the top of my career." This way, you're sense of achievement is tied to your mindset, which you can control, rather than aspects of life that are often beyond your control.Research shows that concrete rewards actually make people less happy than abstract ones. People who are motivated by money, fame, fortune, and career success are less happy overall than people who strive for abstracts like happiness, positive relationships, and intellectual pursuits., Having a support system is invaluable when it comes to coping with the disappointments that drive regret. Talking out your feelings can help you reevaluate them and gain insight from an outside perspective.


Discuss your disappointment with a friend or family member. Letting it fester can allow that to grow worse with time. Select people who've had similar experiences and can offer their insight.If you're struggling to overcome feelings of disappointment, consider therapy. A therapist can offer an objective third person perspective into your situation and offer you advice on how to cope with negative thoughts.
 Oftentimes, regret stems from yearning from a choice you let go. Assessing the present moment, and embracing the positives, can help minimize feelings of regret.


Regret is often the result of a thinking imbalance. Holding on to a particular decision, or a set of decisions, distorts are ability to realistically evaluate our lives as undue focus is placed on negatives.
Write down all the positives in your life, such as family, friends, jobs, and any successes you've had so far. In reality, each situation has benefits and drawbacks. The trouble is, when we regret we only see the drawbacks. Embracing the benefits of the present is a great way to minimize feelings of regret.

