 It’s nearly impossible to open your heart when you are still nursing old wounds. Healing requires acknowledging what hurts. Simply speaking your hurts aloud can impact the way you view them. Often, when things hurt, you may try to ignore them. The only way to move on is by acknowledging what happened.It’s time to admit that you were hurt and truly feel these painful emotions you have been suppressing. If your ex broke your heart by cheating, admit to it. You might say, “I was heartbroken when Sasha cheated. It really made it hard for me to trust again.”;
, Experiencing emotional pain can cause you to develop negative beliefs about all people. These beliefs become ingrained and, over time, close your heart to love. To heal, you must identify the thought patterns that cause you to shut others out.


For example, you think “Because my best friend neglected me when I most needed him, it’s best not to count on others.” As a result, you never let anyone in or ask for help when you need it.
Challenge this belief by asking yourself some questions: What evidence is there that makes this true? Is this belief always true? Am I considering the full picture about what happened? Does this belief promote happiness and well-being? Use these questions to attack the negative beliefs or assumptions you have built about others., In order to open your heart, you must risk letting go of the past. Holding on to all that’s happened before only weighs you down, making it harder for you to embrace new relationships and opportunities. Perform a ritual to release old hurts and invite in a fresh perspective.Write down in detail what happened to you and your reaction to the hurt. Then, write down the incident from the perspective of the other person who hurt you. Remember how they reacted and imagine how they must have felt. This helps you see the situation from a different perspective.
Once you have fully released the event by writing it down on paper, destroy the paper. Toss it into a fire, tear it into tiny pieces, or bury it in the woods. This symbolizes an emotional release. What happened in the past no longer has a hold on you.
 Doing the work of healing past hurts is upsetting and draining. If you find yourself stuck and unable to move forward, it may help to see a mental health therapist. This person can help you identify the traumas that are closing your heart and offer effective strategies for truly letting go.