 Always try before you buy. Pay attention to both the look and the comfort of the suit. Shoulder seams should not extend beyond your shoulders.Your jacket sleeves should end about one centimeter (half an inch) above your shirt cuffs.There is no such thing as a perfect suit, unless you choose to have one custom-made.
Even if a suit off the rack doesn’t fit perfectly, you can always get it adjusted later.
 There are three main types of lapels. Notched lapels taper out and down at the top edge. Peaked lapels have a sharp V-shape to their top edges. And shawl lapels have a smooth curvature that blends directly into the collar of the jacket.Notched and peaked lapels are the most common types.
Peaked lapels on a single-breasted jacket will make them seem more formal.
 There are three types of suit venting – ventless, center, and double. The Italian style suit is typically ventless, meaning the suit’s bottom edge wraps all the way around your back in an uninterrupted line. The American suit is typically a single vent, meaning that a narrow slit runs up the middle of the suit’s back. And English style suit jackets are typically double vented, meaning they have two slits in their back – one on the left and one on the right.Athletic individuals are best equipped for the ventless suit. Large men should avoid it.
Single and double vented suits allow more freedom of movement and greater flexibility.
 Single-breasted suits are those with buttons that meet along a central axis in the center of your trunk. These suits can have up to four buttons running down the center. Double-breasted suits are those in which one side – the left side, typically – of the suit overlaps significantly with the opposite side. These suits have four, six, or eight buttons.Most off-the-rack suits are single-breasted.
Thin and/or tall men might benefit from wearing double-breasted suits, since they project the impression of a fuller figure more than single-breasted suits do.
Double-breasted suits are more formal because they are always buttoned. Single-breasted suits, on the other hand, can be unbuttoned to project a more relaxed personality or mood.

