 If you bought the poinsettia during the winter, keep it watered throughout the winter and into spring.
 Choose a pot that's only slightly larger than the original pot, and repot the poinsettia with a rich potting mix that is high in organic matter.This will give the poinsettia a good head  start for the growing season.
 Place your potted poinsettia plant near windows that receive bright, but indirect, morning sun. Choose windows that are not drafty to avoid exposing the plants to cold air. Poinsettias need to be kept at a temperature of around 65 degrees and do not handle extreme temperature changes well.


If the summer temperature is warm enough and never drops below 65 degrees at night, you may keep the poinsettia outside during the growing season. Place the plant in an area that gets partial shade., Water indoor poinsettias throughout the spring and the growing season whenever the top inch of soil feels dry to the touch. Add water to the pots slowly, and wait for the soil to absorb the water before adding more. Stop watering when saturation slows, and before excess water pools on the soil's surface.
 Potted poinsettia need to be fertilized often with a well rounded liquid fertilizer. A 12-12-12 or 20-20-20 compound is best. Repeat fertilization every month. Stop fertilizing in the fall when it is time for the plants to flower.
 Pinch small growing shoots from poinsettias occasionally throughout the growing season to keep the poinsettia compact and bushy.You can discard the shoots or use them to propagate new plants. Cut back old growth in late fall or early winter to encourage strong new growth the following spring.
 In the fall, it's time to bring the poinsettia back inside so it doesn't freeze. You must also create a cycle of long uninterrupted nights and short sunny days during the fall and winter to encourage the leaves to change from green to red. Do this for 9 to 10 weeks until flower bracts begin to form on the plant.


Move the poinsettias to an area where they receive total darkness for 14 to 16 hours a day in late September or early October. A cool closet is the best location, but if one is not available, you can also put the plants into a large box for their uninterrupted dark hours. Any light exposure during this time will delay the color change.
Keep the plants in total darkness at the time when temperatures are coolest. The best hours are from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Poinsettias flower best when nighttime temperatures are 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit (12 to 16 Celsius).
Bring the plants out of darkness every morning and put them near a sunny window where temperatures stay around 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 Celsius).
 By December, the poinsettia should be ready to display as a holiday decoration again. Place the plant in a sunny window and leave it exposed to normal household light through the winter flowering season.
 When the small yellow flowers at the center of the leaves wilt, in February or March, it's time for the plant's dormancy period.


Prune the plants heavily to 8 to 10 inches (20 to 25 cm) tall. This is a good time to take cuttings for plant propagation.
Cut back on watering for a couple of months until it is time to start new growth in the spring. Allow the top several inches of soil to dry out before watering them.

