 Sandpaper won't work as well on the places where the compound has pilled up a bit, so start with your drywall knife. Just run it along where you have larger bits of compound built up, scraping them up as you go.Go around the whole room first with the knife before working on sanding.
 Start in the corner where two walls meet. Sand outward so that you taper the mud down to the wall. In other words, sand along the corner in broad strokes, then slowly move those strokes outward toward the edge of the mud.You can also try wet sanding, which cuts down on dust. Dip a sanding block in warm water and wring it out thoroughly before using it on the wall. Rinse your sponge out when it becomes coated in white goo., You can use either the sanding sponge or the full sandpaper to go over the areas with screws and even them out. These areas usually only need a quick sanding., You'll also have seams along the wall where pieces of the drywall meet. Go over it with sandpaper (150 grit) first to quickly even it out. Swipe back and forth over it in broad strokes. Smooth it out again with your sanding sponge.Keep checking with the light to see if you miss areas.
 You don't need to send very hard. You're not scraping burnt rice off the bottom of a pan. You just want to smooth out any ridges and bumps in the dry wall, so you have an even surface. Don't sand down to the paper.Also, make sure you're only sanding the high parts. You'll fill in the low points with another coat of mud. You don't need to try to sand them smooth., If you notice there's dust on the wall from your sanding, you can use a dry paintbrush on it. Quickly run the brush over it to loosen up the dust, so it doesn't get into your primer when you start painting., Clean up the area by vacuuming as much as you can with a Shopvac then folding the dropcloths to take outside. Make sure you use the proper filters and bags for drywall when preparing the Shopvac. Otherwise, the dust will just come out of the back. If you're renting at a shop, ask what supplies you'll need for cleaning up drywall.