 Accommodation is a type of exercise that helps your eyes focus over long distances. By focusing on objects at different distances, you can provide some relief to eye fatigue and strain. Often eye fatigue occurs when focusing on one thing, such as a monitor, for long periods of time. To perform this exercise, try pen to eye convergence. Hold a pen at arm’s length. Focus on the tip of the pen in front of your face. Point the pen close to your nose at a steady and slow pace. Repeat five to 10 times.


This helps your eyes relax their intense focus on one spot and helps ease the fatigue of staring at the same thing for so long., Another way to help relax eye fatigue is by changing the focus of your eyes. Start by looking at the tip of your nose. Next, change the focus of your eyes and look at a far off object, which should be about 20 feet away. After you focus on that object for a few seconds, look back at the tip of your nose. Repeat 10 times with that object.


Do many repetitions of this in a row. Change up your focal point each time, choosing different objects at several different distances to focus on., Another way to help ease eye fatigue is to exercise specific muscles in your eyes. Looking to the right works your lateral rectus of your right eye and the medial rectus of your left eye.To exercise these, sit in a relaxed position, but keep your back straight. Look to the most left position first. Hold for five counts. Next, move your gaze to the most right position and hold each for five counts.


Repeat this exercise three times on each side. Blink a few times in between to keep your eyes lubricated. Repeat four times a week.
Try to work up to ten repetitions each day you do this.
 Sometimes, gently massaging your closed eyes, also called the compression method, can help reduce fatigue. Close your eyes and hold out your index, middle, and ring fingers. Gently push the eye with your joined fingers, rotating your fingers around the circle of the eye. ‘’’Do not’’’ push for too long or hard while exerting the rubbing pressure.


Do this for no longer than 10 seconds at a time.
This also has the added benefit of increasing tear production, which can help if you have dry eye as well.