 They are usually open to talking to new people during this time.


If they are busy reading, wearing headphones, etc. then they probably don't want to talk right now. Let them be.
 If you don't already know certain social behaviors, now is the time to learn them. Non-autistic people often behave in different ways than autistic people, and not knowing some social behaviors can cause you to have more trouble making friends.


When meeting new people, smile, look at their face (eye contact optional), introduce yourself, and shake hands.
Learn to read body language. If someone is sitting with their legs and arms crossed with their head down, they're likely to get annoyed if you try to talk to them.
Be aware that stimming may not come off as normal to another person. If you start flapping your hands, for example, and the person you're talking to doesn't know why you're doing so, they may get confused or tease you. If they ask why you're doing so, come up with an explanation, such as "I just do this to get rid of nervous energy." Try to avoid telling people immediately that you're autistic, as autism can be misunderstood by people who don't have it.

Meltdowns or shutdowns are typically viewed as childish behavior and are not seen as socially acceptable. Try to avoid situations where they would occur, and if you can't avoid it, find a quiet place away from others when you sense one coming on. If you have a shutdown, try to find a way to communicate this to whoever you're with so that they understand you can't do something, such as speaking.
 It's hard to make friends if you don't talk to people! You can strike up a conversation with the person sitting next to you or someone who gives you a smile and a wave.


Ask open-ended questions to get to know them better. A good ratio is talking for about 30% of the time, and listening about 70% of the time. Figure out what the person is interested in, and get them to tell you about it. Open-ended questions begin with who, what, when, where, why, and how. For example, "What is your pet dog like?" or "What was it like in the Philippines?"
If you don't know how to start the conversation, look for something that you have in common. For example, if you sit next to a classmate and you're working on a worksheet, offer to work together on the worksheet or say to her after class, "What'd you think of that worksheet?" Another option would be to lightly tap her shoulder and say, "I'm having some trouble with this question. Can you help me?"
Take cues of when to speak and when not to speak. When you do talk, try to keep it brief, as most people will get annoyed if you go off on a tangent on something you're interested in without letting them get a word in! Likewise, don't interrupt somebody when they're speaking. Learn signals of when you think the person is going to speak, and take them into account.
Know when someone is getting bored of the conversation. The signals vary from person to person, but common signals are looking around instead of focusing on you, their body facing a different direction from you, looking at a handheld object instead of at your face, and responding with one-word answers or noises such as "mm-hmm".
 If you think it's safe to do so, bring up a topic about autism to the person you're trying to befriend. Many people are misinformed about autism and what causes it, as well as how people who are autistic behave.


Know that some people are fair-weather friends - meaning that they'll be around to talk to you when you're fine, but if you're overstimulated or have a meltdown or shutdown, they won't help you and may pretend you don't exist. If you have a fair-weather friend, try to find a friend who will help you when you need it - a friend who won't help you isn't a friend who's good to be with all the time.
Decide whether to disclose your autism. This can depend on how comfortable you are with yourself, how "visibly autistic" you are, and whether it is relevant to a conversation. You may need to answer some awkward questions, but in the end, it'll give you a good opportunity to see the other person's character.
A good friend may react with understanding, confusion (if they don't understand autism well), acceptance, and/or curiosity. They're open to you explaining things they don't understand well.
A bad friend might stop being interested in you, or get defensive if you gently try to correct their misconceptions. You may feel hurt or stifled. This is not your fault.
 Say you'd be interested in going bowling, visiting the beach, or doing something else together. This can give you time with your friends outside of scheduled meetings such as club activities.
 If you've managed to strike up a conversation with someone who expresses interest in what you like, offer them ways of contacting you again. There are many ways of doing so, whether it's with phone numbers or social media.

If you decide to talk over the phone, it may be harder to tell when it's your turn to talk. Learn how the person prepares to talk, and expect that you may accidentally speak at the same time.
Be careful with primarily text communication, as it can become extremely easy to misinterpret something or offend somebody on accident. If this occurs, it's best to work it out as quickly as possible so the incident can be smoothed over.
 In order to be friends with someone, you can't talk to them just once every two weeks. Talk to them every few days, but don't push it - they may not be able to talk at the moment!