 In the event that a public restroom is unsanitary and there are no covers or disinfectants available, you can squat over the toilet. This will keep you from coming into contact with the seat.

Make sure to keep your underwear from coming into contact with the seat.
 One way to help ensure you come into less contact with bacteria in a public restroom is to seek out a stall with toilet paper that is either mostly or completely covered in a metal or plastic holder. This may help protect against splattering toilet water and bacteria or germs.If the toilet paper is not covered in any way, use any tissues you might have or paper that is as far off the floor as possible.
 The handle is usually the most unsanitary part of a toilet. Many public restrooms now have automatically flushing toilets, but some still require manual flushing. Covering the handle with toilet paper or your shoe may keep you from coming in contact with bacteria and germs when flushing manually.


You can use either a new seat cover or some toilet paper to touch the handle when flushing.
 A recent study showed that contaminated hands and fingers can easily transmit bacteria and germs from restrooms. Washing your hands properly or using hand sanitizer after using the bathroom will help protect you from viruses and bacteria.The proper way to wash your hands is to lather for at least 20 seconds and rinse under warm, running water.
Use a hand sanitizer either after washing, or if there isn’t any soap available.
Dry your hands with paper towels when available. Some studies have shown that air dryers may spread around more bacteria., The restroom door can also harbor harmful bacteria and germs, in particular if people who don’t wash their hands touch it. Use a piece of paper or your elbow to touch the door when leaving the restroom. This may help keep you from coming in contact with bacteria and germs.Also avoid touching hand dryer buttons and sink handles as much as possible for this same reason.
 Many public toilets are regularly cleaned with strong disinfectants. If the restroom is unsanitary, request that a staff member clean the toilet and stall before you use it.


If you regularly use the public restroom, check the cleaning schedule if you can. Try to time your trips to occur immediately after scheduled cleaning visits.

