 TExES tests are designed to test your competence in a particular subject area. For instance, if you want to be an elementary school math teacher, you will need to register for the TExES math test. To determine which TExES test you need to register for, consult the administrator of your EPP. They will give you guidance as to which test(s) you need and grant the necessary approval for you to register for the appropriate TExES test., TExES tests are administered by ETS, a private company. Depending on which test you take, you will need to pay either a $131 fee per test (for core subjects) or a $65 fee (for subject tests).You can pay by credit or debit card. Consult the latest registration bulletin (http://cms.texes-ets.org/registrationbulletin/) in order to choose a test time and site which works for you.


Register well in advance of taking the test so you have time to study.
 There are a variety of free test preparation materials through the ETS website. Take some tutorials and watch some test familiarization videos to see what you can expect from the TExES test. Read the “Tests at a Glance” feature to get an overview of what the test is like. Use the interactive practice tests to see what taking the TExES will be like. These and other test prep materials are available online at http://cms.texes-ets.org/texes/prepmaterials/.
 Ensure your name on the ID is spelled exactly as it is on the test registration form. The IDs should have a photograph, a signature, and be valid (non-expired).Passports and driver’s licenses, for example, are acceptable forms of IDs for the TExES. Temporary IDs, birth certificates, credit or debit cards, draft classification cards, photocopied IDs, and employee ID cards are not acceptable for the TExES., The test consists of multiple-choice questions. Depending on the test you’re taking, it might also contain open-ended written or oral response questions. The test will be divided into many domains, or broad areas of content. Within each domain, there are two parts: competency statements and descriptive statements.


Competency statements broadly define what you should know about that domain.
The descriptive statement demonstrates greater depth of understanding within that particular area.
The content of each part is dependent upon the specific TExES test being taken.
Arrive at least ten minutes before your appointed test time. If you arrive late, you will not be allowed to test.
Score at least a 240 out of a maximum of 300 on an individual subject test to pass. Overall tests, by contrast, are unscored, and instead reported as pass or fail.