 Make sure the screen has cooled before you begin. Otherwise you might get shocked as you try to clean the screen. It may take a couple of minutes for your TV to be completely cool.

Make sure you unplug the TV as well.;
, For light dust, you can get away with just using a duster. Ideally, you should use a microfiber duster; these are more gentle and less likely to damage your screen. Simply pass it over the screen, and it will pick up any dust that’s settled on it., Most televisions usually come with such a cloth specifically for cleaning. If you’ve misplaced it, you can purchase a microfiber cloth at most stores selling electronics. Make sure to wipe gently. Don’t rub or scrub with the cloth. Any smudges or marks on the screen won’t come off with just a cloth.

While more expensive than a rag, a microfiber cloth is best to wipe your screen. The reason for this is paper towels, rags or sponges can scratch your HDTV’s screen. Dirt, dust or other particles can get caught on them, causing the scratches., Use a measuring cup to make a solution that’s equal parts water and alcohol. If your solution uses too much alcohol, it might damage the display.Stick to a solution that’s ½ water and ½ rubbing alcohol; you shouldn’t need much more than a cup of this solution to clean your screen.

You can use vinegar instead of rubbing alcohol for this solution. Both are effective and unlikely to damage your tv screen.
 Fill a spray bottle with your solution, and spray it onto a clean microfiber cloth. Don’t spray it directly onto the screen. This could seriously damage it.Make sure your cloth isn’t completely soaked through; you just want to dampen it.

Wring the cloth before proceeding.
 Wipe until you’ve reached the opposite end of the display, then repeat this motion a few inches lower. Continue doing this until you’ve covered the entirety of the television. You can pass over smudges on the screen more than once to clean them.

Don’t put too much pressure on the screen as you wipe. This could seriously damage the display, especially those with LED’s. Too much pressure could break this delicate technology.The frame on some televisions might make it difficult to clean the entirety of the display. If this is the case for you, dip cotton swabs in your solution and use them to clean the edges., Wipe the entire screen down, until you’ve rid it of all moisture. You don’t want any of your cleaning solution to trickle down the screen; it might get in behind the first layer of the screen and damage your TV.Make sure not to turn on the TV until it’s completely dry.

