 Use a size G/6 or 4.0mm crochet hook and fine, baby or sports weight yarn to make 4 chain stitches. Close the chain by making a slip stitch through both loops of the first chain., Start by making 2 chain stitches. Next, make 13 double crochet stitches through the center of your ring. Use your fingers to spread the stitches evenly around the ring., Be sure to pull the slip stitch through both loops of your first double crochet. This finishes off the first round, for a total of 13 stitches. This excludes the first 2 chain stitches.

Do not turn your work around.Use a stitch marker to mark the beginning and end of your row. If you don't have one, you can use a safety pin or a piece of yarn in a contrasting color.
 This finishes off the second round, for a total of 26 stitches.If you are using a stitch marker, be sure to move it into place!

, Begin with 2 chain stitches, then 1 double crochet in the first stitch. Follow up with 2 double crochets in the second stitch. Repeat the last 3 stitches (1 double crochet in 1 stitch, 2 double crochets in 1 stitch) for the rest of the round. Close the round off with a slip stitch for a total of 39 stitches., Start with 2 chain stitches, then make 1 double crochet stitch in the first and second stitch. Follow up with 2 double crochets in the third stitch. Repeat the last four stitches (1 double crochet over the next 2 stitches, then 2 double crochets in the same stitch) until you reach the end of the round. Close the round with a slip stitch. You'll have 52 stitches total.If your baby has a larger head, add another increasing round. This time, do 1 double crochet for 3 stitches, followed by 2 double crochets in the same stitch.
 Begin with 2 chain stitches, then do 1 double crochet into each stitch for the rest of the round. Close the round with a slip stitch. You'll have the same number of stitches as before: 52. All proceeding rounds will have the same number of stitches.If you added another increasing round, you'll have the same number of stitches as that round.
 Begin each round with 2 chain stitches, then work 1 double crochet into each stitch. Finish each round with a slip stitch. Don't turn your work at all while making these rounds. You want a total of 13 rounds.If your baby has a larger head, consider adding another round to add extra length to the hat.
 Do 2 chain stitches, then turn your work. Do 1 double crochet in each stitch for the rest of the round. Close the round with a slip stitch. Don't turn your work after this., Do 2 chain stitches, then make 1 double crochet into each stitch. Close the round with a slip stitch. Do not turn your work., Start off by doing 1 chain stitch. Next, alternate between doing 1 single crochet and 1 chain stitch. Do not skip any stitches. This will give you a fancy little bump. Close the round off with a slip stitch in the first single crochet that you did., Turn the brim up by the last 3 rows (where you first turned your work). Your baby beanie is now complete!If you'd like, you can add a cute, felt appliqué to the brim, or a fluffy pompom to the top!