 The thesis, or argument, is the most important part of your paper. It tells your reader exactly what you are writing about, and lets them know the point of your paper. Without a strong thesis, the rest of your paper will be vague and general. Write your thesis before you structure the rest of your essay.You can use several methods to come up with a thesis statement. For example, you can start by asking a series of questions. Once you find a good one, turn it into a declarative statement.
Another method is to use "free association". Write down all of the terms that come to mind when you think of your topic. An idea for a thesis might jump out at you.
Your thesis must have two key parts: first, it must be debatable. This means that your argument is not a basic statement of facts, but that it is open for critical debate. Second, your thesis must be tightly focused enough that it can be clearly supported with evidence.For example, perhaps you have been assigned an essay about gender. Your thesis statement could be something like this: "Gender is essentially a social construct, particularly during the early to mid-twentieth century. There are actually much fewer biological differences between men and women than previously thought; the divide between the sexes has actually been created by society."

, After you construct your thesis, outline the rest of your paper. An outline is key for creating an organized and structured essay. Your outline should be thorough, indicating the topic for each paragraph (or section, if this is a longer paper). Your outline should also include references to your sources.When writing your outline, make sure that all of the parts of your essay support your thesis. If the information is not directly related to your thesis, you don't need it.
For example, if you have been assigned an essay about racial segregation in Chicago, you do not need to spend time discussing sexism in the same city.
If you are writing a brief essay about race, your outline could indicate that you will discuss the historical precedents, the quantitative date, the scholarly interpretations, and trends for the future.
Don't worry if your outline takes a while. Once you have a sturdy outline, the rest of the writing progress will be much more efficient.
 For many people, getting started is the hardest part of writing. Tackle your introductory paragraph first; you'll feel much better once it is out of the way. Make sure it is tightly focused and introduces your thesis statement.Try using a specific example in your introduction. In the example essay of racial segregation in Chicago, you might include a story about a young child who was not allowed to attend the school nearest her house.
It is useful to write the conclusion before you write the body of your essay. This will help you to stay on track and make sure that your essay clearly relates to the conclusion you are making.
 Each body paragraph should have a main point and several supporting statements. Make sure that you use your data to support the main points in each paragraph. It is important to include clear transitions between each paragraph so that your paper flows nicely.For example, if you are writing an essay about ageism in America, one of the topic sentences for a body paragraph might be, "Ageism is a prejudice that makes it difficult for older citizens to get hired for certain jobs, even if they are the most qualified."

, Typically, your professor will require you to cite your sources in using the American Sociological Society system. This method requires in-text citations using parenthetical documentation. The important information to include is the author, title, and date.An ASA citation could look like this: "The results gathered by Davis (1982: 78) demonstrate that...Make sure to check with your professor to ensure that you are supposed to use ASA style. Then familiarize yourself with the rules of this documentation system.

