 Select one fruit and one vegetable to “feature” in your diet each week. Try to include your featured foods in at least one meal a day. Then, at the end of each week write a few quick notes about what you liked and disliked about your choices. Keep going until you can definitively say you’ve found your favorite!Create a tournament bracket for veggies and fruits. Include your friends and see which foods win out as they go head-to-head.
 Choose a single food item and research everything that you can about it. Become an expert on that item. Find out where it is grown, what are its medicinal properties (if any), and what different types are available. This knowledge will make you excited to try out what you have learned in the real world at the table., It’s tough to move away from traditional fried food, but there is a whole array of prep options waiting for you. Squash, for example, may seem like a pretty boring food but it can be transformed by grilling, baking, stuffing, or sautéing. Mastering these various cooking techniques will make food prep an adventure instead of a bore., You can find many alternative versions of your favorite, and most commonly consumed, foods. Identify a particular food or drink item and investigate your options. For example, if you regularly drink whole milk, consider switching to 1% or fat-free. You will get the same amount of calcium and nutrients with less saturated fat.Try substituting for oil and butter when you are baking. For example you can use applesauce or prune puree for half of the called-for butter, shortening or oil in a recipe., Trick your taste buds by subtly adding fruits and vegetables into recipes that you already enjoy. This will ramp up the nutrients in your diet, while staying close to your regular routine, meaning that you are more likely to continue.


Baking is one of the best ways to ‘hide’ the good stuff. Make zucchini bread and ramp up the amount of zucchini or bake banana nut bread with extra bananas.For baked goods, always replace refined oils with olive oil or applesauce. You will not taste the difference and some people even believe that it adds moisture to the final product.
 Take creative ownership over your diet by growing your own fruits, vegetables, and herbs. You will appreciate every bite that you take when you’ve put the effort into the process. Start with herbs, commonly considered the “gateway garden” for beginners.


Thyme, basil, and rosemary are smart and hardy choices, which are also used in many recipes.