 There are a number of different options of types of sights to use on your rifle, and even more options within each type. Choosing the correct sight for you requires considering what type of shooting you want to do, at what distance, and what your preferences are. Some people prefer traditional iron sights, while others like to use high magnification scopes, and everything in between.Iron sights are the sights that usually come on the rifle and include a rear sight aperture and a front sight tip. They are used primarily for short distance shooting, but can be accurate at nearly any range.
Red dot optics involve projecting a red dot onto a lens in the sights you are using. This red dot, or floating reticle, shows you on the lens where the target should impact. Red dots are used mostly for short to medium range shooting.
Magnification optics use a lens to show you a magnified view of the target. They are used for long distance shooting primarily.;
, Different types of ammunition will affect the flight path of the round you fire from your rifle, so it’s important that you choose a type of ammunition and stick to it throughout the process of zeroing your rifle. Being consistent with your ammunition choices removes a variable that could affect where the round hits the target, so you can make adjustments more precisely.Different types of ammunition may use different propellants or amounts of propellants, which can make the round travel faster, limiting the arc of the round and affecting its point of impact.
When zeroing a rifle, you want to be as consistent as possible with the equipment and methods you use.
 As a round flies downrange, it travels in an arc. Think of the round you fire as a football. It travels upward slightly before arcing and traveling back downward. The distance you choose to zero the rifle at will determine what portion of the arced flight path the round impacts the target on. You can only zero your rifle correctly for one distance, so choose one that approximates the distances you intend to be from your targets in the future. You will still be able to sight in on targets at any distance, but will need to adjust your aiming based on the distance your rifle is zeroed for.Zeroing at a shorter distance like 25 or 50 meters will mean the round is traveling upward at a steeper angle, so it will be sighted high for longer distances. If you will primarily be shooting at short range targets, this is your best option.
Zeroing at a longer distance means the round will be on a downward slope when it impacts the target, so you will be aimed low for closer targets. If you will primarily be shooting at long distance targets, this is your best option.
Many people choose to zero their rifles for one hundred yards, but you should choose your zero distance based how you intend to be shooting.
 In order to zero your rifle, you must first get your rounds “on paper.” Getting on paper means hitting the target anywhere, so you can see where the rounds impact and make adjustments to your sights to bring those rounds closer to the bullseye. A laser bore sighter is a laser pointer that’s designed to be shaped like a round you would load into your rifle. Turn it on and then load the rifle with the bore sighter, the red dot will show exactly where the barrel is pointed on the target. It should provide you with enough accuracy to get on paper with your first rounds.Look through your sights at the red dot, then adjust the sights until the red dot is centered in your scope or sights.
Remember that the bullet won’t actually travel in a straight line, so this method will only get your sights close enough to begin the zeroing process.
 Competition shooting rests absorb recoil and keep the rifle exactly in place while you shoot. One of the biggest obstacles shooters must overcome is a moving rifle. When holding a rifle up, or even supporting it with your bone structure, your body will sway slightly with your breathing and heart rate. These small movements can dramatically effect accuracy at a distance. Shooting rests hold the rifle in place for you, so you can be sure you aren’t moving it when firing.Equipment like bore sighters and shooting rests are not required to zero a rifle, but can provide a big help, especially for inexperienced shooters.
Some rifle ranges may have shooting rests you can use, so you won’t have to purchase one.

