 As many events occur around the holidays, it may be pricier to book a traditional venue like a church. If money is an issue, look into alternative venues.If you're having a winter wedding in a warmer region, consider marrying in an outdoor park. Usually, the only fee required is a small registration fee.
See if you have space in your backyard or someone else's. It will not cost much money to have your wedding in your own backyard if you have enough space.;
, When planning the date, it's best to avoid marrying on Christmas day. Many people will have existing obligations and be unable to attend. Also, having people arrive on Christmas day means travel costs can skyrocket. Instead of a Christmas day wedding, plan your wedding around the season.Many people start feeling festive any time after Thanksgiving. You can try planning your wedding sometime between Thanksgiving and Christmas. This way, you can use a Christmas theme without inconveniencing your guests.
Try to pick a date that does not interfere too much with existing travel plans. If guests come from a variety of different places, many of them may already have tickets to other destinations on the days closest to Christmas. A wedding earlier in December may be easier for many people to manage.
 The time of day you have your wedding actually has a big effect on cost. If you're looking to cut down on the budget, a morning ceremony is a good idea. Rates go up for locations in the afternoon and evening, and breakfast and brunch catering services tend to be less pricey. If you're looking to save money, be open to the idea of a ceremony earlier in the day.However, there may be reasons other than cost affecting the time. If you have people who will be traveling the day of, a later ceremony may be a good idea as this will help make sure everyone arrives in time.
 There are likely to be a lot of parties and events going on during the season. You do not want your wedding to be a source of stress or scheduling conflicts. See if you can combine your wedding with other holiday events.For example, does your family throw a Christmas party each year? If people are already planning on attending that party, why not have your wedding before the party? The party can serve as a combination Christmas party and reception.

