 Get a roll of pennies from the bank and then take a picnic lunch to a local wishing well. You can each take fifty pennies and then begin throwing them into the well, making a wish on each one. You can have secret wishes but say at least a few of them out loud.;
, There’s a reason that so many people want to travel abroad to celebrate anniversaries. There are many amazing things to see in the world and seeing them together will bring you closer together and create memories to last the rest of your lives.


You can see the bridge of love locks in Cologne, have lunch at the Rodin gardens in Paris, watch the sun set over the ocean in Thailand, or sit below the fully-bloomed cherry trees in Tokyo.
 If you have a big enough yard, or know someone with a big enough yard, get a projector and a relatively small screen (easily rented from business supply companies, as these are used in meetings and conferences). Set this up in the yard and then pull up your car. Have food and popcorn and candy. You can even invite other couples or family members to join you, if there’s enough space.
 Make a physical expression of how your love has changed for the better as time has gone on by upgrading your wedding rings. Choose the new rings together. You can even try to make something with the originals. Either tie them together with ribbon and frame them in a shadowbox or have a jeweler melt them down to form part of a new pair of custom rings.
 Remind yourself of years past by writing each other letters. Try to write a letter every day for the year leading up to your anniversary and then exchanged them on the day. You can write about all of your memories, how you feel about them each day, all the little things that you appreciate, or pretty much anything else that you feel is right.
 Consider making a scrapbook to pass on to your children and grandchildren. Make the scrapbook the story of how you met and fell in love, the trials you faced together, and the joys you’ve shared. Consider including letters or notes with practical advice on how to handle marriage and the hurdles of life.

