, Gather the contact information of the agent you've in mind. Keep this in a safe spot so you don't have to go search for this stuff again. If you are going to sell your book online, go through the motions of publishing a book. Don't publish anything, though, just follow the guidelines strictly.
 Think of past events in their life, and maybe that could affect them. What are their weaknesses and strengths? Have they had past loves? Get to know your character.


Characters are a huge part of a romance novel. For the leads to seem "realistic" (if that's what you're going for), you must give them flaws. Nobody is perfect, so why make your characters perfect? (However, making them seem perfect to one another is perfectly fine, as long as they have their flaws underneath it all.)
Don't have your main characters obsessed with only one thing or one person. The reader should be able to get to know them beyond their romantic interests.
 Depending on the group of people you're writing this romance for, pick the ages of your characters. You'll want your romance novel to be relatable, so writing an adult romance novel centered on fifteen-year-olds won't be a huge hit. Vice versa, if you're writing a teen romance, try not to make them forty-something, or even thirty-something, as these are the ages of the parents of the kids who will be reading your romance. Tweens and teens devour more romance novels, so it would be best if your characters ranged from about 18 to 24. Direct the ages of your characters to the age group of people you want to read your romance.
 If it's in the future, it probably won't look like the world today. If you're writing paranormal romance, try making up your own world. Base it on what sub genre your romance is on. You don't have to get super specific if you don't want to, but your readers will have an easier time visualizing the story if they can picture the setting. In addition, the setting can help build your characters—if it's always sunny, maybe one longs to live in a place where it rains one day etc.
 Include events that have to do with romance, like dates and heart breaks. Think of interesting ideas, not the same ones that other stories have used. Maybe one of the character's ex is jealous of the relationship, and is trying to get back together with them, or the parents might not approve and select a different partner for the character. Don't forget to use other characters in your book too, like exes, parents, (if it's about teenagers), and friends.


Don't always make these events a "picnic in the park with butterflies everywhere" or like a "marriage, divorce, date, marriage, divorce, date, cheat, break-up." You want your romance novel to stand out from the rest.
Give the couple their share of trouble along the way. The whole "boy-meets-girl-and-they-fall-in-love-and-live-happily-ever-after" thing is kind of a mainstream idea. Make it interesting, for example, " boy-meets-girl-and-they-hate-each-other-until-boy-sees-girl-getting-drunk-and crazy-at-a-party-and-takes-her-on-a-pity-date-and-she-finds-out-about-the-pity-part" Yes, it's a long scenario, but it's much more complex. Depending on what kind of romance you're writing, create different problems for your characters, such as she's a ghost, he's 10 years older than her and her family doesn't approve, she's disabled, he's from the future.
 "Um...I'm Charlotte. Do I know you?" sounds believable. Feel free to give them cheesy dialogue like, "You have the most amazing eyes." However, don't fill up the entire novel with cheesy compliments. A good romance novel usually has a balance of realistic and mushy lines. Also, remember that romances need to be passionate. Give them emotions!


Include descriptive words. "Nice" or "Cool" sound unprofessional and tend to deter readers. Other dull and overused words include 'good', 'great', and 'amazing'. Look for more interesting synonyms for these words, such as 'exceptional', 'pleasing', or 'satisfactory'.
 Think of a hooked beginning, like one of your characters flirting with another person they like, or if it is paranormal, it could start at a magical place. You don't have to stick with the outline, but you should follow it. Also, think of a good ending. Most endings are the two characters living happily ever after, but why not try something different? The ending will be remembered, so you should make it really good!

, You can write an amazing romance novel, but if your ending is not satisfactory, it will just be remembered as 'okay' or 'I liked it, but the ending was bad'. Don't rush the ending because you're sick of plodding through chapter after chapter. It's best to end the novel with the guy and girl getting together. This will make the readers really happy, because they want the guy and the girl to be together! However, don't feel like you have to end the novel with the two main characters living happily ever after. Look at Romeo and Juliet.
 No one desires to read something that is as poorly worded and proofread as, "and Sarah, like, just went to the bathroom n never came back again ever and everyone was real sad. THE END, thanks for readin my book, her'es my e-mail, tell all ur friends bout it, BYE!!!" It's likely no-one will buy it. If you are sending it to a literary agent, they WILL keep having an editor change your novel until you stop making mistakes/errors. When you have to edit something, don't change the story! The agent would've rejected it if it was really a bad story, so if they haven't rejected it so far, don't change a thing! (Besides mistakes the editor wants you to fix.)

, Ask for critique, otherwise you won't get any better. If they honestly like it, have the story published! Or, if you don't want to, put it on the backseat for a while and then you can read it for your own entertainment.

