 Tightening your muscles during urination, if you do it correctly, will stop you from urinating. If you succeed, you have identified the muscles that you need to activate while doing kegel exercise.You only need to practice on the toilet while you're finding the right muscles. Once you've figured out which muscles you need to engage, you can do the exercises anywhere.In fact, you shouldn't continue to do the exercises while urinating, as it can keep urine in your bladder. In turn, that can cause bladder infections.;
, If you can't quite get the hang of it just from urinating, you can also try this trick. Remember that you're also trying to stop yourself from urinating as well. You should be feeling both at the same time., When engaging your pelvic muscles, you shouldn't be using your thighs or stomach to help. You also shouldn't be using your buttocks muscles. Make sure you are just using your pelvic muscles., If you are not sure if you are squeezing the right muscles, try to squeeze your finger with the muscles in question. To use this method, wash your hands first. Put your finger in your vagina. If you feel the pressure around it while trying to tighten the muscles of the pelvis, you are tightening the correct muscles.You can also ask your partner to help you with this step if you can't do it yourself. You can ask your lover to use a finger or his penis to see if he or she can feel you tightening your muscles., While you may have located your kegel muscles while urinating, it is not good to practice Kegel exercises while urinating; it can lead to infections, as noted previously. In addition, it's easier to start with an empty bladder so you don't have an accident while practicing., Kegel exercises are so simple that you can do them while you are in any position, even if you are pregnant. On top of that, no one will know that you are doing them. Find the position that suits you best.You can lie down, sit, or stand; any position is fine to do Kegel exercises., You need to contract your muscles. That means that you won't want to push like you do when you're using the bathroom. Instead, you want to pull up, like you're pulling your muscles into you., Once you learn the right motion, you need hold and repeat it to do the exercise. Start with contracting the muscles for five seconds, and then release for five seconds. Repeat this process five times in a row. , After you've managed five seconds of contraction, move up to 10 seconds. Hold the pelvic muscles for 10 seconds, and then release them for 10 seconds. Repeat five times.You can work up to more repetitions, as many as 20 each time you do the exercises., You should try doing Kegel exercises throughout the day, such as when you wake up, while sitting at the computer or watching TV, and when you go to bed., Don't use your stomach, leg, or buttocks muscles while doing Kegel muscles. It's not bad to engage them, per se; it's just that you are trying to work your pelvic muscles, and using the other muscles means you are not working your pelvic muscles as hard.Put your hand on your stomach and tighten your pelvic floor muscles. If your stomach moves, you must focus more on keeping it from moving while you do these exercises.
 Kegel exercises are not meant to be strenuous and you should not hold your breath while doing them. If you are having a hard time breathing when you do these exercises or can’t help but hold your breath, you may want to consult someone, like your doctor, who can help you do these exercises correctly.
 Doing so will help you to hold in your urine, even when your baby is pressing on your bladder. In addition, having strong muscles will help you when you are in labor.For instance, studies have shown that doing Kegel exercises while pregnant decreases your chances of having complications such as pelvic muscle tearing.In addition, you may spend less time in labor if you strengthen those muscles., You can do exercises anywhere, especially if you're stuck waiting. Try doing them at a red light, or while you're waiting in line at the grocery store. You can even do them at your desk while you're working on other tasks., It is usually recommended that women start Kegel exercises in the first term of their pregnancy; however, you can start whenever you like, even before you are pregnant, as it allows time to strengthen the muscles before they become stressed by the weight of the baby during pregnancy.Starting early also allows you time to work on perfecting your routine. At some point, it will become second nature, so that you do not even really need to think about it when you are emotionally and physically stressed in the latter part of your pregnancy.
 Kegel exercises are not just for when you are pregnant. They still provide benefits after you have your baby. You may need to wait a few days after birth to start them up again; ask your doctor when you can begin again.Doing these exercises will help to prevent the possibility of uncontrolled urination due to sneezing, coughing, laughing, fecal incontinence and hemorrhoids,and they can also make sex more enjoyable.Doing these exercises after you give birth also encourages healing.