 Stains tend to pick up and accentuate flaws in the surface, just like wood stain does with wood knots. Keep in mind that staining is not the same as covering.


You may consider laying new concrete, if the surface is cracked and deteriorating. Hire professionals to pour the concrete.;
, Cement stain is semi-transparent and color is added and mixed just as it is with traditional house paint.


You can also buy acid stain; however, it can be more difficult to apply yourself than other concrete stains. It will also take longer to apply because you must neutralize the stain after it sets.
You can choose 2 different colors of concrete stain to create a marble effect. Use a lighter color as your base coat, and a darker color on the second coat.
 You should always test the color before applying to an entire section of concrete.


Clean the section of concrete with an industrial washing product, like TSP. Apply the stain according to package directions, usually by wetting the concrete and applying with a roller.
, One gallon of paint will cover 200 to 400 square feet. Buy enough to do 2 coats, if you want darker, more even coverage.
 Work in 4 x 4 foot sections.
 These will show through the concrete stain.
 Move on to the next section, working across the section of concrete you need to clean.
 You need to be careful not to track on any dirt, or the stain will not be even.


Consider setting up tape or barricades during the cleaning and staining process, if you are near a public area, such as a sidewalk.
 Tape it down with painter's tape, if possible.
 You can also apply with a roller, but the paint sprayer will apply even coverage.
 Days without wind are also best for using paint sprayers.
 It should be a mist of water, light enough so that water does not gather and run, leading to an uneven application.
 Spray sections of 4 feet (1.2 m) by 4 feet (1.2 m) and then move on to the next section.


If you are using 2 different colors to create a marble effect, do not wait to apply the second coat. You can apply it immediately after the first coat.
 This is usually 24 hours.
 If so, wet the top of the stain with water and apply a second coat just as you did the first.
 Check the surface for any sections that were not fully covered. Spray them by hand.
, Choose a time when the concrete patch is shaded.
 Use a roller with a very long handle for floor application.
 Move in 1 direction. It will be white when it rolls on, but it will dry clear.
,, Your surface is ready to use.
 Apply new coats of sealer every 3 to 4 years.

