 Each of these disabilities affects an individual in different ways and can produce different types of symptoms. LDs can affect the way the brain processes audio, visual, or speech-related information or stimuli.


LDs are the result of neurological-based problems that affect the way that the brain receives, processes, stores, and responds to information: the brain's cognitive functioning.
LDs are not curable, they are lifelong. But, they can be managed with the proper help.;
, One in every five Americans is diagnosed with a LD. Unfortunately, because each LD affects the cognitive area of the brain, symptoms tend to over-lap, making it quite difficult for even the trained professional to identify. For example, poor-handwriting skills can be the result of difficulties processing symbols (dyslexia); or from poor spatial organization skills (dysgraphia). The most common LDs are:


Dyslexia is a reading disability that affects how one interprets sounds, letters and words.It can affect general vocabulary skills as well as one's reading speed and efficiency. Symptoms of dyslexia include late speech, difficulty with handwriting, and difficulty rhyming words.
Dyscalculia affects an individual's ability to process numbers, and can manifest itself as a problem with memorization skills, as well as a difficulty sequencing patterns or numbers.Symptoms of dyscalculia include difficulty counting and memorizing arithmetic concepts.
Dysgraphia is a LD of writing, and can be the result of either a physical motor in-efficiency, or a mental difficulty in understanding and processing certain forms of information.Individuals with dysgraphia tend to demonstrate poor handwriting skills, illegible and/or irregular writing, and have difficulties communicating through the written form.
 Although each LD affects the brain in a different way, there are, however, general symptoms that can help indicate whether-or-not an individual has a disability of either the audio, visual, or speech type. These symptoms include:Trouble spelling.
Avoidance of reading and writing.
Difficulty summarizing.
Trouble with open-ended questions.
Poor memory.
Difficulty with abstract concepts.
Trouble expressing ideas.
Mispronunciation.
Easily distracted.
Mix up right/left or poor sense of direction.
Trouble following directions or completing tasks., Take well-detailed notes if necessary, and look for the most obvious symptoms of a LD--poor memorization, bad social skills, frustration with reading and/or writing.


Do you or your child perform daily tasks in a different way each time? This can be an indicator of a LD.Do this over an extended period of time.
 These symptoms may not necessarily be the result of a LD, but may be caused by other conditions affecting you or your child. In many cases, individuals demonstrate the symptoms of a LD but do not actually have any disorder. Instead, these individuals are being affected by social, financial, personal, or general living conditions that make it difficult to learn or remain focused.These "learning problems" are not considered disorders.It is very difficult to distinguish between learning disorders and learning problems.
 If you do not believe that the symptoms are being caused by any outside or social conditions, then the next step is to take a quiz or questionnaire. Many are available online. These tests will help you assess whether-or-not you should seek any further screening.



Here is a test that you can take at home.
 On the contrary, individuals with LDs typically demonstrate an average to above average intelligence.Charles Schwab and Whoopi Goldberg have been diagnosed with LDs, and many suspect that Albert Einstein may have had one as well.


Celebrities Tom Cruise, Danny Glover and Jay Leno all have dyslexia, and have actively campaigned to raise awareness for the disability.
Historians and researchers suspect that these historical figures may have also had some form of learning disability: George Patton, Walt Disney, Leonardo Da Vinci, Thomas Jefferson and Napoleon Bonaparte.

