 Doctors can monitor and control your physical symptoms through medication. With a detailed understanding of your medical history and drinking habits, your doctor will be able to develop a treatment plan to help you detox safely and avoid the most severe symptoms of withdrawal.


If you go through withdrawal several times, your symptoms might get worse each time.Therefore, it is important to see your doctor when quitting alcohol.
 These vital signs can help them figure out if you need certain medical interventions or medications.
 This way, you’ll be able to wean yourself off your dependency and avoid the sudden shock to the body that leads to withdrawal.


Medical staff may substitute another sedative that imitates the effects of alcohol.
The timeline you need to reduce your alcohol intake depends on how much alcohol you consume regularly and how strong the alcohol is.
Quitting cold turkey is not recommended without medical supervision.
 For instance, if you experience anxiety, the doctor might recommend anti-anxiety and mood-stabilizing drugs. If you’re experiencing seizures, you might need to take Tegretol (carbamazepine) or Depakote (valproic acid), both of which are anti-seizure medications. Your doctor will help you decide which medicine you need.


Your prolonged alcohol abuse probably means you are deficient in a number of vitamins and minerals. , Besides medication to prevent withdrawal symptoms, you’ll need to receive these nutritional supplements and vitamins, which may include zinc, phosphate, magnesium, and thiamine., Keep a spare set nearby so that if you wake up in the middle of the night and find your sheets soaked, you can change them quickly. Have a shower before bed to relax you and clean your pores.



Yoga or meditation might help reduce your likelihood of night sweats.
Do not engage in vigorous physical activity before bed.
Avoid spicy foods in the evening before going to sleep.
Keep your room’s temperature at a lower-than-normal temperature.

