 Fix their relative height and distance so that you can sit comfortably. Don’t set your seat so far back that you have to lean forward to grip the steering wheel. Avoid placing undue stress on your body, which may tire you out and distract you, making you less responsive.The positioning of your seat may effect which grip you find more comfortable: 9-and-3 or 10-and-2. Taller people, for instance, may find 10-and-2 most comfortable, due to the limits of how much they can adjust either the steering column or their seat.
 Extend your sights at least a half-mile to a mile farther up the road. Keep your eyes peeled for any curves, hazards, or other factors that may necessitate a change in direction. Anticipate when you need to turn early on. Give yourself as much time as possible to plan and execute changes in direction.If you are passing through a tight curve that significantly reduces your field of vision, always focus on the farthest point that you can see ahead of you.
Trust your peripheral vision to alert you to sudden changes that appear closer to hand.
 Anticipate that a change in direction at slow speed will require greater physical effort with the steering wheel. Be prepared to turn it by a greater number of degrees in low-speed areas like parking lots, residential streets, and urban neighborhoods. Conversely, keep your turning actions with the wheel very, very slight when driving fast. Expect a slight turn of the wheel to cause a very pronounced change of direction on high-speed roads like highways., Turning the steering wheel when the car is parked or otherwise at rest can have adverse effects on your tires and power-steering. Do so when necessary, such as when you parallel-park or execute a K-turn. Otherwise, try to avoid it., Maintain optimum control over the vehicle while using tools other than the steering wheel. Use your nearest hand to operate such functions as turn signals and gear shifts while driving. Keep your other hand where it is as you do so. Don’t risk letting go of the wheel to alter its position.