 Do this by playing four quarter notes in succession, all the same length. For example: play four notes long, making them sound like they almost run together, and then play four notes that are so short they sound like eighth notes instead of quarters. Here are descriptions of common articulations that affect note length:




 

Staccato: Staccato notes are short and detached. When played properly, they often make a note value sound half as short. Unlike accents, staccato notes should not be played heavily. They are light, and usually playful.






Tenuto/Legato: Tenuto notes are to be held for their full value. They often sound almost run together. Tenuto can also mean slightly louder or with weight.






Slurs: A slur indicates that the notes it embraces are to be played without separation. This implies legato articulation, and in music for bowed string instruments, it also indicates the notes should be played in one bow; and in music for wind instruments, that the notes should be played without using the tongue to re-articulate each note.;
, You may wish to play a piece without and then with ornaments.

Trills: A trill is a rapid alternation between an indicated note and the one above. Usually, if the music containing the trill was written before 1800 the trill is played by starting a note above the written note. If the music was written after 1800 then the trill is usually played by starting on the note written and going up to the note above. (This will most likely be noted in the music piece. If not assume the latter rule applies.)


 Both measures contain trills




 These notes represent how the trill should be played.



Mordents: The mordent is thought of as a rapid single alternation between an indicated note, the note above or below, and the indicated note again. The upper mordent (goes to note above) is indicated by a short squiggle (which may also indicate a trill); the lower mordent (goes to the note below) is the same with a short vertical line through it.


 From left to right, upper then lower mordents




 These notes represent how the mordents should be played.








Turns: A turn is a short figure consisting of the note above the one indicated, the note itself, the note below the one indicated, and the note itself again. It is marked by a mirrored S-shape lying on its side above the staff.






Grace notes: A grace note is indicated by printing a note that is much smaller than a regular note. Grace notes occur as notes of short duration before the sounding of the relatively longer-lasting note which immediately follows them. A slash through the note indicates it should be very short.






Glissando: A glissando is a slide from one note to another (any notes between the two in step order), signified by a wavy line connecting the two notes.

