 You’ll need a friend to help with this method: they should use their hands or a comb to part your hair into multiple small squares. It’s up to you how many squares your friend makes. Each square will become a single dreadlock, and smaller squares make thinner dreads. Generally, 1- or 2-inch (2.5 or 5 cm) squares are preferable.Backcombing works to create dreads on hair that is already at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) long. If your hair is less than three inches, plan to grow your hair before starting dreads, or use another method to create the hairstyle.;
, The individual dreading your hair should firmly grasp the segment of hair contained within each square. Using a dread comb, firmly comb the hair back towards your head, starting with the hair about 1 inch (2.5 cm) from your scalp. As the hair begins to build up towards the roots, your friend can move farther from your scalp until they backcomb the entire strand of hair.You can buy a dread comb through major online retailers, or through a local hair salon. They may also be available for purchase at your local drug store, department store, or WalMart.
 This is a time consuming process: you’ll need to wait while your friend backcombs the section of hair in each square on your head (there could be as many as 30). As they backcomb all of your hair, they can also roll the hair of each dread back and forth between their fingers. This will help pack the hair in each dread as tightly as possible.Be aware that you’ll lose length when you create dreads by backcombing. Plan to lose at least 1/3 or 1/2 of your hair length: if you start dreads in 6-inch (15-cm) hair, the finished dreads may only be 3 inches (7.6 cm) long., Once each dreadlock has been completely backcombed, secure the end of the dread with a small rubber band. You or your friend can secure another small rubber band around the root of each dread (as close to your scalp as possible) in order to prevent the base of the dread from loosening or unraveling.Any variety of rubber band will work: check an office supply store and purchase the smallest, thinnest set of rubber bands available.
 After each dread has been fully backcombed and has rubber bands at the tip and base, it’s time to wax the dreads. Have your friend liberally apply a dread wax to each of your new locks. This will help restrain loose ends on each dread, and will help the hair form proper dreadlocks quickly. For safety reasons, it’s best if the wax you use does not contain petroleum.You’ll probably be able to purchase dread wax at the same location you bought the dread comb. Look in online retailers—including online hair salons—drug stores, beauty parlors, or large department stores.
Even after having been waxed, it will take dreads 3–4 months to reach maturity. During that time, wash the dreads once a week.