 Even though they may seem annoying, they just want to get your attention and become your friend.;
, Consider asking yourself:


Do they come to your classroom to look for you during break times?
Do they ask you to help them go to places?
Do they want you to watch them play on the playground or run around?

, Younger children tend to look out for someone who feels friendly and trustworthy. They may be needing someone to talk to and get attention from.


Are any of your interests the same as the child?
Do you have a feature similar to the child?
Have you achieved anything in the past which made you known to everyone at the school?
Do they want to be just like you?

, Ask them what their favourite things are or let them talk to you about what they want. Ensure that you remember what they say to you as it will help in the future. Avoid asking the same questions over again.
 Keep the things they like to do in mind, listen to what they have to say. Constantly avoiding them will make them more determined to get your attention. It will not help, and it can even make things worse. Think about the following:


Are they interested in a particular sport, piece of equipment or playground?
Do they prefer to get their hands dirty or do they like to stay somewhere cool like the library?

, Questioning them with "How so?" and "Why is that?" can make them confused and may upset them. Upsetting a child can get you into trouble with the teachers. Being an older pupil, you are supposed to be a role model to others. Getting into trouble will destroy your reputation and teachers may dislike you in the future. This can also affect your future life in high school as behaviour reputations are passed on.
 Before asking, ensure that you have definitely seen them interact friendly with other children their age. Don't ask them if you know they have been lonely and are unable to make friends. They may be trying to get your attention because they have no one else.
 Make sure the other children are confident saying hello and introducing themselves. Organise everyone to play a game for a while at break time so they can have fun and get to know each other.
 Do not make excuses and attempt to hide or run from the child. If you must do work, tell them kindly and reassuringly. Try to make it up to the child if you have been away from them for some time.
 Explain to them that you'll be leaving to a bigger school and you won't be able to see them anymore. Avoid the temptation to walk away if they look upset. Tell them that they have to be able to make friends easily around their age group. Be firm but gentle so they know exactly what you mean.
 If you see them hurt themselves, don't leave them there. Get a teacher to come and help them. If they get into an argument or physical fight, break it up and tell everyone in the fight to stop. Be firm and tell them that if they continue, a teacher will need to be involved to stop it.
 Gradually reduce the amount of days in a week you see them. Make sure you promise them and they promise they won't come and bother you when they are not supposed to. During the days they don't see you, tell them to find some new children to play with.
 Tell them the reasons why you don't want their child bothering you and what had been happening. Let them know that you are willing to help their child make some friends. The child would see you as a role model, and teaching them to make new friends could help them later on life.

