 Consider going in person to a store; purchasing one at an offline store will remind you what it was like to go shopping and buy something new as a kid. However, the selection of adult sleepers is smaller at actual stores than it is online, so you might need to shop around a bit, both online and offline, to find one that works for you.;
, There are many different customizations including the blanket sleeper's closure system, color, and whether or not they have an applique and/or slip-proof bottoms on them. If you really want to feel like a kid again, touches like non-slip feet can make all the difference.

Choose a blanket sleeper with the closure system you had as a kid. Although many kids' sleeper blankets have ankle-to-neck zipper closings, these are sometimes very hard for adults to find in their size and are a bit tough to use. If you find the closure system annoying to use, consider going with another instead, like one with buttons (even though these aren't commonly used in kids' blanket sleepers).
Look for child-like colors, if desired. Look for either baby blue (or aqua), baby pink (or light purple), or even baby-yellow (almost sun-bleached yellow).
Decide if you want a blanket sleeper with an applique sewn onto the garment. You might not like the feel of these appliques, and generally you can only buy them online.
Look for slip proof (or JiffyGrip) soles to the garment's feet. Most child blanket sleepers come with slip-proof soles made out of a white gripping fabric called JiffyGrip. Not all adult blanket sleepers offer this, but you can find some that do. If you have slipper floors at home, they can help avoid slips, too.
Consider blanket sleepers with snapping zipper-tabs. All child-like blanket sleepers have them, but for adults you may find these are only available online and by special request with extra fees attached.
Although there are two piece blanket sleepers, you won't feel too much like a kid when you are wearing them. If you want to relive your youth, shoot for the one-piece models.
Determine if you'd like to have a hood and/or mittens attached to the garment. These might be hard to find offline for adults, but if you look a bit online you can commonly find blanket sleeper companies willing to customize what they offer for you.
 You'll obviously need a sleeper that fits the wearer well, and isn't too tight.

You want to look into the plushier fabrics as well as the length and width. Most often sold as fleece sleepers, the plushier the fabric and the silkier and warmer it is, the more comfortable you'll feel.
 If you really want to relax, tune out the outside world, and feel carefree again, there's no time like the present. At home, nobody else will see you.
 With the ability to adjust the thermostat in your house or apartment, blanket sleepers can be made to be kid-like in any weather. Adjust the thermostat so that it is cooler in your house during the summer or slightly warmer in the winter (to compensate for the warmth of the sleeper). Consider wearing them to bed during the spring, summer and fall months too.



Pay attention to the temperature in your house to avoid becoming overheated, and ascertain yourself over your water-intake, to ensure you aren't loosing too much bodily fluids routinely. Fix all other temperature-controlled devices in the house to plan for these clothes associated to match cooler weather pattern differences that exist during the winter and to avoid becoming overheated (and what could later be dehydrated) in the summer as a result of this garment's constant use!



, Paying attention to your feelings is a big part of being kid-like when you begin wearing it. While sleeping in a blanket sleeper isn't for everyone after you've slept in it for several weeks, at first you might feel like taking it off after wearing it for only a few minutes, but trust this article: you will not regret it. Take things one step at a time. Wear it for one hour one night and add in time on each consecutive day/night. If you need to regress for any reason, begin the very next night. Try to shoot for times when you are in your house and you wear it and only take it off when you need to leave your house (such as for errands or work).

Reacquire your lost feelings you probably are hiding right now (while you are reading this article), which you once had when you were a kid and had been wearing them. The same warm, fuzzy feeling that you once held onto without recognizing it will envelop over and through you, once you begin wearing the blanket sleeper again; just give it the first hour in the trial reminder run.
 Whether you are an adult now or are trying to shy back into wearing comfortable clothes at night, blanket sleepers can easily be talked back into your parents' minds. Express your feelings with your parents, only after you've worn your blanket sleeper for a few nights. Hear your parents out, but try not to shirk away from what they say. It is you who chose to wear them again, and you have the right to free speech., It's easy to feel ashamed at your ability to wear them at first, and it's tough to change your viewpoint. It won't be easy to encourage yourself at first to wear something this awkward garment. But once you return and have tried it out for a few extensive times, it'll become second nature to encourage yourself to want to try more and more and for longer periods of time to wear one.

Although encouragement could help you somewhat build a tolerance to wearing one, using them isn't for everyone; trial-run the sleeper for a few weeks and see if all the details here work to help you build up the tolerance to wearing one and encourage yourself that you're okay (your body figure hasn't changed by your ability to wear one, has it?)!

, Make yourself feel like telling all your folks "What are you waiting for?" and telling them to try one on for themselves, because you know right that they still want to feel kid-like but are missing this feeling because their parents talked themselves out when they were kids. Carry out whatever you normally do during the day and try not to remove it once you get home and into bed or during the night. Wear it to bed, move around the house with it on, launder your other clothes with it on - do whatever you normally do - just make others realize that it was only your choice to wear it, and that if other people don't like to see you wearing it, let them clearly know that they can try to enjoy life with one of them on their body for their kid-like feeling too.
 Unless you can pin back the sleeves or hold back a droopy sleeper sleeve when cooking, you might want to watch out for awkward situations that can cause great concern for the health of yourself and the garment.Know that you'll never have to take off the blanket sleeper unless you choose to, or unless another activity (such as work or other business-like activity) forces you to remove this garment.


No one person will ever feel the same way as everyone else. Being kid-like is only an acquired taste that every person will have differing opinions on. While it's awfully natural to remove it after you have tried it, give it some time before telling yourself "I just can't take it anymore..." and removing it.
 The security you once felt when you were a kid with it on can't be expressed in any audible words most English-speakers can mention, but it can be felt only when you begin to wear it consistently. Recognize that same security you'll get when you wear a blanket sleeper now. If you can see life through a younger person's viewpoint, realize that this feeling can be embraced and be beneficial to making you see this feeling from the light of a kids viewpoint too.
 Blanket sleeper wearing times do come with some drawbacks. They do need to be washed every few days to weeks (dependent on the amount of use they are used for), and they must be observed to ensure the item doesn't degrade it's quality too quickly. Your family members and friends and relatives might remind you of this, but don't let this stop you either. That same feeling will return again, the moment you can put it back on after being washed and dried.


Most parents will want to know why you have chosen this route again. Make it seem like you are telling them If a young child can wear one, so can I. Make yourself seem bold when you express this - bolder than any other statement you might make during the course of your day. Make your action in words seem firm - though relaxed - in your mind, body and soul.
Smile as you go about your daily chores or tasks if some well-known friends and family members ask you why you are began to wear them like a kid again. These people don't understand the amount of fun they are missing out on when they aren't wearing them at night again. Your smiling may make them try the idea out for themselves.
 Holidays and weekends for most people are crucial points when you could be most-likely to wear your blanket sleepers , since most likely you'll be most likely to not have to return to work the next day.
 People know that medical accidents/illnesses can strike in any season and with any type of weather. Save yourself the anger of having to get undressed for long periods of time (and thereby not making you feel proud like a kid), and buy them in multiples of two or more.

If you can't stand to think of yourself wearing your sleeper after a lengthened period of time, buy one and hope that the company is still around (many still be) after a few-months and buy a second sleeper; just keep the inventory/packing slip around for product details for re-order and re-order at the same site or through the same company.

