 The carpal tunnel protects a variety of blood vessels, tendons and nerves, but the main nerve related to the symptoms of CTS is the median nerve — it allows for most of the movement and sensation in your hand.As such, avoid activities that pinch and/or irritate the nerve, such as repeatedly flexing your wrists, lifting heavy weights and sleeping with your wrists bent.


Keep any watches and bracelets loose around your wrists — keeping them too tight may irritate the median nerve.
CTS is usually caused by a combination of factors, such as repetitive wrist strain combined with arthritis or diabetes, for example.
In addition to throbbing hand pain, numbness and tingling, other symptoms commonly associated with CTS include muscle weakness, loss of dexterity and color changes (too pale or red in the hands).;
, If you work at a high-risk job for CTS, such as a cashier, construction worker or computer programmer, then consider wearing wrist supports, braces or splints while working. These semi-rigid supports can help prevent CTS from developing because they keep the wrist in a neutral position and prevent it from flexing too much.Wearing wrist supports at night while in bed can help relieve or prevent nighttime symptoms of CTS, particularly if you have a habit of clenching your fists or collapsing your wrists in.Wearing wrist splints at night is a good idea if you're pregnant and wanting to avoid CTS, as pregnancy tends to increase swelling in the hands (and feet).
Be aware that wrist supports restrict movement and are not appropriate for some jobs that require lots of dexterity or flexibility of the hands.
Wrist supports, splints and braces can be bought at most pharmacies and medical supply stores.
 Stretching your wrists on a regular basis can be helpful for avoiding or reducing CTS symptoms.Too much repetitive wrist flexing tends to irritate the median nerve, so stretching should focus on extending the wrists to make more space for the nerve within the carpal tunnel. The best way to extend and stretch both your wrists at the same time is by making the "prayer pose" with your hands.


Place your palms together directly in front of your chest (fingers pointing up) and raise your elbows until you feel a stretch in both wrists. Hold the pose for about 30 seconds and repeat between three to five times daily.
As an alternative stretch, grab the fingers of one hand and pull back until you feel a stretch in the front of your wrist.After 30 seconds, do the other wrist even if you typically use just one hand while at work.
Remember that stretching the tight ligament and tendons of your wrist may temporarily trigger some numbness and tingling in your hand, but don't stop unless you actually feel pain.
 Strengthening the muscles around your wrist and forearms will avoid any additional stresses on the nerve. Strengthening exercises can be performed once pain has considerably been reduced.

First, start with isometric exercises. Keep your wrist in a neutral position with your palm down, and place your other hand on top of your wrist. Keep fist slightly closed and try extending your wrist back, while at the same time providing just enough resistance with your other hand to keep your wrist from moving. Hold position for 10 seconds and repeat five to 10 times.You can perform this exercise 3 times per week.You can now position your hand so that your palm is facing up, with your hand in a comfortable closed position. Place other hand on top of the closed hand and try flexing your wrist, while applying just enough resistance with the other hand so that your wrist is not moving. Hold this position for 10 seconds and repeat five times.Isotonic exercises refer to the use of weights. You can use a light weight or an elastic resistance band to perform these exercises. Hold the light weight in your hand with your palm facing up. Lightly clench the weight and flex your wrist. Perform this five to 10 times. Rest and repeat again for another two to three sets. Once finished, you can flip the wrist over 180 degrees so the palm faces down. Lightly clench the weight and extend your wrist. Perform this five to 10 times. Rest and repeat again for another two to three sets.
You can perform these exercises two to three times per week.
 Some sleeping postures put you more at risk for CTS than others.For example, sleeping with your fists clenched tightly or your hands tucked into your body (with wrists flexed) are the worst postures for triggering CTS symptoms. Instead, sleep on your back or on either side with your arms against your body, hands open and wrists in a neutral position. Training yourself to sleep like this will promote normal blood circulation and nerve flow and help you to avoid CTS.


Don't sleep on your stomach with your hands / wrists contorted under your pillow either. You might wake up with numb hands and a stiff neck.
Wearing wrist supports at night is a good idea, but most are made of nylon and fasten with velcro, which can irritate skin. Thus, cover your support with some soft material — cut the ends off an old pair of socks and slide it over your wrist support.
Your wrist anatomy makes a difference — people with naturally smaller carpal tunnels or oddly shaped carpal bones are at higher risk of CTS.
 CTS symptoms can also be triggered by a poorly designed work station that doesn't suit your body size and dimensions (ergonomics). If your keyboard, mouse, desk or chair isn't properly positioned, it can put strain on your wrists, as well as your shoulders, neck and mid back. As such, make sure your keyboard is positioned so your wrists are in a neutral position while typing, and not too flexed or extended.Consider getting an "ergonomic" keyboard and mouse, which are designed to reduce stress on your wrists and hands and prevent CTS.
Put cushioned pads underneath your keyboard and mouse to reduce the impact on your hands and wrists.
Make sure that any hand tools you use are the right size for you. The size and shape of the tool should allow you to grip it comfortably.
The majority of CTS cases occur among people who do repetitive hand activities at work.
 Repetitive strains to the ligaments and tendons of the wrist is often the primary cause of CTS. Strained ligaments and tendons eventually lead to pain, inflammation and nerve irritation. Before your wrists become symptomatic, get regular deep tissue massage as it can reduce tightness, combat inflammation and promote relaxation.Start with a 30 minute massage, focusing on your hands, wrists and forearms. Allow the therapist to go as deep as you can tolerate it without wincing.


If a 30-minute session isn't enough therapy for both wrists, then get 1 hour massages.
For CTS prevention, consider massage therapy on a monthly basis, although some people may benefit from more frequent visits.
Always drink lots of purified water immediately after a massage in order to flush out inflammatory by-products and lactic acid from your body. Failure to do so might cause a short-term headache or mild nausea.
 Chiropractors are not just spinal specialists, they also diagnose and treat problems in peripheral joints, such as those of the wrist and arm. In some cases, CTS is caused by entrapped or pinched nerves near the elbow or base of the neck.The nerves can get irritated from bones and joints that are slightly out of position. Chiropractors can diagnose and treat such issues before they lead to symptomatic CTS. The type of treatment usually given is called manual joint manipulation or an adjustment, which creates a "popping" sound.


Chiropractic adjustments unjam or reposition joints and bones that are slightly misaligned, so they don't generate pain or irritate nearby nerves.
Although a single adjustment can sometimes completely fix a joint / nerve issue, more than likely it will take 3-5 treatments.
Your chiropractor may be able to provide you with a wrist support or ergonomic advice on how to avoid CPS.
 Acupuncture involves sticking very thin needles into specific points within the skin in efforts to reduce pain and inflammation, as well as improve nerve and blood flow.Acupuncture treatments for avoiding or preventing CTS is not well established by research, but some people claim its effective. If your budget allows for, acupuncture is likely worth a try because its so safe with no serious side effects.


If acupuncture interests you, consider giving it at least 3 treatments before judging its effectiveness. Each treatment typically lasts from 15 to 30 minutes.
Acupuncture points that may prevent or relieve CTS symptoms are not all located near the wrist or hand — some can be in distant areas of the body.
Acupuncture is practiced by a variety of health professionals including some physicians, chiropractors, naturopaths, physical therapists and massage therapists — whoever you choose should be certified by NCCAOM.

