 While in other destinations you may try to leave the "beaten path" in search of hidden gems, Guatemala is not the best place to do so. Nevertheless, Guatemala's popular destinations are breathtaking and beautiful, and even if you did leave the beaten path, you probably wouldn't be as satisfied.;
, Regardless of this info, there ARE areas where you can venture off, we just don't recommend driving alone into the countryside, unless of course you are headed to a destination. Those roads tend to be more popular and safe.
 Most travelers to Guatemala leave Guatemala City out of their itineraries, but in order to get a better understanding of the country, it's a fun idea to visit. There ARE dangerous places, however. Try to stick to the safer zones, such as Zone 10. NEVER stay overnight in Zone 1, or in the case most of the other ones besides Zone 10. Try not to stick around in Zone 13 too long, as there have been reported robberies. We aren't trying to frighten you from Guatemala City, just be alert and travel it with caution. Most incidents do NOT involve tourists.
 Even in the safest parts of Guatemala (probably Antigua and Panajachel), it is not a good idea to walk or drive at night. During the day throughout Guatemala, it is usually just as safe as the U.S., it's during the night when most crimes are reported. Chances are nothing will happen to you, but exercise caution, just to be sure.
 No country is 100% crime free, and Guatemala is no exception. It is true Guatemala has a higher crime rate than most countries. The thing is, most crimes happen in Guatemala City and in the northwestern part of Peten (Not where Tikal is). However, due to the high crime in those places, the whole country gets bad statistics. There are many places in Guatemala that are safer than places in Europe or America. Another thing that might worry you, that about 6 tourists a year are killed in Guatemala. Here are some reasons that "terror" is debunked. Firstly, millions of tourists visit Guatemala yearly. Only 6 die. What are the odds it will be you? Another reason not to be afraid is that the tourists who are attacked are usually the uninformed ones who go to dangerous places. Sure, there are some RARE exceptions, but don't pretend nobody ever is killed in New York or Los Angeles! All in all, Guatemala is not too much more dangerous for tourists than, say, Mexico. In fact, in some ways, Mexico is MORE dangerous. And chances are, you will be fine on your Guatemalan vacation!

