 Once you make a rule, enforce it every time. For example, if you set bedtime at 7:30, have a no-nonsense approach to sending your child to bed once it’s time. A demanding child may insist on staying up later; however, say, “You know the rule: bedtime is at 7:30.”You can also say, “I know you want to stay up later, but it’s time for bed. You might not like it, but this is what’s happening.”
Create a visual schedule for your child to follow. When they start to contest, say, “Look at the schedule. What time is it? That’s right, it’s time for a bath.”

, A demanding preschooler may want your attention throughout the day. Instead of being available at all hours, set up special time for your preschooler (and better, yet, each of your kids) for 15 minutes each day. Give them your full attention during that time and engage in ways that are meaningful to them.If your child is making a demand, say, “I’m busy now, but I’m looking forward to our special time after lunch.”

, A child may become increasingly demanding when they are going unnoticed by their parent and want attention. Catch your child doing positive behaviors and praise them in the act. This can help your child learn to associate positive behaviors with getting positive attention.For example, say, “I noticed you cleaned up your toys as soon as you finished playing with them. Great job!”
Praise you child for using good manners. For example, if your child spontaneously says, “May I please have some juice?” say, “Yes, you may! Thank you for asking nicely and using such good manners!”

, Post the reward schedule where your child can see it. They can use stickers to mark days when they have kept up with the positive behaviors you agreed upon. You can reward your child for being consistently good. If, for instance, they get five stickers during the week, then they get to choose a small toy., If your child makes a demand of you, say, “How would it make you feel if somebody talked to you like that?” Talk about how they want to be treated and in turn, how to treat others.For example, ask, “What would it be like if I interrupted you? Would you like it if I woke you up telling you to make me breakfast?”

