 When you enter the hanger, there will be a maze of products and companies that demonstrates products and plays games & giveaways. Some may hand you pamphlets or little "goodie" bags with product samples. You will need to follow the hanger "maze" to get to the actual Bayfest.;
, Once you come out of the hanger, the vehicles will usually be in the corner or by the carnival gates. Get a close-up look on the base's tanks, planes, and helicopters.
 On the right hand side of the lot, go play a variety of carnival games and get your chance to win a prize or a stuffed animal. The average amount of money spending at a game is between $1 to $2 per round or try.
 Each day, there is a different contest that the public can enter. Whether it's a body search competition or an eating contest, it's always fun and exciting to participate or watch from the sidelines.
 In the back of the gaming area, you'll find vendors that carry pizza, cotton candy, soda, French fries, plate lunches, and hotdogs. Just be aware that the food vendors will only take Bayfest script, not money, so you'll need to buy script ahead of time.
 It's not a carnival without the rides! E.K Fernandez hosts the Bayfest and the 50th State Fair carnival rides: from child rides in the front's left hand corner, to the Zipper, swings, Pirate Ship, and the famous Ferris Wheel. Ride admission is typically anywhere from 2 to 6 scripts, though booths are found throughout the lot.
 Bayfest has fireworks every night which are visible clearly around the entire Kaneohe Bay view and Aikahi side. Fireworks usually start between 9:00 pm and 9:15 pm, and last for 10 to 15 minutes.
 Each night ends with a spectacular concert. In the past years, Bayfest goers have seen Alan Jackson, America, Go Jimmy Go, Papa Roach, Collective Soul, Liz Phair, Lynyrd Skynard, Brad Paisley, and a whole lot more. Usually a local band will be the opener or the finalist of "Battle of the Bands".


Band lineups will be announced to the public between May and June.

