 It's possible to go by plane, because there is an airport in Ulan-Ude (the capital of Buryatia) or you can go by train, because Buryatia is situated on the Trans-Siberian railway. If you travel by plane from Moscow to Buryatia it will take you approximately 5 hours to get to Ulan-Ude. If you have enough time, you can go by train and you will be impressed by the vast territories of the Russian Federation, which is the biggest country in the world, but it will take you up to 4-5 days to get to Buryatia from Moscow. You can also take a train from Mongolia and China to Buryatia.;
, This is especially important if you plan your visit to Buryatia in summer. Summer is the high tourist season in Buryatia, especially July and August. The winters are cold in Buryatia (like everywhere in Siberia) but you will be surprised by the fact that a short summer in Buryatia can be really hot. The temperature in July can be up to 100 degrees Fahrenheit or 40 degrees Celsius above zero.
 Nowadays the Ivolginsky Monastery is the center of Buddhism in the Russian Federation. It is situated not far from Ulan-Ude - (approximately 40 minutes drive by minivan). You can't leave Buryatia without visiting the Ivolginsky Monastery.
 It is considered to be the symbol of Ulan-Ude. It is situated in the center of the city at Soviet Square. It's the most unusual monument of Vladimir Lenin. It's only the head of Lenin and nothing else.
 It is nicknamed the "Pearl of Siberia".
 It's a nomadic cuisine based on meat and milk products. Try the famous Buryat meat dumplings made on steam called buuza in Buryat or pozy in Russian. These Buuza-Pozy are sold everywhere in many restaurants and cafes in Buryatia. You can also try Russian Siberian cuisine, Chinese cuisine and different cuisines of the former USSR including Uzbek, Armenian and so on

, The wintertime in Buryatia is entirely different from the summertime. Try to be adventurous and see the real Siberian winter in Buryatia and Lake Baikal covered with ice!

