 There are many resources on the web for finding high paying master’s degrees. Three good sources are Payscale.com, Forbes.com, and U.S. News and World Report. The collective wisdom of these sites gives a standard list of the top five high-paying master’s degrees.Nurse Anesthetist comes in first with an average starting salary of $140,000 and a mid-career average salary of $156,000.Computer Science is second, with an average starting salary of $95,900 and a mid-career average salary of $134,000.Operations Research is third, with an average starting salary of $80,800 and a mid-career average salary of $130,000.Electrical & Electronics Engineer is fourth, with an average starting salary of $79,500 and a mid-career average salary of $129,000.
Taxation is fifth, with an average starting salary of $61,000 and a mid-career average salary of $129,000.
Remember that these numbers, and the numbers you find on other websites, are just averages. If you plan to live in San Francisco, your starting salary will likely be higher than someone who lives in Omaha.;
, A job that is growing quickly in popularity is likely to be more stable and high-paying than a job that has little growth or competition. Head to the Bureau of Labor Statistics website to search for jobs by projected growth rate.Jobs in the “10 to 19 percent” projected growth rate category are likely to pay higher salaries.Nurse Anesthetist comes in first once again, with a projected growth rate of 31%.
 Even if your goal is to make as much money as you can with your master’s degree, it makes sense to consider job satisfaction. There might be two jobs that pay the same high average salary but people in one job report much higher job satisfaction than those in the other job. Head back to Payscale.com to search for jobs based on job satisfaction.Once again, you’ll find that healthcare workers—like Nurse Anesthetists—top out the list.
 Some master’s degree programs require specific educational requirements. For example, to get a master’s degree in nurse anesthesia, you’ll need to have either a Bachelor in Nursing or be a Registered Nurse, or both. To get a master’s degree in computer science most schools require a bachelor’s degree in computer science or mathematics.If you don’t have the prerequisite educational background, don’t despair. Some schools will allow you to take a remedial series of courses to get caught up on the information you’ll need to perform well in a master’s program. Contact schools’ admissions departments to find out if a remedial program is available.
If you’re still in a bachelor’s program, you might be able to squeeze in a few specialized classes to meet a master’s degree program admission requirements.
For most master’s degree programs you’ll need to take an educational aptitude test like the GRE or the GMAT. You can find out what tests are required by visiting schools’ admissions department websites or calling the school.
 Even if your bachelor’s degree is in computer science, you might find after four years of school that a career in computer science doesn’t appeal to you. Don’t feel stuck continuing down the educational path you’ve pursued so far. Remember that there are high-paying master’s degrees in a variety of fields.If you’re unsure what field you’re interested in, talk to friends and family about your interests. Try to network with people in the top five high-paying master’s degree fields. You might ask them what their average day looks like. This will help you determine if the field suits your interests.
If money is absolutely the most important thing to you, it may be that it doesn’t matter if you’re interested in a particular career—as long as it pays well.
 Even if you have the right educational background and you’re interested in a field, you might not be very good at it. For example, maybe you majored in computer science and liked it but you always got C grades. Consider if your lack of aptitude for computer science will hold you back. Someone who struggles to be competent in a field will likely end up making less money than the average employee.If your skills are simply rusty—for example, if you’ve been working in a field other than the one your want to get a master’s degree in—consider auditing a few classes at a community college to bone up on your skills. Alternatively, there are lots of internet-based resources, such as Harvard, that offer free courses online., The average cost of a master’s degree at a public university is $30,000. At a private school, the average cost is $40,000. One school of wisdom say you shouldn’t take on more school debt than you’ll make in your salary in the first year. Thankfully, with the top high-paying master’s degrees, your salary is likely to be above six figures from the start.Some schools charge far more tuition than others. For example, a nurse anesthetist master’s degree from the University of Pittsburg will run you $119,290. Still within the recommended range since the average starting salary for a Nurse Anesthetist is $140,000; however, you can get the same degree for $23,734 at the University of Akron.Remember that tuition is likely to be significantly lower if you’re a resident of the state. For example, in-state tuition for nurse anesthesia degree at California State University Fullerton is $35,320, while out-of-state tuition is $61,642.
Don’t forget about grants and scholarships. These may significantly lower your tuition bill. Check with a school’s admissions department to ask what options are available.
 If you pursue a full-time master’s degree you won’t be able to work full-time for at least a year—more likely two. Consider how much money you would make during those two years when deciding to apply to master’s programs.For example, if you could make $200,000 in two years and the total predicted return on your master’s degree, over you entire career, is $180,000, you would make more money overall by working instead of getting a master’s degree.
 If you’re already working at an established job and you want to stay at that job, find out how much more money people with master’s degrees make. If it’s only a few thousand dollars, it may not be worth it to get a master’s degree. For example, by mid-career, petroleum engineers with bachelor’s degrees make nearly the same amount of money as petroleum engineers with master’s degrees.