 Find a jar or Tupperware container large enough to fit the egg. Grab a bottle of regular white vinegar and fill the jar or Tupperware container with vinegar. Don't fill it all the way to the brim though, because then putting the egg in will make it overflow.
 You can easily make your finished bouncy egg any color you want to by adding food coloring dye to the vinegar. Just add around 10 drops of the dye to the vinegar, or enough to color the whole container of vinegar.It doesn't have to be filled to the top but it should be filled high enough so that the egg can be completely submerged in vinegar.
 Get a raw, unboiled egg. Place the raw egg in the vinegar-filled container. Just drop it in from right above the vinegar so the vinegar doesn't splash everywhere. Make sure it is completely submerged.
 Place a lid on your container and leave it somewhere safe but out of the sun. The less sunlight it gets the better, so either put it somewhere dark like a closet, or cover it with something like a kitchen cloth.
 This process can take anywhere from 24 to 72 hours. To be on the safe side, wait three days before continuing.
 Look at the egg through the container every once and a while to check its progress. The egg will turn a transparent color because the eggshell is increasing in thickness. The eggshell will soon dissolve, leaving just a thick strong egg white.








The reason shell dissolves is because vinegar is a weak acid. The egg shell is made of calcium carbonate. When the shell meets vinegar, it makes a chemical reaction that turns the calcium carbonate into carbon dioxide, which is what those bubbles in the container are.
 Take the egg out of the vinegar carefully. Just reach in and pull it out with your hand. Don't forget to wash your hand afterwards. Place the egg on a couple of paper towels to let it drain.Be extra careful when handling a raw bouncy egg. It will be more fragile than a boiled bouncy egg.
 Make sure it's dry first. You can speed this up by drying it by hand with a paper towel. Be careful not to drop it from too high of a height, as it can still break and leave a mess. Start with just a few inches, and have cleaning supplies ready!







