 Before you go any further, look back over your divorce decree and make sure the notion of you returning to a previously used name was never mentioned.Many divorce forms, for example, include this clause by default. You could have checked it off and simply forgotten about it.
 In many jurisdictions, you can file a post-judgment motion or an ex parte application to return to a former name even after your divorce has been finalized.


For example, if you live in California, you can file an Ex Parte Application for Restoration of Former Name After Entry of Judgment,available as form FL-395.In New Jersey, you can file a post judgment motion with a nominal fee requesting the court grant you permission to return to your maiden name.Make a call to the clerk's office of the court where your divorce was finalized and see if this is a possibility. There also may be a form available, either at the clerk's office or online, that you can use to draft your motion.
The motion will need to be filed in the same court that heard your divorce, and will have the same case number as your divorce did.You also must attach a copy of your final divorce decree to your motion., Some courts require you to appear for a hearing before granting your motion to change your name. You'll be asked to confirm under oath that you're not seeking to change your name for an improper purpose such as to avoid paying child support., Once the judge signs the order granting your motion, get certified copies from the clerk's office., You'll need a completed application for a new Social Security card and a certified copy of the judge's order to have your name changed on your Social Security card.


If you changed your name more than two years ago, you'll also need to bring an identity document such as an old driver's license that provides proof that you used the previous name you want to use now.
Your new card will be mailed to you when the information is received and processed. You won't have to pay a fee, but you will have to appear in person at your nearest Social Security office., Appear in person at your nearest DMV with the judge's order and your old driver's license to get your name changed on your driver's license.


Check your local rules before you go to make sure you don't need to bring anything else.
You probably will be charged a fee to be issued a new driver's license., Your new photo ID should be enough for anyone else to change your name on your record with them, although in some situations you might need to show your Social Security card as well.


Make sure you get your name changed on any bank accounts or credit cards as quickly as possible to avoid any returned payments.