 When you are planning a lesson, the most vital part is the objective. What do you want your students to take away from the lesson? If the objective is powerful, deep, and reflects what you really want students to learn, it will be reflected in the lesson.
 Each and every lesson should be divided into three simple parts that reflect your objective.


First should be the "lecture" part of the lesson. This is where you teach something new to the class (of course allowing for questions or comments when applicable).
Dedicate the second part of class to something that involves a collective group work element where students can work with whoever they want. Near the end of this part, you can have a discussion session where groups voice their findings/opinions, and give marks for adequate participation.
The final part of every lesson should be where the students return to their seats and work QUIETLY on one final task, such as answering specific questions written on the board, or drawing a picture related to something they learned that lesson. The students should only talk to you (if they have a question about what/how to do it) or the person sitting directly next to them. This is the wind-down part where students get a chance to work on and understand the material on their own.
 Rather than assigning something different every night, it is wise to assign one or two more substantial assignments on Monday and then collect these assignments on Friday.
 You may want to have a quiz every Friday to assess how well the students are grasping the material. You can judge how well you are teaching by how well the majority of your students perform on the quizzes.
 Revise once before teaching your class.
, It's better to review the basics in class premises than to teach something confusing or wrong.
 Be sure to update lesson plans regularly to address gaps in the curriculum and incorporate new technology.
 Doing the same thing everyday will eventually bore students. Do something both enjoyable and educational every once in a while.
 Your students shouldn't see you as their best friend, but they shouldn't be scared of you either. Strike a personality balance that you and your students feel comfortable with.
 Your students look up to you. The way you act towards them has an effect on how they treat others. Make sure this is a good effect.

