 If you are having a reaction that goes beyond mere skin irritation, you should go to a doctor right away. Some indications that you may need medical intervention include:


The rash covers a large portion of your body
The rash gets worse, rather than better, with time and home treatments
The rash lasts longer than 1-2 weeks
You show signs of infection, including increased redness or pain, swelling, and drainage of pus

, Corticosteroids are a group of medications that help treat a variety of ailments. Derived from the natural corticoid hormone found in the adrenal glands, corticosteroids have an anti-inflammatory effect on the body and this makes them excellent at combating allergic responses. Corticosteroid creams, generally used to treat skin rashes, are a variety of topical steroid creams applied directly on the affected skin. Ask your doctor which corticosteroid cream might be right for you.Only apply the cream to the area affected by the skin rash, and only as often as and where your doctor instructs you to apply it. Once or twice a day is usually all that is necessary. Apply the cream sparingly and ask your doctor approximately how much you should use. When side effects do occur, which they rarely do, it is generally from incorrect use.
Many people are wary of corticosteroid creams because of the steroid factor, but this fear is mostly unfounded. Topical steroids are very safe when used correctly, and as they are not intended for longterm use the kind of dependency associated with other kinds of steroid use is uncommon., In rare cases, if your skin doesn’t respond to corticosteroid creams, your doctor might give you a pill or cortisone injection to help reduce the reaction.If your doctor prescribes an oral corticosteroid, you should take as directed.


If you take blood thinners or dietary supplements that have a blood-thinning effect, your doctor might recommend avoiding such medications before the injection.When you receive your injection, you may have to change into a hospital gown depending on where the irritated skin is located. The area around the injection site is cleaned and an antiseptic spray may be used to numb the needle. You will likely feel pressure when the needle is inserted and the medication is then released.Some people report redness or a feeling of warmth of the chest or face after the injection. The doctor will likely want you to protect the area around the injection site for a day or two, apply ice as needed to relieve pain, and watch for signs of infection such as pain, redness, and swelling., If your allergic reactions are frequent or severe, a doctor might want to perform an allergy test. This may identify what substance is causing the allergic reaction, making it easier to avoid the substance and subsequent outbreaks in the future. There are three types of allergy tests: the skin prick test, skin patch testing, and the intradermal test.


The skin prick test involves placing a small amount of allergen on the skin, most often the forearm, upper back, or neck. The skin is pricked so the allergen goes under the surface, and your health care provider watches for signs of a reaction. Results are usually seen within 15 to 20 minutes and multiple allergens can be tested at the same time.
Skin patch testing consists of an application of various allergens to an area of skin (usually your back). The areas are covered with bandages, then reactions are evaluated a couple of days after application.The intradermal skin test involves injecting a small amount of the potential allergen to the skin. Your health care provider then watches for signs of a reaction. This test is more often used to find signs of serious allergens, such as bee venom or penicillin.