 Your official deed is also usually filed with the government. It may be filed with the city or county. In most cases, you will need to visit the office in person to receive a deed. You will need basic information about your property. In addition, you may need to pay a fee to get a deed.A mortgage description, an abstract, or an aerial photo of the land are also useful to the surveyor if you can provide a copy.Don't worry if you don't have any of these pieces of information, as part of the surveyor's job is to do some preliminary research to find out what he or she needs. Nonetheless, having these documents can save you some money because it means the surveyor doesn't need to spend time looking for them., Different surveyors use different markers to create the boundaries of the land. Some common markers are iron pipes, wooden stakes,masonry nails in asphalt, markings in concrete, and small concrete monuments.If you know where these are on your property, tell your surveyor., Contact land surveyor offices to get estimates of how much your survey will cost. While most surveyors can't give you an exact cost, he or she can give you an idea of what it will cost. Cost is important when choosing a surveyor,but quality and a good reputation are better criteria., If you don't have one in mind, your realtor can likely recommend one. In addition, if your realtor has an old land survey provided by the previous owner, you can contact that surveyor. Ask him or her to update it. You can save some money by using the same surveyor who already viewed and marked the property.Make sure your surveyor is licensed. Most states require that land surveyors be licensed by the state or nationally licensed (such as through the National Society of Professional Surveyors). It's important to make sure your surveyor's work be recognized by the state; ask about his or her license before hiring your surveyor.If you are having a property surveyed that you are buying, generally that purchase is a part of your closing costs on the house or property, though it can be negotiated., Your surveyor will come to your property to measure it against the legal record. He or she will also create a map of the property, which will include information about why the survey was performed. Once done, he or she will sometimes be required to give a copy to the local government to have on file., Once the survey has been done, request a copy of the survey to keep for your own records. By rights, the survey belongs to the surveyor, but when you hire a surveyor, he or she will provide you with a copy.