 If you’re interested in spending more time around one another, make plans to do so! This will usually be rather apparent, but even it’s not, feel free to make the offer.One of the easiest and safest ways to invite a new friend to meet up again is by inviting them to a group event sometime in the upcoming week.
If you know you’ll be attending an event at a certain place and time, and others are welcome, mention it and encourage them to attend as well.
 If you recently met someone that you get along with and made plans to see each other again, have something in mind to talk about. There are few dependable ways to think of your own conversation topics.Think about what might be relevant to your plans. If you’re going to a comedy show, watch videos of your favorite comic to be able to reference parts of skits you’ve enjoyed. At the show, ask if they have a comedian or style of humor they particularly enjoy.
Similarly, if you’ve planned to go to a sporting event (as either participants or observers), read the pertinent professional sports headlines for some reliably light conversation fodder.
Reflect on recent major events, both local or global. News can be interesting to talk about because people’s different worldviews often provide colorful interpretations about things that have happened elsewhere in the world.
Bring up the discovery of a new archeological finding or new species discovery, and conversations about where each other have traveled (or would like to travel!) will likely follow.
Think about seasonally-relevant conversation topics. If Halloween is coming up, ask your new friend what they plan to dress up as, or what their best-ever costume was.
Try an old standby: “What’s the next thing you’re looking forward to?”

, If you admire someone, there’s likely a good reason for these positive sentiments. These are likely the reasons you may come to appreciate a person’s presence in your life. However, whomever they are, they will certainly be different than you first expect. This is partly why it’s so fun to get to know new people.Recognize that every new person you meet will shape your understanding of people in general. No one is exactly like anybody else, and nor should they be!
Resist the inclination to compare new friends to other friends you have had in the past. Focus on the attributes that each of your friends have that make them who they are, and appreciate how their individuality contributes to your understanding of the world.
 It is incredibly meaningful when we recall the conversations we have with one another and are able to pick up right where we left off – both literally, and metaphorically, in terms of developing a new friendship.


If you know that you may be talking to your friend in the future, make a mental note of the topics you spoke about, particularly things they had conveyed interest in that you were unfamiliar with.#*Check out something they had mentioned, such as a certain band or a particular article, and contemplate what you might agree with or add to the observations they had shared with you.
Indicate that you’re excited to see them again by recalling a positive moment from your earlier conversation – especially if there had been a shared moment of humor. Reminding one another that you had enjoyed each other’s company before will be a great way to begin enjoying one another next time to you see each other.

