 This usually depends on your expertise and hardware. For example, it is very difficult, if not impossible, for a beginner with an older computer to make 3D animations like Pixar. There are many, many animating software and styles, and all of them have intricacies and techniques unique to the software.


2D Animation: This is the classic cartoon, hand-drawn look. The characters are flat line drawings. Originally, they were drawn frame by frame, but now there is a variety of software that makes the process much faster, such as Synfig, Pencil2D, ToonBoom, or even Adobe Photoshop. Traditionally, you use 12-24 drawings per second of film.3D Animation: Similar to the models used in video games and movies like Toy Story and Shrek, 3D animation is much harder to master. You make models of the characters and code movement into them, making 3D animation a sort of artistic/coding hybrid. You also need to add lighting and textures. 3D software can used, yet it takes a long time and requires software like AutoDesk, Poser Pro, Aladdin, or Sketchup. Most 3D animation is the result of large teams working together.Stop-Motion: So simple anyone can do it, stop-motion is when you use real-life figures or drawings and take a picture after every small movement. When the pictures are played back to back at high speeds, it looks like movement. It is incredibly time-consuming, however, as you often need upwards of 12 photos per-second of footage to make it look smooth. You can use cut-outs, clay models, individual drawings, or real people to make it.Rotoscoping: A niche form of animation found in films like A Scanner Darkly, rotoscoping is animating on top of conventionally shot films. You will need a tablet, and you go through the footage frame by frame, using the live video as a guide for drawing the characters. The result is a realistic, but still animated, look.
 Start with your settings, as the characters are superimposed on them. The background should be everything that the characters do not interact with, as anything that moves needs to be animated. The background should be a big drawing and scanned in at high resolution. This allows you to "zoom in" on certain sections without distortion. For example, if you have two characters talking in a cafe, you want to draw the whole cafe behind them. But you may want the "camera" to focus in on each character as they talk individually. Instead of redrawing the background behind him, you can copy and paste a smaller section of your detailed background for "close ups.", What are the essential poses of your characters, or defining actions each one makes, in the scene? Think of these as the "destinations" for each piece of movement. Take, for example, a character winding up for a punch. You could break this down into three "key poses," each of which needs to be drawn and saved separately.Key Pose 1 = Resting. It could be a face of surprise, anger, or determination, or simply the character with its hands at its sides.
Key Pose 2 = Winding Up. How does the character cock their arm back? Don't worry yet about the movement to get to this position, just draw out them with their arm back and ready to release.
Key Pose 3 = The Follow Through. Where does the character end up right after the punch? Their arm will be exposed and their body likely follows through. Again, you want the final pose, not the frames as the hand goes through.
The more key poses you draw, the more complex the movement will be. For example, you can add keyframe sof the character looking shocked, balling into a fist, dropping their elbow, swinging their arm, punching, then spinning around on the follow through.
 Take the punch for example -- how do you get from key to key? There is some advanced software that will do this for you -- once you've made character models, the software will "render" the movement in between for you. However, if you are just starting out, you'll likely need to draw your own frames by hand. The more frames you draw, the smoother the action will look.

It can help to put your keyframes on the screen as guides. This helps you see where you need to get the characters, and where they started.
If something doesn't move, don't bother re-drawing. Copy and paste the keyframe, erase the part that needs to move, and keep everything else where it was.
 Composting is just a fancy way to describe stringing the movie together. This can be as simple as ordering all the frames for stop-motion or as complicated as rendering a 3D model with accurate lighting. Again, your method of animation will determine how you composite something:For 2D animators, compositing is about making the motion looks smooth. Software like ToonBoom will do this for you, and may be called "rendering."
For 3D animators, know that this takes a long time. Lighting effects and textures are difficult to program, and even the fastest computers may take hours to composite a video.
For stop-motion animators, you should play with frame length, adjusting the shots by a tenth or hundredth of a second to get smooth, fluid motion.