 From the moment you conceive, your body begins to make adjustments, with changes in hormone levels, circulation, blood pressure and breathing and metabolism generally. Monitoring these changes from the beginning of pregnancy is vital to understanding all of the stages of pregnancy and how you are progressing through them.;
, This is the time when the fertilized ovum starts to develop.


The earliest signs of pregnancy include tiredness, mood swings, and around the eighth week, morning sickness symptoms may appear.
Hormonal changes can be exacerbated by normal anxieties about pregnancy and motherhood, and weight gain of about 2 1/4 lbs or a kilo is normal.
By the end of the thirteenth week, the risk of miscarriage is reduced by around 65%, morning sickness should be over and the development of the baby’s vital organs and structures is complete.
Tests for chromosomal abnormalities and inherited disorders are usually done at around 11 weeks.
 During this stage, the expectant mother can look and feel incredibly well, more relaxed and happy. Weight gain continues and there may be changes to breasts, skin and hair.
 This is a time of rapid growth for the baby who will measure about 5 to 5 1⁄2 inches (12.7 to 14.0 cm) and weigh about 5 1/4 oz when 18 weeks old. The baby can now hear and respond to outside noises and becomes quite active.
 The final trimester can be an exciting yet demanding time as the weight of the growing baby increases along with your own weight.


It is generally assumed that the weight gain comes from the baby but the fetus is actually only responsible for about 7 1/2 pounds. The added weight comes from the placenta, uterus, amniotic fluid, breasts, blood, fat and tissue fluid, all totaling about 29 pounds of extra weight.
 The baby usually gets into the birth position at around 33 to 36 weeks and at this stage the baby should be around 14 inches (35.6 cm) long and weigh about 6 3/4 lbs.


The baby is clinically mature and considered full term and is ready to be born at any time now.
Week 40 of the pregnancy is the anticipated due date but only about 5% of babies are born on exactly the estimated date of delivery.

