 Introverts usually get a bad rap when it comes to interacting with others. People often assume that just because introverts get their energy from spending time alone, that they don’t enjoy interacting with others. However, that is simply not the case.


Being an introvert doesn't mean you are shy, either — these are two different things. An introvert is not necessarily quiet or suffering from social anxiety. Introverts can be bubbly and animated. What makes them introverted is that they need plenty of quiet, alone time to feel good.
When someone calls you anti-social, respond with “I enjoy spending time with people. But I get overwhelmed with large groups or when I’m around others for long periods of time. After I get some time to myself, I’m ready to hang out again.”, A key characteristic of introverts is that they need time to think. You may do better when you are able to take time and plan out what you are going to do or say. If you know you’re going to meet resistance about a topic with someone, think of your response ahead of time so that you are prepared. Then, you can speak clearly when getting your point across.


For example, if you know you’re going to be confronted about an ultimatum you’ve been given, you could say, “I have put a lot of thought into my decision, and am still working on it. You’re going to have to give me time. I promise I haven’t forgotten about it and will let you know as soon as I decide.”Or, if someone unexpectedly springs something on you, you may want to ask for some time to think. You might say, "You've given me a lot to think about, and I'd like to process it for a while and get back to you."

, Introverts are sometimes quiet, and some may misinterpret that their silence is because they have nothing to say. On the contrary, introverts are funny, witty, smart, and often have a lot to talk about. The only difference is, they usually only speak when they have something important to discuss. Introverts may not engage in meaningless small talk.


Engaging in active listening can help with this. If you are smiling, nodding, and acting warmly, you can avoid appearing standoffish.
If someone attempts to make a wisecrack about your silence, you can strike back with this funny, yet to the point remark: “Oh, I like to talk. But I only talk when I can improve the silence, unlike some people.”