 Be positive and help others and soon your teacher will like you. Being positive will show your teacher you respect everyone and are willing to give a helping hand when needed. If your fellow student does not understand something, you could offer to explain it to them if the teacher is tired or busy. This will show that you have character as a student wishing to learn and share. Teachers adore this kind of attitude.;
, Some teachers like for students to be quiet, and ask questions only when it is necessary, while others will want you to always report back to them to show interest in the lesson. Learn what your teacher likes by watching reactions to other students. Once you know what they like, do it as much as possible.
 Praise others' work and even make positive suggestions. Being supportive and understanding will show your are compassionate and dedicated to help others. Most teachers enjoy seeing this.
 This way you are asking for trouble (and you could annoy your classmates). The next thing is that you will be thrown into helping after school without a doubt. Volunteer to help or participate in an after school project periodically but not for every activity. This will demonstrate that you are interested and responsible without spreading yourself too thin or taking all of the glory.
 Avoid entering conversations as this will make your teacher think you were involved in the whole thing. Try only to speak when asked or doing group work. Talking back to your teacher will probably just embarrass you and make your teacher angry.
 Take it a step further by making casual conversation with them, either after or before class. If they mentioned something specific about their family, ask how it is going, especially if it was something stressful or difficult. The teacher feels like you have enough respect to care about them as a person, and not just see them as the evil figure. Also, if the teacher has a good sense of humor, joke with them occasionally.
 At the very least this means that you don't back-talk, insult or antagonize the teacher. This might be difficult, especially with teachers who are just plain mean. But if you are polite to them, they will seem dumb being rude to you. Also, do whatever the teacher says as soon as possible. Just following directions can go a long way. It is always a good idea to greet your teachers when you see him/her. Find out their birthday and congratulate them. Respect your teacher. Make sure that you are always on time.
 If you talk out of turn while the teacher or another student is talking they will think you are rude and disrespectful.
 If you ask a dumb question or ask something that she/he has already said, it shows that you weren't paying attention!

, When your teacher is explaining something, wait for him or her to finish. If you still don't understand, you can ask your question, but if you wait it out, there's a good chance your teacher will answer your question without you asking it. Teachers don't like to be interrupted because it's a sign of disrespect and can also get in the way of their plans.
 As well as looking attentive during the lesson, you should be acting engaged. Teachers appreciate students who nod when they understand something. Ask questions if you don't understand something, and the teacher will be happy to answer it for you. If a teacher asks the class questions, answer questions that you know the answers to. It shows that you can learn and retain information, which is really what teachers want to see. Especially give an answer like a 'yes' or a 'no' when asked a question. Keeping mum when questioned makes the teacher feel that no one is alert or attentive. Speak up in the class without wondering what your classmates will think of you and the teachers will respect you for participating and paying attention. It would also show that you are making an effort to learn the material. If something doesn't make sense to you, ask it. If you disagree with something the teacher said, say it, but don't be rude and if they defend their point, retract yours.
 Always complete any assigned homework. Always respect your teacher, your classmates, the rules, school and etc. This attitude helps you be prepared for anything.
 Don't talk to your friends during a lecture. Don't send text messages, or constantly stare at the clock, or otherwise you will show that teacher that you couldn't care less about what he or she is saying. Be respectful and appear motivated — even if the topic is very boring. There's nothing more that a teacher doesn't like than a student who is ignoring him/her. Try looking at the teachers in the eyes when possible, and smile when they look at you. Don't laugh or giggle. Laugh at your teacher's "jokes".
 Write things down: when, where, what, who. Don't repeatedly ask the teacher for basic facts that were already given. For example: do not ask your teacher what chapter you are supposed to read. You should always have a way to take notes when in class and pay attention. Show that you do care and wish to learn.
 Get to know them better, ask about them. Asking if they had a nice weekend it shows that you like and are interested in them. Commenting on their appearance, or simply just talking to them will create a friendly bond. They are also regular people like you and your friends. But there are some teachers who do not speak much about personal life. Hence, you must rely on their reactions about who entertains friendly conversations.
 If you don't, you may have to do it again and then you will be one step behind the rest of your class.
 If you don't do your homework, don't fake it. Offer to do extra credit to make up for the missed assignment. Be honest about it and apologize. Most teachers, if not all, appreciate honesty over white lies.
 Come up with a system for keeping it with you, e.g., while you are doing your homework keep your binder and bag next to you and when you are finished put it in there.
 A good way to get a teacher to like you make him/her a homemade thank you card and they will be pleased. Go beyond the expectations on projects. Have a little fun with their assignments!

, Maybe you both love that sports team, or maybe you both obsess over animated movies. This can be something to talk about when you finish your work early and your teacher is not busy. If they know you know they have real interests like you and your classmates, they will like you more.


On a special day for the teacher, get them something that has one of their interests. For example, their birthday. This will show them that you are thinking about them!

, When you can, complete and hand your homework in advance. It suggests that you care about the class. There's also not a chance of forgetting it at home the day it's due.
 This doesn't mean you have to write an essay or anything. It just means that you take what you've learned in class a step further. Ask your teacher a question that may not be related to the specific topic you're learning, but is related to their field. This may be especially useful if it is a thought-provoking question or a question you've had for awhile. It also can mean that you found out more about something you're learning that the teacher didn't mention or a new perspective. Teachers like seeing this because it shows that you care enough about the topic to do a little something extra.
 This will help boost your grade and get the teacher to like you even more. Try doing two or three extra credit assignments, and try to pick the semi-hard ones, not any too hard that you don't understand how to do, but also not so ridiculously easy that the teacher will think that you are not capable of doing work harder than that.

