 Use nail clippers to trim and shape your nails, then wipe each one with acetone nail polish remover.


You can keep your nails long, if desired, but dried polish is less likely to crack when applied to short, healthy nails. Ideally, you should only leave roughly 1/8 inch (3 mm) of the natural white nail tip.
File away any jagged edges using a nail file, as well. You can also use the file to help define the shape of each nail.
Apply the polish remover to your nails even if you don't have any polish on them. Doing so will strip away any oils, making it easier for the fresh polish to stick.;
, Carefully push back the cuticles around each nail using a cuticle pusher.


Use the rounded end of the pusher to work on the cuticle around the nail surface. Tilt it at an approximate 45-degree angle, then gently press the pusher into the cuticle and toward the edge of the nail.
Use the sharp end of the pusher to work into the cuticle around the corners of each nail, pushing them back from a 45-degree angle.
If the cuticles are too hard to push back, you may need to apply cuticle oil beforehand. Soaking your fingers in a bowl of warm water for three minutes should also help.
 Brush a clear base coat over each nail. Allow the base coat to completely dry before continuing.


Ideally, you should use an actual base coat formula instead of using clear or white nail polish. Base coats smooth out the surface of the nail more effectively than plain polishes do. Clear base coats are the easiest to paint over, but white base coats will also work.
Unless the product specifies otherwise, you must allow the base coat to finish drying before you add any normal polish over it.
 Select a main color for your gradient, then pour this nail polish into five separate wells of a small paint palette.


You only need to pour a small puddle of polish into each well. Each puddle should contain enough polish to cover two full nails.
When using standard polish formulas, you should be able to blend all of the polish gradient colors before applying them to your nails. If you opt for quick-drying formulas, however, it might be best to apply each gradient color set immediately after mixing the two involved shades. In that case, you should only work with two wells of color at any particular time.
 Use separate toothpicks to blend small amounts of black nail polish into three of the filled wells.Each of these wells should contain progressively darker shades when you finish.
Add one bead of black polish to the first of these wells, two beads of black polish to the second well, and three beads of black to the third well. Blend these wells thoroughly, making sure that no streaks of color remain visible when done. If the change in color is not as dark as you'd like, gradually add more black and mix again.
This tutorial uses three dark shades and two light shades, but if you'd prefer to use three light shades and only two dark shades, you'll only need to mix black into two of the filled wells. When the time comes, mix white into the remaining three wells instead of mixing it into only two.
 Use separate toothpicks to blend small amounts of white nail polish into the other two filled wells.


One of these wells should contain a color one shade lighter than the color in the other well.
Only add the white to the untouched wells of your original polish color. Add one bead of white to the first well and two beads to the second well. Mix each well thoroughly until no streaks remain. If the change in color is not as light as you'd like, gradually add more white to each well and mix again.
 Use scissors to carefully cut a clean cosmetic sponge into five pieces. Each piece should be roughly the same size as your nail, if not a little bigger.


You must use a plain cosmetic sponge. Other sponges can be too porous to hold the color correctly.
The five separate pieces will correspond to the five fingers of your hand, but each piece will cover the same finger of both hands. In other words, you'll use one piece for both thumbs, another piece for both index fingers, and so on.
 Dunk each piece of sponge into a small cup of water. Remove the sponges and squeeze out as much excess as possible.Only 20-percent of the water should remain after you squeeze out the sponges. Each piece of sponge needs to be moist, but it should not be dripping wet.
By using wet sponges, you'll prevent the sponge material from soaking up the nail polish too quickly. As a result, you can apply more color directly to the nail instead of losing it to the sponge.
 Apply a stripe of your darkest shade toward the edge of one sponge piece. Paint a stripe of the second darkest shade onto the same sponge, placing it directly next to the first stripe.


Note that this gradient will run in vertical stripes across your nails, so the stripes should be vertical instead of horizontal.
Use clean, separate nail polish brushes to paint both stripes to avoid contaminating the blended colors. If you need to use the same brush, thoroughly clean it with polish remover before dipping it into the second color, but do not get any remover into the polish itself.
Apply two coats of polish over each stripe. Doing so will make it easier for the polish to transfer over to your nail.
 Carefully dab the painted sponge onto a piece of scrap paper, continuing until the shared edge blends together.


You'll need to "bounce" the sponge up and down in the same spot to help blend the line. Only blend the colors well enough to blur the shared edge, though; both shades should ultimately remain separate and visible.
 Position the sponge color-side down over your first nail, then carefully press it directly onto that nail.Make sure that the color stripes run vertically. The blurred center line between both shades should roughly correspond to the vertical center of your nail, and the darker shade should point to the outside of your hand.
Give the sponge a relatively firm press to ensure even color transfer over the entire nail. Bounce it up and down, keeping it in the same general position each time, to help transfer the polish even more thoroughly.
 Working quickly, press the same sponge onto the same nail of your other hand, applying the gradient in the same manner.


By applying the first gradient set to both hands before progressing to the next set, it should be easier to maintain the same progression of color. If the polish in your paint palette were to dry before you can complete the nails on each hand, you may not be able to remix the same exact shade, and your gradient wouldn't match from hand to hand.
 Paint gradient stripes on each of the remaining four sponges and apply those stripes to your remaining nails. Work with one sponge at a time.If you started with your thumb nail, the progression should go as follows:

Thumb: darkest shade and second darkest shade
Index: second darkest shade and third darkest shade
Middle: third darkest shade and original color
Ring: original color and second lightest shade
Pinky: second lightest shade and lightest shade


If you started with your pinky nail, reverse the above progression.
Make sure that first color of each nail matches the second color of the previous nail. The progression of shades should look natural across the entire hand.
 Dip a clean nail polish brush or cotton swab into acetone nail polish remover. Carefully apply the remover to the skin around the nail.


This process is usually very messy, so even if you apply the gradient carefully, you'll probably get plenty of polish onto the surrounding skin.
Working while the polish is wet can make it easier to strip away the excess from your skin, but if you're nervous about cleaning up while the nails are still drying, you can save this step for last.
 Wait for the polish on all your nails to dry before continuing further.


The polish must be completely dry. If you continue while it still feels tacky, the polish could still smudge or smear.
 Evenly brush a clear top coat over each nail.


Ideally, you should use an actual top coat instead of using standard clear polish. The top coat can smooth out the surface and protect the color more effectively than ordinary polish does.
In addition to protecting your nails, the right top coat can also make the gradient appear smoother and more blended.
 Once the top coat dries, your manicure is finished and ready to show off.

