 Breathe through your nose.Concentrate on each inhalation and exhalation. Feel the rise and fall of your abdomen. Do not control your breath, simply be mindful of it. Clear your mind of everything but this focus on your breathing. The goal is to achieve peace and stillness of mind.You can count your breaths to ten to help focus.If you lose count, start over at one.
 Thoughts will inevitably pop into your head, particularly when you are new to meditation. Don't be upset if they do. "Do not try to stop thoughts, allow them to arise, but recognize their arising and do not pursue them. The goal is not to have no thoughts but for thoughts to arise and yet be rendered powerless" (Garchen Ripoche).Let them leave your mind of their own accord.
 Pain from sitting so long, sleepiness, desire and more can make it hard to meditate. Don't worry. Everyone experiences these things. The more you meditate, the better you will become at moving past distractions.Pain – If you feel discomfort, do not move. Study yourself and your pain. Allow time to explore the feeling. Imagine your body as empty, a vessel with you standing outside of it. If the pain is too intense, take a break by standing up.
Sensual desire – It can be hard to put aside thoughts of a lover or even a desired object. Realize that desires are transient; fulfilling one will only lead to another. Remember the reality of the desired object: bodies are just skin and bones and flesh.Restlessness and worry – Notice these feelings, but do not pursue them. Return your attention to your breathing and movement of your abdomen. If a thought persists, you may write a short note to remind yourself to deal with it later.
Drowsiness – Remember why you are meditating. Focus on a white light between your eyebrows to increase wakefulness. If you still find yourself nodding off, take a rest and return to mediation when you are refreshed.
 Begin by meditating for 15 minutes at a time, once a day. 15 minutes might seem long at first, but as you get better at relaxing and clearing your mind, it will get easier. Try to extend the length of your mediation by 5 minutes each week until you are able to mediate for 45 minutes.