 This phrase translates into “good day” and is, essentially, the same thing as saying “have a good day.”



Bonne means “good.”

Journée means “day.”
A general pronunciation of the phrase is bun zhoor-nay .

Say "passez une bonne journée” in slightly more formal situations. This translates more literally to “have a good day” or “spend a good day.” Pronounce the sentence as pah-say in bun zhoor-nay.
 This translates literally into “good evening” and is the same thing as telling someone to “have a good evening.”



Bonne means “good.”

Soirée means “evening.”
Pronounce this phrase as bun swah-hay.
"Each of these phrases can be translated into something along the lines of “have a good trip,” and each can be used to say goodbye to someone embarking on a journey or vacation.



Voyage means “travel,” “trip,” or “journey,” so of the three, bon voyage translates most directly into “have a good trip.” Pronounce it as bohn vwah-yah-zh, with the final "ge" sounding like a soft "j."

Route means “road,” “route,” or “way.” The phrase is generally used to say “have a good journey” or “have a safe journey,” and it is pronounced bun rhoot.


Vacances means “holiday” or “vacation,” so the phrase “bonnes vacances” means “have a good vacation” or “have a good holiday.” Pronounce it as bun va-kahns.



The phrase can be translated to mean "good luck" or "good continuation," as "continuation" means the same thing in both French and English.
Pronounce the phrase as bun kohn-teen-u-ah-see-ohn. (The final 'n' is soft, nasal.)

, In English, this phrase means “take care of yourself.”



Prends means "take."

Soin means "care."
In this context, de means "of."

Toi means "you."
Pronounce the entire phrase as prahn swa doo twah. (swa uses a short 'a', as in 'cat'; doo uses 'oo' as in 'book'.)

, Both sayings can be told to someone as you depart, and both mean “good luck” in some form.”



Bonne chance is used when actual luck or fortune is involved. Chance means "luck," "chance," or "fortune." Pronounce bonne chance as bun shahns.


Bon courage is used to tell someone something along the lines of "be persistent" or "keep at it." Courage means "courage" or "fortitude." Pronounce bon courage as bohn kooh-hazh.


