 To enable this code, you will have to make sure that the Pokémon Light Platinum ROM is loaded up on your mobile phone/computer’s GBA emulator.;
, As soon as you’ve loaded the ROM, go ahead and open the Cheats section on your emulator’s menu. If you happen to be using VBA-M (Visual Boy Advance) for Windows PCs, you can find “Cheats” under “Tools” on the emulator’s menu bar.
 Look for an option for list/add cheats and then input this code: D261DC6D197B4DC2. As its name implies, enabling this code will result in you getting 99 of an item you specify (using another code) on the first slot of your PC’s item storage., In order to complete this cheat, you’ll then need to add another code to specify the item that you want to replicate 99 times. Two must-have items that you ought to try with this code are Rare Candies (82025BCC0044) and Masterballs (DCEEEC34AFEADC26).You can only use the 99 Items code with only one of the item modifier codes enabled. Enabling two or more item modifier codes will glitch and/or crash your game.
Make sure to add the Item Modifier code as a separate code.
 Once these codes are enabled, just go ahead and start playing the game., As soon as you enter a City, make sure to head straight to the nearest Pokémon Center. If you want to get your items as fast as possible then the nearest one to your starting point (Yellow Town) would be at Central City.
 Upon entering the Pokémon Center, head to where the Nurse is and access your character’s PC through one of the terminals near her station.
 Once you’ve logged in to your PC, go ahead and check Item Storage. You should now be at a screen presenting you with the option to Withdraw, Deposit, and Toss Items.
 You only need to concern yourself with the first option. If you enabled the cheat codes earlier, you should now be seeing the 99 Potions and a glitched number for the item you specified after choosing the Withdraw Item option. Withdraw all the Potions, and you should now be left with just 99 of the specified item that you can then proceed to withdraw as well.


Don’t worry about withdrawing all the items. They will automatically replenish back to 99 so long as the cheats are enabled. This means that you’ll have an infinite supply of the items that you associated with the 99 Items Code earlier.
 After withdrawing the items, log off the PC and pause the game. If you check your character’s Bag, he/she should now have the same amount of items that was withdrawn earlier from the PC. You are then free to use these as you see fit.

