(actually you might want to avoid restoration and destruction because they take a significantly greater amount of time than the other magical attributes. Sneak is pretty fast if you exploit the pickpocket trick where you use the adoring fan but to do that you have to beat the arena instead of just leveling at the beginning of the game. also you can go in the basement of Arvena Thelas in anvil which is a lady with a bunch of rats and do a destruction spell that won't harm any of them so they all start attacking you to quickly level your block/heavy armor/light armor. This is probably quicker than restoration and destruction so that's an option too)Selecting skills as major skills doesn't make them stronger or anything it just puts them at 25 initially and and they are the skills that leveling your character will be reliant on. So when you level your major skills 10 times you level will go up. And the other skills don't matter towards leveling. The magical skills(except restoration and destruction) are the easiest to level and you should be able to master them in about 2 hours of gameplay except for alchemy which takes like 20 minutes or something if your willing to use the duplication glitch. So these skills are ideal for fast and easy leveling. You can make the skills you want stronger the normal way.;
, (Example: light on self for 1 sec magnitude 3 for illusion) For destruction make weakness to something spell so you're not hurting your self. You can get one of these spells at the magic emporium in the market district. (also get two of any scroll and one of another for later purposes)

, (to cast at an even faster rate hold block and continually hit the cast button) Each skill should master in about 2 hours which levels your character about 7 times for every mastered skill(one level for every ten skill increases)

, This is done by exploiting the duplicating glitch which will help you significantly in almost everything. To do this you must select a scroll twice and drop anything. (you do not have to open your journal in mid-attack or anything like that) You must however have more scroll than the thing you are trying to duplicate. For example if you have 5 iron daggers and you want more you must have more than 5 of the same kind of scrolls. If you have 92 of the same kind of scrolls and you drop the daggers you will get 92 daggers. So to get a lot of scrolls so you can duplicate a lot of things you must use the 2 scrolls to dupe the one. Then pick up only one and dupe it again. them pick up all four and dupe the 2 and so on. So when you have like 100 of one scroll just get one corn and one potato or any other two compatible ingredients. (also get a mortar and pestle which you can find in the beginning sewers) them just dupe the corn and potatoes until you have like 1500 of each. then just open your journal and go to your mortar and pestle and continually press the make potion button. You will be a master of alchemy super quick. This will gain your character like 7 levels in twenty minutes.
 It is a hassle but in some skills it is worth it. You can master a skill in twenty level ups without even using the skill. This is good to do in armorer since the normal way it takes very long and it is a very helpful skill to have mastered. It takes about 96 hours of running to master but if you train while leveling it can take like an hour.

