 Here, you can pick a pre-designed certificate or design your own. You can choose a certificate theme that incorporates the same colors as your company's logo, or choose a different theme and edit the colors to your liking.


Try to choose a theme with few dark or bright colors outside of the text. This will help keep your certificate looking professional.
 Is your certificate for a generic show of appreciation, or will you be mentioning a specific goal the employee achieved or a training course completed? Plan out how much information will be necessary to include on the certificate to make an appropriate number of text boxes.
 To insert text, click the Insert tab, then click the Text Box icon. Click and drag from the first visible vertical gridline to the last visible vertical gridline. Release the mouse button.


If necessary, click the edge of the text box and move it or resize it until it lies just below the first visible horizontal gridline and is the height of half of the grid.
 Right-click on the text box and choose Edit Text from the popup menu. Type your company's name in this box. Center the text within the text box by clicking the appropriate icon in the Paragraph section of the Home tab. Right-click on the text box again and choose Copy from the popup menu.


Right-click on the second visible horizontal gridline from the top of the page and choose Paste. If necessary, you can click and drag the new text box into its proper location. Click inside this box and revise the text to read "Certificate of Completion," "Certificate of Achievement" or "Certificate of Appreciation," depending on your purposes with the certificate and the achievement you hope to highlight with the certificate.
 Paste additional text boxes at the 3.75, 4.75, 5, 5.5 and 6.5 horizontal gridlines. Edit the text in each of these to contain "is hereby granted to," "Employee Name," "for (name of training course, achievement, or outstanding performance)," "Project or Team Name," "Awarded: Date" and "Presenter Name and Title."


You can use these generic form descriptions in your text boxes and save this certificate of appreciation as a template to be used in the future.
 Most graphic designers recommend using no more than 3 different fonts for any 1 published document, so it's usually best to go simple and go for the most straightforward choices.


Try the Georgia font, with size 14 applied to the "Company Name," "is hereby awarded to" and "Awarded: Date" boxes. Use size 32 for the "Certificate of" box and size 44 for the "Employee Name" box. Size 10 could be applied to the "for" description box and size 18 to the "Project or Team Name" box.
 Click the Shapes icon on the Insert tab in the Illustrations section and choose the first straight line example. Click and drag to draw a line from the third visible vertical line from the left side of the page to the seventh line. Release the mouse button.


Right-click on the line and choose "Format Shape" from the menu. Adjust the width to 1.75 in the Line Style section. Choose a color from the Theme Colors section which is in the Line Color section.
 Decorate your certificate of appreciation with a thick border, adjust font colors and weights or insert your company's logo in one of the corners. Save your certificate and print it on standard paper to review. You might consider showing it to some coworkers or your boss for feedback before finishing them all up and printing them on cardstock.


When you're satisfied with the product, print them on heavy cardstock paper, trim and frame.

