 The best time is when it's warm and the nights stay light for longer. Summer and early fall/autumn are ideal times.;
, You don't really need a reason other than to get your community on the street together but you might like to also turn it into an occasion for a street party or even to raise money for a charity concern that everyone in the street thinks is worthwhile. If there is a local disaster event, you might like to raise money to help people who are suffering the consequences of the disaster.
 Put flyers in everyone's mailbox to ask them to a general meeting to discuss having a street theater occasion (and perhaps a party accompanying it) and that you'd like people who are keen to come along. Let them know that you're looking for:


People to help set up and clear away
People to perform all sorts of street theater
People to prepare food and drink
People to come along.
 At the meeting, start planning as soon as you have adequate agreement from everyone to participate and to support the event.


Work out how you will control traffic on the street that day. You may need local authority permission to close off the street and you will need all neighbors to be in agreement about not moving their vehicles about in the area chosen. Another way is to call it street theater but to choose a large garden space or a park rather than holding up a street.
Talk early on about logistics, such as setting up a stage, acrobat areas, equipment, cooking facilities, and even portaloos, etc. if you expect people from other streets to come along.
Discuss funding and whether or not this is needed. It might be that everyone can donate all that is needed, plus their time and talent.
 You will want to encourage as many people as possible to participate, so allow as many types of "theater" as possible to form a part of this event. Some ideas include:


Acting performances
Singing, musical
Acrobatics
Juggling
Improvisation
Comedy acts, skits
Tricks, magic, body, object, etc.
Animal performances (pets only, and only welfare-compliant things)
Activist theater (explaining an important issue by acting - be sure to adopt a theme if this is your reason for the street theater)
Puppetry
Making things
Marching band
Bands of any kind
Miming, and more.
 Create a timetable if you're having more than one event, so that everyone gets to watch and be watched at different times.
 It might be a good idea to supply a makeshift changing room for people who need to make costume changes, etc.
 You will need people to run around doing all sorts of errands. Make sure they have cell phones in case of emergencies.
 Put up posters, send out flyers, and even advertise in the local paper and radio if you want more people to come and see what your street is doing.
 On the day, get out there and soak up the atmosphere, have a lot of fun and don't take it too seriously.

