 Intranasal steroids, such as fluticasone (Flonase) or triamcinolone (Nasacort), which are now available over-the-counter, work by reducing inflammation in the nose. These sprays can be particularly helpful for sinus headaches that are triggered by allergies. Nasal steroid spray has the benefit of having no major side effects like those caused by many oral decongestants and antihistamines, such as drowsiness and dry mouth. Note, however, that it takes a few days for the steroid to build up to its full effect; this means that you will not experience immediate relief.If you're using Flonase, the typical dosage is one spray per nostril twice daily. If you are using Nasacort, the typical dosage is two sprays per nostril once daily.
There are also other nasal steroids available with a prescription, such as mometasone Furoate (Nasonex).
Potential side effects include indigestion, nausea, headaches, and a bad taste or smell while using the spray.
New guidelines suggest that intranasal steroids should be the first line of treatment for sinus congestion.;
, Using an over-the-counter decongestant or medication can help relieve pressure in your sinuses by unblocking the nasal passages and helping them to drain. You can get them in the form of nasal sprays or as oral medication and they can be purchased at most pharmacies. Consult your doctor to ensure that the decongestant will not affect any health conditions you may have, such as high blood pressure, or have any negative interactions with any medications you may be taking.In addition, use a salt water nasal spray to help relieve congestion. Use it no more than six times daily. Nasal sprays other than the salt water variety may increase congestion or inflammation. Follow the dosage and usage directions that come with the nasal spray.
Nasal decongestant sprays should not be used for more than three days at a time. Longer term use has been linked to "rebound" swelling of the nasal passages.
Oral decongestants, such as Sudafed or Bronkaid pills, however, can be used for one to two weeks without supervision by a physician. While the "rebound" swelling is less common with oral decongestants, some people experience palpitations or a rise in blood pressure.
Avoid nasal sprays containing zinc. These have been linked to permanent loss of the sense of smell (though this is rare).
 Some people find antihistamines useful, particularly in longer-lasting occurrences of sinus infections or people with allergies, because they can ease nasal congestion. Oral antihistamines include diphenhydramine (Benadryl), cetirizine (Zyrtec) and loratadine (Claritin). Note, however, that some older antihistamines such as Benadryl can have serious side effects for the sinuses, including the drying up of the mucous membranes of the nasal tissue and thickening the secretions, and can also cause drowsiness.Take 25 – 50 milligrams of Benadryl every eight hours as needed for congestion. This drug may prove difficult to tolerate due to its side effects of drowsiness and “fogginess." You should consult with your doctor before giving children Benadryl.
Take 10 mg of Zyrtec once daily. Children older than six years of age may take this as well, in doses of 5 – 10 mg per day, depending on age and weight. There is also a liquid version available for children over two. Consult the instructions or follow your doctor's advice. This medication may cause some drowsiness
Take 10 mg of Claritin once daily. Second generation antihistamines such as this one have a much improved side effect profile and are less likely to cause drowsiness.Claritin is is available in liquid, pill, and other forms for children over age 2. Consult with your pediatrician.
You could also try a prescription antihistamine nasal spray such as azelastine (Astelin, Astepro) or olopatadine hydrochloride (Patanase).
 Relieve the pain with over-the-counter NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen (Aleve) which will help to open the airways by reducing the inflammation. They also reduce fever and relieve pain. Discuss these options with your doctor if you have any doubt about their usage and whether these medications are right for you.Aspirin (Acetylsalicylic Acid) is a drug that works as an analgesic, relieving pain by inhibiting pain signals in the brain. It is also an antipyretic, a drug that reduces fever. Do not give to children under 18, however.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) can be used for pain and fever but will not help with the inflammation. Acetaminophen is safe for children.
 If your headache recurs frequently, is very severe, or doesn't improve with home treatments, you should be checked by a doctor. Moreover, if the problem is due to growths, like polyps, or other defects blocking the sinuses, you may need surgery. Here are a number of circumstances where you should see your doctor:If you experience soft tissue swelling over the frontal sinus with headache and fever. This can indicate an infection of the frontal bone.
If your eyelids swell, become droopy, red, or warm, or if you experience vision changes. This may be indicative of a rare but very serious condition which can result in permanent blindness. Fever and severe illness is usually present. If pain from a sinus headache moves to the eye or swelling around the eye, you should be evaluated immediately.
If your sinus pain is associated with the frontal sinuses. The infection can cause the formation of a blood clot in that area. Symptoms of a blood clot are similar to those of an eye socket infection, but in this case, the pupil of the affected eye will be dilated, or larger than usual.
Anyone with a sinus headache or infection and experiencing a personality change, stiff neck, high fever, altered consciousness, rash on the body, visual problems or seizures should seek immediate medical attention. These symptoms may mean that the infection has spread to the surrounding tissue, including the brain.

