 You will return the glass to its rightful place after you’ve painted the interior portion.


Leave the clock border in tact--this is where you will place the LEGO figures. If you have to take the clock entirely apart, leave the clock border/frame on the sidelines, as you will be painting the clock face anyway. No point getting paint on the border.






Clean area around the clock face and prepare it for painting. Make sure you remove any debris or dust using a damp paper towel. Be sure if you wipe dust off the face you allow it to dry before painting.





;
, Depending on the look you are going for, cover the clock face with the paint color of your choice. don't forget to remove the clock's arms.


Use a stencil to create a Star Wars motif on the clock face. The Internet is filled with sites that provide you with a variety of shapes that can be transferred to the clock surface.






Consider using either (or both) spray paint and/or regular acrylic paint. If you are painting a large surface, spray paint may work wonders and get the job done quicker.






Return the clock arms to its original position after the paint has dried and after applying the background.






Wait up to 10 hours or overnight before putting the clock back together to ensure the paint has fully dried.
 You will be adding figures and possibly LEGO bricks around the perimeter of the clock. Make sure you have enough room so the hands don’t get stuck on a Lego block or person.


Trim the hands if necessary. Most likely the pieces should fit nicely along the edges and trimming the hands should not be necessary. However, make sure either you place the LEGO pieces strategically around the outermost edges or you use sharp scissors to trim down the hands.
 Use your imagination and a lot of glue to affix colorful Lego bricks and the characters around the perimeter of the clock border.

Use liquid nails or super glue to place LEGO bricks around the clock frame. Skip the areas that point toward numbers--this is where your Lego characters will be placed.






Return the clock glass to its original place.






Cut small strips of self-adhesive Velcro tape and place tape on the perimeter of the clock, in line with each number. The pieces of tape will be placed in line with each clock number so make sure you cut a piece that will be long enough to hold the Star Wars character but not too long that it blends into the next number. As an alternative you can use a lego block or piece.






Cut small strips of self-adhesive Velcro tape to be placed on the back of each LEGO Star Wars character. Make sure they are tapped firmly on the backs of each character.






Attach characters to the pieces of Velcro tape on the clock.






The Velcro design will allow you to move characters in different, interchangeable spots throughout the clock--so Darth Vader doesn’t always have to be seated when the clock strikes twelve.
