 Your friend will have to wear a long sleeve shirt and pants because the duct tape is painful to remove if it's applied directly to their skin. Wear form fitting clothing, because the bulkier your clothes are, the more bulky and unrealistic the duct tape dummy will look.Tell your friend to wear clothing that they don't care about because it will be destroyed in the end.
 Tightly wrap the duct tape around the waist and backside of the model before working on the legs. Go over the entire lower half of the model and cover them with duct tape so that it fits their body. This may take two to three layers to cover up any gaps in the tape., Start from the left hip of the model and pull the duct tape up over their right shoulder and onto their back. Do the same technique on the other side of the model so that an X forms on the front of the model. Continue to layer duct tape over the person until the entire torso is covered. Then, start working on each arm of the person, wrapping the duct tape around it.You can stop duct taping around the collar of the neck and wrists of the model.
 Draw a straight vertical line on the back of the model. Draw two lines along the sides of each pant leg on the lower half of the dummy. Use these lines to help guide your scissors when you cut the duct tape off of the model or person., Insert scissors into the pant leg of your friend and carefully cut up into each pant leg. Be very careful not to cut the person who is wearing the duct tape. Cut the back of the torso piece and peel it off the model.Do not use pointed scissors or you may cut your model or friend.
 Place a shirt over your head and loop the duct tape around your forehead, over your head, and under your chin. This will work as a soft template that you can use to finish off the dummy's head. Once you've created the loops, you can remove the shirt from your head and fill it with newspaper to fill it out., Tape the torso and legs back together along the cut lines that you made. To add weight and form to your dummy, fill in the top and bottom parts of the body with newspaper or cotton filling. You can also take the shirt that you created for the head and fill it out., Tape the bottom half of the torso with the top half and attach the filled up head to the neck portion of the dummy. Attach thick gloves to the arms of the dummy to create hands. You may have to fill the gloves up with newspaper or filling to make them look realistic. Attach shoes to the dummy by lining the inside of them with duct tape, then attaching them to each leg that you created., Fit clothing over the duct tape dummy that you created. For the head, you can either spray paint the shirt a flesh tone, or you can draw on a face however you want. Conceal the look of the gloves on the hands by painting them a flesh tone. Once you've finished dressing it, you'll have a life-sized duct tape dummy.