 Though oil paint was once a popular choice for all types of projects, it is now primarily used for art and specialty crafts. Oil paint tends to be thicker and glossier than latex paint, and takes considerably longer to dry.


If you are unsure if you are dealing with an oil paint stain, check the can or tube of paint for the words "oil paint" or "oil-based paint."
If the paint can or tube is unavailable, try to remember how you cleaned your brushes or other materials after painting. Did you use water, or was a paint thinner such as turpentine required? If you used turpentine, white spirit or another, similar product, you were most likely using oil paint and can follow the steps below.
 If the paint is still wet, scrape excess paint away with a knife or the edge of a spoon, then blot the stain with a white cloth. If the paint has dried, scrub it with a knife or a strong-bristled brush.









Do not apply water or rinse the stain. This will only make the stain more difficult to remove.
 To remove an oil paint stain you will need to use a chemical paint solvent. There are many products available, and your stain may require a particular cleaner.


Check the paint can for a recommended cleaner.
If you are working with specialty craft paint, check an art supply store for a specialized cleaner.If you cannot find a recommendation for a specific cleaner or if you do not have time to find and purchase a recommended solvent, you can use turpentine or white spirits on most oil-based stains. Distilled turpentine can be purchased at any home improvement or paint store.
However, you should never use turpentine on fabrics containing acetate, triacetate or rayon, so be sure to check your garment’s care information before proceeding., Turn the stained clothing inside out and place it on top of a white absorbent cloth or a stack of paper towels. Using another white cloth or paper towel, sponge or blot your paint solvent over the stained area until the stain disappears. 








Replace the cloth or towels under the clothing as they become wet. This will help ensure that the cloths will continue absorbing the paint as it dissolves.
Watch your fabric for color bleeding or running. If you notice that the colors in your clothing are beginning to run, stop applying solvent. It is unlikely that you will be able to remove the paint stain from this item.
 Leave the garment to soak for at least an hour, preferably longer. Occasionally rub the stained area with your hands to loosen the remaining solvent.









Rub a high-quality laundry detergent into the stained area before soaking.
If you don’t have laundry detergent, mix dishwashing soap into the warm water to help cut the grease in the paint and solvent.
 Remove your clothing from the warm water, give the stained area one last scrub, and then wash it according to its care directions.

