 Only metals containing iron will rust, and some iron alloys will rust slowly or not at all. Stainless steel, an alloy of iron and chromium, will be very difficult to rust. Cast iron or wrought iron will rust most easily.;
, Hydrochloric acid is readily available in low concentrations at hardware stores, often labeled as muriatic acid. Handling it carefully, pour about 2 ounces (60 ml) into a sturdy plastic bottle. You should wear rubber gloves and safety glasses when doing this., Dissolving copper into the acid solution creates a wash that will speed the rusting process. The best way to dissolve copper in the acid is to wrap a short length of copper wire into a coil and submerge it in the acid for about a week.


When leaving the copper to soak, do not cap the bottle tightly. The gases produced during the chemical reaction will cause pressure to build inside the bottle. Also, make sure to clearly label the bottle and store it out of reach of children or pets.
Copper coins can be used as well. Make sure the coin's content is largely copper; for instance, United States pennies made after 1982 are only 2.5 percent copper. However, pennies made before 1982 are 95 percent copper.
 After some of the copper has dissolved into the acid, put on protective gloves and carefully remove the the copper from the solution. Once you have taken it out of the solution, you can discard it. Dilute the acid with water in a ratio of roughly 1 part acid to 50 parts water. If you used 2 ounces (60 ml) of hydrochloric acid, you should mix it with about a gallon (3.8 L) of water., The acid and copper solution will work best when the metal is very clean. There are commercially available products designed for cleaning scale or corrosion from metal, but a wash and rinse with soap and water will generally be sufficient.
 Apply a light layer of the solution to the metal and allow it to air dry. The acid can be applied with a spray bottle or paint brush, although the acid will quickly deteriorate any metal components of the spray bottle. Wear protective gloves and safety glasses when applying the acid solution, and work in a well-ventilated area, preferably outdoors.
 Within an hour, you should see noticeable rusting on the metal. You do not need to wipe or rinse away the acid wash; it will dissipate naturally. If you desire a heavier layer of rust, apply another wash of the acid solution.
