 Practice active listening to show people that you have respect for their opinions and ideas. Watch and be quiet when someone else is talking and spend time thinking actively about what they're saying.


Too often, we wait to talk instead of really listening to other people's ideas. Even if you think you disagree, try to consider the point of view and empathize with it before responding. You're showing respect to the person by hearing them out and letting them make their own case. You might be surprised.
 To show respect for other peoples' opinions, question them. Ask open-ended, leading questions that show you're fully engaged with their ideas and that you're listening closely. Questioning doesn't mean that you're trying to poke holes in their story, or that you don't believe them. Ask for more when it seems like they might have more to give.


Instead of asking for more details, ask about how someone feels about a particular topic. If someone's telling a story, ask "How'd you feel afterwards?" Even if you think you know, let them tell you. Let them make their own case.
Learn to spread the wealth. If it seems like someone isn't talking much in a group conversation, ask them a specific question to open the door for communication. You don't need to draw attention to it by saying something like, "You're awfully quiet, Steve" just say, "Steve, what did you think of the Super Bowl?"

, Learning to empathize with other people who have very different experiences and perspectives than your own will help you learn to show respect. Be proud of your own opinions and perspectives, but don't assume everyone feels the same way and avoid putting them in an awkward position. Temper your attitudes and learn where people are coming from before you share your opinions so you can know how to respond.


While it might seem easy to make a casual comment about how "dumb" football is in a mixed group, you can never know if someone's recently-deceased grandfather made a living as a ref and loved the sport dearly.
 Sometimes it shows respect to speak up and voice your opinion, as a way of respecting the intelligence of others. On the other hand, sometimes it's better to hold back on your opinions and avoid unnecessary arguments that raise tempers. Showing respect


Try softening your arguments the first time you bring something up. If you think college football is a vicious and disgusting money trench, package that message in a respectful way and voice it, even if others will disagree: "It worries me that so much money is funneled into student athletes at the expense of other more important things. What do you think?" Show respect for their opinion by sharing your own and listening to their argument.
Perhaps there's little use in arguing with your great uncle about gay marriage for the umpteenth time. Will it be worth it to bring it up at the dinner table?

, When you have to dissent, do it calmly and by treating your conversation with tact. Respect the perspective of the other person. Don't insult their opinion or ideas, even if you disagree with them.


Try to acknowledge common ground before adding your disagreement. Straight with praise and then move to your addition to the conversation. Even something as simple as "That's a good point. I think I'm seeing it a little differently though..." does the trick in lightening your disagreement.
Be specific with your critique, avoiding simple or insulting language like "You're wrong" or "That's dumb."

