 If you aren't interested in disassembling the puzzle at any point, you can use a specialized glue to permanently attach the pieces together. This can create a glossier, sturdier piece of artwork, but may reduce the value of your puzzle. Because of this, this method is not recommended for antique or valuable puzzles, and some puzzle hobbyists do not use it at all.;
, Because your assembled jigsaw puzzle may have slightly different dimensions than listed on the box, use a ruler or tape measure to get an accurate measurement before selecting a frame.


Some craft shops sell frames in pieces, which you can reassemble into rectangular frames with a custom length/width combination., Select poster board, foam board, or sturdy cardboard approximately 1/4 inch (6 mm) thick, and cut a rectangle that can be inserted into your frame.This material will provide a backing for the puzzle, keeping it flat and in the frame. A utility knife is recommended to make even cuts, along with a T-square or protractor to ensure the sides are cut to at 90ยบ angle.


Avoid using thin cardboard or other easily bent material, as this may cause the puzzle to warp over time.
 Protect the surface underneath the puzzle by carefully slipping something flat and disposable, such as wax paper, underneath the puzzle.
 Small bumps and loose pieces can be evened out before gluing with a rolling pin.Press down on the rolling pin as you move it across the puzzle surface several times.
 Purchase specialized jigsaw puzzle glue from a craft store or online. Use a paintbrush to apply this glue across the surface of the puzzle, covering the entire area with a thin layer. Pay special attention to the cracks between pieces.


If your puzzle glue comes in powdered form, read the instructions to learn how to prepare it before use.
 Your bottle of puzzle glue may contain specific directions, telling you how long to wait for the glue to dry. If it does not, leave the glued puzzle alone for at least two hours.Test to see if its ready by gently lifting one end of the puzzle. If the pieces are still loose or coming apart, wait longer or apply more glue.
 Apply glue to the surface of the foam board or cardboard you cut earlier. Carefully transfer your glued puzzle over the foam board, aligning it with the edges. Press the puzzle down onto the foam board, then scrape off any excess glue that was squeezed out from between the two objects.


If the glue does not hold or looks uneven, you may pay someone at a craft shop to "dry mount" the puzzle professionally onto a backing material.
 Leave the puzzle alone for at least 24 hours so the glue can achieve maximum strength. If the puzzle looks bent or uneven, weigh it down during this drying period with a large book or other heavy object with a larger surface area than the puzzle.Don't use heavy objects with a small or uneven surface area, as these may compress your puzzle unevenly, or even damage it.
 Once the puzzle and backing material are dry, place them in the frame. Lock them into the frame using the tabs or arms at the back, or by whichever method is built into the frame.


Optionally, fit a glass or hard plastic cover over the puzzle to prevent scratches. For best preservation of the puzzle's colors, use a UV-resistant glass cover.