 All games will come down to the final minute and you'll find out if all your hard work was enough to win, or if you've still got more work to put into it. Good players are tested at the moment the last whistle blows. Are you going to handle it with quiet dignity? Or are you going to be sore? Sportsmanship starts with knowing how to win gracefully and how to lose just as gracefully.


When you win, it's perfectly fine to celebrate, but never ok to taunt the opposing side. Be happy that you won, but never rub it in. Congratulate and compliment the other players for a job well-done and stay positive about the experience.
When you lose, it's ok to be disappointed. No one likes to lose. But don't sulk, make excuses, or lash out at the opposing team or your teammates. Treat each loss as a learning experience. What can you take from the game to use to improve for the next? What could you have done better?

, Good players don't take shortcuts, or even look for them. Good players recognize that games aren't all about winning or losing, but about how you win or how you lose. You need to be able to look back at your performance with pride, regardless of the outcome. Hold yourself accountable.


In many team sports, the rules are a regularly changing thing. Learn the rules and study them, staying up to date on the newest and most recent rules.
 Good players run on passion and emotion when they're on the field, using their desire to succeed drive them. For some players, coming up with a good storyline or a good dramatic angle to the game is an important way of getting passionate. Saying "It's just a game" is a good way of going half-speed through the rest of the game. Michael Jordan used to invent slights and insults from his opponents, making it personal. He made each game a chance to show up his opponents and prove them wrong (even if they hadn't said anything to begin with).


Don't let your emotions take over and push you to poor sportsmanship. Play passionately, not angrily. Practice turning it on and turning it off when you're on the field only. As soon as the game is over, let it be over.
 Putting your skills on display to impress other players, observers, or opponents is bad sportsmanship. While it's common to get wrapped up in the competitiveness of the moment and want to do well, good players don't need to show off to prove their ability or to feel better about their skills. Know that you're talented and that you're a good player without the need of running up scores, embarrassing other players, and hamming it up for the fans.


One good team technique to get in the habit of practicing is to learn to pull back if you're winning by many points. On the soccer field, if your team is up by more than six goals, start making a rule that no one can shoot until every single player on the field has touched the ball. Use the opportunity to work on your ball handling. Make the game more challenging for yourself.
 When the referees make a call, specifically a call against you or one of your teammates, don't argue. Follow their instructions to the letter and speak to the officials respectfully. Talking back or arguing can make the punishments worse, displaying bad sportsmanship.When you address the officials, use the word "Sir" or "Ma'am" and try to calm yourself, if you're frustrated. Take a second to take a deep breath and check your emotions before you open your mouth.

