 Use your ruler to draw one line an inch to the left edge of your cardboard. Draw another line a half inch to the left of the edge. Cut along these lines to slice out a centimeter inch thick strip from the cardboard and an one inch strip. Discard the small piece of cardboard and place the one inch strip a centimeter away from the edge of the cardboard. This strip will be wrapped up in decorative paper to form the cover. Repeat with the other piece of cardboard.Take the decorative paper you purchased at the craft store. Use your ruler to draw a rectangle on the backside of the decorative paper. The rectangle should be 1.5 inches longer and 1.5 inches wider than the pages of your manuscript.
Once you've drawn the rectangle, use your scissors to cut it out. You should be left with a cover page that's slightly bigger than the pages of your manuscript, as well as the two pieces of cardboard.
Go slowly as you cut. You want your rectangle to have fairly even ledges.
 You need this border to help you fold the cover over the cardboard later on. Draw a border that's 3/4 inch, and surrounds the entire cover.You can mark your border on the backside of the cover page using a ruler and pen.
Draw two horizontal lines 3/4 inch into the bottom and top edges of the cover.
Draw two vertical lines 3/4 inch to the left and right edges of the cover. This should create a 3/4 inch border surrounding the cover page.
 Cover the entire piece of cardboard with glue. Place the cardboard onto the backside of the cover page. Make sure to fit the cardboard within the border you just drew. Flip the cardboard over, so the front side of the cover page is facing up. Gently press the cover onto the cardboard, making sure to smooth out any ripples or air bubbles.Do not apply glue to the paper. Glue can cause the paper to wrinkle and swell up.
Repeat this same process with the back cover.
 Take the front cover and flip it upside down so the cardboard is facing up. Fold each corner of the cover inward. Glue the corners in place.Once the glue on the corners has dried, fold the sides of the cover over, so the cover is securely wrapped around the cardboard. Glue these sides in place as well.
Repeat the same process with the back cover.
 Take your decorative paper again. Draw two rectangles half an inch shorter and half an inch more narrow than your manuscript pages. Cut out these rectangles.Glue each rectangle to the backside of the front and back covers.
The rectangles should cover up the cardboard, giving your inside cover a pretty appearance.
 Make sure to use a heavy duty hole puncher, especially if you have a thicker book. Use your bull clips to sandwich your pages between the front and back cover. Make sure everything lines up evenly.Place your book face up on a flat surface.
Along the left side, punch one hole 1.5 inch from the top of the book. Punch another hole 1.5 inch from the bottom of the book. Both of these holes should be half an inch in from the book's spine.
 Cut out a piece of ribbon six times as long as your book is high. Feed your ribbon through the top hole along the spine of your book, feeding it through the top side of the book. Pull the ribbon underneath the book until there's only a length of ribbon slightly longer than the width of the book sticking out the top side of the book. Loop the ribbon stemming from the bottom of the book back around to the top of the book and pull the ribbon into a tight loop.Take the ribbon coming out of the bottom side of the book's top hole. Pass it over so it's on top of the book again and thread the ribbon through the the bottom hole. Loop the ribbon back to the top of the book. Feed it through the bottom hole again, and pull until tight.
Wrap the ribbon underneath the book. Loop it over the top of the book, and feed it through the bottom hole again. Feed the ribbon through the top hole once more. There should be a criss-cross pattern running along the spine of the book.
Wrap the ribbon over the top of the book. The ribbon you've been threading should be next to the other side of the ribbon you left when you began threading. Tie these two ends together in a tight knot, and tie the knot into a bow. Your book is now complete.

