 Your optometrist may give you a variety of tests as well as questions to determine if you may have cataracts. While some tests will be routine, other are more specific to detect cataracts.


Your optometrist will ask you questions about your vision such as what symptoms you're having and how long you've experienced them.
They will also perform a standard eye exam by using the eye chart and the viewing device to determine if you need corrective lenses.
 The test is called the slit-lamp examination. It lets your optometrist see the front of your eye under magnification to check for anything unusual.The slit refers to an intense line of light that your optometrist uses. Along with magnification, this helps your optometrist examine each section of the cornea, iris, and lens.
If cataracts are visible at this test, your optometrist may perform additional tests or diagnose you at this time. In either case, they will need to know the severity of the cataracts for a full plan of treatment.
 This test dilates your pupils and makes it easier for your optometrist to examine the retina at the back of your eye. If you get this test, get a ride home, since it may be unsafe for you to drive.When you're given a pupil dilation test, special drops are placed in your eye to dilate the pupil. The doctor may use either an ophthalmoscope or slit lamp for this examination.
Since the pupils are artificially dilated, your doctor will probably recommend sunglasses for your trip home to avoid excessive UV exposure to the eye.
 The tonometry test is also known as the pressure test. It lets your optometrist know if you have elevated pressure in your eyes, which can be dangerous and a sign of severe cataracts.Tonometry tests can be electronic, contact, or non-contact. The most familiar tonometry test is the eye puff test, in which a small puff of air flattens your cornea to check for increased eye pressure.The tonometry test also tests for glaucoma. Since many of the symptoms of cataracts can also be symptoms of glaucoma, it's a good idea to make sure this is not your problem instead of cataracts.
 If your optometrist thinks you may have cataracts, they may refer you to an ophthalmologist. An ophthalmologist will make the final diagnosis and determine a treatment plan.Your ophthalmologist may suggest corrective lenses if your cataracts are not severe; however, in many cases, cataracts are serious enough to require surgery.
Surgery for cataracts is generally a routine, outpatient procedure. In this surgery, your ophthalmologist removes the cloudy lens and replaces it with an artificial lens.
After the surgery, you'll want to have someone drive you home. Your vision may be blurry for a while after the surgery; however, if it's still blurry after a few hours or if you experience any pain, contact your ophthalmologist immediately.