 Combine the pumpkin puree and the pumpkin pie spice in a small saucepan. Cook them over medium heat for 2 minutes, stirring constantly. The mixture is ready when it turns fragrant.









For extra flavor, add in some freshly-ground black pepper.
Make sure that you are using plain pumpkin puree and not the pumpkin pie blend.
 Keep stirring until the mixture turns thick and syrupy. If you want a less-sweet latte, you can use less sugar.
 Allow the mixture to heat back up, but don't let it come to a boil.









This will make the latte taste more syrupy, like what you'd find in a coffee shop. For something less sweet, use only 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of vanilla extract.
Stir the ingredients continuously to prevent the milk from scalding.
The type of milk you use is up to you. Whole milk will produce the most rich taste and the most froth, but nonfat milk will also become frothy enough to work with and will produce a slightly healthier drink.
 Keep blending until the mixture turns foamy. This will take about 15 to 30 seconds. You can also use a regular blender or food processor, but be sure to hold the lid down tightly and to wrap towels around it. If you don't do this, the mixture will leak out.









If you don't have any kind of blender, process the mixture with a whisk. It won't be as smooth, however, and you may still have some pumpkin puree in the finished drink.
The mixture should become very foamy. Expect more foam if you used whole milk and less if you used low-fat or nonfat milk.
 If you don't have an espresso machine, you can try making it using an instant espresso powder instead. You can also brew ½ cup (120 milliliters) of strong, black coffee, and use that instead.








If you are using coffee, make sure that it is strong, otherwise the latte will taste too milky.
 The milk and espresso should mix together on their own, but if they don't, give each latte a quick stir. If your milk mixture still has too much pulp in it from the puree, consider pouring it through a fine mesh strainer.
 Pour ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of heavy cream into a mixer or a food processor fitted with whisks. Beat it until it forms stiff peaks.









You can use store-bought whipped cream instead and skip this step.
 Use a wide spoon or a rubber spatula to carefully scoop the whipped cream onto each latte. You can garnish the lattes further with a sprinkle of cinnamon, nutmeg, or more pumpkin pie spice.








