 Certain medical conditions could prevent you from boxing. Make sure to consult a physician before you start training. If you are prone to seizures or have a neurological problem, you should not spar. Talk to your doctor to see what they recommend.


For some conditions you'll be able to train, but will be advised against fighting.
If you have heart disease, asthma, diabetes, cancer, or lung disease, consult a doctor before starting a new workout routine., Learning how to fight without the proper training can be a detriment. You could be utilizing poor technique during practice and reinforcing bad habits which may be hard to unlearn down the road. You also could be practicing in an unsafe environment and could hurt yourself or your training partner. When starting off, go to a certified gym with trainers who have experience.
 Your hands are the most valuable tool for boxing and must be preserved for you to compete. Many amateurs will put on boxing gloves without wrapping their hands first. This could cause serious injuries in your hand, knuckles, or wrists that could end your boxing career. Wrapping your hands will prevent injury and reduce swelling and pain after punching., Always take precautions or someone could get seriously injured. Wear a mouthguard, headgear, and a cup so that you protect yourself during practice.


Sparring without a mouthguard could result in a cut lip, cut tongue, or a broken tooth.
Even light punches could cause serious injury if protective gear is not worn.
 Your experience as a boxer also comes with a new responsibility to keep a calm and cool head when outside of the gym. Taking your skills to the street and provoking fights could get yourself or someone else seriously injured or could even be fatal.Because you're the one with the training, you could face serious penalties or jail time. Avoid fights at all costs and try to resolve your problems with words.


In dire circumstances use your skills for self-defense.
To avoid a fight you could say something like, "I'm a trained fighter and I do not want to fight you. Please leave me alone."

, Your instructor will know how to train you safely and properly. Even if you have experience competing, always remain respectful towards your instructor. They may see something that you can improve on. Ultimately they are the expert, and you are the student so you must follow their directions to improve.

