 Many rental car companies partner with airlines and hotels to offer their customers discounts. You can check by looking on your airline’s website or speaking to the concierge at your hotel.

You might not get the cheapest deal this way. Instead, you are really buying convenience. Remember to continue to research to see what is the cheapest deal.
 Check with Human Resources or with your supervisor to check. Some employers will only let you use the discount for company travel, but others might let you use the discount for personal travel as well., Many rental car companies offer coupons which can reduce the cost of the rental. Search Google for “coupon code” and the rental company.Groupon has a Car Rental Center that shows available discounts., Many organizations offer their members discounts on rental cars. For example, AARP, the American Automobile Association (AAA), and Costco all offer their members discounts.Look to see if any organization you belong to offers similar discounts.

You might be a member of some of these organizations without knowing it. For example, your automobile’s warranty might have included AAA membership.
 Some rental car companies will cut their rates in half if you rent on the weekend. If your schedule is flexible, plan on renting on the weekend to save big.If you need to rent during the week, then check the company’s weekly rate. Often, it’s cheaper to rent the car for the entire week than for five days at the daily rate.
 Some rental car companies have loyalty programs which allow you to earn points or credits each time you rent a car.For example, the Hertz Gold Plus Rewards program is free to join and will give you a free weekend day for 550 points.These programs are a good bet if you intend to rent a car frequently.

However, points might expire with some programs. Accordingly, you should read the fine print.
 Some rental car companies will give you a discount if you pay in advance.Call them up and check whether or not you can save money this way. Generally, you can still get a refund if you need to cancel, but you will have to pay a small cancellation fee.