 This is a no-heat method for curling your hair, so it's best to start with freshly washed hair. Wash your hair as normal, then allow it to dry naturally until it's just slightly damp.


While your hair is still damp, apply a flexible curling product like a gel or cream (if your hair is very straight) or an anti-frizz serum (if your hair tends to frizz).
You will have to leave your headband curls in overnight, so it's best to do this in the evening.
 A thinner headband will work best, about 1/2 inch to an inch in width. Place it around your head -- going over the hair at the back of your head rather than underneath it. At the front, the band should be about halfway down your forehead.
 Starting at the very front, take a small strand of hair and tuck it underneath the headband, twisting slightly as you go.









Grab a second strand of hair, join it with the first, then tuck it underneath the headband in the same manner. Keep working your way around your head wrapping uniform sections of hair around the headband.
The tighter you wrap the hair, the tighter the curls will be, and vice versa.
 Once you have wrapped all the hair around the headband on both sides, you will be left with a single strand of hair at the very back. Twist this until it curls upwards towards the scalp, then secure with a bobby pin.









For a little more volume at the front, push the headband upwards towards your hairline. This will create volume and prevent you from getting a red line across your forehead!

, Now all you need to do is go to sleep with your hair secured in the headband. If you're concerned about frizz, try sleeping with a plastic shower cap over your head.
 In the morning, remove the bobby pin securing the hair at the back, then gently pull the headband out of your hair.









Use your fingers to gently separate the hair and work and work it into the desired shape. You should have big, glamorous curls, with plenty of volume.
Style your hair any way you like, using a curling iron to fix any fly-away pieces, if necessary. Spritz your hair with a medium-hold hairspray to set.

