 Children should have their first orthodontic screening at age 7, to check for potential problems.It is best to start with braces as soon as the permanent teeth are in place, which may be as early as 10 or 11 in girls and as late as 13 or 14 in boys. The less mature the teeth, jaws, and facial muscles, the more rapidly treatment can be accomplished, meaning less time in braces., Metal, edgewise braces involve bonding stainless steel metal to your teeth to apply precise forces that move them into place. Aligners are a clear, strong plastic material fabricated to fit each person’s mouth. Like conventional metal braces, they work by exerting pressure over time. Unlike metal braces, you will go through a series of aligners, wearing each one for three weeks.Aligners are less obtrusive and studies show they reduce time in braces.Aligner braces are more expensive. Depending on your particular situation, they may reduce time in braces by only a small amount, or not at all, so consult your orthodontist before deciding which braces you will choose.Unlike metal braces, aligners can be taken out, which is great for photo ops, etc. However, they must be worn at least 20 hours a day to be effective. If you are worried about your child wearing them enough, you may want to opt for metal braces., Low laser therapy and corticotomy,as well as micro-osteoperforationhave all been shown to reduce treatment times in adults.


Low laser therapy involves directing short bursts of low-frequency light at the jaw in order to increase the production of osteoclasts, cells that demineralize bony block in the jaw, thereby speeding tooth movement. It also reduces pain.Corticotomy involves making small cuts to the bone around the tooth in order to greatly speed movement. It is often combined with alveolar grafting (grafting demineralized bone over the cuts) in a technique called Accelerated Osteogenic Orthodontics. It has been shown to reduce the time of treatment by up to one third.Micro osteoperforation is similar to corticotomy, accept that a tool is used to make much smaller perforations in the bone. This increases the production of osteoclasts, helping to demineralize hard bone and promote movement., Be wary of Acceledent – a much-promoted device, which creates micro-vibrations that are intended to speed tooth movement. It is very expensive, and recent clinical studies indicate that Acceledent does not shorten time in braces., The time required for braces to do their work varies from person to person, depending on the severity of the problem; the amount of space available on your jaw; the distance the teeth must travel; the health of your mouth; and how closely the patient follows instructions.That last bit is where you come in!

, Better dental hygiene can allow your teeth to move into the correct position more quickly., Cutting up foods like raw veggies, fruits, and crusty bread reduces pressure on your braces while eating and prevents them from being damaged., They can damage your braces and also cause tooth decay. Foods to avoid include:Popcorn
Nuts
Chips
Bubblegum
Toffee
Caramels
Cookies

, They can damage your teeth, which may mean more time in braces., Doing so can damage your braces or your teeth., It can damage your braces. Keep anything that isn’t food out of your mouth., Both activities can push your teeth out of line, increasing the amount of time you have to spend in braces., Research shows that orthodontics apps help people take better care of their teeth.Just look up “orthodontics app”.
 A recent study shows this might speed tooth movement and reduce time in braces.