 Naturally coloring your hair can be a messy process and take longer to process than chemical dyes. However, if your hair is damaged or easily damaged, natural colorants will be easier on your tresses than conventional hair dyes. It’s up to you personally whether the benefits outweigh any inconvenience.If you have sensitive skin, herbal colorants may be the best choice for you, since chemical hair dyes can cause contact dermatitis.Natural colorants such as cassia obovata, henna and indigo are mixed into a paste that needs to sit out overnight. They also take longer to develop (from an hour to six hours) once applied to your hair.;
, While you can plan for a general shade, natural colorants react differently to each individual’s type and condition of hair. Your results will be unique and may be lighter, darker, or more varied in hue than you expect.Natural colorants, particularly tinting rinses, may not give you complete coverage of gray hair. How well it works for you depends on the method you use, how long you let it sit, and your hair type. You may need to repeat the process of coloring after 48 hours if your gray hair has not been covered successfully., Your individual hair type as well as various hair products you’ve used in the past affect how your hair takes to natural colorants. Save a few trimmings of hair the next time you get your hair cut, or snip a lock of hair near the back of your neck. Apply the colorant you want to use to the strand using the instructions for the method you’ve chosen.After applying the colorant, rinse the lock completely and allow it to dry in direct sunlight, if you can.
Check the final results under bright natural lighting. If necessary, adjust the ingredient or processing time for your own hair – more or less, depending on the shade you desire.
 Because natural hair colorants are typically messier than conventional hair dye, you will want to think about the best place to color your hair beforehand. Cassia obovata is not staining unless there is something added to it, like rhubarb. Henna, however, is both difficult to apply and very staining. If the weather is nice, you may want to bring one to two large mirrors and dye your hair outside.
If you’re dyeing your hair in the bathroom, you may want to do so inside of a bathtub or shower.
 When hair turns gray, not only the pigment changes. The cuticles are also thinned, making the strands of hair coarser and more prone to breakage.You can restore moisture to your hair with a natural product: egg, honey and olive oil, or coconut oil.


Cassia obovata, henna, lemon and tea can be drying to your hair, so especially consider doing a natural conditioning treatment afterwards.
Mix a whole egg and apply it to clean, damp hair once a month. Leave the mixture in for twenty minutes, then rinse it out with cool water.Massage 1/2 cup of honey and one to two tablespoons of olive oil into damp, clean hair. Allow the mixture to sit in your hair for twenty minutes, then rinse it out with warm water.Coconut oil is in a solid state at room temperature, so warm it in your hands or a microwave (if the latter, make sure it is warm and not too hot before applying). Work a couple of teaspoons of it into damp hair and wrap your hair in an old towel (coconut oil can stain fabric). Let it sit for one to two hours, then fully rinse it out and shampoo your hair.