 Any time your brother says anything, repeat what he said, but in a high-pitched girly voice. This has been driving little brothers crazy since the dawn of time. This is especially effective when he's telling you, "Stop doing that!" or "I'm telling!"


When your parents come in, quickly switch over to your regular voice so you don't get caught.;
, While you're eating dinner, wait until nobody is looking and start sneaking bites off his plate. Make sure it's his favorite food, too. Before he notices, make comment like, "Jeez, where's all your food going."

, Little brothers want to be older so badly that the more you draw attention to their youth, the more annoyed they'll be. Treat him like he's much younger than you all the time.


If you have to do chores together, keep commenting about how he's slow, or can't keep up with you because you're older.
Assign him chores, even if it's not your job to do chore-assignments.
Call him a baby any time he asks you for help, or doesn't understand something. Always talk about how he's too small, too short, or not old enough to know something.
 Little brothers are impressionable little goofs. One way to annoy them is to make up ridiculous lies about the world and get them to believe it. If you can even get them to repeat it like it's real? That's a total win.


Tell your brother avocados are actually dinosaur eggs. And they're poisonous.
Tell your brother he wasn't actually born, your parents grew him in a bucket from catfish heads.
Tell your brother that you have the power to read minds. He's thinking, "No you don't."
Tell your brother that the dog speaks when he's not around. And says it wants to eat him.
Tell your brother Star Wars is a documentary. It really happened.
Tell your brother when he turns whatever age he turns next, his nipples will fall off, then grow back.
 If your brother has some friends coming over, it's a great time to mess with him and embarrass him in front of others. Bring out some of his baby pictures, or talk about something embarrassing he did the day before when his friends are over. He'll get really annoyed.


Nuclear warfare: Dump a glass of water on his bed, so it looks like he peed it the night before. Wait until his friends come over and let them find it.
Be really careful about doing this. If you're a cool older kid, you should probably have better things to do than messing around with your younger brother in front of his friends. You might just look like a loser doing this.
 If you really want payback for something, just ignoring your brother is sometimes the best option. He probably wants attention, and keeping that from him will drive hime even more crazy than anything you can do.


Don't let him do stuff that you're doing. If you're going to watch a movie, say he can't, because it's only for older kids. Freeze him out of whatever you're doing.
 Younger brothers usually look up to older kids. Just because your little brother might be annoying sometimes, Try to remember that you can be a good influence on him too. Instead of trying to annoy him, try to teach him to be cool. Don't make him a nuisance.


Only use these methods to get back at your brother for doing something that's mean. Don't make this a regular habit.

