 You might feel constant or intermittent stress or nervousness, even when there is no apparent cause. If you feel a sense of dread or panic after ending your alcohol addiction (especially in social situations), you might be going through withdrawal.


You might more irritable or feel “on edge” after you quit drinking. This is a normal result of alcohol withdrawal.
Other symptoms associated with a disturbed mood include being short-tempered or emotionally sensitive for several days after your withdrawal begins.;
, These movements might be only perceptible to you, or they might be extremely pronounced and obvious. Shakiness might also extend to your voice and affect your ability to grasp objects.


This symptom may last several weeks. Shaking usually first appears two to four days after your last drink; however, tremors might appear seven to 10 days after your last drink.
The more serious the shaking, the more severe the withdrawal process. If your whole body begins shaking, you’re experiencing what is known as delirium tremens (DTs).This condition is accompanied by confusion, fear, seizures, hallucinations, mood changes, and sensitivity to light (photophobia). DTs are considered an emergency and require immediate medical attention.
 You may see, hear, or feel things that are not real. Multiple smaller, moving objects are a common hallucination for people suffering from alcohol hallucinosis. Hallucinations are generally visual, but they may also be contact-based (tactile) or auditory.
 If you wake up too early, feel tired even after sleeping, or wake up at odd hours and cannot fall back to sleep (or fall back to sleep only with difficulty), you are experiencing insomnia., Nausea is a feeling of abdominal pain or discomfort that precedes vomiting. If you feel queasy, or actually vomit, you might have alcohol withdrawal., Also known as vitamin B1, thiamine is a vitamin that regulates nerve impulses, metabolism, and growth. In an alcohol-dependent person, alcohol coming into the body blocks the uptake of thiamine. The effects include an abnormal gait (ataxia), paralysis of the eye and blurred vision. Memory loss, delirium, and other cognitive problems might be apparent.


Some symptoms of WKS may improve in days or weeks. In most cases, though, individuals who have WKS will have ongoing memory difficulties, ataxia, and an abnormal gaze.
 This condition refers to abnormalities of the autonomic system (the internal processes that govern your heart rate, pupils, salivary glands, sweating, and digestion). If you can feel your heart beating rapidly for no apparent reason and have recently stopped drinking, you’re experiencing a symptom of withdrawal.


Another symptom of autonomic hyperactivity is sweating. Sweating might occur as a general symptom, or might be restricted to night time. If you wake up sweating and your heart is beating, you’re experiencing withdrawal.You might also suffer from rapid breathing (hyperventilation).
Medical examinations might find you have high blood pressure while going through withdrawal., The pain may be intense, throbbing, constant, or dull. The headaches might last a short while, or several hours.

