 Communicate your personal boundaries in a clear, courteous and consistent manner. Then, follow through with them and take measures to ensure that you are respected and safe. Don't give in to any manipulation, or let others bend your values. Stand your ground, defend yourself and others against bullying and mistreatment and simply don't let others walk all over you! Assertiveness involves reminding others when they are manipulating you, saying no without feeling guilty about it and staying true to who you are, even when others aren't of the same opinion. You need to have faith in your abilities and take it all in stride, even when you have the urge to break down and give in.;
, Betrayal and disloyalty are increasingly common in the modern world. Follow the three-out-of-seven rule. If you have seven secrets, let's say, only tell three of them to your best friends. If you would not want everyone to know about something, do not say it to anyone at all. People change very quickly, and the very person who seemed like your loyal, trustworthy best friend last night could suddenly turn into a ruthless gossip and manipulator the next morning.
 Be reserved and discreet, and observe your environment constantly. Be low-key, because the less people know of your ambitions, passions and secrets, the less they will be able to hinder you or target you. If you tell everyone your life plan and difficulties in the home, they can and will be used against you. You can't control anyone else's words or actions, so it is better not to give them a chance to act or speak in a detrimental way in the first place.
 When you're in school, the social group that you're with will probably change. Don't completely cut yourself off from your closest friends, but be careful. If you have a friend that you hang out with sometimes, but aren't really close with, don't tell her or him anything that you wouldn't want the whole school knowing. If you have a friend that likes to talk behind their other friend's backs, keep in mind that she can be talking about you behind your own back, too. Once you run out of things to provide, those who were formerly close to you may take up manipulative behaviours and bully you.
 Do not leave personal or valuable objects lying around, even for a single instant. People can and will steal, violate your privacy, and read or use what they find. If you use makeup and don't want the whole school to know, or if you didn't finish your homework, or if your favourite soccer cleats are in there, don't leave your bag lying around. Whatever it is that you value or need, or want to hide and conceal, do it completely. Keep a lock on your locker and, if necessary, your bags.
 When with others, observe and listen to your conscience. Uphold your values, even if it means missing out on some "fun" activities. Don't smoke, drink or engage in sexual activity. Even if you feel pressured, do 'not take drugs. If you feel like something is not the right thing to do, it definitely isn't. If you listen to your values and gut feeling and evaluate the consequences of your actions, all will be fine.
 If you're at a party, don't accept a drink from someone else. Don't leave your drink unattended. Someone could slip something into it and you would never know (the 'date rape' drug is completely tasteless). If you're going to drink, please don't do it at parties. If you get drunk enough, you're leaving yourself very vulnerable to all kinds of things. If you don't think you can gracefully say no to a drink if offered, just carry a cup with water in it. Being cool does not mean being reckless. Recklessness is a sign of weakness and immaturity--don't get stuck in that awful behavioural pattern! Drinking water, watching out and not taking dangerous risks is cooler and more virtuous than getting drunk and smoking.
 This goes for girls and guys. Just don't do it. Even if you know them from school or somewhere else, it's just not safe. If you leave with somebody, your chances of survival are greatly diminished. Say no kindly and firmly, resist if necessary and get away if you are pursued.
 Just because they call you ugly or stupid or anything else does not make it true. Chances are, they're probably just one those people who get pleasure out of being mean and meaningless.
 If you have had sex and regret it, don't feel guilty. Don't be afraid to talk to a parent or another adult you love and can be open with! This is always a good idea.

