 Before you pursue a career in software development it can helpful to learn the details about the position. Knowing more about your future as a software developer will help you to better plan your path to obtaining the position and help you determine if it's a good fit for you.On average software developers earn around $90,000 annually.
There is a large demand for software developers and the position is expected to grow up to 22% by 2022.
Software developers build computer programs that either run applications or build the applications themselves.;
, Although having a well rounded skill set and education will help you to obtain a position as a software engineer, choosing some specific skills to focus on can be a good idea. By building strong skills in a few areas you will be able to find a position that best suits your own career interests in software development.Think about what kinds of software you want to develop and learn skills applicable to them.
For example, you may want to focus on game development, app development, website development, or software development.
Pick a programming language that you enjoy and want to learn more about.
 Although it is possible to be self-taught and still find employment as a software developer, attending classes can be a good way to obtain the skills and education required for the position. Search for a college, university, or other course that has a program suited to your interests in the field of software development.Most software developers begin working after obtaining their bachelors degree.
Both computer science and software engineering can be good choices when selecting a major.
Although demonstrable skills can be enough to get a job, having an education in addition to those skills will help.
 Branching out from your main areas of study can be a good way to broaden your understanding of the field and gain additional skills. Being well rounded and informed will make you more appealing to potential employers.


Study topics that you find interesting that lie outside your course material.
Don't stop learning. Technology develops and changes quickly and your knowledge and skills will have to reflect this.
Expanding your skill set will make you more appealing to employers.
 Beyond learning the ideas and concepts behind being a software developer you will want to get as much hands-on practice as you can. By actually implementing what you have been learning you will continue the learning process and build some examples that you can share with potential employers.Building and developing your own projects will let you practice your skills.
Having software that you have developed can be a great addition to your resume.
Work on open source projects or offer some projects for free to build a portfolio.
 The point of your resume will be to allow your potential employer to evaluate your skills and contact you for an interview. All parts of the resume are important but without your contact information you will not be able to be contacted even if your skills are outstanding. Include the following information about yourself at the top of your resume:Your full name.
Your address.
Phone numbers.
An email address.
Personal websites that highlight your previous and relevant work.
 Part of any good resume is to outline your skills and education. This should be a clear and detailed list of your qualifications for the position which will demonstrate the assets you are offering to bring to the employer if hired. Include the following information regarding your education:The full name of any institutions you attended.
Include the address of those institutions.
When you graduated and what degree you earned.
Additional minors or majors.
Including your GPA can demonstrate your academic achievements.
 Listing your past employers is a requirement for most resumes. In listing who you worked for last you demonstrate what you have already accomplished professionally and what duties you performed in those roles. Review the following details that you should include for your past employers:Full name of the employer
The date you were hired and the date you left.
Where that employer was located.
Focus on your roles and responsibilities with that employer.
 After you have detailed your professional skills and qualifications you can also include relevant hobbies. These hobbies should demonstrate your skill and passion for software development even further. Only include your hobbies if you have enough space to do so as this section is optional on your resume.Only include hobbies relevant to the position you are applying for.
For example, you might program and develop games for the Android platform as a hobby.
Another example would be any community events you organized that might demonstrate leadership.
Include your hobbies only if you have room on your resume to do so.
 Employers are likely to receive a large amount of resumes that they will need to read through quickly. If your resume is too long or short this can automatically cause you to be rejected for the position. Strive to keep your resume at the appropriate length for the position you are applying for.Many employers require your resume to be only one page in length.
If you are seeking work fresh out of college then a one page resume is likely acceptable.
Longer resumes will be required only if you have the relevant work experience to match.
 If you don't plan on relocation you can check locally for any software development jobs that might have become available. These positions might be found in local publications such as newspapers or on-line by searching for jobs in your area.


Local publications will often have sections for employers to list open positions.
If there is a company or employer nearby you might try inquiring directly or leaving your resume with them.
 You may have a specific company in mind that you have always wanted to work for. If this is the case you will want to inquire directly with that company to see if they have an software development positions currently open. Check on-line or contact via email or phone to learn if your desired company is hiring.


Many companies offer information about available positions directly on their website.
Always follow the instructions that the company lists when submitting your resume or application.
 There are many large sites that employers and employees can make use of to find work or to offer it. Signing up for these sites will allow you to easily submit your resume and apply to any open software development positions that you might find.


Websites like http://www.indeed.com/ or http://www.monster.com/ are good places to post your resume and search for software development positions.
Certain sites such as https://www.linkedin.com/ allow you to create professional profile, resume and let you network with other professionals to look for software development opportunities.
 Although you will likely be the one answering most of the questions during your interview it is good practice to come prepared with questions of your own. Asking questions can show your interest, attention to detail, and seriousness in regards to the interview and the position you are seeking.Try to have at least two or three thoughtful questions to ask.
If a question was answered during the course of the interview you can state this to demonstrate that you had prepared the question.
An example would be to ask about the companies unique strengths or how they would describe an ideal employee.
Don't ask about salary.
 Don't forget that the interview process goes two ways. While you are being evaluated by the employer you should also be evaluating the company. Doing some research about the company will help you appear knowledgeable, interested and informed during the interview as well as let you decide if the employer is one you want to work for.Spend some time looking into the history of the company.
Inquire about the companies potential and future plans.
Read up on company policy and mission statements.
 Interviews can be high-stress situations. Practicing the interview before you enter into it can help you feel confident and remove some of the stress that can come with the process. Practice what you want to say during your interview, how you want to present yourself, and key concepts you want to focus on in order to do your best and relax when interviewing.Mock-interview services are often available. These will test, evaluate, and allow you to improve you interviewing skills.
You can try practicing with a friend or family remember.
Forming and practicing what you want to say can make it easier to repeat during the interview.
Think about the key aspects of your skills and personality that you want to convey.
 Part of interviewing well is arriving to it early. The time you arrive will demonstrate your punctuality and your ability to follow a schedule. Always plan your trip to the interview and make sure you allow yourself enough time to arrive early.Arriving late will likely cause you to no longer be considered for the position.
Arriving too early can send the wrong message and may hurt your chances.
Arriving about five to ten minutes early will allow you time to collect your thoughts and will make a good impression.
Planning your route out ahead will help you arrive right when you intend to.

