 It may seem simple enough to know how to move around the court but there are some things that you need to learn and unlearn in order to get used to NBA 2k14’s basic mechanics.


Majority of the main controls are untouched. The analog stick for consoles still controls your player’s movements and the same goes to the pass button and such.
One of the biggest game changer though is that the right analog stick now controls both dribbling and shooting for your player. This is quite hard to get used to at first since it all depends on how much pressure you put on the analog stick.
For consoles, the L2 button (left trigger) now manages how you pass the ball, some sort of a pass modifier. Remember, you can configure your controller setup to your preference. This applies to both consoles and PC format.;
, Before you decide on completing a season or career, it is advisable for you to practice your basketball skills first just to make sure you are on top of your game when you go head to head with tough AI opponents.


The 2 player mode is one of the most effective mode to practice your basketball prowess. Simply start a quick game and you are off to the old exhibition mode between you and a friend. An AI team opponent team can also be arranged.
You might want to work on your outside shooting mostly since NBA 2K14 made it harder now for players to hit those nasty three pointers. Also, the AI of the opposing team's players are now tweaked to make it harder for you to drive and simply shoot the ball into the basket.
 Since winning a ball game on NBA 2k14 is not as easy compared to its previous versions, keep in mind that you will have to strategize and play wisely to beat the opposing team.


Distribute the ball evenly among your players. Do not keep the ball in the hands of your superstar because eventually, opposing players will flock over your scorer and you won’t have any choice but to pass the ball. Make sure you have other threats aside from your star player.
Outside shooting is a must! More than inside scoring, long shots will be your best friend if you want to win in ball games. AI Defense has been raised in NBA 2k14 and scoring inside the paint will not be a walk in the park no more.
Different teams have different strengths and weaknesses - so bear that in mind. Something that works for Spurs might not work against Lakers. Just be sure to study how teams play and more so, learn from them.
Master player rotation to deepen your bench. Your superstars will eventually feel fatigue and will definitely require rest. This is the time that your sideliners should step up. Remember, you should not depend your team’s success on one or two players only because sometimes accidents happen and they might get fouled out or worse - get injured.
 There are a few game types available in NBA 2K14 that you can play which offer different kinds of game modes to your liking. Some requires constant play through that actually simulates an actual whole NBA season.


Association mode is back and puts you in the shoe of a team’s general manager. You may not be battling it out on court but you are battling a different kind of challenge behind the sidelines. You will handle trades and other important aspects of handling a team such as choosing the best player for drafting.
MyCareer has always been a favorite among NBA 2k players. Why not? It is actually a game mode that allows you to create a player from a rookie to a superstar! This is the closest thing you’ll have to actually experiencing an actual NBA season as a bona fide NBA player.
A new addition to this game is the mode Lebron: Path to Greatness. Not all NBA 2K14 fans like this addition but it will surely appeal to those who adore Lebron James. This mode simply puts you in the role of Mr. James himself as he build his career towards championship dynasty. You can say it is somewhat like MyCareer mode but this time it is focused on you being Lebron himself.
Another mode that made a comeback is the Crew mode. This mode offers a more casual approach in playing NBA 2K14 for this allows half court action with 3 on 3 or 5 on 5 basketball matches. This mode is more fun with friends playing as your team mates.
 It is quite impressive that NBA 2K14 acknowledges not only NBA teams but also teams outside the NBA realm. Sure enough, even if these Euroleague teams lack superstars, they can surely teach you a thing or two about the barebones of basketball skills. Mind you, some players from the Euroleague actually reaches the rank of 100 on offense!

, This new feature allows you to conduct plays for your team in a very effective manner. Plays like pick and roll will be executed with ease with the use of this feature. Opposing teams also uses this feature so you should pay attention and learn from the plays they call.
 Features in NBA 2K14 is vast and very rich in content. Everything in this section has something to do with stuff you can unlock or buy. Stuff like unlocking retro teams to shoes or even customizing color can be tweaked in this section.


This adds replayability to the game since there’s a lot of unlockables that can be shared via 2Kshare to complete your collection.

