 A Venn diagram shows where ideas or things intersect. They usually consist of two or three overlapping circles.Venn diagrams use sets of things. "Sets" is a mathematical term that means a collection. In math, sets are denoted by curlicue brackets, such as in the following example: "birds: {parrots, parakeets, finches, doves, cardinals}";
, A universe is in the context of Venn diagrams means what you're dealing with at the moment, not the whole universe. For instance, you could say your universe is "Foods." Write that at the top of the page. You can also create a rectangle around your Venn diagram marked "Foods.", "Classifications" just means how you are organizing things. For instance, you could have the two classifications "Foods Eaten in the Morning" and "Foods Eaten at Night.", Draw a circle for each classification. Once you've done that, start filling up the circles with items. For instance, in "Foods Eaten in the Morning," you could have eggs, bacon, pancakes, strawberries, tomatoes, spinach, yogurt, leftover pizza, sausage, and waffles. For "Foods Eaten at Night," you may come up with leftover pizza, ramen noodles, strawberries, tomatoes, spinach, ice cream, lasagna, chicken tenders, and sushi., You may notice that certain items are in both lists. In the example, strawberries, tomatoes, spinach, and leftover pizza are in both categories. This overlap is called a "union" in mathematical terms and is sometimes represented by this symbol: "∪" You'd show a union of sets in mathematical terms this way: "Foods Eaten in the Morning ∪ Foods Eaten at Night: {strawberries, tomatoes, spinach, and leftover pizza}", Go back to your circles. Redraw the circles, but this time, overlap the middle part of one side. Label one circle as "Foods Eaten in the Morning" and the other one "Foods Eaten at Night.", Don't add the overlapping words yet. In "Foods Eaten in the Morning," write "eggs, bacon, pancakes, yogurt, sausage, and waffles." In "Foods Eaten at Night," add "ramen noodles, ice cream, lasagna, chicken tenders, and sushi." Keep these words out of the overlapping section., In the overlapping section, write the words they have in common. In the example, write "strawberries, tomatoes, spinach, and leftover pizza." That shows that the two circles have those in common., If you want, you can add another classification, such as "Foods Eaten Midday." In this case, all three circles overlap, creating shared spaces between each set of two circles, as well as a shared space in the middle between all three circles. Save the center for what all three classifications have in common.