 Apply certain eyeshadow to your crease to define it, and contour it. It's also the transition between your lid color and your highlight.


Look for a matte, medium brown color. You want it to be matte, especially for a natural look, to be a good transitional shade for your highlight. Matte is where the color has no sparkle or shimmer. Light to medium browns will do the best.
Even if you are doing a dramatic, smokey, cut crease look, or a simply everyday makeup look, that matte medium brown shade will do the trick. This particular brown might be labeled as: mocha, hot chocolate, soft brown, etc. You can also use a dark brown, but the application process will take longer, because you have to use less product, and then you have to built up the intensity, if you are doing a natural look with the dark brown shade.
 The best brush to use is a round, fluffy brush. If you have a deeper crease, you should go for a more tapered brush. Your crease's skin is extremely thin, so you want to be gentle. Don't use a brush with pointy, sharp bristles. Use something soft and fluffy.
 Everybody's eyes are different. Find out where your crease is. Basically, your crease is the hollow part of your eye. It's between your brown bone, and your lid. The crease is the skin that unfolds when you close your eyes. Simply find the bottom of your browbone.
 Make sure you know how dark and pigmented your eye shadow is. Pigmented means that the product has a lot of color payoff.


If your eyeshadow is not that pigmented, you can swirl your brush in it a couple times. If it IS pigmented, dip the brush in it lightly, and tap off the excess. Rub your finger in the product to test how pigmented it is. Also, if the product is really dark, make sure to dip the brush in it EXTRA lightly! Even the lightest shadows can make mistakes!

, Make sure to go from the end of your eyebrow, to at least 3/4 of the inner part of your eye. You don't have to blend it all the way to the inner corner. The blending will expand the color.


But, for now, just slide the brush back and forth in the crease. Don't go too far outside from the eyebrow line, and don't go too much inside the eye either- it may take a few tries to find out the perfect way to apply it to your specific eye shape. Add more eyeshadow to intensify the color.
Every time you apply the shadow, you must always go back and forth. Now, it's time to blend. Swipe your brush, again, back and forth without any product on it. Spread it around until it fades the way you want it to. Using a lighter brown shadow for a natural look would be much simpler. You don't even have to blend sometimes, with a lighter color.
 Rip it off and put it back on and rip it off again until you lose some of the stickiness.;
,,, Your eye look now has a cat eye twist to it. You can even apply winged eyeliner to make the look even more dramatic.
 Now you can apply highlighter to your brow bone. Practice your crease eyeshadow, and you'll get the hang of it! Crease eyeshadow can be applied alone, to add full dimension to your eye, OR with eyeshadow- whether it's natural, or intense.

