 You're going to need to throw away all your normal clothes if you're making the transformation from normal to stereo kid. If you're going from scene to stereo, then keep all your clothes. you need to wear tight neon leggings under normal jean shorts, with matching oversized beads, aviator glasses, and Converse. Buy lots of clothes from trendy stores, with lots of bands on them, and gore stuff. Think 80's but more modern. wear pyramid belts, and layer them. You must know how to match for the job of a stereo kid. Wear tight skinny leg jeans, and rip them and write on them. If your parents won't let you, then buy a pair and rip them and write on them before they see them. Wear spaghetti strap t-shirts or band tees. Wear lots of jewelry, and make sure you are cute. After all, you're supposed to be a stereo kid right?;
, Make your iPod your best friend. Listen to pop-rock, hard rock, heavy metal, screamo, grunge, alternative, techno, indie, dance, electronic, emo, and even plain rock. Make sure that your room is pumping with music at all times of the night. Get a purevolume and a last.fm and a playlist.com account.
 Get lots of choppy layers, and dye it different colors. THINK SCENE HAIR! Coon stripes and leopard prints always work. Stereo hair is the same as scene, but its better because its stereo. Tease it, dye it, fry it, straighten it, put a Nike headband around it, put bows in it, brush it to the side, part it weird, have fun with it.
 Have a clean layout, with lots of bright colors in the background, stereos all over the place, writing, gore, brass knuckles, and stuff like that. Put pictures up of you sitting on a stereo and write STEREOKID fresher for the caption. The best thing about being stereo, is it's OK to say you're stereo. If you were scene and said it, you'd be a poser. just make sure you don't say it too often.
 Some examples: "holla", "rad", "stellar", "jank", "rowdy", "fer sure", "f***n right", "some good sh**," "jacked", "howling", "straight up", "I'm so freeze", "that's so rave", "vogue", and "rawr". Overuse them. Like seriously. Use them as much as you possibly can.
 Think you are the sexiest, most important, and the most loved person in the world. act like if someone had a party and you weren't there, it would suck so bad everyone would leave because they only wanted to see you anyway. Be strong, outgoing, and be afraid of no one. but you also have to have the best, personality out there. have a bright outlook on life, be funny, be flirty, and be well liked. make lots of friends, no matter who they are, and be brave. Be random. with the place of stereo kid, you can have emo friends, sk8r friends, prep friends, nerd friends, rock friends, scene friends, good kid friends, and ghetto friends, all in the same breath. Be the ultimate people person.
 Be the person that someone would go to if they didn't know music. know the lyrics to every song that you listen to. Have hundreds and hundreds of songs on your iPod or MP3. You're going for the 'wow I don't know this band but they're really good. How'd you find them" reaction when people go through your iPod or MP3. Get a pandora.com account. It's easy to figure out how to use it. It's a free internet radio site based on a favorite song or band that you type in, and is a great way to discover great new bands that are similar to ones you already love. Sing at random moments. Lightly sing a verse to someones favorite song while your near them. Talk about music to a lot of people.
 take showers often, brush your teeth, shave regularly, and don't even think about going to school if your hair is messed up that day and you don't look good.
 If you can't dance, don't attempt it and make yourself look daft. practice makes perfect, so if you can't dance, then practice in front of your mirror. watch loads of dance videos on youtube, and learn to dance. This includes hardcore dancing, skanking, rave jumping, and every other kind of dance.
 All.the.time. If you're not old enough, then party. A lot. Always have the raddest parties that everyone wants to go to, and always be at the parties everyone goes to. Also, if you're underage, you could try to look for a cool coffee-house-hangout-with-live-music sorta thing near where you live.
, Don't be afraid to get into fights, and have a reputation of not being one to mess with. stand up for other people and stand up for yourself. be a total bitch when needed.
 This will also help you make more friends and have the true stereo personality.
 Sure, sometimes we all get a little blue and don't feel like ourselves, but if you are depressed and negative all the time, you are going to make all of us stereo kids look emo and yourself look like a poser. I also understand that sometimes we all go a little blank, but don't be the most boring person on this planet or all stereo kids will be stereotyped this way. If you are feeling down, excuse yourself from the people you're around and go to calm down in private, and return to your friends as your normal cheery self. Don't make a bad impression on a budding trend!

, Have weird, but cool things about yourself that you are willing to tell people, have a different philosophy about things, a different outlook on life; be just as interesting as a scene kid, but with more spunk.
 In case you don't know, Fuse is a music channel, and you'll probably love it if you're a true stereo kid.
 They'll ruin it.
 Like indoors, at night, in pictures, when you wake up, when you go swimming, when you go out with friends. Most stereo kids are known for wearing Dolce and Gabbana glasses and aviators non-stop. You could go flea market or garage sale shopping, or hit up a cool surf or skate shop to find a perfect pair of rocking unique sunglasses. Remember, the goal is to stand out, and be the first person to come to someone's mind when they think of what cool is.

