 As mentioned above, Grindr is available on Android, iOS, and BlackBerry OS.


For Android devices, you must be running Android 2.3.3 Gingerbread or later.
For iOS devices, you must be running iOS 6 or later. The App Store also requires confirmation that you are at least 17 years old in order to download.;
, Enter your email address and a password. You'll also need to provide your age and complete a CAPTCHA.



Display name: used to identify yourself either with a nickname or your real name
Headline: a short phrase to "hook" users onto your profile
Age: displays your age. Users must be at least 18 years old to use the app. You have the option to show or hide your age if you wish.
About Me: a brief description of your interests, hobbies, likes/dislikes, intentions, etc.
Grindr Tribes: these are slang words used within the gay community to identify themselves based on body type and other qualities. For instance, a young, thin college student may set his tribe as Twink , while a man with more weight and body hair may identify himself as Bear.
Height, Weight, Body Type, and Ethnicity
Looking For: your intentions for the app (chat, dates, friends, networking, relationship, or right now (casual sex))
Relationship Status
Social networks: you can enter your usernames for Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram so users can take a look at your profiles on these outlets
Make sure to follow Grindr's profile text guidelines. In your profile, you must not write text that is sexually explicit, profane, racist, threatening, advertising, mentions illegal drugs, or promotes unsafe sexual activity.
 You'll have the option of taking a picture with your camera or upload an existing one from your device gallery. After you've uploaded an image, it will be saved within the app so you can send the same photo to other people without having to re-upload it.


For best results, have a clear shot of your face with a natural, fun smile. Try the tips in How to Be Photogenic.
Use your device's front-facing camera rather than using a mirror.
Make sure to follow Grindr's profile photo guidelines. You must not upload images that are pornographic or sexually explicit, advertise a product or service, show off guns or drugs, violate copyright laws, impersonate another user, or if the subject appears under the age of 18.
 Scroll down to load more guys.


Once at another person's profile, you can see his picture enlarged, his information, and how far away he is from you.
Add users to your favourites by tapping on the star.
 It contains five icons used for various functions:


The mask icon at the very left contains the main menu to view and edit your profile, change settings, get help, and subscribe to Grindr Xtra (the premium service).
The speech bubble displays your chats. When you have new messages, this icon will change to a number.
The circle hides offline users and only shows those who are currently online.
The star shows users you've added to your favourites.
The icon with three stacked rectangles sets filter options.
 Go to a user's profile and tap on the speech bubble, or simply double tap his picture on the main screen. Messages are displayed in a texting-style design; your messages are in orange speech bubbles and his are in blue.
 As with uploading your display picture, you can either take a picture with your camera or use an existing one from the device or app gallery. Crop as need to remove unwanted objects in the background.
 This uses the GPS to send a miniature map of your approximate location.
 Tap the last icon on the taskbar to turn on the filter and adjust the following parameters: photo only, Grindr Tribes, age, height, weight, body type, ethnicity, looking for, and relationship status.


Note that some filter options are disabled until you buy Grindr Xtra (see below).
 First time users are given a free trial of Xtra for a few weeks. Up until expiration, Xtra unlocks additional features, such as:


The ability to display online guys only
No banner ads
Push notifications for new messages
More users shown when scrolling down
Filter options: photo only, height, weight, body type, ethnicity, and relationship status
The ability to favourite or block an unlimited amount of users

