 Pressure points are located along certain pathways in the body, called meridians. Those who practice acupressure believe that your body’s energy flows through these meridians and a balance is maintained between positive energy and negative energy.When this balance is disturbed, you become ill or feel pain. The aim of acupressure and acupuncture is to restore the energy balance in these meridians by manipulating specific points.;
, These techniques have been practiced for thousands of years but many experts question the existence of such energies and meridians. The thought that these positive and negative energies exist is still debated, but many people firmly believe in the ability of acupressure to relieve pain., It is important to apply deep probing pressure to stimulate an acupressure point. You can use your finger tip, knuckle or even a pencil eraser. Apply pressure for 15 to 30 seconds at your desired point. Repeat using the same point on the other side of your body. You should feel immediate relief once you have stopped applying the pressure.Sometimes points on opposite sides of the body will have different effects. If symptoms increase by pressing the opposite point, then do not press that side or point.
You should ideally find a quiet place, sit or lie down, and relax. Avoid loud music, exercise, food, drugs or alcohol while stimulating your acupressure points.
 Acupressure cannot replace standard emergency procedures or licensed medical treatment. If you are seriously injured or have persistent symptoms, seek urgent medical treatment. To ensure safety, make sure that you:


Do not use acupressure as the only treatment for illness. Consult your physician too if you are sick.
Do not do acupressure just before or within 20 minutes after heavy exercise, a large meal, or bathing.
Do not apply physical pressure on a point if it is under a mole, wart, varicose vein, abrasion, bruise, cut, or any other break in the skin.
 Although you can do acupressure yourself, acupressure practitioners do exist. An acupressure session is typically performed with the patient lying on a massage table. A typical session may take 45 to 90 minutes.


During the session acupressure points may be manipulated with various rhythms and pressures, using the fingers, hands, arms, elbows, and even legs and feet.
You should wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothing, and breath slowly, fully and deeply as the practitioner presses upon specific pressure points.
 This can be done by pressing the point between your eyes. This pressure point is found between the eyebrows at the dip of the area where the nasal bone connects to the forehead.Place the tip of your thumb into this point and gently stroke upward for thirty seconds to one minute.
You may have to repeat this process three to four times to get full relief.
 This point is found between the index and middle finger of each hand, just below the knuckle on the back of the hand.


Place your thumb on top of this point and the index finger below the point. Then squeeze and press upward on the palm side for a minute or two. You should feel some relief from neck strain and pain.
 A number of pressure points found on the palm can relieve different kinds of pains. Stomach pain can be relieved by pressing a pressure point in the middle of the palm along the crease.


Abdominal cramps can be relieved by pressing a pressure point found at the base of the thumb, directly below the middle finger. These points should be pressed for a minute or two to get proper relief.
 Knee pain can be relieved by pressing firmly behind the knee. Press into the meat of the top of the calf muscle to help relieve stiffness in the legs.Pain in the lower back can be relieved by pressing a point just beneath the ankle joint.
Migraine pain can be relieved by pressing into the skin at the base of the joint of the big toe and second toe.

