 If you do not have a Google account or are not logged into your account, you will be taken to the "sign in" page by default.


If you already have an account with Google, enter your username and password and press the "Sign In" button to access your Google Drive.
Note that having a valid Gmail account gets you access to Google Drive. You do not need to sign up with Google Drive if you already have a Gmail account.
The Google Drive page is located at: http://drive.google.com/
;
, Beneath the sign in box, there should be a line of text that says something along the lines of "Don't have a Google Account?" The blue "Get started!" button should be directly below that.


Clicking on this button will redirect you to the "sign up" page.
If you already know that you need to sign up with Google, you can go directly to the "sign up" page by typing in the URL: https://accounts.google.com/SignUp


, Google will ask you to choose a username and password.


You will also need to fill out a few basic pieces of information about yourself, including:

First name
Last name
Birthday
Gender
Mobile phone number
Current e-mail address
Location (country)


You will also need to verify that you are not a robot by typing in a verification code.
Make sure to check the box next to "I agree to the Google Terms of Service and Privacy Policy."
Click on the "Next step" button to submit your information and continue forward.
 You may need to verify your newly created Gmail address by signing into your Gmail account.


If you signed up through the Google Drive page, there may even be an e-mail with a link you will need to click on in order to be transferred over to the Google Drive page.
You can visit the Gmail page by going to: http://mail.google.com/


, If you are logged into another part of Google, go to your Google Drive by clicking on the word "Drive" along the taskbar at the top if your screen.


You could also go to Google Drive by typing in: http://drive.google.com/

You should still be logged into your Google account, but if not, simply type in your new username and password to continue.
 Access your Drive by going to the default Google Drive URL.


Your Drive can be accessed at http://drive.google.com/

If you are not already logged in, do so now.



Do not click on the up-arrow button to the right of the "Create" button.
Clicking on the "Create" button will open a drop-down menu from which you can choose what you want to create.
 You can create a folder, document, presentation, spreadsheet, form, or drawing.A folder is not an actual document. Instead, this option allows you to create a sub-folder within your Google Drive to help organize your files.
Documents are similar to the text documents you would create with a word processor.
Presentations are, in essence, digital slideshows.
Spreadsheets are documents that allow you to organize information by columns and rows.
Forms allow you to create survey-type documents.
Drawings allow you to create basic drawings using basic tools you would expect to find in a word processing program.
 Google automatically names your new doc as "Untitled." If you want to give your newly created doc a more specific name, you can rename it from the file menu.


Go to File -> Rename.
In the dialog box that pops up, enter your new name and click the "OK" button.
 Your Google doc is now ready to be used. Changes are saved automatically.
 If you are not already in your Drive, access it by going to the default Google Drive URL.


Your Drive can be accessed at http://drive.google.com/

If you are not already logged in, do so now.
 Locate the currently existing doc in your Drive and check the tickbox directly next to the title of the doc in the left-hand column.


The doc should now be highlighted.
 Click on the gray "More" button above the file list and choose "Make a Copy" to make a quick duplicate of the file selected.


Your new file will have the same name as your original, but it will say "Copy of..." before the name.
 Locate the currently existing doc in your Drive and click on it once to open it.


The doc should open in a new tab or window.
Copying your doc this way allows you to view the doc to confirm that you are copying the right one.
 Go to File -> Make a copy... to make an exact duplicate of the file you presently have open.By default, the new file will be named "Copy of original filename."

, Before confirming the creation of the file, change the name from "Copy of..." to a new name inside the "Copy" dialog box before you press the "OK" button.
 Your new copy can now be edited independently and as its own separate document.
 If you are not already at your Drive, access it now by going to the default Google Drive URL.


Your Drive can be accessed at http://drive.google.com/

If you are not already logged in, do so now.
 This button is not labeled by name. Instead, look for a red button with the icon of an up-arrow above a horizontal line.


This button should be located directly to the right of the "Create" button.
When you click on the "upload" button, a drop-down menu should appear.
 A file explorer box should pop up as a result.


Note that you can also choose "Folders" from the drop-down menu if you want to upload full folders of documents from your computer to your Google Drive account.
 Locate the file by searching through the folders and sub-folders on your computer until you find it. Click on the file once to select it.


It is recommended that you know where your file is located and what it is called before you try uploading it to your Drive. Knowing this information beforehand will make the uploading process easier.
 Click once on this button to upload the file into your Drive.


You could also double-click on the icon or name of the selected file to open and upload it.
Note that your doc will automatically be uploaded to your Drive with the same name it has on your computer.
 You can now edit this doc as you would edit any other doc on Google Drive.

