 The person may be impressed to hear you admit anything you’ve done that has hurt or harmed them. Especially if they see you as stubborn, this can help them see a new side of you that they may not have considered, which can open the doors to love. Show that you are a bigger person than you were before.


Say, “I know I made some mistakes, and I regret them. I was different then and have learned to be a better person.”

, A big part of repairing trust is forgiveness. Forgive yourself and forgive them. Forgive yourself for the mistakes you made and the hardships you contributed to in your relationship. Forgive the other person for their mistakes, judgments, or problems. Then, begin to trust yourself. If you cheated, know that you won’t do it again. Also, trust them. If they cheated, trust them to not do it again.If you hurt the other person, don’t expect to earn their trust right away. Show them that you can be trusted by being honest.
 It’s time to get humble. If the relationship is on bad terms due to a mistake you made or bad habits you continued that your partner couldn’t handle, take responsibility and consider their view. Think back on the gripes they expressed and work on them on your own accord, without their prompting. Say that you are now listening to their feedback and willing to improve. Tell the person that you’re inspired to be better because of them.For example, if the person became distant or broke up with you due to your addiction, make this part of your motivation to get sober.
 It’s not enough to have good intentions, you have to follow through on them. Be solutions-focused in making changes happen by choosing to improve who you are as a person and as a partner. If you were a bad partner, make efforts to be more supportive, listen, and compromise. Take the initiative to create solutions, anticipate difficulties, and work through existing troubles.Don’t just say that you’ll get treatment for an addiction. Find a therapist, go to a treatment center, or enroll in rehabilitation as soon as you can.
Solve specific problems. For example, if you tend to lose your temper, enroll in anger management and practice your new skills so that you can interact differently.
Once you’ve taken action, talk to them. Say, “I’m making changes to make this work. I want this, so I’m willing to do what it takes.”

