 If you observe dramatic weight loss in your cat, you’ll need to have a vet examine it to make an accurate diagnosis. You’ll need to report your cat’s symptoms and when you observed them with as much detail as possible.A patient history is a vital part of diagnosing dramatic weight loss in cats.
 In addition to giving your cat a full physical examination, the vet will do some lab work. Screenings will most likely include a complete blood count (CBC), blood chemistry panel, heartworm test, and thyroid hormone test. They might also recommend testing your cat for feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) and feline leukemia (FeLV), especially if it hasn’t already been vaccinated against these infections.Depending on the results of lab work and physical examination, the vet might also call for imaging techniques, like x-ray or ultrasound.
 If your cat tests positive for a gastrointestinal infection or for parasites, the vet will prescribe an appropriate antibiotic medication. The dosage might be an in-office injection or a pill or liquid to be administered at home. Be sure to give your cat its medication as directed by the vet.To prevent parasites, be sure to clean out your cat’s litter box daily, keep your cat on a flea control regimen, and avoid feeding it raw meat.
 The most common signs of diabetes are weight loss despite a ravenous appetite, increased water consumption, and increased urination. Your cat’s vet will help you create a treatment plan that’s right for its specific condition.Most diabetic cats require insulin injections twice a day. Some cats can be treated with oral medication.
In addition to medications, the vet will likely advise increasing your cat’s fiber and complex carbohydrate intake. If your cat is underweight, they’ll recommend a high-calorie diet until it reaches its ideal body weight.
 Weight loss along with increased appetite, thirst, and urination can also indicate hyperthyroidism. If a thyroid hormone test show that your cat has an overactive thyroid gland, its vet will help you decide between three treatment options:Daily medications can control the disease by regulating the thyroid, but are not an actual cure.
Surgical removal of the thyroid is a relatively straightforward procedure, but not all cats are good candidates for surgery. Ask your cat’s vet if it’s up to the bodily stresses associated with anesthesia, surgery, and recovery.
Radioactive-iodine treatment is becoming the preferred method, but it's only permitted in specially licensed facilities and isn't available in all locations. Your cat’s vet can tell you the location of the nearest treatment center.  

