 Between six to ten months old most babies will begin to crawl and scoot around, but they may go about it in different ways. Some will place each limb individually, others will drag their bellies on the floor, and some move quickly to walking. There is no "right" way to crawl, so encourage your baby no matter how they choose to get around. Give your child time to develop on it's own -- almost all children will find a way to move once they get used to their limbs.;
, You want a smooth, clean, and easy to navigate. A thin carpet is best, as it will be comfortable if they fall, stay warm, and provide a light grip for them to push off from.Lay in front of them so that they can see your face. This will help encourage them and make them feel safe., In order to learn how to crawl, babies need to practice pushing themselves off of the ground, which they can't do if they are always on their backs. Make sure you supervise them on their stomachs, however, so they don't get into trouble or try to eat something they shouldn't.


One on their stomachs, place your hands on the soles of their feet. Encourage them to push off, getting used to movement while prone.Having them stretch for 10-15 minute on their stomach a few times a day should be enough to begin with. Just put then down and supervise as the learn to move.
If you are nervous, lay on the floor and then place them, stomach down, on top of you.
 Too much clothing restricts movement, and it makes the essential body parts slippery, making it harder to learn crawling., Oce they are a little older, between 3-6 months, try putting some toys just out of reach on the floor so that they have an incentive to move. While you of course don't want to be cruel, encourage them to push, scoot, crawl, or stretch out to get what they want. , These devices are soft and can be gently slopped down. The slight decline encourages movement, and helps your baby get used to moving their limbs without feeling too burdened by the weight., While watching your baby crawl is a joyous occasion, it comes with a new set of risks. Babies can now follow after toys or a parent and explore new rooms unsupervised. Make sure you baby proof anything unsafe or off-limits, and keep and eye on your child at every moment.


The International Association for Child Safety estimates that most accidents happen within six feet of the parent, so stay vigilant as they learn to move. 