 Some routes take longer than others. You will need at least eight days to make the journey. If you want to stop and visit other cities along the way, set aside additional time., You will first have to travel from London to a European city that has direct trains to Moscow. You will then travel from that city to Moscow. In Moscow, you will board the Trans-Siberian railway and travel to Beijing via one of two routes.Consider traveling to Moscow from a European city, like Paris or Berlin, that has direct trains to both Moscow and London.
You will travel from Moscow to Beijing via Manchuria or via Mongolia. Keep in mind that there is often only one train per week on these routes.
 The cost of the trip will depend on what European city you stop over in, how long you stay in that city or in Moscow, and what class of train tickets you purchase. Research the costs of train tickets, hotels if you plan to stop over, and food and drink on the trains to help structure your budget.


For example, tickets from Moscow to Beijing cost anywhere between 500 and 900 Euros, with first class tickets costing the most.
 There are multiple options for trains between European cities. Once you decide where you will board the train to Moscow, you can begin researching specific trains and routes. Things to take into consideration include cost, length of trip, and available class compartments.First class tickets are the most expensive, and often include a sleeper car.
You can also purchase a second class ticket that does not include a sleeper car.
All of the trains going from Moscow to Beijing include dining options. The type and availability of food on trains between London, Europe, and Moscow varies.
 You may need visas to visit the countries along your journey, depending on your nationality and the route you travel. Once you plan your route, research each country’s visa requirements online. Then, apply for the visas well in advance of your trip. You will likely need the following visas:You will need a transit visa in Belarus, where most trains pass through on their way from Moscow to Beijing.
Unless you are a Russian citizen, you will need to obtain a Russian tourist visa.
If you are not a Chinese citizen, you will need a Chinese tourist visa.
 You will need a valid passport to travel from London to Beijing. If you already have a passport, make sure it is still valid and does not expire before the end of your trip. If necessary, renew your passport. If you do not currently have a passport, apply for one at least six months before your trip., Reservations are required on the trains between Moscow and Beijing. While some train types for the other legs of your journey may not require reservations, it is usually a good idea to book ahead of time to guarantee a seat. For example, trains like the Eurostar and Thalys, do require reservations and are quite popular.Try visiting www.bahn.de to view timetables and fares for train travel in Europe.
 A lighter suitcase will make for a more efficient journey. Try packing five or less changes of clothes. You should also make sure you bring maps and guidebooks for any city you stop over in, reading materials, a journal, a flashlight or headlamp, snacks, and proper outerwear depending on the season. You might also want to wear a money belt to hold your currency, passport, and/or credit cards.

