 The majority of major poets began by publishing through small journals. Small journals are usually operated independently or through a university press. They often do not pay you for your work, and the payment you do get may be small, but you can gain recognition and prestige by regularly publishing in smaller presses.Resources like Poets and Writers and The Poetry Foundation can provide you with a list of smaller journals. Usually, these databases contain information about submission fees, acceptance rates, and the reading periods.
Journals range in terms of prestige. Smaller start up journals may accept more work. Publication in slightly larger journals, that are well-known in the literary community, may reflect highly on you as a writer. Journals, like Gulf Coast for example, have been around for a long time and have published a range of well-known authors. You may want to try submitting to better known journals to help with your reputation as a writer.
However, do not disregard start up journals or smaller presses. Even if a journal is not widely known, a lot of publishing comes down to networking. If you publish with a startup journal, the editor from that journal may go on to work on a bigger, better known press. You would have a connection with a prestigious journal, giving you a better chance of having your work read.;
, With the rise of the internet, there are many literary journals cropping up online. Many writers who are now established in the literary community, such as Roxanne  Gay, began publishing through outlets like The Rumpus, Buzzfeed, and other online magazines. Look into a variety of online outlets that accept poetry. Read through these magazines to see if your work matches the tone and style of these presses.


Keep in mind, online publication is not necessarily easier. Major online outlets, like The Rumpus, may get as many submissions, if not more submissions, than some print journals.
 The best way to increase your chances of becoming a published writer is to read. Reading a variety of poetry will help you shape your voice as a writer. It will also give you a sense of what types of poetry are currently popular and relevant. You may not get anywhere writing Shakespeare-inspired sonnets, for example, but may find inspiration and success by emulating the styles of 21st century poets.Poetry anthologies are very frequently published through smaller presses. Major publishing houses do not usually publish poetry anthologies, even by well-known poets. Look into independent presses and university presses. Browse their poetry selections online and order a few anthologies there.
Attend literary readings in your community. Many poets gain exposure primarily though reading their work at coffee houses and open mic nights. Oftentimes, poets will be selling copies of their books after such events. If you live by a university, or are currently a student, there may be many poetry readings sponsored through the English or creative writing department.
 It's a good idea to subscribe to a few literary journals, especially those that regularly publish poetry. Smaller journals usually don't charge high subscription fees. Getting a copy of a literary journal a few times a year provides you with an invaluable opportunity to peruse modern poetry. It will also give a sense of when you should submit. Literary journals will advertise things like their reading periods and any poetry contests somewhere in the back of the journal.


It's best to submit to journals that match your style. Even if a poem is high quality, it's unlikely to be accepted to a journal with a style that does not mesh with your poetry. If you subscribe to a variety of journals, you'll begin to get a sense of where your work will best fit., When you start to submit your work, begin small. Go for smaller presses over large journals. The bigger journals in the literary community (e.g., Tin House, Ploughshares) get many more submissions that can be read closely and carefully. A lot of more popular journals have a submission rate between 6 or 7%.When you're first starting out, look into startup journals or mid-level journals. Resources like Poetry Foundation or Poets and Writers will give you a sense of how well-established a journal is, and it's rough number of readers and subscribers.
If you're published in a range of small journals, your voice may become increasingly recognizable. You'll also be able to draft a much better cover letter, as you'll be able to boast of a handful of existing publications. This will bolster your chance of acceptance at a bigger journal, as this increases the likelihood a reader will give your work careful consideration when working through piles of submissions.
 Every literary journal has different submissions guidelines. Remember, even small journals get many, many submissions. Readers are often looking for any excuse to toss out a submission, and if you fail to follow guidelines, your work may not be read. Read submissions guidelines carefully before sending out your poetry.Journals vary in terms of how many poems they expect you to submit. Some prefer 3 to 5 poems, while others prefer less. How you send your poems often varies. A specific font may be required. If you're submitting poetry online, you may need to send the file in a particular format. For example, a journal may prefer PDF files for poetry as this keeps the poem's original formatting and spacing intact.
If you're submitting your poems through regular mail, the majority of publishers request you include a self addressed stamped envelope with your poetry. This is so the journals can easily send you a rejection or acceptance letter.
Make sure to proofread your poems several times before sending them out. You do not want to send anything containing typos to a literary journal.
 Most publishers require you submit a brief cover letter with your work. Your cover letter is a brief tool you use to introduce your work and yourself. A quality cover letter may increase the likelihood your work will be read closely.Figure out the poetry editor of the magazine you're submitting to. You want to use the name of the poetry editor rather than "To Whom it May Concern" or "Dear Editors."
Mention something specific about the journal. This shows you read the journal and understand its style. Your more likely to be submitting work that matches that style. Mention how long you've admired the journal, and include the name of a specific poem you liked.
Include a very brief bio, including relevant details. If you have an MFA, mention where it's from and when you graduated. Briefly list any previous publications or honors. If won a contest for your poetry through another journal, for example, mention that here.
Some journals accept simultaneous submissions, but usually require you to inform readers if this is a simultaneous submission. If you've sent this poem anywhere else, mention this in the cover letter.
 Magazines, universities, and literary organizations often hold contests to help find emerging poets. Contests can help you gain name recognition in the poetry world. They often come with prizes, like a cash prize and/or publication in a journal.Keep in mind your chance of winning a contest is generally very slim. Apply to a minimal number of contests, and look for contests with small entry fees or no entry fees at all.
Some contests publish finalists and/or high quality entries in anthologies (available for purchase). So you do not necessarily have to win to be published and gain recognition. However, be sure to be careful when giving permission to be published if you are selected so you retain all rights to your works. Keep in mind that you do not have to buy the anthology you are published in, if a contest says you have to pay to be put in their collection then it is most likely a scam and/or not worth it.
 Rejection is part of the writing process. The vast majority of poets, even well-established poets, were rejected many times throughout their career. If you receive a rejection, try not to ruminate over it.


Send out a lot of poems. Publication is, in many ways, a numbers game. While you may only get a small percentage of what you send out published, you'll gain a lot of publications if you're submitting frequently.
On the day you receive a rejection, try doing something to distract yourself. Read a book, go for a bike ride, take a walk, or take a warm bath. Engage in some self care to help you mourn the loss.
 An agent can be great for a literary career. However, very few agents are willing to take on poets. Only the absolute best-known poets receive representation from an agent. Even some well-known poets operate independently. While you may dream of having an agent of your own, accept that an agent is not a reasonable option, especially early on in your career., Sometimes, it comes down to who you know. Even in the literary worlds, knowing an editor can help you gain an edge over the competition. Read the editorial board of various journals. If you recognize a colleague from graduate school, undergrad, or from anywhere else, get in touch. Knowing someone on the inside can help your work get read. For larger journals especially, a lot of work is read hastily or not at all.
 Tenacity is important if you want to be a poet. There will be many setbacks along the route to publication. Do not be discouraged. Keep submitting your poetry, despite rejection, and you will eventually find success.


Tenacity takes practice. It may take quite a few rejections before you're able to bounce back with ease. See rejections as a chance to practice become strong and tenacious rather than seeing them as setbacks.

