 Some people like to use notebooks for diaries. Others prefer to use computers to write instead. Both methods are just fine, so choose the one you are most comfortable with.


If you want to use a computer to write, you can use a text document to write or you can use an online journaling website or diary app.
If you want to use a physical diary, choose one that’s easy for you to write in. Make sure it's a good size for you and get one with lined paper inside.
If you can't decide if you want to use a computer or write in a notebook, go with the one that makes you feel the most creative.;
, Keep your diary close to you if possible. If it’s always within reach, you’re more likely to use it. Start by writing details you want to remember and even random thoughts as they strike you in your diary.


If you’re using a notebook, make sure you choose one that easily fits into your backpack or purse.
Keep your diary safe. Diaries are very private so if you carry it with you, keep an eye on it. If you leave it at home, be sure that it can't be easily found.
 One of the best things about diaries is reading them later, so be sure to date your entries. That way you know exactly when things happened.


Make putting down the date the first thing you do when writing a diary entry so you won't forget.
 Put aside time for writing first thing in the morning or right before you go to bed and hold yourself to it. If you’re very busy, even 10 minutes every day will help to get you in the habit of writing in your diary.


Choose a time when you know you won’t be interrupted by friends or family members.
Write to pass the time when you're riding in a car or on a bus.These trips are a good opportunity to jot down your thoughts and ideas.
 Don’t feel that you have to write long paragraphs and perfect sentences in your diary, or even sentences at all. If it’s easier for you to get down short phrases or bulletpoints, go with that.


It can be tempting, but avoid editing yourself in your diary. Don’t worry about spelling and grammar either.
No one is judging what you put in your diary and it’s for your eyes only.
 Feel free to write poetry, put down song lyrics, and record quotes from others that are meaningful to you. Some people express themselves best through art, and that is a completely valid way to use your diary, too.Experiment with drawing, painting, collecting found objects and creating collages in your diary, especially if you find that the words aren’t flowing.
Mix it up! Write when you're in the mood to write, and draw or make other art if you're more in the mood to do that.

