 Stand with your feet hip width apart. Step to the left side with your left foot. Bringing your right foot to meet your left, tap your foot on the ground. As you move to the left side, leave your head in the center as if it is stuck in place while you step out to the side. This will cause you to lean your body to the side. Next, step out with your right foot past your starting position. Bring your left foot to meet your right, tapping your left foot on the ground. During this motion, your upper body should come back to the middle and then lean over to the right side, while your head stays in place. Repeat, swaying your body and stepping side to side to the beat of the music.


Move your arms to the beat as you move from side to side. Your arms can be bent at your waist as you sway or you can raise them in the air. Just move them naturally with the movement of your body as you move to the tempo of the music.
You can also lean your body out as you do this move, turning your hips slightly in the direction that you are stepping. This adds additional movement to this step.;
, Start off with your feet shoulder width apart. Dip your knees, bending them at a 45 degree angle. Stand back up. After you dip your knees, add a body roll as your stand back up. Dip down with your knees, and as your knees get to the 45 degree angle, roll your body by moving your hips out first. Then, push your chest out and lean your head back as you start to stand back up straight. Your head should come back to center as you straighten your body and knees.


You may have to practice this move a few times before you get the rhythm just right, especially since house music tends to be fast. Try slowing it down, taking a few beats to complete the movement until you get comfortable with it., Start with your feet together. Step forward with your right leg. Bring your left leg forward and tap the tip of your toe right behind the heel of your right foot. Step back with your left foot and then your right, returning to your starting position. Repeat with the other leg, continuing to alternate legs each time you complete a rotation.


This move can be done to slow and fast songs. Just increase the tempo to whatever song you are dancing to., Start with your feet together. Glide your right leg to the side, skimming your foot along the floor without lifting it. Stretch your leg a little farther than shoulder width. Then glide your leg back in. Repeat on the opposite side. As you move your legs side to side, lean your body in the opposite direction of your leg, swaying your arms with your movements from side to side.


This move can be as fast or as slow as you want, depending on the beat of the music., Start with your feet shoulder width apart. Jump up, bringing your feet together to cross in front of you as you land. Jump again, bringing your feet back to their starting position. You should land softly on the balls of your feet. Repeat the motion, crossing the opposite foot in the front. Continue to switch which foot crosses in front as you repeat this motion. You can change the tempo of your movements depending on the music.


Move your arms around as you jump. This helps you keep balanced and makes the move look smoother.