 Cambodia is hot hot hot, and the humidity will sap your energy more quickly than you think. Unless you’re in the capital city of Phnom Penh, you will rarely, if ever, see locals wearing sleeveless or above-the-knee garments. If you dress inappropriately, you may be denied entrance to religious sites, and you will be a more obvious tourist target for scammers. Instead, wear loose, flowing clothes that promote airflow, such as linen trousers or cotton blouses.;
, Ground travel within Cambodia allows you to see more of the country and get closer to the Cambodian people, but it will always take more time than you’re told due to poor road conditions and possible vehicle breakdowns. Traveling by plane does not have to be expensive, but you do miss out on the experience of watching the country go by.


By plane – Both Phnom Penh and Siem Reap (Angkor Wat) are well-connected internationally. If money isn’t an issue, you can consider flying to these destinations, as the Siem Reap – Phnom Penh road is in poor condition, and flying internationally into Siem Reap allows you to avoid the hassle of getting a Cambodia visa at the border.
By bus – Public buses connect every point in Cambodia. There are two “types” of buses, “local” and “tourist.” On “local” buses, Cambodians outnumber foreigners, the buses are usually older, it can be more crowded, Cambodian music or TV plays for the whole ride, there are more stops, the tickets are cheaper (and purchased directly from the bus company), and you have a better chance of making local friends. On “tourist” buses, foreigners outnumber Cambodians, the bus feels more spacious, and tickets (purchased from travel agents or guesthouses) are slightly more expensive. When it comes down to it, the buses are similar, so it depends on what kind of experience you want to have.
By van – The vans accommodate only foreign travelers and are a faster way to get to certain destinations (such as from Phnom Penh to Sihanoukville or Kampot). They cost more than buses, but may not necessarily be more comfortable: a 12-seater van, for example, may squeeze in 13 or even 14.
 For transportation advice, talk to hotel/guesthouse/hostel workers, travel agents, and fellow travelers. Every place of accommodation will be able to help you purchase tickets for onward travel for a slightly inflated price. For the most budget-friendly option, buy your ticket directly from the bus station or bus company office.


Note, however, that in some places the bus station is located far from the town or city center, so going all the way out there may not be worth it. Ground travel options in Cambodia are plentiful so you won’t have to book anything more than 24 hours in advance.
 Cambodian roads are notoriously unpaved. During the dry season, red dust from the road seeps into the undercarriage and affixes itself to your bag. Avoid this problem by using a bag cover. This can be a built-in rain cover, a suitcase cover, or even a garbage bag. During the rainy season, keep your bag dry by using a cover or, again, even some garbage bags, tied securely around your bag.
 Refreshing air-conditioning can suddenly turn freezing, especially once the sun goes down. Contrariwise, there’s no guarantee that the AC will work, which means that you may end up in a sweltering vehicle with all the windows rolled down. Therefore, don’t wear too-restrictive clothing, such as jeans, and keep a jacket or wrap on hand.
 As a general reference, in all places except for within Phnom Penh and between Sihanoukville’s Serendipity Beach and Otres Beach, figure on around 0.50 USD per person per kilometer (as of December 2014). Always agree on a price before you get in the vehicle.
 Bus travel times can take up to twice as long as claimed due to poor road conditions, vehicle breakdowns, traffic, and more. If you’re transferring between forms of transportation, give yourself a few hours’ cushion.
 Cambodia isn’t known for its punctuality and abundance of Western amenities, but its people are wonderfully friendly and spirited. Don’t be upset if things don’t go exactly as expected. After all, the misadventures make the best stories back home!

