 Start by standing with your heels together and your feet turned out as far as comfortably possible. Be sure to have good balance before moving to another position. , Do this by sliding one foot about 12 inches (30 cm) forward and aligning your heels., You will do this by bending your knees while in the fourth position. Try to move gradually without jerks. Lower and rise at the same speed. This will help with flexibility and balance., Rise up on your toes or balls of your feet, from the fourth position, to be in the relevé position.


If you are a beginner rise to the balls of your feet, wearing ballet flats.
If you are intermediate or advanced, rise to your toes, wearing toe shoes., Slide the toe of one leg up the calf of the supporting leg to your knee to be in the passé position. The leg you move is called the working leg. Practice rising up on your toes in this position while using the ballet bar for balance., Hold your arms in front of you, rounded, at lower abdomen level. This is the first position and is essential for balance.
 Stand and choose a point on the wall or mirror, straight ahead at eye level, to use as a focal point. You can use a “post it” note if there is no point. You will look at this point during the entire dance move.
 Stand in fourth position with your feet about twelve inches apart. Bend both legs evenly in a plié.
 Rise up on your toes or balls of feet in the relevé position. Slide one foot up the other supporting leg to the passé position. This leg can be turned out facing the side (ballet) or parallel (jazz). , Hold your arms in front of you in the first position. Remember, this is essential for balance.
 Look at your focal point on the wall. Turn while in position, keeping your head facing the focal point for as long as you can and then whip your head around to continue focus while the rest of your body follows.


Your body’s steady movement and your head speeding up as necessary to focus is called spotting and helps prevent dizziness while your move remains controlled.
Push just enough to get around. Over pushing will throw the twirl off. , Land back in the fourth position to complete the pirouette. Try to land smoothly. While this may sound easy, you will need to practice to land in the right direction.
 You will need a very strong core to do multiple pirouettes in one motion. Do planks by holding your body stiff, in a pushup-like position, supported on your forearms. Hold for as long as possible. Aim to increase your time.
Do crunches. Lie on your back on the floor with your knees bent. Put your hands behind your head or across your chest. Flatten your lower back to the floor, while contracting stomach muscles and lifting shoulders off the floor about 2 inches (5 cm). Exhale when you come up. Lower your shoulders and repeat 20 times. Aim to increase the number of crunches over time., Dancing is very repetitive. Do exercises without impact.


Sit in a chair, lift your leg and do the alphabet with one foot and then the other.
Use a fitness band to do flex exercises. Put the band around one foot. Extend the foot while holding the band and slowly flex your foot in different directions.
Flex your calves in both the sitting and standing position. Strengthening muscles around the ankles will provide additional strength. , Multiple pirouettes is a very difficult move to master. Be patient with yourself. Remember, you love dancing and practice is the key to perfecting your art.

