 If you have head lice, you will need to make an appointment with a doctor or at least call your doctor for advice. There are a variety of treatment options available for removing head lice and eggs, and your doctor can recommend the treatment and also give you specific instructions on how to use medicated shampoos or oral medications., If your doctor thinks it's safe for you, she will likely recommend an over-the-counter medicated shampoo as your first course of action. Use the shampoo as your doctor instructs.


OTC shampoos contain a chemical compound called pyrethrin, which is toxic to head lice. Medicated shampoos include permethrin (Nix), which contains a synthetic version of pyrethrin, and pyrethrin with additives (Rid, A-200 Lice Killing), which combines pyrethrin with other chemicals. Pyrethrin can cause side effects such as itching and scalp redness.You will have to wash your hair or your child's hair with this shampoo. Do not use conditioner. Some people find rinsing hair with white vinegar after washing helps the treatment work faster. Follow the directions on the shampoo that will advise you how long to leave the shampoo in before rinsing.You will usually need a second treatment after the first shampooing. While OTC shampoos remove some lice eggs, some will remain in the hair and hatch. Many recommend a second treatment seven to ten days after the first but your doctor might suggest otherwise depending on the level of you or your child's infestation., In some cases, lice develop a resistance to OTC shampoos. Your doctor therefore may recommend prescription-strength shampoos to treat the infestation.


Benzyl alcohol (Ulesfia) kills lice by depriving them of oxygen. It is not approved for children less than 6 months of age as it can cause severe side effects like seizures. It is usually safe on children above this age, although it can sometimes cause redness and itching of the scalp.Malathion (Ovide) can be used on people age six and older. It is a medicated shampoo that you apply and then leave to dry. It will rinse out on its own after eight to 12 hours. Do not use this drug with a hair dryer or near fire as it is flammable.Lindane is only used when other treatments have failed. It can cause severe side effects, like seizures. It should not be used on children, anyone who weighs less than 110 pounds, pregnant or breastfeeding women, HIV patients, or anyone with a history of seizures.Rarely, your doctor may prescribe ivermectin, which can be applied topically (Sklice) or given orally.