 Be aware that your loner status may make you a target for ridicule in your present, or future, life. So, it is important to be flexible and to adapt to your situation the best that you can. Perhaps you need to wait until the end of the day to get alone time. If that is the case, then so be it. Perhaps you have to discuss your work in a group project setting. If that is the case, then so be it., Practice introspection on a daily basis and ask yourself if being a loner is making you happy. If the answer is yes, then continue as is. If the answer is no, then start to open yourself up a bit more to social experiences while in high school. Pay attention to any feelings of loneliness, in particular. Your decision to be a loner can be reversed, if you choose to do so.Loneliness actually leads to the build-up of stress within your body. Over time it can cause a host of health problems if it is not addressed., Humans usually reach out for social interaction, so, as a loner, you may be the focus of other’s curiosity or fear. In particular, as a result of some of the violent acts committed by self-described loners in school environments, some of your classmates may attach negative stereotypes to your choice. Try to alleviate their concerns by being polite and engaged, just busy with other concerns., Some of your peers may try to ply you with alcohol or drugs in order to get you back into the social group. Be prepared for this and feel confident in your refusal. Others may assume that you are interested in these illicit activities simply because you are a loner. Brush these advances off as well.If you are offered drugs or alcohol, you might simply say, “Sorry, I’m not into that.”

, If you feel as if your emotions are bottled up as a result of your loner status, reach out to professionals at your school. They will keep these conversations confidential and you can unload what is on your mind. Be aware that you can also visit with your counselor to discuss how happy you are as a loner.If you are satisfied with your life as a loner, your counselor may be able to offer suggestions regarding future career options that will suit your personality. Many loners find satisfying work as writers or completing other solitary pursuits., Your parents may be concerned about your life as a loner, especially if they are both extroverts. Spend time talking with them and let them know that you are okay and happy. If you are unhappy, you can also reach out to your parents for assistance and ask for their advice., If you feel like hurting yourself or others, you should talk to your parents or school professionals and get them to make you a counseling appointment outside of the school environment. It is important that you don’t keep these feelings bottled up. There are ways to improve your situation, but you have to go against your natural instincts and reach out to others.

