 This is the hardest part of the plan. Though you have prepared what you'll say and have anticipated their reaction, and though you have picked the best time to have the conversation, this will still be one of the toughest conversations of your life.



Relax. Chances are that you've already played out the conversation in your head a thousand times. But what you need to realize is that you're predicting, most likely, is the Worst Case Scenario. Stop. You are 100 times more likely to get a better reaction from your parents than the ones you might be expecting. Relaxing will only make things easier.
Make your parents feel comfortable. Though it's unlikely that you'll have small talk for a while, you can smile, ask them how they are, and reassure them with a pat on the hand before you tell them the news.
Say, "I have something very difficult to tell you. I'm pregnant." Say it firmly and with as much strength as possible.
Maintain eye contact and open body language. Look as approachable as you can when you tell them the news.
Tell them how you're feeling. It's likely that they will be so shocked that they won't react right away. Tell them how you're feeling about the pregnancy. Remind them that this has been very tough for you.
 Now that you've told them your news, they will have a strong reaction. Whether they are angry, emotional, confused, hurt, or full of questions, they will need some time for the news to sink in. Take it slow and listen to their side of the story without interrupting.


Reassure them. Though they are the adults, they have just received some big news, and you should try to stay strong for them.
Answer their questions. If you're prepared, then you should be able to answer their questions as honestly and calmly as possible.
Ask them how they feel. If they are shocked into silence, give them some time to gather their thoughts, and then ask them how they are feeling. If they won't share their feelings after you shared yours, it won't be easy to move the conversation forward.
Don't get angry if they get angry. Remember, they just found out some life-changing news.
 Once your news is out in the open and you and your parents have discussed your feelings as well as their feelings, it will be time to figure out what to do about your pregnancy. If there is a difference of opinions, as there may well be, then this may be more difficult. But remember that you should feel relieved now that the news is out in the open and that you can work through it together.


You may not be able to discuss the next steps immediately in the conversation. Your parents may need some time to cool down, and you may both need some time to get a hold of your emotions.
Remember that though this crisis is probably the toughest thing you have gone through, that you and your family will grow stronger by working out the problem together.

