 Most sunless tanners require the same initial steps for the best results. This applies to all major types of self-tanner and to professional salon spray-on tans.


If you plan on waxing or shaving an area you'd like to tan, do so the day before getting a sunless tan. Sunless tanners interact with dead skin cells, and fading happens when these cells begin to slough away. Hair removal methods often remove the outer layer of these cells, causing a tan to fade faster.
Exfoliate your skin right before applying a self-tanner or going to a tanning salon. Be sure to focus on dry patches like your elbows. Excess dry skin can absorb more tanner than the surrounding area, giving you an uneven tan.
Wash your skin before applying self-tanner. Make sure your skin is as dry as possible afterwards.
Skip moisturizer and deodorant the day of. Ingredients in these products can affect the tanning process and may block tanner from being absorbed by the skin., Almost all self-tanners use the chemical dihydroxyacetone (DHA). This is a colorless chemical that interacts with the amino acids in dead skin cells to create a brown pigment similar to melanin. A second ingredient, erythrulose, also known as raspberry sugar, has also started showing up in self-tanners, usually in conjunction with DHA. Erythrulose enhances the effect of DHA for a longer-lasting tan that looks more natural on redder skin tones.Choose the right tanner for your skin type and skill level. Although the basic process is the same, self-tanner comes in many different forms, such as lotions, gels, mousses, and sprays. Lotions are the best product for beginners, as they take a little longer to absorb, letting you correct any mistakes you may make quickly. Gels spread easily on normal and oily skin, but are often too sticky for dry skin. Mousses spread quickly and dry fast.Sprays offer the most even coverage under optimal circumstances, but are relatively difficult to master. Best results with sprays are usually achieved by a second person applying the product for you, such as at a salon.
Pick the best tanner for your skin tone. Self-tanners vary in color intensity corresponding to their concentration of DHA, ranging from 1% to as high as 15%.If you are self-tanning for the first time, err on the side of caution and try a lower concentration, especially if you have lighter skin. The unnatural orange color that many people associate with self-tanner is usually caused by using a concentration of DHA too high for your skin tone.Do a spot test when using a new product. Before tanning your whole body, test a small amount of your tanner on a small, inconspicuous patch of skin. Rinse it off after a few minutes and wait 24 hours. Look for any signs of an allergic reaction. While safe for most people, DHA and other ingredients can give a serious rash to people with allergies. Testing on a small patch of skin will both minimize any damage and also give you a better idea of what the product will look like on your skin.
Apply the tanner in sections (arms, legs, torso) and massage it into your skin with circular, buffing motions. Prevent over-tanning your hands by washing them after each section. Applying a light amount of moisturizer to your hands and feet if they feel dry will also prevent them from absorbing too much tanner.Dilute the tanner at your elbows and knees, as these spots tend to absorb DHA quickly than others. Apply the tanner to your face in a very light but even layer. Consider using a slightly lighter self-tanner on your face for a more natural look.
Wait at least 10 minutes before getting dressed. Wear dark garments in case of staining. Wipe off any excess product from your skin.
Avoid bathing, swimming, or sweating for four to eight hours after application.Check any manufacturer's instructions for any special instructions regarding application times.
 While professional spray-on tans can have great, natural-looking results, they do have drawbacks. DHA is safe for external use, but it has not been approved for contact with the mucous membranes.Some physicians assert that DHA can potentially cause damage when in contact with living cells. Spray-on products are a possible risk, as they may be easily inhaled, introducing a relatively large amount of DHA to the living cells that line your lungs. If you choose to spray-tan, do your best to avoid breathing in fumes and to protect your eyes, mouth, and nose.


Self-tanners also come as sprays. While spray-on self tanners can give you a very even tan when used properly, they have the same risks as professional sprays., Unfortunately, sunless tanner typically last only three to seven days. Make sure to do the following to keep your skin healthy and stay tan as long as possible:


Moisturize your skin well with your choice of lotion. Keeping your skin hydrated will help your tan last as long as possible.
Use a full-strength sunscreen. Sunless tanners do not offer nearly as much UV-protection as naturally dark skin. People who use sunless tanners sometimes overestimate this minimal protection and end up damaging their skin.Minimize unprotected sun exposure for the next day or so. DHA temporarily increases the skin's susceptibility to certain kinds of UV damage., You may see advertisements for tanning pills containing the color additive canthaxanthin. Amounts of this chemical large enough to affect skin color can also cause severe damage to your skin, liver, and eyes. These pills are banned in many countries and are not worth their marginal cosmetic benefits.