 One of the most obvious, fundamental signs that something is wrong in a relationship is if one partner becomes uncomfortable being physically close to another. Whether it's holding hands, cuddling, making out, or having sex, being physically intimate requires a great deal of trust from both partners. If one partner knows that the trust has been betrayed, physical intimacy can suddenly start to seem quite awkward and unnatural, even when it was easy before. If your girlfriend all of a sudden seems to recoil at the thought of touching you, something's up — even if it's not infidelity.


To be clear, what you're looking for here is a sudden, unexplained reluctance to be physically intimate in ways that you previously were. If you previously were having sex and it doesn't seem to happen any more, this is a sign of a problem. However, if you've only kissed your girlfriend on the cheek, her unwillingness to have sex with you doesn't mean she's having feelings for someone else. People can take time to progress through the stages of physical intimacy — in fact, progressing too quickly to sex is one of the most comment complaints women have about he physical side of their relationship., In the modern age, our cell phones and personal electronic devices have become the way in which we keep in touch with our significant other. However, if your girlfriend has been fooling around with someone else, there's a good chance that her phone was also used to stay up-to-speed with him. Pay attention to the way your girlfriend handles her phone — does she keep it close to herself when she's texting? Has she recently added a password? Does she refuse to let you use it? Does she seem reluctant to let it out of her sight? If so, she may have something to hide.


This advice isn't just for cell phones — it's also for other types of electronic gadgets people can use to communicate with each other. For instance, if your girlfriend keeps shutting her laptop or logging out of her social media profile every time you walk into the room, this can be cause for concern if it's happening alongside some of the other warning signs in this article.
 Girlfriends and boyfriends with busy, active lives will occasionally have trouble making time for each other in their schedules. This is perfectly natural and something that most couples have to deal with. However, if your girlfriend suddenly becomes too busy to hang out with you for long periods of time and her explanation doesn't seem to make sense, this can mean that she's spending her free time with someone else. If your girlfriend has recently had trouble finding the time to hang out with you and her explanations don't seem to hold water, you definitely have reason to be concerned.


To help differentiate between normal schedule conflicts and "troublesome" ones, try this trick. When your girlfriend says that she won't be able to hang out with you, try suggesting a different time. If she still says she can't make it, wait for her to suggest an alternative. Usually, when people want to hang out with each other but they have a schedule conflict, they'll volunteer a different time for hanging out. If your girlfriend seems content to let the matter go unresolved, however, this can be a sign that she doesn't really want to hang out with you at all.
 Being able to look someone in the eye is widely-regarded as a sign of sincerity and honesty. When people know they're or hiding something from someone who's close to them, it can become difficult or almost even painful to look the other person in the eye. If your girlfriend suddenly can't seem to meet your gaze, something may be very wrong.


Obviously, this doesn't mean that if your girlfriend can look you in the eyes, she's telling the truth. Skilled (or particularly remorseless) liars can look their significant other in the eye without any problem.
It also bears mentioning that some people who are shy or socially awkward can naturally have a hard time looking other people in the eye.In addition, certain types of social disorders may cause this behavior.
 When you've been dating someone for a while, their routine and daily habits should become fairly well-known to you simply through spending time with them. Seeing a sudden shift in the way your girlfriend spends her time should automatically feel strange and cause you concern, but if you see it along with some of the other warning signs in this article, you may have reason to be alarmed. This is especially true if your girlfriend's new routine has her doing things she actively avoided doing with you. People are generally more willing to participate in social activities they don't care for at the beginning of a new relationship when doing so may please their new partner.


For instance, let's say that your girlfriend hated going to the beach with her boyfriend in the past, but now has spent the past two weekends with "some friends" at one of their beach houses. As her boyfriend, it's reasonable for you to question this, especially if she meets pretends that she has always liked the beach.
 For both sexes, a sudden, drastic change in the way someone dresses can be a sign that some other aspect of their life has changed. For instance, it can be a sign that someone has recently become single, has recently lost someone and is grieving, or has recently gotten a new job. However, within the confines of a committed relationship, if someone adopts a drastically different "look" without warning and has no explanation or just unconvincing excuses, it can be a sign that she is trying to impress a third party.


It's an especially worrisome sign if your girlfriend's new look seems to be designed to be attention-seeking or provocative. For instance, someone known for her conservative style of dress is less likely to spontaneously start wearing bare midriffs and low-cut tops than someone without such a reputation.
 The thought of getting the "cold shoulder" is enough to make any concerned boyfriend shiver. If you're suspicious of your girlfriend's true intentions, pay attention to the way she treats you when you hang out — does she seem indifferent or disinterested in what you have to say? Does she belittle your opinions or ignore them entirely? Does it feel like your presence is making no difference at all in the way she behaves? Is she completely unavailable via phone or social media? If you're beginning to feel like you're invisible around your own girlfriend, your relationship has problems.


If you think you're being ignored, be sure to stay calm. Texting your girlfriend 100 times to get a response isn't likely to go over well whether or not she's spending her time with another guy. Remember that constantly trying to clamber for someone's attention can make you appear unattractively desperate.
 All of the warning signs in this article assume that it's difficult to tell whether your girlfriend likes someone else simply by observing her. However, if your girlfriend is brazen enough to be open about her preference for another person, you won't need to wait to look for any of the other signs. In these cases, your relationship needs a serious re-evaluation. Below are just a few obvious actions you absolutely shouldn't to tolerate:


Showing open affection for someone else in a way that goes beyond friendly fake-flirting or harmless banter (e.g., kissing, intimate dancing, etc.)
Ditching you to exclusively hang out with someone else in social situations.
Showing contempt or making fun of you in a way that goes beyond good-natured teasing, especially when only around certain people.
Openly attempting to entice or arouse another person with innuendos or come-ons in a way that's not intended as sarcastic or ironic.

