 Although you want people to see you as the cool guy, the best way to be un-awesome is to constantly ask for other people’s approval. This type of behavior makes you look needy.Instead of wondering if other people like you, decide if you like yourself.


It’s natural to care about what others think of you. However, you can’t please everyone all the time, and sometimes your personality will clash with other people’s, and they just won’t like you. Instead of trying to please everyone, consider who is in your life that really matters to you, such as your mom or dad, grandparent, or best friend. If the people closest to you like and love you, it’s easier to dismiss the opinions of those who don’t.For instance, say someone who is not on your list of people who really matter (a guy at school who isn’t a close friend, for instance) insults you or speaks badly about you behind your back. Consider, very briefly, what that person said. Is there any truth to it? Likely, there isn’t, so just dismiss it by reminding yourself that this is not a person whose opinion matters.If you are a person who craves affirmation through social media, consider limiting your time on facebook and instagram or suspending your account. "Likes" and "hearts" aren't an accurate measure of your awesomeness.;
, People will know if you are just saying what they want to hear or just acting a certain way to fit in with the crowd.


Don’t be a show off. If people think you are constantly performing a role to get attention, they won’t know when you are being genuine or when you have something serious to say. For example, if you play the role of the “class clown,” you will entertain people, but they will never take you seriously. They may also be laughing at you—not just with you.
It may take a little while and a little experimentation, but trust yourself to come to know the real you. Reflect on your behaviors and your emotions. Did you tell a friend you would hang out, even though you don’t want to? Being inauthentic leads to feeling dissatisfied and restless, while being true to yourself will result in feelings of happiness and satisfaction.Consider keeping a log of your behaviors and emotions to determine the moments when you are your most authentic self. Self-awareness is the primary quality of being authentic.If you practice reflection on a daily or weekly basis, you will become more self-aware and therefore more authentic.
 Do you love art, books, music, or sports? Whatever it is, do it!


Very cool people have something that they do really well. Once you find your passion, work toward being the best. Maybe your passion is basketball, but you can never make the three-pointer. Practice at this until you can do it with your eyes closed! People will come to know you as “that awesome guy who scores all the three-pointers!”
Share what you love with others. For instance, if you like reading, start a book club. Being transparent about your passions will also help you find other people who have similar interests, too.

