 Lupita was known for being friendly and nice to everyone, and it came naturally and effortlessly to her. So say something nice to people you meet in your way everyday. Say that their hair looks nice, or that you like their shirt, or that you think they are smart. And say it without trying too hard to please. People can feel when it comes naturally, so just say it with a soft smile and looking in their eyes, without expecting anything in return.
 One of the things people treasured the most in Lupita, was that she always wanted to help. If you see a friend, a family or anyone else needing help with anything or doing any chore, go up to them and ask if they need help, and offer to help. They'll appreciate it.
 Whenever people talk to Lupita, she really looks into their eyes and listens to every word they say. In the end, she is always honest in her opinions: if she disagrees with something they said, she tells them, if she likes their idea, she tells them. But here's the thing: she is considerate of other people's feelings, so she always thinks before speaking and chooses her word in order to always be polite and never hurt anyone.
 Lupita truly loves her parents, her aunt, her little brother and her friends. She doesn't care at all about people's appearance or clothes, all she cares about is their personality. And she makes sure to show her affection to people she loves everyday: you can see how Lupita hugs them and pay compliments to them at least once everyday. And even if you have any family member or friend living in a distant place, always make sure to call them or send them a message on facebook telling how they are important to you.
 Lupita has a great talent for singing, but if singing isn't your talent, you can always find your own. Painting, photography, acting, math, teaching, communication, philosophy, anything can be your talent. You just have to analyze the things that you like to do most and see what aspects about it you like so much and you're good at, and you might find out. And when you do, work on them!

