 Avoid single-serve or individually wrapped items.Shop at stores that have bulk dispensers for grains, nuts, dried fruits, and snacks. Bring your own plastic bag or container to put the bulk food in. And try to buy bulk sizes of food or sanitary products, which saves on packaging.When buying produce at the grocery store, avoid packing the product in an extra plastic bag if it isn’t necessary. Vegetables such as potatoes, onions, peppers, tomatoes, beets; and fruits such as bananas, apples, plums, and melons shouldn’t require an extra bag.
Instead of buying canned soup or pasta sauce, read up in a cookbook how prepare these at home.
Practice “precycling” by only buying products whose materials can be recycled.;
, Take durable canvas or synthetic-fiber bags, a backpack, or a basket with you to the store, enough to hold whatever you plan on buying.These can usually be bought at the stores themselves. A heavy-duty plastic bag that you use multiple times can serve the purpose almost as well.
 Disposables contribute large amounts of waste to our environment. Using cloth diapers or nappies instead of disposable ones saves a considerable amount of waste. And instead of buying disposable razors, use one that takes replacement blades.For picnics, serve with re-usable plastic or wooden plates, cups, and utensils instead of disposable ones., Turn off or unplug any electrical appliances that aren't being used, such as the TV, radio, stereo, computer, lights, or chargers for cellphones or mp3 players. Try to wash clothes by hand, and dry them outside as much as possible. And if you purchase appliances, such as dishwashers, washing machines, and dryers, choose ones that are rated with the Energy Star classification.Replace all incandescent lightbulbs with Energy-Star-rated compact fluorescent lightbulbs (CFLs), which can save you $6 in energy costs per year.Try towel drying your hair instead of blow-drying it.
If it is cold inside your residence, just put on a jacket or sweater instead of turning up the heat.
 Try to reduce your shower time to between 5 and 10 minutes. Turn off the water when shampooing or scrubbing. Take fewer baths as well, since they can consume more water than a short shower.


When you brush your teeth, turn off the faucet between soaking and rinsing the brush.
 If you’re receiving junk mail, call the sending company’s 800 number, usually found on the offer or order page, and ask to be removed from their mailing list. You can also request electronic billing instead of paper billing for all your utilities, member dues, and other periodical payments.This choice can typically be made when signing up for an account, either online or over the phone.
 Try to walk, bike, or take public transit to school or work. If possible, invest in an electric or hybrid vehicle--these options are more fuel-efficient and emit less carbon into the atmosphere.


Organize carpools with your neighbors or co-workers to reduce fossil fuel use.
Choosing a residence as close as possible to your place of work will reduce both your commute time and energy consumption., Escalators and elevators are convenient, but sometimes they are not necessary. You can get some extra exercise and avoid waiting for the elevator if you have an option of taking the stairs. And the money you’re saving the building’s owners by taking the stairs may be passed on to you, if only in a small way, in the form of slightly lower prices (if you’re at a shopping center) or a higher salary (if you’re at an office building).

