 To gain a dog's respect and to make it feel happy and secure, establish yourself as the leader. This helps your dog understand the pecking order of your home. If you have children, he should be below them in the house hierarchy. The owner or primary caretaker of the dog should be at the top, and your dog should respect this leader. This will ensure a happy home where both you and your dog are safe.


Dogs are pack animals who feel secure when they are being taken care of by someone they respect. This means they can follow someone else's orders and someone else will make the decision while taking care of them and keeping them secure.;
, There's nothing more frustrating for a dog than an owner who can't make up their mind. Dogs like structure and rules so things are predictable, and therefore, less confusing or stressful.By establishing boundaries for your dog, they feel secure and loved. By praising your dog when he consistently follows the rules, you increase his confidence, show him he's loved, and make him eager to please you.By being consistent and establishing boundaries for the dog, he will come to respect and love you.


Dogs don't understand exceptions. If you don't want your dog eating human food while you're at the table or laying on the furniture, don't let him do it at all. Your dog won't understand the concept of a special occasion.
Don't let a dog up onto the bed one day and then get mad when he jumps up on the bed the next day while muddy. The dog doesn't understand the difference.Use single word commands like "sit" and "stay" and stick to them. Don't use "stay" one day and "wait" the next. If you teach a dog to lie down by saying "down," don't teach him to get off of the couch by saying "down." He'll think you want him to lie down; use "off" instead.
 Dogs are social, so they need to be socialized with other people and other dogs. They love going places with you, and taking them along to meet people and animals shows that you love them.Plus, he will learn to be friendly to both if he is familiar with them.


Dogs are pack animals, and they love being with their pack. Take them on rides in the car, take them to the park with you, and even take them on vacation. This not only helps the dog not be bored, but shows him you love him., Dogs don't communicate the way humans do. They don't understand words, beyond a simple command. They understand body language. Learn how to read your dog's body language. More important, pay special attention to your body language. This is especially important when you are training your dog. Your body will speak louder than your words., One way to bond with your dog is to teach him good behaviors. This includes things like "sit" and "stay."


You also want to teach the dog not to do negative behaviors. This may include not biting another dog or person, not running off, or not being aggressive., Talk to your dog. When you speak to your dog, talk in a warm, calm tone. Don't yell or be angry. Let the dog hear and sense affection from your tone of voice.Remember that dogs pay as much attention to body language as words. Make sure you always pay attention to what your body is doing while you are interacting with your dog., When training your dog, use positive reinforcement instead of punishment. Dogs learn much better this way. Always reward good behavior. Give them praise, petting, and treats when they do something correctly. They will choose these behaviors and feel secure and happy knowing what to do. Make sure to do this quickly. Don't fawn.Giving dogs treats as a reward encourages them to behave well if the treats are connected to good behavior. Be sure to use a variety of rewards - not just food treats, but toys, attention, games, and activities. Use positive praise with a happy voice and back scratches.
 When the dog does something wrong, or if he does not perform a command correctly, don't punish him. He might not understand what you mean. Instead, show the dog the correct action. Use scolding or corrections, but never raise your voice or hit the dog.Don't hit the dog either. Your hands shouldn't be used for hitting. Shake the collar, give a leash correction, or help the dog into the correct position. Make sure to give the reprimand with authority. When the dog does what you want, praise and reward him.Be fair and tough. Think about it as tough love. Don't get angry, but expect the dog to obey you.
For example, if your dog starts barking and you say no and it stops, don't punish the dog for barking. Instead reward the dog for stopping.
 Any affection you give your dog needs to be given at the proper time. You should use affection as positive reinforcement for good behavior. If you give affection when the dog is doing bad behavior, you will be teaching the dog that bad behavior is okay.


Give your dog affection after exercise, feeding, obeying a command, changing a behavior, or calming down. Don't give affection when the dog is angry, irritated, whining, begging, or breaking rules., Petting your dog is a great bonding experience, but make sure you do it correctly. Most dogs don't like being patted or touched on the head because this is a show of dominance. Instead, scratch the dog behind the ears. Or pet the dog on the back or rear right near the tail.You can also try scratching your dog under the chin or on the belly.Exercise caution when hugging your dog. Many dogs will take that as a sign of dominance and feel threatened. Other dogs may love it. Watch your dog's body language to figure out which he prefers.
 One way to make your dog love you is by giving him treats. Remember, you should only give dogs treats as a reward for good behavior. Before giving the dog a treat, ask him to sit, stay, or obey another command. Treats should be used as positive reinforcement.
 Dogs with pent up energy tend to become destructive and depressed. You want to make sure you walk him every day.When you go for a walk, keep the leash loose so the dog knows you are calm and relaxed. While you two are walking, let the dog smell and explore. On these walks, go slower and longer. This gives your dog some mental and sensory stimulation he craves and enjoys.Dogs need daily exercise to keep them healthy. But it is also an activity they enjoy. Taking them outside for walks, playing games with them, and allowing them to exercise shows that you love them because you let them do fun things. This also helps keep your dog mentally stimulated and healthy, which keeps him happy and shows you love him., It is important for you to do joint activities with your dog. This includes daily exercise, obedience classes, grooming, or playing.Play controlled running, chasing, and fetch games with your dog.
Don't tease your dog by covering it with a blanket or pulling its tail., Spending time with your dog doesn't always mean cuddling. They love to sleep next to you or by your feet. They also love to cuddle. Balance how you spend time with your dog so they always feel loved., Just like you, your dog gets stressed, bored, or frustrated and needs an outlet. Get your dog safe chew toys. Try hiding treats or cheese bits in them when you are gone to work to give him something to do.If he digs, make him a "dig box" (a wooden frame in the ground, filled with soft dirt, this saves your yard!).
 Feeding your dog is an essential chore, but you can make it a bonding experience. Give your dog healthy, tasty food. This shows that you care and love the dog. Even try cooking for your dog if you have the time and interest., Another way to bond with your dog is to groom him. Give him baths, brush him, and keep him clean. Grooming is a way for you to spend time with your dog and a way for you to touch your dog, which shows affection., Your dog loves to be touched. It's one of the ways he communicates. Give your dog a belly rub to show him you love him. If you have some extra time, give him a massage. Start by rubbing his coat and skin below the neck in circles. Make your way down his back and flank. He'll love you for it., Show your dog you love him by getting down on the ground to play with him. If you're always standing up and over him, it makes you dominant and could cause stress. Getting down on your dog's level shows that you trust your dog, which can help build his trust in you.Some trainers think this is not a good idea. They believe you should always assert your dominance over your dog and never get on his level. Decide for yourself if you feel you can get on the ground and play with your dog and still be the leader.

