 Keep your audience in mind while you write and rehearse your presentation.


You will be able to create a more technical presentation for your managers than for other departments. However, you will want to present more financial data to stockholders than the people you manage.;
, Then, choose data and charts that illustrate your story. It will be easier to give your presentation from memory if it has a beginning, middle and conclusion.


Adjust your story for an executive audience. Your story should give background on a problem, then present a solution. At the beginning, explain a problem that your presentation will solve. Instead of using flowery speech, get to the point more quickly.
 Unless you are extremely good with off-the-cuff presenting, you will want to work off of a detailed script for an important presentation. As you get to know your material more, you can change it to make it feel more natural.
 If possible, present your data in the form of charts and graphs and make large copies of marketing documents. Make a slide show to form a seamless visual with your presentation, adding in keywords that you want your audience to remember as you go through the material.
 Even if you don't use the data, have it available during your presentation. It's likely that executives will ask to see supplementary information.
 You can present it to an empty room or a team member, but be sure to time your presentation so you know how long it is.
 In fact, you may find yourself able to cut extraneous phrases and slides to streamline your message. Be sure to leave time at the end of your presentation for discussion and questions.


One study asked executives what made presentations successful, and they said they wanted them to be "short and candid."

, You should be able to stop the presentation for discussion and resume it, if need be. Practice until you are confident that you can give it without looking at cards or slides.
 You will have a chance to set up and ensure there aren't technical difficulties with visual aids. Being early will increase your confidence and look professional.
 This will show you are comfortable and confident about the information you are presenting.
 Take notes on what worked well and what can be stronger, so you can repeat your success and improve.

