 In order to be an effective dog trainer, you will need to understand the mind of a dog. In particular, you should do plenty of research about animal behavior. You can start by doing some reading. Look for books by reputable authors that analyze and explain why dogs behave in certain ways.The Association of Professional Dog Trainers (APDT) offers a comprehensive list of educational resources. For example, they recommend books by Sophia Yin (How to Behave So Your Dog Behaves) and Gail Fisher (The Thinking Dog) to further your education. Nicole Wilde, author of It's Not the Dogs, It's the People, is also a great source to read.If you have a dog (or dogs) you can also start to carefully observe his behavior. Take note of different moods or habits, and start keeping a journal of your observations.
Your own dog's vet is a great resource for you. Ask her if she can recommend some reading material for you. You can also ask the reference librarian at your local library to give you pointers on which books to look for.
There are several common behavior patterns you will want to learn about, including: aggression, food guarding, barking, and whining. You can do some of your research online by looking at websites of organization such as the ASPCA and the Humane Society.;
, There are many different types of dog trainers. Take some time to read about possible career paths, and decide which is the most interesting to you. Look for some dog trainers in your area and ask if they would mind talking to you about what they do each day. This type of personal information can help you to make an educated decision.Aside from basic obedience dog trainers, there are many other specializations. For example, you could consider training dogs for medical purposes. One way to do this is to become a trainer for seeing eye dogs.
As a dog trainer, you could also consider training police or military dogs. These animals are trained in supporting officers, and are sometimes used to find missing people or to alert officers to illegal drugs or bombs.
Another career path is to become a trainer who works with dogs who appear in movies and on television. You would likely need to live in an area where films are made to pursue this option.
 Even if you have a lot of experience working with your own dogs, as a trainer you will need to be comfortable with other people's animals. A great way to gain more experience is to find a volunteer opportunity. Look for a local animal shelter and ask if they have room for another volunteer.Some programs will let volunteers assist with training dogs. Ask the person in charge of your local shelter if that is a possibility. It's a great way for you to get some hands on experience.
Volunteering can help you make sure that this is the right career path for you. Many shelter dogs suffer from behavioral problems. Being a volunteer can give you a good idea of what you can expect if you make training your career.
Consider becoming a foster home for dogs in need. This involves caring for dogs while they are between a shelter and a permanent home, and can last anywhere from 24 hours to several weeks or months. Fostering dogs is a great way for you to learn to interact with a lot of different breeds and personalities. Ask your local shelter if they have a foster program.

