 This prayer is directed toward God; however, Jesus in John 10:30 says “I and my Father are one”. The Lord’s prayer is found in Matthew 5-7. These passages also contain the Sermon on the Mount and Beatitudes (blessed are those who mourn for they will be comforted). The sermon on the mount is about the importance of God’s place in the inner life as opposed to doing religion for appearances.


Jesus condemns the religious officials who have been showing off their righteousness in public.
Jesus says true righteousness belongs to those who are the lowest: those who mourn, those who are poor, those who are meek, even though they do not give the appearance of righteousness. For example, Jesus says in Matthew 6:5 “Whenever you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, because they love to pray while standing in synagogues and on street corners so that people can see them.";
, This is one of Jesus’ instructions in Matthew 6:6 on how to pray. Jesus goes on to say, “And your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you.” Find a room or a private space where you can be alone, and pray to God there. Feel comforted by the presence of God "who sees in secret.”


This is not the only place you can pray. You can also “pray without ceasing” (wherever you may be you can be prayerful) as Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians.
Paul also described speaking in tongues as a good way to pray He said " I thank God that I speak in tongues more than you all" 1 Corinthians 14:18 (See also 1 Corinthians 14:2,4-5, and14-15)

, Jesus in Matthew 6:7 says “When you pray, do not babble repetitiously like the Gentiles, because they think that that by their many words they will be heard.” During this time people may have been praying using certain rituals, recitations, and incantations, but you do not need these to pray to Jesus.


Additionally, you do not need to talk about your problems when you recite the Lord’s prayer. When you pray in general, or at a different time, you can talk to Jesus about your problems.
Jesus follows up the previous verse with this warning in verse 8, “Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him."

, You can read the Lord’s prayer out loud or to yourself. Read it slowly so that the meaning of each verse can sink in. Jesus said in Matthew 6:9-13, Pray, then in this way: Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be Your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from evil. “Our Father who is in heaven, Hallowed be Your name” helps you direct your attention to God who is beyond your ability to see or comprehend.
”Your kingdom come; your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven” helps you form an attitude of willingness toward taking part in what is being done on earth and engaging with the world around you.
”Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors” means that you rely on the goodness of God to provide for you the things you need. You also let go of the things that needy people owe to you, thus you should not demand to receive payment. Not forgiving debts of the poor displeases God, for you were forgiven a debt of sin you could never pay.
“Lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil” could mean different things for different people. Not everyone shares the same things they do that they wish they would not do. However, whatever things you struggle with, ask for God’s help to overcome those things.
“For yours is the kingdom and power and glory forever” is not found in early manuscripts; however, it can give closure to your prayer and refocus you on the awe inspiring nature of God.

