 You're never getting anywhere without a "few" good looks. Use Oxy or Proactive if you would like to clear up your skin, and don't eat a lot of sugar. Sugar causes the build up in pores, (Creating pimples) as well as not washing your face. Use deodorant and a little bit of Axe or another type of body spray. With body spray though, the rule is, "a little is too much". Don't use too much body spray (that is a huge turn off). Comb your hair; wear clean clothing and anything else that makes you feel better about yourself. If you feel good, girls will know it.;
, You're special, and you know it, so, show everyone else that you are not afraid to strut your stuff. But now, instead of wondering if you are expressing yourself enough, you now need to ask your self, "Am I being cocky?" No girl likes a know-it-all, full-of-it, jerk. The easiest thing to do, is to be confident, but know your place in life. You'll get higher in life, if you have humility.
 Does she like animals? Leave a cute stuffed animal on her desk, or if she is not from school, leave a cute present somewhere she will notice it. Girls love it when someone knows their interests, and takes them into account. If you're uncomfortable with giving her a gift, try asking her about the topic she's interested in. For example, if she's into animals, like the example above, maybe say to her, "Did you hear about the new zoo opening this weekend?" If you're still uncomfortable doing that, talk to your friends when you're near her about the topic that she's interested in.
 Ask her if you two can study together, or if she'd like to grab an ice cream later that night. Use any excuse you can to get close to her. Most girls like it if you make the first move, so do just that.
 Laugh with her. Girls are sensitive to their own flaws, if you make fun of them, she won't get that you are trying to make her laugh. She will only know that you are being mean. If you've hurt her by accident, apologize by saying something like, "Sorry, I didn't mean for it to come across that way." or "Sorry, I didn't mean to hurt your feelings." and look at her apologetically. If she doesn't get over it immediately, don't get mad at her or clobber her with apologies, instead give her space to forgive you and flash her apologetic glances so she knows that you still care about her. When you think it's the right time, say sorry again and ask if she'll forgive you. If she doesn't, then it's either not the right time or she's not the girl you thought she was.
 She is a nice girl, and you like her. Express your feelings, tell her she has beautiful eyes. Write an anonymous letter, and post it on her locker. She's great, let her know that.
 When you and her are alone, look her in the eyes, and tell her that she is beautiful. Ask her if she feels the same way you do. If she does, ask her if she'd like to be you're girlfriend. If she does not share the same feeling, oh well! Rejection is a small bump in the road of relationships. Think of it this way, if you didn't know that she doesn't share your affection, you would've wasted all of your precious time on her. Maybe she'll change her mind or you'll find someone else. So just relax.
 If you got the girl, be happy, you're a new person, but, if you didn't, show everyone you can get back on your feet. Have fun with your friends, and maybe, find a new interest. Have fun, and don't hold grudges.

