 It's a good thing to get your thoughts out in the open so that everyone can hear. This may broaden your courage and overcome your shyness. Other people will see you in a whole new and different light. If you are still nervous, think of the 3 C's: "Calm, Cool, and Collected." Don't just say them, but actually think about each one. Close your eyes and say each word clearly and slowly. When saying each word, picture yourself being Calm, Cool, or Collected.;
, If you sulk over, then people may think that you are easy to poke at. To emphasis your interest about the subject, try to use body language and build up more confidence.
 You would be surprised how easy it is to add something to a conversation- if you think of it, don't hesitate to make your point. Just don't eavesdrop to other people's conversations, unless you are invited or if it's the right time.
 or another conversation starter. You could also comment on something unusual or exciting that is happening lately. If the other person seems like they want to go on with the conversation, go on too! There is nothing more uncomfortable than being stuck in an awkward silence.
 Not only will you save time on your homework, you will be able to ask questions when needed.
 If you listen, you will know what they are talking about, and then you will know what to talk about too! Try to get involved with the conversation. If people see that you are interested, they will want to talk to you!

, It's important to let the adult know your opinion if your group is taking part in a decision. Everyone should be included; just speak up! This is hard to do if you're not the sort of person to speak out. But if you let your leader know your opinion, everyone should respect and value that, and if they don't (which is quite unlikely to happen), you may want to join another troop, pack, or group. You are a part of the group you're in. Everyone should agree fully on what the group should do. Voting isn't always fair if you're going to spend a lot of money on it. If you feel like this isn't happening, tell your group (if you're the leader), or tell the leader (if you're a kid), that you want to make it fair for everyone. Just remember that your opinion IS important and shouldn't be ignored.
 Don't be shy. This is will only make you nervous. Believe in yourself that you can do it. If you feel self-conscious, pretend it's only you and the club leader. This may sound dumb, but try it and don't think about the others. You just have to be strong. Being frightened that an incident that has happened in the past like being booed off a stage, or kicked out of a group, will only weaken you. Keep in mind: you are amazing, and if other people don't see that they are the ones with a problem here. If you show them who you are, someone will notice your excellent ideas and free will and acknowledge it

, Some may think you're trying to take over or be cocky. GOOD LUCK!

