 Your heart is the power behind your cardiovascular circulatory system, pumping blood through your blood vessels, supplying every part of your body with the oxygen and nutrients it needs for proper functioning.


With poor circulation, not only is your blood flow impaired, compromising that blood supply, but your heart is compromised as well. Both have negative consequences and can lead to a variety of health problems.
 The coronary arteries deliver blood to the heart muscle, providing a continuous supply of oxygen and nutrients needed for it to stay healthy and functions normally.


The harder the heart has to work to pump blood, the more oxygen it needs. For example, when you exercise, your heart rate and blood pressure increases, which in turn increases your heart's demand for oxygen.
Good blood flow is essential for proper brain function and oxygen transport to vital organs in the body. Because your heart is the pump that keeps your blood circulating, it's important to maintain a strong heart.
 Oxygen enters the lungs when we breathe in. It is then carried around the body in the blood.


Nutrients from food can't provide energy until they combine with oxygen in the cells of the body. Oxygen (O2) is one of the most important elements required to sustain life. Gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide are transported by blood.
Poor circulation can lead directly to heart attack, stroke, eye disease, kidney disease, and claudication (leg muscle pain or weakness that comes and goes after an activity like walking).
 There are a number of conditions that interfere with the proper function of the cardiovascular system. These conditions decrease blood and oxygen supply to the heart.



Coronary artery disease: This occurs when the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle (coronary arteries) become hardened and narrowed due to the buildup of plaque on the inner walls or lining of the arteries (atherosclerosis). Blood flow to the heart is reduced as plaque narrows the coronary arteries. This decreases the oxygen supply to the heart muscle.

Angina: Angina is caused by reduced blood flow to your heart muscle. Your blood carries oxygen, which your heart muscle needs to survive. When your heart muscle isn't getting enough oxygen, it causes a condition called ischemia (lack of oxygen supply).
Physical trauma that reduces circulation and O2 supply
Infections that use up oxygen to combat bacteria, fungi and viruses.

