 Introduce yourself. You can’t expect to fill your social calendar with gatherings if you’re being a wallflower. Keep in mind that other moms are just as busy juggling a million tasks as you. If you don’t put in the effort, she may not think you’re interested in forming a bond.


As hard as it is sometimes, making new friends requires stepping out of your comfort zone. When you notice someone with mutual interests, take the chance and get acquainted. You can say, “Hi! I noticed you were reading Gillian Flynn…I love Gone Girl! I’m Crystal, by the way. What’s your name?”Many mothers also want to make friends with other moms. Remember that others are in the same position as you, and they may appreciate having someone reach out to them.;
, Once introductions have been made it, it can seem challenging to keep the conversation going. The trick to doing this is in the type of questions you ask. People enjoy talking about themselves. Moms, in particular, like talking about their children. So, ask an open-ended question that stimulates conversation.Open-ended questions are those that require more than one- or two-word answers. They force the responder to provide more detail and clarifying information.For example, you could ask, “You’re not from here, are you?” and receive a one-word reply of “no.” Or, you could ask, “I haven’t see you in this area before. What brings you to Pleasant Springs?” The other mom has to share more information, which gives you more possible paths to keep the conversation going.
 Being frustrated with not having any other mom friends is one thing, but you can’t really expect to connect with local moms if you’re hanging out with child-free singles or couples. Find out where the moms in your area congregate and become a familiar face in the crowd. When you see the same face more frequently, you’re more likely to build up the confidence to strike up a conversation.


Join a pottery or spin class. Visit the park. Get a membership at the gym that offers “Mommy and Me” classes. Just put yourself out there.Then, take the opportunity to introduce yourself to some of the faces you see there often.
 Rushing off after your child’s ballet class to deal with laundry or pick up groceries may help you get through your to-do list faster, but it could also block your friendship-making abilities. When you pick your kid up from soccer practice, linger for a bit to chat with the coach, kids, and other moms.


For instance, you might ask the coach “Can I help put away the supplies?” This simple 10-minute task might position you to overhear a group of other moms planning a play-date or organizing a fundraiser. Initiate conversation with a polite “Oh, a play-date sounds fun!” and you’ll likely be welcomed into the fold. , You can expose yourself to more potential mom friends by getting more involved at your children's schools or in community youth organizations. Becoming a member of the local PTA, offering to be room mom at your daughter's preschool, or helping your son's softball team on weekends are all great ways to meet other moms.


If you work full-time, choose one activity that appeals to you the most instead of trying out multiple groups. If it doesn't work out, you can try something else later.

