 There are two standard tests that are used to test the blood. The first is called a RAST test (radioallergosorbent). The other is an ELISA test (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). Both of these tests are very similar, but many practitioners feel that the ELISA test gives more accurate results than the RAST test.;
, The other type of testing is intradermal skin testing. In this test, a small amount of antigen is injected into the skin of the animal and after a short period of time, the area around the injection site is observed to determine if the animal is allergic to the agent.
 Dogs, like their owners, can experience a variety of allergies. Allergens in their food or in their environment are responsible for more than 30 percent of the skin irritations that dogs experience. Allergy testing can be expensive and does require some dedication on the part of the dog’s owner. However, testing your dog for allergies can result in a significantly improved quality of life if an allergy is identified and treated.
 If you know which substances your dog is allergic to, avoidance is the best method of control. Even if you are desensitizing the dog with allergy shots, it is best to avoid the allergen altogether.

Molds can be reduced by using a dehumidifier or placing activated charcoal on top of the exposed dirt in your house plants. Dusts and pollens are best controlled by using an air cleaner with a HEPA filter. Air conditioning can also reduce circulating amounts of airborne allergens because windows are then kept closed.






The identification and removal of allergenic is the primary and most effective way to eliminate the AD in your dog. The recognized source of flares includes fleas, food, house dust, mites and pollens.
 Many medicated shampoos have compounds in them that are aimed at soothing injured skin and calming inflammation. In addition, frequent bathing (weekly to every other week) of the dog can remove allergens from the hair coat, which may contribute to skin allergy flare-ups.


The medicated baths vets recommend are those that actually contain antimicrobial and antifungal agents as well as ingredients that allow the skin to be bathed on a more frequent basis without drying it out. Application of a rinse afterwards also helps to prevent drying out of the skin and hair coat.
 Antihistamines can be used with good safety in dogs. These medications tend to have a variable effect between dogs. For some allergic dogs, antihistamines work very well in controlling symptoms of allergic skin disease. For other dogs, very little effect is seen. Therefore, a minimum of three different types of antihistamines should be tried before owners give up on this therapy. Examples of antihistamines commonly used for dogs are as follows:


Hydroxyzine 2.2 mg/kg orally at 8 hours interval
Diphenhydramine 2.0 mg/kg orally at 8 hours interval






Clemastine 0.05-0.1 mg/kg orally at 12 hours interval






Chlorpheniramine 0.4-0.8 mg/kg orally at 8 hours interval (max dose 8 mg)






Prednisolone and Methylprednisolone can also used in case of severe skin lesion @0.5 mg/kg once/ twice daily until recovery.






Antihistamines are considered to be worth trying in most cases since the side effects associated with antihistamines is low, and they are typically inexpensive medications.
 Secondary staphylococcal infections are common in atopic dogs. Oral cephalexin, cefpodoxime, amoxicillin and clavulanate, or sulfadimethoxine and ormetoprim are often effective as initial empirical therapies.

Secondary bacterial infection in ear and skin are very common condition that causes worst effect on your dog. Through cytology or cultural sensitivity test, it is recommended to use antimicrobials therapy. Topical, oral or combination of both methods is often recommended by your veterinarian.






Antibacterial solutions and shampoos have proved to be beneficial in case of secondary infection. Commonly used antibacterial solutions are chlorhexidine, ethyle lactate and triclosum while Ketoconazole and Miconazole are referred as antifungal drug. There are many shampoo available in marketplace containing Ketoconazole which often recommended by your veterinarian for bathing of your dog.
 Allergy shots are very safe, and many people have great success with them; however, they are very slow to work. It may be six to twelve months before improvement is seen.

Once the allergens for the dog are identified, an appropriate immunotherapy is manufactured for that specific dog, and treatment can begin. After the offending antigens are identified, then a mixture of these antigens can be formulated into a hyposensitizing injection.






Depending on the type of agents used, these injections will be given over a period of weeks to months until the dog or cat develops immunity to the agents. After initial protection, an occasional booster may have to be given.
 Many people don’t suspect food allergies as the cause of their dog’s itching because their pet has been fed the same food all its life and has just recently started having symptoms. However, animals can develop allergies to a substance over time, so this fact does not rule out food allergies.

Another common misconception is that dogs are only sensitive to poor quality food. If the dog is allergic to an ingredient, it doesn’t matter whether it is in premium food or the most inexpensive brand on the market.






One advantage to premium foods is that some avoid common fillers that are often implicated in allergic reactions.
 Allergies develop through exposure, so most hypoallergenic diets incorporate proteins and carbohydrates that your dog has never had before. As mentioned previously, the quickest and best way to determine which foods your dog may or may not be allergic to is through diagnostic allergy testing.

As dairy, beef, and wheat are responsible for 80% of food allergies in dogs, these items should be avoided.






Novel protein sources used in hypoallergenic diets include venison, egg, duck, kangaroo, and types of fish not usually found in pet food.






Carbohydrate sources include potatoes, peas, yams, sweet potatoes, and canned pumpkin.
 Hydrolyzed protein diets are diets in which the protein source has been synthetically reduced to small fragments. The theory behind feeding a hydrolyzed protein source is that the proteins in the food should be small enough that the allergic dog’s immune system will not recognize the protein fragments and will not mount an immune response resulting in an allergy.
 Most pets with food allergies respond well when switched to a store-bought hypoallergenic diet, but occasionally an animal suffers from such extreme allergies that a homemade diet is the only option. In this case, the diet should be customized with the aid of a veterinarian.
 Start by vacuuming thoroughly, especially below drapes, under furniture edges, and where your pet sleeps. It is estimated that vacuuming can remove up to 50% of flea eggs. Vacuum daily in high traffic areas, weekly in others. Each time, seal your vacuum bag in a plastic bag and discard it immediately. Do not place mothballs or flea collars in the vacuum, since toxic fumes could result.
 Use a product that will kill any remaining adult fleas and also stop the development of eggs and larvae. You will need a product that contains both an adulticide and an insect growth regulator (IGR), such as Nylar (pyriproxyfen) or methoprene. This can be in the form of carpet powders, foggers, or sprays.

Foggers are especially good for large open areas. Surface sprays can reach areas such as baseboards, moldings, cracks, and under furniture where foggers cannot reach. Choose the product(s) you use with care, taking into account the presence of children, fish, birds, persons with asthma, etc. Your veterinarian can help you choose the appropriate products for your situation. In severe infestations, you may need the help of a professional exterminator.






Commercially available different IGR and insecticides are proved to control the flea. The fipronil, imidacloprid, lufenuron, selamectin, and spinosad are often recommended by veterinarian for removal of environmental infestation. Monthly regular and systematic approaches should be taken to eliminate the flea infestation from environment. Please remember that if everything goes well as recommended doses it will require 2-3 months for complete control of flea from the infestation.
 Wash your pet's bedding weekly and treat the bed and surrounding area with a product that contains both an adulticide and an insect growth regulator.
 Do not forget to also clean and treat your automobile, pet carrier, garage, basement, or any other place your pet spends much time.
 Flea control in the outdoor environment generally involves eliminating the habitat in the yard and kennel areas where fleas are most likely to occur. Fleas tend to like it where it is moist, warm, shady, and where there is organic debris. They will also tend to be where pets spend more of their outdoor time. So be sure to concentrate on areas such as patios, under porches, dog houses, etc.

Rake away any organic debris such as leaves, straw, grass clippings, etc., to disturb flea habitat.






Wild animals such as opossums, raccoons, chipmunks and other small rodents can carry fleas. Try to discourage these animals from entering your yard, e.g., do not feed them.
 Now that we've taken care of the fleas in your home and the "hot spots" in your yard, it's time to eliminate the fleas that are on your pet.

There are a number of flea control products for use on pets, including once-a-month topical products, sprays, dips, shampoos, collars, powders, oral, and injectable products. With any product applied directly to the pet, please remember that you may see some live fleas on your pet for a short time after spraying, shampooing, dipping, etc. In order for the fleas to die, they must come into contact with the insecticide, and absorb it.






Keep in mind that until all of the fleas in your home have died, you will probably still see some fleas, even on a treated pet, since some immature forms may continue to develop. This is especially true if you had a big flea problem to start with. Persistence is the key here. It is essential to keep following an effective flea control program for a long enough time to get rid of all of the fleas, in all life stages. This may take several weeks to 6 months or more, depending on your particular situation.







