 Whether you live near one another or far apart, it is still important to discuss boundaries for your relationship. This includes physical and non-physical boundaries.


Don’t be quick to assume your partner feels the same about any given thing as you do. Establishing boundaries can help eliminate that instinct and allow for better communication and a more healthy relationship.When setting boundaries, try not to use language like “never” or “always.” These are less likely to last because they are absolute and unrealistic., Don’t keep important things to yourself. Speak up, but also be willing to listen when your partner has something to say. If you establish good communication early on, it will set you up for a healthier relationship.


Don’t physically leave (or hang up the phone) is your discussion is not over. Walking out in the middle of a discussion will only make the problem bigger and last longer.Being in a long distance relationship can make it difficult to justify spending your rare physical time together having serious discussions about feelings or issues, but doing so is important., Since you are in college and no longer in high school, it is likely you might choose to engage in a sexual or intimate relationship with your girlfriend or boyfriend. Just make sure you are ready to discuss these important things with your partner.


Just because you are in a relationship does not give automatic consent. Consent is “affirmative, voluntary, and sober.” It can also be taken away at any time by either partner. Make sure both partners have always given clear consent.
Both partners should consider getting tested for STDs prior to becoming intimate. One in four people under the age of 25 has a sexually transmitted disease. Practice safe sex.
 Especially in long distance relationships, this is very important to discuss with your partner. If you are in a monogamous relationship, then infidelity could lead to the end of that relationship.


Be open with your partner about your beliefs and opinions on what constitutes cheating, and what cheating could mean for your relationship.
 Your lives will be hectic—between school, work, and personal commitments, it will be easy to feel stressed out and disconnected. But when you are together, really be there with your significant other in the moment, and give them your attention.


If you stay focused in the moment, even small arguments will be less likely to expand into bigger deals. Don’t let an argument about what to make for dinner end up snowballing into an argument about other, bigger things., This will help build trust and loyalty with your significant other.
 If you and your significant other are both college students, there will have to be a good amount of give and take.


Be understanding when your boyfriend or girlfriend is very busy with school or work. If you are understanding with them, they will be better able to return the favor when you get busy.
If you find your schedules are especially conflicting and you are finding it harder and harder to be understanding when your plans get broken due to other commitments, try talking it out with one another and making a schedule that you can both stick to.

