 A key component in being an independent woman is being confident with who you are. Part of that entails being true to yourself. Don't try to be a mirror image of other women. Figure out your own strengths and interests and focus on those.Don't fall victim to bad fashion trends. Looking your best will help you feel your best. Dress in a style that is flattering and makes you feel comfortable and confident.
Avoid the pressure to conform to your gender. Many women feel certain pressures to look and act in certain ways simply because they are female, but you don't have to if you don't do or be anything considered "feminine" if you don't wan to. You do not have to wear make-up or dress a certain way. Likewise, you do not have to like stereotypical female activities such as shopping or romantic movies., Maybe there is a specific fear that keeps you from being independent. Perhaps you are nervous about living alone or have general anxiety issues. You are not alone, and there are steps you can take to overcome your fears.Try exposure therapy. Exposing yourself to your fears in small doses has proven very effective. For example, if you suffer anxiety when meeting new people, ask a friend to go with you to a new social event. Gradually work up the nerve to attend by yourself.
Seek professional help. If your anxieties are keeping you from becoming independent or achieving another goal, try seeing a mental health professional. Counseling can help reduce anxiety.
 Being independent means being in control of your choices, but it doesn't mean you can't rely on others. Women form strong bonds with friends and family members. Don't be afraid to ask for and accept help when you need it.Be specific when asking for help. Be honest about what you need, and allow someone give you assistance.
 A positive attitude will help you come across to others as a confident woman. It will also help you feel good about yourself, and give you the strength you need to be independent. Avoid negative thoughts. Instead, take time to compliment yourself each day., You are the only one who can truly change your life. Acknowledge that you are responsible for your own choices. Once you realize that you are in control, you will feel more confident. This will lead to increased independence.