 Red meats, like steak or a burger, can be difficult for your body to digest, making it more difficult to fall asleep. Once you do fall asleep, your body will be working hard to break down that heavy meal, so you’re more likely to wake up during the night.Red meat is also contains saturated fat. Studies show that eating too much saturated fat can lower the quality of your sleep, making you feel tired and irritable.;
, Fatty and spicy foods are both more difficult to digest, which will delay sleep. Spicy foods also cause heartburn and acid reflux, which will keep you from falling asleep and lower the quality of your sleep.The change in position — from sitting or standing to lying down — soon after eating something spicy can lead to heartburn or acid reflux.
Keep in mind that citrus fruits and juices can also cause sleep-disruptive heartburn.
 Beans are tough to digest and can cause gas and bloating. In addition, many bean-based foods, like chili, are often spicy, leading to disruptive heartburn and acid reflux.Chili typically has a red meat component, making it doubly disruptive for your sleep cycle., Veggies are great for your overall health, but eating them right before bed can interrupt a good night’s sleep. Celery, cucumbers, and radishes have high water contents, which will have you getting up for bathroom breaks in the middle of the night.Tomatoes contain the amino acid tyramine, which triggers the brain to release norepinephrine, a stimulant that delays sleep.Broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts are high fiber foods that will keep your digestive system hard at work, preventing restorative sleep., All chocolate contains caffeine, which will keep you from drifting off to sleep if eaten too close to bedtime. The darker the chocolate, the more caffeine it contains. A single piece of dark chocolate can contain about a quarter as much caffeine as a cup of coffee!, Chocolate-free sugary snacks are just as disruptive, so stay away from the gumdrops, cookies, and other goodies. Soft drinks, even if they're caffeine-free, can contain lots of sugar, so you should avoid those before bed, too. The spikes in your blood sugar will delay sleep and make it difficult to stay asleep.If you have a hot tea before bed, try not to add sugar.

