 Turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (200 C). Wash 1 head of cauliflower and discard any leaves. Chop the cauliflower into chunks while you heat a sauce pot with a little water in it. Set the cauliflower inside a steamer basket and place it in the pot. Cover the pot and steam the cauliflower until it's very soft.It should take 10 to 12 minutes for the cauliflower to become tender.;
, Place the steamed cauliflower into a food processor along with 3 cloves of minced garlic. Put the lid on the processor and blitz it a few times, so the cauliflower is pureed. The mixture should be completely smooth.The softer your cauliflower is, the smoother it will be once you puree it. This is why it's important to steam it until it's completely tender.
 Get out a large mixing bowl and scoop the pureed cauliflower mixture into it. Stir in more of the biscuit dough ingredients with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula until the mixture is completely combined. You'll need to mix in:1/3 cup (95 g) of nonfat Greek yogurt
1/2 cup (50 g) of shredded cheddar cheese
2 eggs
1 teaspoon of kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon of black pepper

, Get out another mixing bowl and place 2 egg whites in it. Use an electric or stand mixer to beat the egg whites on high speed. Beat the egg whites for a few minutes, so they become stiff. Gently fold the egg whites into the cauliflower mixture.To fold the egg whites, hold a spatula and carefully use a twisting motion with your wrist to combine the cauliflower mixture with the lighter egg whites. The goal is to maintain the volume of the egg whites.
 Spray a mini-muffin tin with cooking spray, to prevent sticking. Fill the cups with the cauliflower biscuit dough, so the dough comes to the top of each cup. Bake the biscuits for 20 to 25 minutes. They should brown and look a little crisp around the edges. Let the biscuits cool on a rack until they're cool enough to handle and serve.Consider using a small cookie scoop to fill the muffin cups. You could also just use a few small spoons to scoop the dough.

