 Check for service advisories. Most stations also have special lists of service changes, indicated by a black and yellow label entitled "Planned Service Changes" located on most island platforms (where trains arrive and depart on both sides of the platform) behind a subway map, at or near station entrances and exits, and next to the "Waiting Areas" at most stations. Have a subway map handy to interpret the notices.
 The current fare is $2.75 when using a Pay-Per-Ride MetroCard ($3.00 for a "SingleRide" Ticket: Valid for ONE (1) ride within two (2) hours purchase with no out-of-system transfer to a bus).
 It will take you on average 2-4 minutes between every stop, plus 5-20 minutes for every time you have to wait for a train. A simpler method is to leave at least 45 minutes before you must be where you are going. However, the longest trips can take up to an hour and a half - so be careful.
 Entrances that are always open have green lights, known as "Globe Lamps." Exit only or part-time entrances have red globe lamps, or may not have any lamps at all. Some private properties have subway entrances. However, some entrances are within private properties, and these entrances are not always visible from the outside. Also noting, some entrances are mono-directional, meaning that they only serve an entrance to a platform for boarding trains to one destination. This usually happens at stations without an underpass or overpass to transfer to the opposite platform for return service. There are some exceptions to this, as unlabeled overpasses and underpasses are present (like Bleecker Street on the (6)), mostly at transfer stations or stations with a central fare control area.
 However, carrying a map on the subway is like tattooing "IDIOT TOURIST" on your forehead. Nearly all train cars and stations have maps on the walls and station "Customer Information Centers," so a map is not really necessary.
 To locate merchants that sell MetroCards, simply go here. All MetroCard Vending Machines accept debit and credit cards, but only some (the larger ones) accept cash. The minimum purchase for a NEW Pay-Per-Ride MetroCard is $6.50 (2 rides) including the new MetroCard fee of $1.00, however you may refill a Pay-Per-Ride MetroCard with a minimum of $0.01 at station booths and with a minimum of $0.05 (and $0.05 increments) at MetroCard Vending Machines and a maximum of $100.00 for both means. You may refill cards with both time (Unlimited-Ride) and value (Pay-Per-Ride). Please note that MetroCard Vending Machines only dispense up to $9.00 in change in coins ONLY, can accept up to 30 coins of any type per transaction (the coin slot then closes), and credit/debit card purchases must be at least $1.00. Pay-Per-Ride MetroCards allow for one free transfer from subway-to-bus, bus-to-subway, or bus-to-bus within two (2) hours of the first swipe; "SingleRide" tickets do not allow transfers and must be used within two (2) hours of purchase, except if used on a bus (to which you must request a transfer from the operator). Unlimited-Ride MetroCards allow use once per 18 minutes. If you try to use an Unlimited-Ride MetroCard within 18 minutes of your swipe, the turnstile screen will simply read "JUST USED." If you put $5 or more on your card, you will get an 11% bonus ($5 will get you $5.55 good for 2 rides, $10 will get you $11.10 good for 4 rides, $20 will get you $22.20 good for 8 rides). Your best bet may be to buy a 7-Day ($31) or 30-Day ($116.50) Unlimited-Ride MetroCard depending on your length of stay. Unlimited-Ride MetroCards are active for 7 or 30 consecutive days from the first day you swipe the MetroCard and expire at midnight of the date that it is set to expire. Unlimited-Ride Metrocards can not be shared due to the 18 minute time limit. MetroCards are valid for both subway and bus service 24/7/365.
 Train line signs are present on the overhead platform signs (denoting a synopsis of the route, destination, and part-time service if any), the front and sides of trains (color of the text and sign may vary if it is an old or new train), and in directional signs at entrances and waiting areas. Make sure you get the right number or letter and check if your arrival station is a full-time station. One thing that makes the NYC Subway a bit different from other systems is the Uptown/Downtown/Queens/Brooklyn/Bronx/Manhattan directional indicators. Rather than denoting direction by destination (as in London, Paris, etc.) entrances and platforms in Manhattan will say "Uptown and the Bronx/Queens" or "Downtown and Brooklyn" although sometimes just "Uptown" and "Downtown" (or simple the terminal) for trains terminating in Manhattan. Uptown roughly corresponds to North and Downtown roughly corresponds to South. This is opposite in Brooklyn. Be sure to know whether you are traveling Manhattan-bound, Brooklyn/Bronx/Queens-bound, uptown or downtown before entering (few trains travel crosstown). On the 7 train, the trains destination sign says either Manhattan-34th Steet or Main Street-Flushing. On the L train the trains, electronic display says either 8th Avenue-Manhattan or Brooklyn-Rockaway Parkway.
 Local trains (typically) stop at every stop along a line, while express trains skip some stops. Express trains are usually in the inside platforms/tracks or the lower level. Sometimes, there are platforms for express service but the express is only one-way. So watch out. Only 3 stations in the entire subway system have a separate platform for express trains (Atlantic Avenue - Barclays Center on the 4 and 5, 34th Street – Penn Station on the A, and 34th Street – Penn Station on the 2 and 3) as opposed to having uni-directional platforms for both local and express trains. With the 6 and 7 trains, check the side of the train to see whether there is a green circle or red diamond on the older trains. A green circle indicates 6 or 7 local (making all stops in the Bronx or Queens respectively), a red diamond indicates 6 or 7 express (making express stops in the Bronx or Queens respectively). On the newer trains, there will be a circle or a diamond on the top of the front of the train (it will be red regardless of the shape).
 People will get very angry if you block their way getting off the train.
 This will make more room in the car for the other passengers.
 If you have to stand, however, move all the way into the car and stand on either side, not in the middle. Face the seated passenger with your feet perpendicular to the seat bench and hold on.
 Staring at other passengers will be seen as a sign of aggression, and you may get an aggressive response. It is also likely that the person you're staring at will be very creeped out.
 Making small talk on the subway with complete strangers is not something generally accepted.
 That, coupled with the genuine panicked look on your face, often results in a kind and observant passerby making up the difference. Asking people for money, on the other hand, will only earn you contemptuous glares or being ignored.
 Ask the Station Agent for help if one is available in the area. If there is none, run your fingers along the black strip to make sure there are no bends and try again...eventually, either someone may swipe you through or else you should give up and get another MetroCard until you can speak to an agent. If the station agent can't help, they will provide you with an envelope (Business Reply Envelope: BRE) to mail in the card. Allow 4 to 6 weeks for the MetroCard to be processed. For faster service visit the MetroCard Customer Service Center located downtown Manhattan at 3 Stone Street between Whitehall Street and Broad Street.
 They are likely to show a list or locations of subway stations but not the entire subway map.;
,,,