 This will eventually make the top part of your hat.Top hats taper, meaning they are wider at the top and narrower towards the brim. Don't worry about matching the colors; you can always paint the hat at the very end!


Consider trimming the rolled rim of your cup off first. This way, you won't get a bulky seam where the hat and top join.
 Draw a line of hot glue around the top rim of the cup, then quickly push the circle down onto it. For a neater touch, draw the glue just inside the rim; this way, you won't have to worry about the glue leaking out from under the circle.


If you'd like a fancier hat, cover both the cup and the circle with fabric first. You can use any type of fabric you like, but stretchy fabric will make it easier. Tuck any raw edges inside the cup or under the circle.
 Most paper cups are too tall to be a top hat, even a stylized, mini, "Mad Hatter's" top hat. To make it more realistic, cut the bottom portion of the cup off. For example, if you are using a 12-ounce (350 milliliters) cup, an 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) off the bottom will be plenty.For a more authentic look, cut the bottom of the cup at a curve on both sides so that it dips slightly towards the front and back.
 You can use a compass or a plate to do this. Keep the brim proportionate to the cup. A 5½ to 6 inches (13.97 to 15.24 centimeters) will work great for a 12-ounce (350 milliliters) cup., If you'd like, you can cut the center of the brim out too; this will help the hat sit better on your head. Use the bottom of your hat (the cut part of the cup) to trace the circle, then cut it out just a little bit smaller; this will make it easier to glue the hat together. For a fancier hat, you can cover the brim with fabric as well.
 Draw a line of hot glue around the base of the hat, then quickly press the brim down onto it. If you cut the base of the cup at a curve, make sure that the brim follows the curve; you don't want any gaps. Hold the brim in place until the glue sets; this should only take a few seconds.
 This will blend everything together, and make it look more like a hat, and less like a combination of paper cups and cardstock. You can use acrylic paint or spray paint. Let the hat dry before continuing.


If you covered your hat with fabric, then you do not need to paint it.
 Secure the band with some fabric glue. Measure around the base of the hat, just above the brim, then add ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters). Cut a piece of ribbon to that length, then wrap it around the base of the hat. Overlap the ends, and secure them with glue.


For a for finished look, tuck the raw edge of the ribbon under before you glue it down.
For a fancier gothic hat, cut a long, narrow strip of tulle or spiderweb lace, and wrap it around the base of the hat. Tie the tulle/lace in a bow or knot.
 A Mad Hatter's top hat is not complete without any added decorations. You can hot glue all sorts of odd things to the hat band. To keep your hat from looking too wild, keep all your decorations to one spot, preferably on the side. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Mini feathers
Fancy beads
Fancy coat buttons
Old watch gears
Hat pins

, For a more chic look, glue the hat at a slight angle on the headband; this way, it will rest on your head at an angle instead of right on top.