 Place your knight directly between the two pieces on the closest file to either side of the king or rook line. Say something like: "wouldn't this suck, this is called a fork. I've put two pieces in danger and I can take your rook free of charge." To accentuate this fact, do the same, replacing your student's rook with their queen.
 Place one of your bishops at the opposite corner. Explain that they have to get their king out of danger but will lose their queen because of it. Explain that this is a pin and because the king has to move, it is also a discovered attack.
 Place your bishop so that it attacks the rook and the king. Tell them that this is a pin, fork, and a discovered attack all in one.
 Many chess tournaments require you to take notation while playing to let you analyze it after playing and improve your game. Many chess boards should have the alphanumeric system already on it.


The length of the board runs from a to h (from white's perspective; if black, it is reversed. The width of the board runs from 1 to 8 (from white's side to black's side; again, reversed if from black's perspective).
If white, the bottom right corner should always be white. This square is called h1.
Rows are called "ranks"; columns are called "files." If there are no pawns in a file, it is said to be "open." If only one pawn of one color is on a file, it is "semi-open." If pawns of different colors, then it is a closed file.
 If they demonstrate correctly, then play them in a game.


Teach them simple openings. Openings should not be analyzed into much detail unless they are highly advanced players. Basic opening principles should be taught, however, including the three objectives of the opening:

Open up your diagonals to let the pieces develop. Pawn to e4 is the best move for white for beginners because it opens up the bishop and queen diagonals simultaneously. Teach them to develop their knights before their bishops, to castle early, get their rooks on the center (d and e) files, and attack the king using tactics.
Take control of the center, which constitute the middle four squares of the board. In other words, put your pawns on e4 (and d4 if possible) and develop your knights so that they can easily move into the center.
Get your king into safety. This is perhaps the most important goal, for beginner players. Often they will fall into early mating traps, such as the Scholar's Mate. Be sure to help your student avoid falling into them, as the player who tries them will usually fall behind in development.


The openings you should teach are the Ruy Lopez, Italian Game, Four Knights, and other common king-pawn openings. For black, it is best to stick with the response 1...e5 for a while until teaching them other responses, such as the Sicilian Defense, French Defense, etc.

