 This will help to ensure your family's and your pup's health and happiness. Puppies should receive a set of four injections every three weeks starting ideally at six weeks of age. It is recommended to wait until after the third set of vaccines before allowing your pup to visit areas where other dogs have been or allowing them to interact with other dogs.


Standard puppy vaccines include Distemper, Parvo, and Hepatitis. Your veterinarian may also recommend others depending on a number of factors.
A Rabies vaccination should be given once they are 12 weeks or older.
Talk to your vet to find out which additional vaccines may be necessary for your puppy.
Be sure to take your puppy to the vet at least every six months for check-ups until it is a fully grown dog., Regular dewormings are important for you and your pup. Some intestinal parasites can be passed to humans, both adults and children, and routine dewormings can help to eliminate this possibility.


Also making sure to practice good hygiene yourself by washing your hands after handling your pup can decrease the chances of transmission.
Many heartworm preventatives, which are given monthly, are also an effective way to regularly deworm pups.
You may also need flea and/or tick preventative depending on the season and where you live.Observe your pups stool regularly, some parasites can be seen there. However, regular fecal checks, done at your regular vet visits, are the only way to detect many parasites.
 It is important to spay or neuter your puppy, ideally at around six months of age . Delaying the spay or neuter procedure only increases the risk that your puppy may develop unwanted habits, such as marking territory, escaping from your yard or fence in order to search for potential mates, aggression, and others.


It's generally a good idea to fix your puppy unless you are sure that you want to breed it at some point.
Delay can also lead to increased risk of uterine infections and the development of mammary, testicular, or prostate cancers later on in their life.
If you have questions about these procedures or need more information on anything related to your pup, discuss it with your veterinarian during your regular puppy visits., Puppies can get messy and dirty fairly quickly. In general, it's best to bathe them every two weeks or so, as needed. When bathing your puppy, it is beneficial to use a gentle conditioning or moisturizing shampoo specifically designed for puppies. Using a shampoo like this allows you to bathe it as often as needed without worrying about drying out your puppy's skin and hair coat.


Bathing your puppy not only prevents it from developing fleas and skin rashes, it also keeps your puppy from smelling badly.
If your puppy tends to stay clean the majority of the time, you can bathe them every two weeks or less. The frequency of bathing depends on your preference and your puppy's cleanliness.
Remember to go slow when first bathing your pup. This is a new experience for your puppy and you don't want to scare it by dumping water directly on its face or going too fast and causing it to slip in the tub. Sometimes something as simple as a quick foot bath is a nice way to get it used to this process and then gradually bathe more of your puppy each time it is exposed to this situation.
For long hair breeds such as a Shih Tzu, Poodle, Maltese, Papillon, and breeds similar to these, try to incorporate a brushing after baths to allow them to become familiar with a tool that will be used on them quite frequently when being groomed either at home or by a professional groomer., Clip your puppy's nails every few weeks to avoid dirt build-up and prevent your puppy from scratching people and things. Take good care of your puppy's teeth by brushing them with a special toothbrush and toothpaste made for dogs. Chew toys formulated with plague-fighting properties can also keep your puppy's teeth and gums healthy.

