 Building empathy in your relationship takes both of you. Though you need to listen, you need to share, too. It may be difficult to articulate your feelings, but this can make your relationship deeper and better. Mutual empathy is taking on and sharing feelings.You may say, “I am feeling sad today,” or, “I really enjoyed spending time with you.”

, You may have lost the conversations about deep, meaningful topics in favor of the everyday routine topics. This is common, but working on conversation topics can help deepen your empathy. Talk about things like your goals, dreams, desires, interests, and fears.Make a time each day or week to talk only about these kinds of topics. Discover each other’s dreams again or hopes for the future.
Limit the talk about chores, kids, work, or groceries during these sessions.
For example, you may say to your partner, "Remember when you used to have a dream of travelling to exotic locations? I haven't heard you talk about dreams or goals lately. Is that still your dream, or do you have new dreams and goals?"

, One way to foster mutual empathy is to work on the way you respond to the other person in the relationship. Many people respond in a sympathetic way instead of an empathetic way. This leads to you putting your own feelings onto the other person and decreases the understanding of someone’s different feelings.Responding in a sympathetic way generally means you feel bad for the person or feel pity. Sympathy doesn’t always encourage that you explore and discuss another person’s feelings.
Instead of saying, “I know how you feel. I felt something similar” and then talking about your experience, try to respond empathetically. Say, “That must have been terrible. I experienced something similar and felt terrible. How do you feel about what happened?”
This kind of communication encourages the other person to talk and open up instead of shutting them out as you talk.
 As you interact and talk with your partner, stay open with them in the way you act and speak. This means that you don't close yourself off in your mind or body. Interacting with the other person in the relationship with openness helps you stay present in the relationship, which leads to better communication and a deeper connection.Being open means that you listen to your partner and think about their point of view. You also keep your body turned towards them with a relaxed posture. Refrain from turning away from your partner, crossing your arms, looking at your nails or your phone, or walking out of the room while they are speaking.
Staying present and open can help both of you keep from withdrawing from one another, which may cause conflicts.

