 Measure above the bust, at your armpits, pulling the tape as tight as possible.


You may see some flesh puckering under the tape. This is normal.
This measurement is taken tightly, because you want the band of your bra to be very snug.
If you do not measure exactly to the inch, round up.;
,


Don’t pull the measuring tape too tight.
If you do not measure exactly to the inch, round up.
For every inch difference, go up a cup size. 1” would be an A cup, 2” a B, and so on.
If your cup size is greater than a D, different manufacturers will classify your cup size differently, so you may have to try different cup sizes when you fit bras. , It's important to realize that the size of the cup will increase along with the band size, and vice versa. For example, the cup of a size 36C bra will be bigger than the cup of a size 34C bra. So:


If you want to try a smaller band size, you’ll need to compensate by choosing a larger cup size. For example, if you find the band on a 36B bra is too loose, go for a 34C instead.
And if you want to try a larger band size, you’d need a smaller cup. For example, if a 34B is too tight around the band, try a 36A.
 Lift the front up as high as it will go, without sliding over the front of your breasts.


This will make sure the back stays low, for proper support.
This will make sure you get lift in front, where you want it.
 Start from just behind your armpits, and push as much as you can into the cup.


Breast tissue is soft, and if your bra fits properly, should stay where you put it.
Grasp the front of the bra and jiggle slightly to settle everything into place.
 With a properly fitted bra, the apex of your breasts should be approximately halfway between your elbow and your shoulder.
 Doing so can make the bra uncomfortable, and this can affect your mood and posture.


Never tighten the straps so much that they put pressure on your shoulders. This will cause you to slouch forward.
Never tighten the straps so they pull the bra up at the back. Keeping the back low is important for adequate support in front.
When buying a bra, hook into the loops at the very end of the band. This gives you a way to tighten the bra as it stretches out over time.
 Your breast size will change along with other changes in your body.


Get fitted every time you lose or gain more than ten pounds, or have hormonal changes such as with pregnancy or hormone therapy. Many lingerie stores and departments offer free professional fitting.
Don’t be embarrassed! These women are usually very kind and professional, and have seen it all before.Try to get fitted at a store with a wide range of brands and sizes, otherwise the information you get might be limited to what the store actually sells.
 While bras are widely available, most stores cater to “average” sizes. Find a store or a brand that is particularly suited to your body type.


If you have a hard time shopping in department stores, consider going to specialty lingerie stores or ordering online.
Don’t feel pressured to buy in any store, or from a particular salesperson. There are many options to choose from!

, Bras can be expensive, but it’s important not to sacrifice good fit for the sake of paying less.


An ill-fitting bra is not worth buying. It will eventually make you uncomfortable, both physically and psychologically.
Plan to have less bras in your wardrobe, if necessary. Buy bras that are versatile, such as “convertible” styles, or ones with removable straps. Thinks about the color of the clothes in your wardrobe and aim to buy bras to match.
 Your size is just a starting point, as sizing can vary and every bra will fit a little bit differently. Take the time to try it on in the store and make sure it’s right.


When shopping for bras, plan to spend a fair amount of time in the store choosing and fitting bras. Don’t be frustrated if you don’t find the right fit right away.
If you order online, make sure the site you buy from has a good return policy.
 The shape of your breasts and torso are unique. Depending on your particular proportions, certain styles will look better on you than others.


Your bra will look better if it flatters the overall proportion of your torso. Ideally, your shoulders should look about the same width as your hips.

If your shoulders are broad, try to find bras with narrower set straps, and a shape that plunges more in the middle.

If your shoulders are narrow, consider bras that create a more distinct horizontal line across your torso.

If your torso is short, a bra that plunges more in the middle can elongate your torso.
Consider the shape of your breasts. There is a wide variety of breast shapes and sizes. To understand how to classify your breasts, look at this guide.
 Put your arms above your head and twist left and right at the waist.


The bra should neither ride up nor pinch at this point. If the band slips, try a smaller size. If it cuts in, it's too tight.
If you're trying on a sports bra, jog in place or jump up and down as well to test if it can control 'bounce' comfortably.
Bend over. If your breasts are falling out, then the bra doesn't fit.
 There are plenty of add-ons that can make your bras more comfortable.


Everyone has one breast larger than the other. Adjust each strap to the correct length, and consider padding one side.
If your bra band is too tight, consider purchasing a band extender.
If your straps hurt because they're cutting into your shoulders, you may benefit from strap padding.
If the straps keep falling off your shoulders, consider a clip to hold them together in the back.
 If you’re unhappy with your body, bra shopping can be a truly unpleasant experience. However, it's important to remember that every woman's body is unique, but bras are mass produced. No bra can ever be made to look good on everyone.


Remember that even with a perfect body (if such a thing exists) an ill-fitting, unflattering bra can do a woman a great disservice.
If something doesn't suit you, remember that you can always wear something else. Refrain from passing judgement on yourself.
If you’re having a hard time finding a bra, this doesn't mean you are ugly or strangely shaped. It just means you’re different.



The cup: The part where your breasts fit into. It’s usually made of stretchy fabric, and can have up to three tailored seams.
The band: This is the elastic part that goes all the way around your chest.
The wings:These are the portion of the band that extend from the end of the cups to the center of the back.
The strap:These go over the shoulders and are often adjustable, and sometimes padded.
The closure: This is usually a hook and eye set at the center back. However it can also be in front, or absent.
The center gore: This is the part between the cups in the front.
 If you appear to have four, you have what is called the “quad boob effect.”


This indicates that the cups are too small, and there's not enough room inside.
This is especially apparent if you try your shirt on over your bra.
 If it does, this means that the band is too loose.


Try raising your arms and bending backward a bit to check if this happens.
Remember, when you go up a band size, go down a cup size.
 If it won’t, then the bra doesn't fit.


This could be because the underwire is the wrong shape for your breasts.
It could also indicate that the cup size is either too large or too small.
 You should be able to run your fingers around under the edge of the fabric.


If you can pull it away from your back by more than a couple of inches, it's too loose.
If the band digs into your sides, to the extent that it causes pain after wearing it, the band is too small.
If the band rides up, try loosening the straps. If this doesn’t work, the band is too big.
 This does not necessarily mean the band is too tight.


Instead, look for bras that have a wider band or a “leotard band” to create a smoother silhouette.
Unless the band is causing you pain, don’t go up a band size, otherwise you will not have enough support.
This could also indicate that the cup size is too small.Another solution is to wear a body shaping undergarment.
 This could mean that the cup size is too big, the style is wrong, or that you have not put the bra on properly.


Try adjusting your breasts to make sure they are centered in the cup.
This could also mean that the bra is not right for your breast shape.
If your breasts are fuller at the bottom than at the top, you may need a differently shaped bra, such as a “demi cup” or “balcony” style bra.
 This can cause pain, and other problems.


Straps that dig into your shoulders can cause long term problems, such as headaches, back pain, permanent indentations, and even nerve damage.
Try looking for bras with wide, padded straps, especially if you have larger breasts.
Shoulder pain could also indicate that the band is too big, and not providing enough support. The support should come from the band, not the straps.
 If you’ve adjusted the straps and they still keep falling, try a different bra.


Petite women and women with sloping shoulders often have this problem.
Make sure the straps are set close enough together and are fully adjustable.
 Underwires that are fitted properly should not cause any pain or discomfort.


If the cup is too small, the underwire may not fit comfortably under your breasts.
Also, your individual breasts may not necessarily be the same shape as the manufacturer’s underwires.
You may have trouble wearing underwires if you have a higher rib cage.
Underwires are not recommended for pregnant women or women undergoing surgery.
Some medical conditions may also make it inadvisable to wear underwires.
Bras without underwire can be just as supportive, even if you have larger breasts, as long as the fit is correct.

