 When selecting a birth hospital, factors other than medical care can affect your decision.Figure out the distance from your home or work to the hospital, and map out potential alternative routes.
Ask about the procedures when you arrive in labor. Do you go to the emergency room, or do you proceed immediately to the delivery area? Do you need to call before arriving?

, In addition to your own OB/GYN or midwife, you will likely be seen by other providers. Knowing in advance what to expect can make your experience more pleasurable.Is the anesthesiologist on duty at all times, or will you have to wait for one who is on call to arrive?
Is the Labor and Delivery Department staffed around the clock by an OB/GYN?
What is the nurse to patient ratio?
Will medical residents or students be present at your birth? Can you refuse this?

, While hospitals typically don’t offer as many choices as birthing centers for providing comfort measures during labor, you should find out what is available.Are showers or tubs available during labor?
Can you walk around the hallways, or will you be attached to monitors or IVs that will prevent this?
Is equipment like birthing balls or rocking chairs available?

, It is a good idea to familiarize yourself with how the hospital views certain interventional procedures so that you can know what to expect when you deliver.How often are C-sections performed?
If you are considering a vaginal birth after Cesarean (VBAC), remember this while choosing a birth hospital. To accommodate you, your hospital will need to have medical staff available to perform an immediate, repeat C-section if necessary.Find out the rates for patients receiving induction, epidurals, and episiotomies.
Ask if fetal monitoring is used regularly. Is it external or internal?
What is the average length of stay after childbirth?
If you are a high risk patient, then you might also ask if there is a NICU and what level of care it provides.
 Hospitals offer more options for pain management than birthing centers, but they typically offer fewer birthing options.Most hospitals offer epidurals in addition to alternative forms of anesthesia, which is usually given through an IV.
Ask whether there are options for delivery other than in a hospital bed.
 Ask if there is a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) on site, or whether babies with health challenges are transferred to another facility.
 Once you’ve learned about the medical side of labor and delivery, consider what your hospital offers regarding rooms, visitors, and other things that will make your stay comfortable.Is there one room for labor, delivery, and recovery? Is it private or semi-private?
How many people can you have in the delivery room? Can they record the birth or take photos?
Is it typical for the baby to room with you?
Can family members or partners stay overnight?
What are the sibling visitation policies?
Is a lactation consultant available to assist you with breastfeeding?

