 Most of the questions, like your name, address and email, will be easy to answer. But you will also need your social security number, a list of your high school classes and grades, a digital head shot that you can upload, and a credit card to pay registration fees.


Completing all the pages will take about 40 minutes, so give yourself plenty of time.;
, You can reach the site at http://www.actstudent.org/regist/index.html. Use a laptop or desktop computer with Internet Explorer (version 8 or higher), Chrome (version 18 or higher), Firefox (version 7 or higher) or Safari (version 5 or higher). Tablets and mobile phones are not recommended., This account will allow you to register for the test, view and send your scores, and register for additional tests if you decide to take it a second or third time. You'll need to input the usual — name, address, birthday, social security number, email address — and choose a login and password.Be sure to write down your login and password. You'll need them to login again to check your scores or to register for an additional test.
 This is one of the most important pages because it is where you provide the information needed to contact you and to track your scores. Make sure you answer these questions accurately.
 The ACT registration packet is divided into several sections. The first couple of sections ask for information that allow the ACT to gather demographic data on students taking the test, and to provide you with personalized suggestions for careers and majors. Nearly all of the questions in these sections are optional. You only need to answer those marked with a red asterisk.


You will be asked to answer questions about your high school, education plans, career interests, financial aid needs and demographic background.
 After you complete the profile sections, you will be taken to the test registration section. Use this section to choose your test date. You will also be asked to input your high school classes, grades and GPA.
 Some colleges require the ACT Writing Test, while others don’t. If the schools you are applying to require the writing test, sign up for the “ACT Plus Writing” option. The ACT site has a search feature that allows you to find those colleges that require the writing test, and those that don’t., You can send your scores to up to four colleges for free, if you list them before you take the test. If you know which schools you will be applying to, you will save money by designating those schools when you register for the test.You do not have to list schools to receive your scores at this time. You can sign into your account at any time to have them sent. But sending scores to more than four schools, or sending the scores after the test is taken, will cost you $12 per school.
 Your high school probably offers the ACT, but not every school offers the test on every date. If your school isn’t offering the ACT on the date you want to take it, or if all seats are full, you can use your zip code to find other centers near you.
 You are almost done. You will now be asked to confirm all the information you have entered. Check it carefully. You don’t want a typo or a missed field to prevent you from registering.
 You will need a credit card to pay for the test. The basic fee for the ACT without writing is $42.50, and $58.50 for the ACT plus writing. Late registration fees, additional score reports and other fees for optional services can increase this cost substantially. Once you have paid, you will not be able to cancel your registration.The ACT offers fee waivers to those who qualify. Eligibility is verified by your school, so talk to your counselor if you need a waiver., The ACT requires you to upload your photo before you print your ticket. The photo will be printed on the ticket so that the test administrator can confirm you are the one taking the test.You don’t need to upload your photo when you register, but if you don’t upload it by the photo deadline, your registration will be cancelled. Uploading it when you register will make sure you don’t forget.
Make sure you are the only one in the photo, it is clear and you are easily recognized. Don’t wear a hat, dark glasses or anything else that would make it hard to see your face. Use a plain background and face the camera.
The photo should be portrait mode and less than 5MB. Use a JPG, JPEG, PNG or BMP format. If you scan your photo, it must print clearly as a 2”x2” image.

