 However you choose to travel to Tagaytay, you'll need a way to get around town once you arrive. There are two primary means of travel in Tagaytay:You can hire a Jeepney. The most common means of transportation in Tagaytay, like many towns in the Philippines, are colorful, jeep-like vehicles called Jeepneys.Tell the driver where you want to go, and ask how much it will cost.You can also hire a tricycle. These are human-powered vehicles that are good for shorter trips. However, they are mostly confined to side streets in Tagaytay., Tagaytay has wide range of options available for dining. They range from gourmet restaurants to various forms of street food.


Tagaytay's specialty dish is a hot bowl of bulalo.This a kind of beef shank soup that is very popular in the area.Another popular local option is to visit a carinderia or "turo-turo." These are affordable local eateries in which food options are on display in large pots or trays. Customers just point at what they want to eat, sort of like a cafeteria.Tagaytay also has a wide variety of traditional sit-down restaurants, which cater to nearly every taste and national cuisine. If you're in the mood for a hamburger or some Chinese food, these and many other options are available., There are many fun things to see and do in Tagaytay. It's a good idea to consult a guidebook before you go, but here are a few popular attractions:


Nurture Wellness Village is a popular place for spa treatments. It also offers dining and accommodations.Skyfun Park is an amusement park that offers, among other things, a giant ferris wheel called the "Sky Eye."If you prefer the great outdoors, Tagaytay has many attractions you might find interesting, such as Picnic Grove and Sonya's Garden.You can also take a hike out to Taal Volcano., If you plan on spending the night in Tagaytay, there are many options available, depending on your budget.


Tagaytay has several hotels that provide luxurious accommodations. This is by far the most expensive option. You should expect to spend about 3,000 pesos or more.For private lodgings at a lower cost, there are places called "pension houses," which are like cheap hotels. You'll have a private room and bathroom, but nothing fancy.
If you're on a budget or traveling with a large group, Tagaytay also has a hostel. It offers dormitory-style rooms, as well as private rooms with shared bathrooms. This is probably the least expensive option, and also provides opportunities to meet other travelers.