 Instead of napping, try giving your brain and body a rest without falling asleep. Create a quiet environment, sit on the floor, and center yourself with deep breathing. Instead of trying to sleep, Try to clear your mind. Focus on watching your thoughts drift through, passing into and out of your mind. Set an alarm like you would for a nap, and reenter the work world rejuvenated and awake without actually sleeping.
 If your energy levels tend to dip after lunch, you're not alone. Instead of trying to sleep, some people find it more effective to get some light exercise to refresh yourself. Instead of napping, pop outside the office for a quick walk around the neighborhood, or even just jog around the building really quickly to get your blood pumping. Getting out in the sun can reawaken you and give you a much needed jolt of energy.


Treadmill desks are increasingly common at some workplaces. If you've got a treadmill at home, set yourself up to walk 'n work.
 The middle of the work day might not be the best time for a whole campaign on Skyrim, but Luminosity offers brain-training exercises that some people find rejuvenating, providing a much-needed break and a good mind-jolt that can help you get through the rest of the day without sleeping. Likewise, crossword puzzles and Sudoku are time-tested brain teasers that some people need to shake up the routine monotony and wake back up.


See if someone else in your workplace likes the same game you do, like chess. Keep a board somewhere and have a game going regularly. Take quick 10 or 15 minute breaks to play a short while and pick the game back up later. It'll break up your routine and get your thinking.
 Trying to combat tiredness with empty calories and more coffee in the late afternoon can have the opposite effect, slowing you down and making you groggier. Despite the claims of energy drink companies as being the cure for your post-lunch dip, taking a quick nap is more effective than filling your body with empty calories. Try to avoid eating more if you're not hungry, and consuming more caffeine.


If you do need a snack, make it something high in protein, like some mixed nuts. Nuts can satisfy your hunger and give you something substantial to burn. Keep some nuts at your desk to munch on when you need a quick snack.

