 The biggest difference between allergies and a cold is that allergies cause itchiness – in the eyes, the nose, the mouth, or the throat.Older toddlers may be able to tell you they feel “itchy,” “tickly,” or “tingly.” For younger children, watch for signs of itchiness like rubbing their eyes, rubbing or wiggling their nose, or trying to move their tongue around a lot.;
, A watery, runny, or congested nose is a very common symptom of seasonal allergies. You may be able to see mucus draining from the child’s nose. Sometimes, however, their nose is congested and the mucus drains down the back of their throat.The child might try to clear their throat often, cough, or have frequent sore throats from the drainage.


Regularly breathing through their mouth is a good indication the child’s nose is clogged or runny.Frequent nose rubbing in young kids, or the “allergic salute,” can cause a small horizontal crease at the lower third of the child’s nose.The child may have some stomach upset from swallowing mucus.If they become a fussy eater it may be due to stomach discomfort, congestion, or a sore throat caused by drainage.
 Allergies cause inflammation, which often causes puffy, red, itchy, or watery eyes.You can probably observe this directly just by looking at the child.


Sometimes allergies cause dark, puffy lower eyelids on a child.In fact, some doctors call these “allergic shiners” because it looks a lot like a black eye., Children with seasonal allergies usually sneeze quite often.This is the body’s way of trying to get rid of the itchiness in their throat or nose. Pay attention to whether your child is often sneezing or making sniffly noises, or even sounds like a pig snorting – they may be trying hard to clear their blocked nose.
 When a child has allergies, they may also have other health problems caused by similar reactions in the body. Many people with allergies also get a skin condition, called “atopic dermatitis,” that causes dry, itchy skin and tends to come and go.This also sometimes appears as eczema or hives.If you think your child has seasonal allergies, check them for patches of red, itchy, or dry skin or ask your doctor about it.


Ask your doctor something like, “I noticed my child is sneezing and has watery eyes, and also has a rash on their arm. Do you think they have allergies?”

, For a child to experience a hard time breathing or wheezing, their allergies must be pretty severe.However, it is possible. Children with asthma are also much more likely to be allergic to pollen, so be on the lookout for symptoms of asthma.