 Your teen years are the start of a long process of maturation. Who are you today, may not be who you are in a few years.


Keep an open mind to all different types of ideas and social experiences.
Your peers are also trying to figure out who they are, so be sympathetic.;
, What are your likes and dislikes? There are many, many different ways to enjoy high school. Knowing what your own personal interests are is an essential part to finding your own route to a happy high-school experience.


Knowing your basic interests will help you connect with your peers.
 Do you have any hobbies or extra-curricular activities? Enjoying high school begins with knowing what you are passionate about.


Do you aspire to be an actor/actress? An architect? Musician?

, You'll be a lot happier and more at ease following your own interests, so be sure to make time for extra-curricular activities that you enjoy.If you apply to college, include your activities on your application. This helps give admissions committees a better idea about who you are as an actual person.
 High school is a great place to find people and clubs that share your interests. Once you've learned a bit about your own likes and dislikes and what you are passionate about, you can further develop these interests or skills with a larger community.


If your high school does not have a club that caters to your interests or passions, start one of your own!

, It isn't about winning, but instead, about having a good time and getting some exercise. So, even if you have never considered yourself the athletic type, you should consider giving sports a chance.


If your school has a pool, you might want to try the swim, water polo, or dive teams.
Track and field has many different types of events, each designed to showcase a different talent or skill set.
Sports like tennis and badminton allow you to play in pairs/partners. This is a great way to meet new people and socialize.
There are alternatives to mainstream sports... skateboarding, snowboarding, roller derby.
You might find out that you're good at sports!

, Do you enjoy listening to music? Are you always 'doodling' in class? High school is a great place to learn about different artistic mediums and genres. It's also a great place to try something that you've always been interested or curious about.


Keep an open mind, you might find another interest or passion.
Depending on your area, there may be extra-curricular clubs and organizations that cater to an interest in the arts.
 This is an excellent way of getting to know yourself better and will help you reflect on your own feelings. Sometimes you aren't "sure" how you feel about something until some time has passed. A journal is a great way of keeping track of those times!Remember that understanding yourself is an on-going process.
 You might have interests and hobbies that nobody else shares; while on the contrary, you may find that you have a lot in common with just about everyone you meet. Regardless, seek out the interests, events, and functions that you enjoy.


Have fun and do not worry about the expectations of others.
Try not to have expectations of others. Like you, other high school students have their own likes and dislikes.
 This can be very difficult, especially since you will more than likely have to leave your comfort zone, but do your best to experience something that is new to you. If you know you don't like something, skip it... If, on the other-hand, however, you have never tried it, give it a shot!


Listen to different types of music.
Try different types of foods.

