 In Spanish, if the adjective you want to use ends in -nte you typically don't add the suffix -mente to make the adverbial form. Rather, you add another word and use the noun form of the word.You probably are familiar with adverbial phrases in English. For example, if you say someone did something "with vigor," this means the same thing as taking the adjective vigorous and adding -ly to make it an adverb ("vigorously").
A basic adverbial phrase in Spanish is formed the same way, by combining the word con (meaning "with") and a singular noun.
As your Spanish writing or speaking becomes more advanced, you may notice spots in which using the adverb form sounds awkward. Even if there's no difficulty adding the -mente suffix, an adverbial phrase might just sound better., You can combine other words besides con with nouns to form adverbial phrases. Peppering your Spanish with these diverse phrases can make you a more dynamic and interesting writer or speaker.For example, in English, rather than saying "interestingly," you might say that something was done "in an interesting manner" or "in an interesting way." You can do this in Spanish as well, with the phrase de manera interesante (day mah-NER-ah en-TER-ess-ahnt).
 Some adverbs describe how, when, or where an action occurred. These most often are adverbial phrases rather than an adjective in adverb form.This is done in English as well. For example, if you want to say that you placed a book "to the right" of the paper, you wouldn't say you placed the book "rightly" – that word means something else.
For example, if you wanted to say in Spanish that something happens often, you would use the phrase a menudo (ah may-NUE-doh).
Some Spanish adverbial phrases, on the other hand, are very different than what you would say in English. For example, if someone was preparing a surprise party, you might say in English that they were making their preparations secretly. However, in Spanish, you would more typically use the phrase a escondidas (ah ess-cohn-DEED-ahs) – although the word secretamente is the more direct translation.

