 One way to maximize relaxation is to get away from social media and your smartphone. This includes emails and even texts. Completely disconnect yourself and be completely focused on your vacation without outside distraction.Getting distracted by looking at social media, reading the latest news, or answering work emails won’t help you relax. Being glued to your screen also won’t help you rejuvenate. Those are things you can do when you are back at home.
If you must stay connected to work during your vacation, then designate a small amount of time each day to handle emails, texts, calls, etc. and then disconnect for the rest of the day.
 Many people want to share their awesome experiences on social media with pictures and updates. Try to limit this behavior. Not only does it help you disconnect, but posting about your vacation can take away the relaxation and excitement.Updating constantly can make you feel disconnected from the vacation instead of present in the moment. You may start caring more about what people say in response to your posts than the actual experience, which can lessen the relaxation.
Updating social media while you are not home can also be risky. This can let people know you are not home, which may put your home at risk.
 Your level of relaxation may depend on who you travel with. If you travel with family members who you know are going to stress you out and argue, then perhaps you should consider taking a vacation without them. Remember, if relaxation is your goal, choose people to travel with who will make you feel relaxed.


If you can go on vacation alone or with a partner or good friend, try that. If you have a group of friends you can relax and have fun with, consider going with them.
If you have children, see if they can stay with trusted family members for a few days. You may not be able to take a long vacation, but you may get a few relaxing days to yourself.
Don't feel bad if you choose to go on vacation alone or without someone who stresses you out. Put yourself first.
 To reduce stress about things while you are away, try asking a trustworthy friend or family member to drop by and care for your pets, plants, and any other necessary things while you are away. This will help to give you peace of mind during your vacation.
 While you’re on vacation, try to destress. You can do this by trying short five to ten minute meditations or short breathing exercises. This can help relax both your mind and body, leaving your feeling rejuvenated.Find a guided meditation online. Put in earphones and start each morning with a relaxing mediation.
Focus on your breaths. Breathe in slowly, hold for a count of four, then exhale. Do this five or ten times. Whenever you feel stressed, do some breathing exercises.
 One way to add stress to your vacation is to schedule too much. Trying to fit too much into a day can make you feel anxious or stressed, especially if you find you don’t have enough time to do everything. Instead, allow some time to just take things slow and enjoy your surroundings.Instead of packing each day with tons of stuff to do, schedule one activity each day. The rest of the day, relax or see where the day takes you.
 One reason people can’t relax on vacations is because they think about work. Try to complete all work before you leave for vacations so you don’t feel like you left things behind that you should have done.For example, you may want to work a little harder the week before your vacation to get everything ready for your time off. Make sure to complete any tasks that would cause you stress while on vacation.

