 If you are planning on having more than one or two kids at your wedding, create a table just for kids. This is an ideal option if the kids are all over the age of 5, as they can usually be on their own around other children without too much adult supervision. Consider if the kids you are inviting to the wedding will be okay on their own without their parents at the same table. If so, a kids table may be the best option for keeping the kids in one place. It will also encourage them to play together.Place the kids table close to the table with their parents or some of their parents. This can make it easier for parents to keep an eye on their kids but still give the kids some freedom.;
, Another option is to create a fort or a tent for kids to play in at your wedding. This may be a good option if you have very young children coming to the wedding and want to create a space where they can nap, relax, and play. Put pillows and stuffed animals in the tent to encourage kids to relax in it during the wedding or reception.You can also put books and games in the fort to make it more kid-friendly.
 To keep kids entertained, set up a crafts area at the wedding. Spread butcher paper on the long table for the kids to use. Include finger paint, washable markers, colored pencils, colored paper, glitter, and stickers at the table. Put out items to decorate masks or coloring books that the kids can color on their own.You may have a directed craft, such as the decorating of a mask or a blank wedding bell. Or you may let the kids do their own craft.
 You can also keep kids entertained by setting up a games table for them at the reception. Have board games appropriate for all ages on the table as well as simple games for younger children. Include games where the kids can play against each other or together as a team.For example, you may include games like Connect 4 or Guess Who for younger children. You could then include board games like Monopoly or Pictionary for older kids.
You could also set up video games for the kids to play, especially if you know a few of them are avid gamers.

