 Sometimes, no matter how hard you try, you just can't get along with certain personalities that conflict with your own.


Avoid a problem co-worker. If you tend to run into the same conflicts with the same person day after day, consider making slight changes to your schedule so that you do not run into him or her at the typical times (such as during the morning elevator ride, coffee breaks, or lunch periods in common areas).If possible, ask to move desks or teams. This should be a last resort because you don't want to seem to be a person who is hard to work with.
If you can't avoid them outright, avoid the conflict by ignoring it. Bullies often target people to get a reaction, so if you don't react, you might find that he or she will leave you alone., If you are having a conflict or misunderstanding, your first step of action should be a calm, one-on-one discussion.Conduct the conversation in private, keep your emotions and tone of voice calm, and only discuss facts rather than opinions or feelings. Begin with the attitude that you want to seek solutions and improve workplace productivity, not to prove a point or redress personal grievances.Be direct but non-accusatory. Don't say, "You have been mean to me this week. I saw you rolling your eyes during my presentation this morning. What's your deal?" Instead make the issue something both of you can fix: "There seems to be some tension between us. I noticed you rolled your eyes while I was pitching my idea this morning at the meeting. Is there anything I've done? How can we fix this?"
You may find that your co-worker has a rational explanation for the conflict, such as a misunderstanding or something they overheard in the break room. In this case, try to remedy the solution through appropriate explanations or apologies, and then try to work together to keep your work relationship professional in the future.
 Unfortunately, workplace conflict often seems juvenile and can veer into the realm of teasing, taunting, or discrimination. These behaviors are illegal.Just as you would advise your children to do with a playground bully, consider your options: stand up to the bully and confront him or her, change the subject or redirect the bully's attention, or find help from a superior to intervene on your co-workers behalf.
 If you are being harassed, bullied, or just sense that a conflict at work is escalating, it is a great idea to keep a detailed log of all the interactions with that person.This log can be used as evidence if the conflict ends up being taken to management. Write down dates, times, and actions or words that your employee engaged in. Avoid emotional or overly descriptive language; just stick to the facts., You have the right to a workplace free of harassment and bullying. As a last resort, you may consider reporting a co-worker's behavior to management.


Ensure that company policy and/or your rights are being violated before acting. Check your employee handbook and the harassment policy of the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission (http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/types/harassment.cfm). Generally, according to the EEOC, "petty slights, annoyances, and isolated incidents… will not rise to the level of illegality. To be unlawful, the conduct must create a work environment that would be intimidating, hostile, or offensive to reasonable people."Check the sections of your company handbook regarding employee behavior,which will typically point you toward your company's chain of command to report the situation. Depending on your company, this may be your direct manager or the Office of Human Resources.
Be sure to handle the report professionally. Begin the conversation with an explanation such as, "I had hoped to avoid involving you, but a situation with a co-worker has gotten to a point that I feel we need to have a conversation."Avoid coming across as emotional, vindictive, or accusatory. Explain only the facts of the situation-- who did what and when.