 Trying to hold off on using the bathroom will lead to many more instances of leaks. Use the bathroom whenever you first feel the urge to go.Also, make sure you use the bathroom whenever you can if you’re going long distances between stops.;
, Constipation contributes to stress incontinence by increasing abdominal pressure and stimulating nerves near the rectum that increase urinary frequency.You can take simple steps at home to treat constipation, including:Eating more high-fiber fruits, vegetables, and grains
Staying hydrated
Staying physically active
You can find more specific information at How to Regulate Bowel Movements


, A variety of foods and drinks can irritate your bladder or act as a diuretic (which means it makes you have to urinate more often).You may react to some but not all of these options. Try to isolate them in your diet to find out the ones that increase your stress incontinence. Some common options that increase stress incontinence include:Caffeine
Carbonated beverages
Citrus
Chocolate
Alcohol
Spicy foods

, If you still have occurrences after eliminating bladder-irritating beverages, then try to reduce your overall fluid intake;however, do not risk dehydrating yourself. Only reduce the amount of fluid you drink if you already drink more than the suggested eight to ten glasses of water a day.


Reduce the amount of liquid that you are drinking after 4:00 if you are having problems in the evening and at night.
 In addition to a wide array or other health complications, smoking can also irritate your bladder, leading to overactive symptoms and increased incidence of stress incontinence. Many smokers also develop a chronic cough, which can cause more instances of leakage.Trying to stop smoking cold turkey rarely works for most smokers. Take advantage of available smoking cessation aids such as nicotine patches and gum, as well as support communities to taper off your tobacco addiction.
You can find more information related to smoking cessation at How to Quit Smoking.
 Carrying extra weight can place increased pressure on your bladder and pelvic floor muscles.Professionals consider a body mass index (BMI) of 25 or higher overweight (with 30 meaning obese).Even the moderate loss of some excess weight can lead to dramatic improvement with symptoms.A great exercise routine for shedding extra pounds includes thirty minutes of moderate aerobic activity (such as brisk walking or cycling) five times a week. If you prefer high-intensity workouts (such as playing sports), then aim for seventy-five minutes a week.Note that weight training is not as effective at burning calories as aerobic exercise. In fact, chronic heavy lifting can increase stress incontinence by reducing the strength of your pelvic floor.Learn more about calculating your BMI at How to Calculate Your Body Mass Index (BMI).
Some doctors suggest that you wear a tampon if you are having stress incontinence symptoms when you do exercise like running, as this increases support in the vagina.Remember not to leave you tampon in order to prevent toxic shock syndrome.
 Eating right is just as important to losing extra weight as exercise. Cut out processed foods, sugary foods and beverages, and sources high in saturated fat. Instead opt for a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, lean meats (fish and skinless chicken), and whole grains. Consult your doctor about the most effective changes you can make to your diet.
 Weakened pelvic floor muscles (often from childbirth) are a leading cause of stress incontinence. Up to 75 percent of women with the condition have success with Kegel exercises to strengthen these muscles (though both men and women can do them).YHave patience because it can take weeks or even months to show results.To perform Kegel exercises, isolate the muscles by intentionally stopping the flow of urine next time you go.Once you know what using those muscles feels like, hold them tight for an eight count before relaxing them while counting to ten. Do ten repetitions three times daily.You can also start with a lower count and increase it over time.
You can also try vaginal weights, which are cone-shaped weights that you insert into your vagina like a tampon and help to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles. You will start with a low weight, holding it for one minute twice a day. Once you can hold that weight for 15 minutes, you move up to the next heaviest weight.Yoga has also been shown to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles. Postures like fish, pike, or crow work in the very same way as Kegel exercises., These steps take time. While you’re waiting for results, you can take other steps to reduce the appearance and amount of leakage you experience. You should:


Cross your legs when you start laughing or feel a cough or sneeze coming on, which will help support your bladder and reduce pressure.
Line your underwear with a stress incontinence product. These pads will stop any staining on your clothing and reduce odor.
Tighten your Kegel muscles and buttocks when sitting to reduce other unintentional leakage.
 If you’re diabetic, then changes in blood sugar can lead to increased incidence of stress incontinence.Monitor your blood sugar regularly and keep it under control by staying physically active and watching your diet.