 When you burn your tongue or mouth, inspect it in a mirror immediately after you cool it off. The effected area will probably look a little red even if it's only a minor burn, but if there appears to be any more damage beyond that, see your doctor in case it turns out to be a third-degree burn. Do not use any sort of topical treatment beyond ice cubes or water until your doctor okays it.If it's only a minor burn, it should heal after a few days as long as you don't aggravate it. If pain persists beyond that time, however, seek medical treatment.
 To quell any pain that still lingers after burning your mouth, use aspirin, ibuprofen, or a similar medication. Read the instructions and warnings. Take the recommended dosage. Reduce the inflammation that your poor nerve endings are suffering.

Never take more than what’s recommended. If you’re on other medication, check to make sure that pain relievers are safe to take at the same time.
 Use an antiseptic formula. Read the instructions and swish the recommended amount for however many seconds the directions indicate. Rid your mouth of any bacteria. Minimize the chance of infection and the prolonged pain that comes with a slower healing process.Use a mint-flavored mouthwash for extra, cooling relief.
 Use an oral pain reliever meant for cankers and mouth sores. Read the instructions for the recommended dosage. Numb pain with a direct application of medicine to the burned area. Coat the nerve endings so they won’t be further aggravated by other food and beverages.

Continue to gargle according to the instruction's recommended intervals until the burn has fully healed.
 Stick to soft, cool foods. Avoid crunchy foods (like potato chips, pretzels, and hard-crust bread) since chewing may break these down into sharp points, which may stab the burn and increase the chance of infection. Allow hot food and beverages to cool off significantly before eating so your damaged nerve endings aren’t damaged any further.Better yet, avoid warm/hot foods altogether. Instead, stick to cold foods straight out of the fridge to soothe your burn. Fix yourself a bowl of cold gazpacho soup. Enjoy yogurt or applesauce. Or treat yourself to some ice cream for dinner.

