 If you've seen it but not heard it, oftentimes just sounding it out in your head first can help a lot with your pronunciation. Work with each syllable in turn. Unless it's Welsh.


Think about other words you already know that look similar to the name. For example, the letters q-u-i in French sound like the word key in English. So just as the word "quiche" is pronounced keysh, the name "Quitterie" would be pronounced key-tree.
Sometimes city names can get your mind going. Think of ones like San Jose, Guadalajara, Lille, Versailles, and Guangzhou.;
, Does it look French? Spanish? Chinese? Know that every language has a unique alphabet and set of sounds associated with it, so any prior knowledge of languages will assist you in your pronunciation.


Spanish has a very consistent alphabet, unlike English. The vowels are always pronounced "ah," "eh," "ee," "oh," and "oo."
French has a fairly consistent alphabet as well, but it's a bit more tricky. If the name ends in a consonant, don't pronounce it. "Robert" becomes row-bear. And a name like Michelle? It's mee-shell, not meh-shell.
Mandarin Chinese is trickier still. The "Q" is pronounced ch, "X" is pronounced sh, and "Z" is pronounced dr. "Xiaojin Zhu" is shiao-jin drew.
If you're a bit confused about "ei" and "ie" in German, opt for the second letter's name. "Steinbeck" has a vowel like "I"--the second letter. "Auf Wiedersehen" has a vowel like "E"--the second letter.
 They can significantly change the way a name is pronounced.


In Spanish, you want to put the most emphasis on the syllable that has the accent; e.g., María should be pronounced ma-REE-uh.
Unfortunately, French doesn't follow the same rules. The sounds "è" and "é" are two different sounds. Though they are very similar, they are similar to eh (the sound in red) and ay, respectively. Examples of this include Renée (ruh-nay), André (on-dray), Honoré (ah-nor-ay), and Helène (heh-lehne).
The most frequent character used with a cedilla is the "ç"; the cedilla makes it soft (ss, not kuh).
 Though this requires a familiarity with the language, some tones are quite logical.


A mark going down (`) generally indicates a falling tone; a mark going up, rising.
A mark going up and down (or down and up) is just that--your tone should follow.

