 How thick the branch is depends on how wide you want your buttons to be. The bark will give your button a nice texture. If you want a simpler button, choose a wooden dowel instead., You can use a hacksaw or an electric table saw for this step.This will get rid of the jagged, spiky ends of the branch, and ensure that your first and last buttons are smooth.

Wear safety glasses and gloves for this step.
 Use a pencil to sketch lines across the branch. They should be ⅛ to ¼ inch (0.32 to 0.64 centimeter) apart.If you make them too thin, they may end up breaking or cracking.If the pencil doesn't show up, lightly score lines using a craft blade instead.
You do not have to draw the lines across the entire branch. It really depends on how many buttons you want to make.
 Once again, use a hacksaw or an electric table saw for this step. If the branch wobbles around too much, consider setting it down into a miter box, and then using the grooves as a cutting guide.
 Pick up one of the wood disks. Choose a side to be the back. Draw 2 or 4 dots in the center with a pen or pencil. These will be the guides for your holes., Set the button down on a piece of scrap wood. Use a 1/16-inch (1.6-millimeter) drill bit to make holes through the top of the button; use the dots you made as a guide.You can use a larger or smaller drill bit, depending on the size of the button and the project.
The scrap piece of wood is there to protect your work surface.
Wear safety glasses and gloves for this step.
If you need to, flip the button over, and drill the holes through the other side. This will help make them more even., This will help soften the edges around the button and the button holes, and prevent snagging., You can leave the buttons plain, if you'd like, or you can decorate them. For example, you can etch designs into the buttons using a wood burning tool, or you can paint them with acrylic paint. You can also dye them with watercolor paint or fabric dye.


If you painted or stained the buttons, be sure to let them dry.
 This is not absolutely necessary, but it is highly recommended. Not only will it bring out the natural color and pattern of the wood, but it will also help the buttons last longer. Here are some options for you:


For something quick and simple, polish the buttons using furniture polish and a soft cloth.If you painted the buttons, seal them with an acrylic sealer. Apply two coats, allowing each coat to dry inbetween.
Consider staining the buttons by rubbing some linseed oil, tung oil, or beeswax over them.