 These lumps are rheumatoid nodules, also known as subcutaneous (or under the skin) nodules. Seen in approximately 30% of cases, these lumps typically have diameters of less than 5 millimeters, ranging in size from small pea size to lemon sized lumps. They are usually found on the forearms, elbows, fingers joints, knees, bottom of feet/heel, the back of the hands, back of the head, the ear regions and inside the nose.,,These lumps are usually not painful, but they can be painful if the overlying skin becomes infected or ulcerated.The lumps will be the color of your skin. They are usually movable when applying pressure to them and feel doughy or firm.;
, This is inflammation of the small and medium sized blood vessels of the skin cause by our body’s immune system. Up to 5.4% of people with longstanding/severe RA will experience rheumatoid vasculitis. It can affect many body parts and organs, but the skin is by far the most common site.The following are signs of rheumatoid vasculitis:


Purpura: Look for bruising of the skin known as purpura. Since the blood vessels are damaged, blood can leak out causing bluish or dark discoloration that resembles bruises.Digital ischemia: The inflammation can lead to obstruction of blood vessels, which can be seen on the fingers as digital ischemia. When this happens, the fingers affected will turn dark and may become necrotic or gangrenous.
Ulcers: This is a superficial hole on the skin. Look for open sores or ulcers on the skin due to inflammatory obstruction of blood vessels.Gangrene: Severely obstructed blood vessels can cause the affected areas skin to die and turn black or necrotic. When this happens, you may feel that the skin sounds crumply when applying pressure. You may also see pus oozing from the area, which is caused by bacteria growth from dead tissue. There may also be a foul smell and possibly pain at the site., Nail fold infarcts: These are small vessels obstructed around the area of the nail or fingertips. Since these vessels are really small, you may see small red or dark dots on the finger pads around the nail., The activation of our immune system’s white blood cells (neutrophils) infiltrates all layers of our skin, including the epidermis (outer layer) and dermis (inner layer). There are many diseases associated with this process that falls under neutrophilic dermatosis, some more common than others. Two conditions with this underlying disease process are known as pyoderma gangrenosum and sweet's syndrome.


Pyoderma gangrenosum is characterized by painful, enlarging necrotic ulcers (open sores) with bluish undermined borders surrounded by a diffuse red rash.Sweet’s syndrome is also known as “acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis.” The symptoms include fever, neutrophil inflammation, and painful plaques on the skin. There is also a diffuse underlying red rash that can appear on the arms, back, face and neck.
The skin in this condition may peel or slough off. It is rarely seen in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.,, If you suspect rheumatoid arthritis, visit your doctor to get a diagnosis and discuss diagnostic tests and severity of your rheumatoid arthritis. This will help you get the appropriate treatment for your condition.
 RA is a systemic disease which includes the skin. Treating the RA can drastically improve skin systems. Many of these treatments are used for RA and the skin disorders. Therefore, you should expect an overlap of treatment medications.


The most important step is to seek expert advice with regards to diagnosing and testing for RA. Once diagnosis is confirmed, management of RA can help prevent these skin diseases.

