 Choose young leaves, six to eight inches (fifteen to twenty centimeters) long.You can also use crown bases, boiled at least once (for five minutes).Rinse the leaves under running water, and discard any dead leaves or debris. Let the leaves drain or pat them dry with paper towels.
 Heat 1/4 cup (60 mL) olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Sautee a tablespoon (10 g) minced garlic, one chopped onion, and 1/4 cup (40 g) chopped scallions. Cook for three minutes, stirring constantly. Add the shrimp, and sautee for two minutes, then stir in seasonings. Remove from heat, and add vinegar, lemon juice, and one bunch of washed chicory.Use 1/2 to 3/4 pound (150 to 230 g) of cooked, shelled, and deveined shrimp.
Try seasoning with three tablespoons (30 g) chopped parsley and a tablespoon (10 g) chopped cilantro.
Use three tablespoons (40 mL) freshly squeezed lemon juice and two tablespoons (30 mL) rice vinegar.
 Sautee onion in a large saucepan with 1/4 teaspoon (1 mL) salt over medium heat for five minutes. Stir in chicory and garlic, cooking until tender (about ten minutes). Break four large eggs into the pan. Place a lid on the pan and reduce heat to low. Cook five to seven minutes, until the whites are cooked and the yolks are a bit runny.Use a medium-sized red onion (halved and sliced), a pound (450 g) of chicory (rinsed and chopped), and four cloves of minced garlic.
Scoop up each egg with some greens. Sprinkle the tops with Romano cheese, black pepper, and red pepper flakes.
 In a bowl, mix together six tablespoons (90 mL) olive oil, 1/2 teaspoon (2 mL) salt, two tablespoons (30 mL) lime juice, a pinch of cayenne, and a clove of minced garlic. Coat avocado slices in the mixture. Place chicory on each plate with avocado. On top, add onion, cilantro, and dressing.Use two large avocados, peeled, seeded, and halved. Slice each half into six layers.
Serve immediately or chilled from the refrigerator.
The mild creaminess of avocado balances out the bitter component of chicory.
 Try steaming unblanched chicory and serving it warm with butter. Alternately, fry blanched chicory with butter. You can also add raw chicory leaves to any tossed salad.Slice a bunch of blanched chicory in half lengthwise. Put each half cut-side down in a large frying pan with butter. Cook the chicory on low heat for about fifteen minutes, turning once.Try serving chicory as a side salad to go with fish or roast chicken.

