 You're going to want to place your snare along a path that rabbits use, or else you're hoping that a rabbit will magically appear in your trap. A natural rabbit trail will ensure that rabbits pass through the general area that your snare is in.


Finding a natural opening of a rabbit trail is easier to do during winter. Look for telltale rabbit tracks in the snow when determining what parts of the forest rabbits go through.;
, Any type of tree will do, as long as it has branches. After cutting down the tree or tree branch, chop off any limbs around a foot-long (.3 m) strip in the middle of the branch.


Make sure the tree or tree branch is large enough to hold onto the rabbit. While rabbits are neither strong nor big, they can make away with a tree branch that is too small, making tracking more difficult.
 The limbs and branches you cut off will lead the rabbit away from the sides and into the center of the snare.
 Do this at points where the rabbit is likely to slip underneath the branch, away from the center of the snare.
 About 1 1/2 inches from the end of the wire, make a small (~3 cm) loop by leaving a hole and then twisting the end of the wire in on itself four or five times.


If you don't have thin wire, you can also use sturdy string, but know that some rabbits will gnaw through the rope. All in all, using wire is a more humane way to kill a rabbit.
, When the rabbit hops into the noose, struggling will only tighten the noose even more onto the body part, strangling the rabbit. This is how this snare works.
 Attach it to the tree by wrapping it around the tree several times, and then finally in a simple knot around the wire itself, to ensure that it doesn't accidentally slip.


How far up off the ground should the noose be? Although it's contested, many trappers advise placing the noose anywhere from 4 to 6 inches off the ground. If keeping the noose 4 to 6 inches off the ground doesn't allow you enough room to tie the standing end around the tree branch, start over again, this time with more length on the wire.
Make sure also that the noose is completely in the center of the snare. A noose that's off to one side or another will make trapping the rabbit much harder.
 This will keep the rabbit from slipping in underneath the noose.
 If you don't check the snare often, the rabbit could be eaten by a fox or a bird before you have time to harvest it.

