 Since the nectar from flowers is their primary source of food, select nectar-rich plants to lure butterflies and hummingbirds to your garden. There are some plants that are better suited for 1 species over the other. For instance, hummingbirds' long beaks and tongues can reach to the depths of cone-shaped flowers, whereas butterflies prefer flowers with more of a flat surface. However, many flowers are available that attract both species. Bee balm, columbine, cornflower, fuchsia, impatiens, goldenrod, lupine, phlox, pinks and zinnia are a few of the many flowering plants that attract hummingbirds and butterflies. Even naturally growing flowers that some might consider weeds like dandelion, jewelweed and queen Anne's lace attract butterflies and hummingbirds.;
, This will provide food for the animals and ensure that your garden is visited by butterflies and hummingbirds throughout the entire growing season. If you plant only flowers that bloom during 1 part of the spring, summer or fall, the animals will go elsewhere to find food during the other times, leaving your garden barren of their beauty.
 Hummingbirds and butterflies are a cautious couple. They prefer a habitat where they can quickly find cover from danger. They even take cover from a passing cloud or too strong of winds. Select shrubs for your garden to both block the wind and provide a quick hiding place among the leafy branches. Hummingbirds will also use these for their nests. The butterfly bush is a good choice. An added bonus to selecting this shrub is its long blooming cycle. Azaleas, lilacs and rose of sharon are other flowering shrubs you could choose. Flowering vines like morning glory and trumpet vine also provide places for refuge.
 Once you have chosen some plants that appeal to you and are known to attract hummingbirds and butterflies, plant large patches of each type of flower instead of scattering 1 plant here and there throughout the garden.
 Both hummingbirds and butterflies are attracted to oranges and reds.
 Butterflies will land on the surface of puddles or bird baths. Hummingbirds enjoy being near water as well, though they prefer a light mist. Both hummingbirds and butterflies need water to drink and to bathe in.

