 Fruits and vegetables make up a huge part of a healthy diet. They contain essential vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that keep your body functioning well and protect it against harmful free radicals. The food pyramid calls for 2 1/2 to 3 cups of vegetables and 1 1/2 to 2 cups of fruit per day for adults.Go red. Many red fruits and veggies are loaded with powerful, healthy antioxidants. Antioxidants soak up damaging free radicals and may help fight heart disease, reduce the risk for some cancers, stroke and macular degeneration. For example, tomatoes are a good source of potassium and vitamin C, which makes them good for your heart. They may protect against prostate and breast cancers. Red peppers have tons of vitamin A, which helps with skin, bones, and teeth, and almost as much vitamin C as an orange. Think green. Green vegetables contain calcium and iron not to mention soluble fiber, which helps stabilize blood sugar, lower LDL cholesterol (the bad kind) and keeps you feeling full longer so you're likely to eat less.

For example, kale is a wonder veggie with tons of benefits--it's high in fiber, iron, vitamins A, C and K and antioxidants, helps fight inflammation and lowers cholesterol. Broccoli is high in fiber, protein and vitamins A, C and K, improves eye and skin health and detoxes the body. , Your body needs protein to build muscle, provide immunity protection and keep your metabolism on track. To get the benefits with none of the detriments that can be associated with protein sources, choose foods that are high in protein and low in fat.


Be a fat detective. Pick skim milk rather than whole milk, lean ground beef or ground turkey rather than marbleized ground beef. Look for fat that's hidden--or not so hidden--in your protein choices.

Avoid full-fat dairy products, organ meats such as liver, fatty and marbled meats, spareribs, cold cuts, hot dogs and sausages, bacon, fried or breaded meats and egg yolks. Become a fan of fish. Certain types of fish are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which can lower blood fats called triglycerides. You'll find the highest amounts of omega-3 fatty acids in cold-water fish, such as salmon, mackerel and herring. Be one with beans. And peas and lentils--legumes in general are good sources of protein and contain no cholesterol and less fat than meat. Try a soy or bean burger in place of a hamburger or toss some tofu into a veggie stir-fry or salad.
 Whole grains are the entire seed of a plant and contain three parts: the germ, the bran and the endosperm, so whole grain foods contain all three of these components. Unfortunately, when plants are refined the bran and the germ are removed and about 25% of a grain’s protein and at least 17 key nutrients are lost. To get all the benefits, look for foods that are labeled as whole grain. Reap the benefits. Studies have documented numerous benefits of a diet rich in whole grains. They include reduced risk of stroke, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, inflammatory disease, colorectal cancer, gum disease and asthma, better weight maintenance, healthier carotid arteries and healthier blood pressure levels. Shoot for 48 g. of whole grains in your diet daily. Source your supermarket. About 15% to 20% of products on supermarket shelves are whole grains. Look for products labeled as "whole grain" or check to see if a product has the "Whole Grain" stamp from the Whole Grains Council.
Check multiple food items. It's not just grains, flours and breads that can be whole grain; pastas, cereals, cookies, tortilla chips, pancake mixes and other grain-based products can be labeled whole grain, so read the package carefully.
 Not all fats are bad for you; in fact, some should definitely be a part of your healthy eating plan. Monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs)are a healthy type of fat as are polyunsaturated fats and offer certain benefits such as a reduction in LDL cholesterol (the bad kind), an increase or maintenance of HDL cholesterol (the good kind), help stabilize insulin levels and control blood sugar.Foods high in MUFAs include avocados, canola oil, nuts (almonds, cashews, pecans and macadamias plus nut butters), olive oil, olives and peanut oil.
 Trans fats are oils infused with hydrogen, so you might see them listed as "hydrogenated" oil on package labels. They raise bad cholesterol and lower good cholesterol, cause weight gain, increase the risk for heart disease, cancer, stroke and infertility. Among the biggest sources for trans fat are commercially fried food and packaged foods, especially baked goods.
Beware of labels claiming no trans fats. The FDA allows food with up to a half-gram of trans fat per serving to be labeled "trans fat free." Eat enough of them and those half-grams add up. Trans fats are so bad for you, New York City has passed a law prohibiting the use of them in restaurants.

