 Show up to class ready to learn. During class make sure to sit up, face forward, and always listen when your teacher is talking. Furthermore, have everything you’ll need when you arrive to class, including your completed homework and everything you need to take notes or work on class materials.Always do your best on in-class assignments. Even if you’re struggling in a certain class, your teacher will be happy to see you making an effort.;
, Don’t use your phone at all when you’re in class. In fact, many schools explicitly allow teachers to take phone away from students who are using them during class. If you must bring your phone to class, make sure it is off or on silent and stored out of sight in a backpack or underneath your desk.Recognize that using your phone during class is disrespectful to your teacher, your fellow classmates, and even yourself, as you’re making it less likely that you and your classmates are fully focusing on the lesson.
 Some teachers are particularly sensitive about students’ behavior during their class. Be especially polite in classes taught by a teacher that gets irritated easily - these are probably the teachers that are most likely to go on a tirade about the lack of manners among today’s youth and start taking everybody’s stuff.Try to raise your hand and ask a question at least once per class, to show that you’re engaged in the lesson and that you value your teacher’s contribution to your education.
 Recognize that most teachers are not looking to get their students in trouble. It is simply their job to ensure that you and your classmates are able to learn, free from danger or distraction. For instance, if you were caught texting in class, understand that the teacher can fairly ask to take your phone and will simply put it somewhere safe, but out of your reach.Do not argue with your teachers in front of your classmates.
Apologize for distracting the class and hand them the item.
Ask for the item back after class. The more mature you were when they asked for it, the easier it will be to get it back.
 If you had been texting or otherwise breaking a rule, apologize and promise not to do so again. Be polite, as you do not want to get in further trouble, and you want your teacher to give you your item back without further conflict.


Try something like: “I apologize for allowing myself to get distracted during class. I’ll bring my phone to my locker and leave it there the rest of the day.”
If they say they’re going to keep it for the rest of the day, return after school and ask again.
If you phone is taken and not returned at the end of the day, tell a teacher you trust or a parent or guardian.
 You may need to talk to another school employee if a teacher is treating you unfairly. If your teacher only ever takes your stuff, or threatens to do so but does not make similar threats to other students, recognize that this is an issue that needs to be addressed. Ideally, talk directly to the teacher about why you are being treated differently by asking whether you have been behaving inappropriately during class.If you feel uncomfortable having this type of conversation with the teacher, or try to do so and it does not go well, meet with the principal or a teacher you trust to talk about it.

