 Try to estimate their aggression levels and the possible ability of fighting. It is easier than people think to understand an opponent just by observing their aggression responses.;
, Try to talk down the fight. If you see that they are slowly calming down, say what you need to to get them to walk away. Even if you believe you have done nothing wrong, it's still better to avoid a physical altercation.


If you ever have a chance to flee and escape the attack, do it. You can do this by throwing a wallet, watch or whatever the attacker wants in the opposite direction so you can escape.
 If aggression levels remain high, you should begin preparing yourself for a strike. Keep yourself centered. Bring your body closer together and tight so that you are smaller. This will make it harder to fight you and will give you more control when you need to defend yourself. Remember that keeping your body compact will prevent you from flailing and will make it easier to keep your balance during strikes.



Know the defensive position. Put your non-dominate leg in front and pointing outward. Bring down your body so that your center of gravity is low. With your front fist closed and blocking your face, keep your balance until you are ready to pivot your body.

Know how to kick. In your starting defensive position, bring your back leg and shoulder forward, turning your body 180 degrees. With the momentum your body created, lift your back leg up and then straighten your knee to deliver the blow.

Know how to punch. In your starting defensive position, bring your back fist and shoulder forward, turning your body 180 degrees. Your back shoulder should pass your front one, and your whole body will follow. Using this momentum your body created, deliver a closed fist punch to your attacker.
 If you are hit, make sure that you are hitting back enough to defend yourself and to deliver a blow without being overly aggressive. If for some reason, the police become involved, you can be arrested for assault even if you didn't instigate, if you were striking not in self-defense.
 Usually, it's best to go for the most vulnerable body parts on your attacker. This will depend on your height (if you are short, attacking his/her eyes might be difficult) or size (if you are small, you maybe not have enough force to attack his/her stomach) and your attacker's height and size.



Eyes: Blind your attacker by gauging out his/her eyes by thrusting your fingers into his/her eyes.

Throat: Knock the wind out of your opponent by hitting him/her in the throat with your fist (See: know how to punch, above).

Ears: Quickly clasp your hands over both of your attacker's ears at the same time, this will cause a ringing in his/her ears.

Groin: If your attacker is a male, kick or punch his groin. He will likely fall to the ground, giving you a chance to escape.

Solar plexus: This will cause your attacker to fall over if done with enough force. Either kick or punch (See: know how to punch and know how to kick, above) your attacker in the solar plexus (stomach/abs).

Nose: Punch your opponent in the face with your fist (See: know how to punch, above) to cause they to focus their attention on their face.
 Don't give your attacker the chance to grab your arm or catch you off balance. As soon as you hit him/her return to the "defensive position." To get into that position, put one hand in front of your cheek and one in front of your temple (left or right depending on your stance). You must do this because if you are hit hard in your cheek or temple, you will pass out.
 This means to cover your vulnerable body parts. Always cover your face. If you are on the ground, roll into a ball and cover your head.
 If, and only if, the situation becomes too difficult to handle, look for a weapon on your person. Keys, purse, belts, etc. are not ideal, but they could be the difference between a couple of stitches and a serious stay in the hospital.
 Never try to "finish" a fight. If you see an out, take it and seek help. This is going to help if charges get pressed. Immediately explain what is going on to someone who can help: 911 dispatch, the nearest police officer or a good Samaritan. Have them call the police and immediately write up a report or have them take a statement of what happened.
 Depending on how severe your condition, do this first. Hospitals often have the staff to deal with threats and attackers if they try to continue the fight.

