 Privacy features vary with social media platforms, but some of the features you might look for and ask about include private posting, hiding personal details, login alerts and approvals, and registering devices to your account. Say to your child, “Please show me the privacy and security features that you’re using to stay safe on your social media accounts.”If you know of features that they should be using but are not, insist that they use them.
Your child should always use the highest levels of security and privacy when using social media. Say, “For your safety, please always keep your social media accounts on the highest possible settings.”, Ads touting free giveaways, questionnaires, and contests are often spam designed to collect personal information. Older kids might recognize these scams for what they are, but younger kids, especially, tend to have a hard time understanding the difference between a legitimate source and a scam. Teach your children to be wary of content of this sort.Say, “Sometimes social media is used by bad people to steal information. They might do it with things that look fun like questionnaires, quizzes, and contests. To stay safe on social media, ask my permission before clicking on this type of content.”, If your child shares their password, they could compromise their entire social media account, as well as other accounts that the account is linked to. Tell your child, “On social media, the password is like the lock on a house. It lets only the right people in and keeps bad people out. Never share your password with anyone.”Help your child understand that sharing any personal information is unsafe. For instance, tell your child, “Do not post or share personal information about yourself on social media, including your age, address, phone number, or date of birth.”
Show your child how you store your own passwords. By doing this, you will teach them how to safely protect their private information.
 Remind your child that it can be unsafe to talk to strangers, and online the same holds true. Even people who seem friendly on social media might have a sinister motive. Say to your child, “Don’t add just anyone on social media. Only connect with the friends you know in real life.”You may want to require that your child tells you whenever they add a friend online.
 Many social media platforms disallow users who do not meet certain age requirements. Facebook, for instance, requires that users are at least 13 years old. Twitter, Snapchat, and Kik, likewise, requires users are 13 years old or older. Yik Yak requires that users are at least 17 years old.Tell your child, “Some social media have rules about how old you can be before you use them. Let’s find a social media platform you can use safely at your age, instead.”
You may want to explain why these age restrictions are in place. For example, during adolescence, a teen or tween's brain can encourage riskier behaviors that may put them in danger online.
If your child is having a hard time finding a social media platform that allows them to participate, do some investigation and try to find one for them.
Popular social media platforms for kids younger than 13 include Club Penguin Island, WebKinz, and Whyville. These platforms offer a more structured experience than the one available on social media platforms designed for more mature audiences.