 Celebrate the fact that your perfectionism can make you punctual, goal-oriented and high-achieving.You are someone who can be counted on to finish a project on time and perform to the best of your ability. You push others to do their best and expect the same from yourself. It is okay to be proud of your positive traits.Be sure to discuss these self-affirmations with a counselor or therapist. It is important that you address your own self-worth and are not simply reaffirming problematic emotions and traits.
 Take the time to investigate and try to accept your imperfections. It is important to understand how your drive for perfection impacts those around you. Recognize that your perfectionism might be less about excellence and more about dealing with intense social pressure and shame.If you are able to address your imperfections, you may find that you are generally less anxious and more happy.
It may be difficult to acknowledge your imperfections on your own. A licensed therapist or counselor may help you practice self-reflection.
 Perfectionism can be a shield that you hide behind in order to avoid being vulnerable. Because of an intense fear of social criticism or rejection, it may feel safer to put up a front of perfection. However, this can lead you to feeling isolated and foster intense anxiety. Instead, try to be authentic and acknowledge the times when you are struggling with your perfectionism. Be vulnerable and let those around you know that you are having a hard time and need some help.Authenticity and vulnerability are practices that you need to exercise every day in order to manage your perfectionism.
Remember that self-acceptance means coming to terms with both the good and the bad. It is fine to acknowledge that you have faults as long as you do not obsess over them.
 As a part of your practice of self-acceptance, focus on your positive attributes every day. Repeat them to yourself every morning or when you have feelings of self-doubt and shame. You might also consider writing them down on a list that you carry around with you during the day. If you begin to feel bad about yourself, look at your list and think about your positive traits.Remember that perfectionism can be a maladaptive personality trait and that it often masks deeper emotional issues. Make sure that you are practicing self-acceptance and not simply reaffirming problematic traits.
Consult with a therapist or psychologist about any feelings or shame or self-doubt related to your perfectionism.

