 No matter how often the person calls or texts you, don't respond, not even the calls or texts sound desperate. If the person follows you around, make it obvious that you respond to your calls and texts and are purposefully ignoring that person. If he says, "Did you get my call?" you should look vacant and confused, like you don't know what he's talking about. This might help drive the point home.
 No matter how often the person posts on your Facebook wall, comments on your photos, or retweets something you've written, do not acknowledge him. If the he commented on one of your statuses along with a lot of other people, you should "like" the comments of all of the other people but not his comments. Make it clear that you want nothing to do with that person — whether it's online or in person.
 If you know that the girl you're trying to avoid always hangs out at a certain coffee shop, always goes to a certain friend's party, or always goes to the movies on Friday nights, avoid those places. If you don't go where the person goes, you'll be less likely to run into that person. But if the person is always around you, this won't help you too much.
 Stop going to the same lunch spot, the same diner, or the same bar or club. If the person you're trying to avoid knows exactly where to find you, it'll be hard to get rid of him or her. Though you shouldn't change your life completely to avoid this person, making some changes to your daily routine can help improve your life and get the person out of it.


If the person always sits near you at lunch, try moving all of your friends to a different lunch table far away from your usual spot, so the person has a hard time finding you.
If you and your friends always go to the same place for dinner on Friday nights, pick a place across town and don't mention the change to the person.
If the person always follows you around the halls, change your routine for getting to class.
 If your friends really do like that person or are too nice to be honest with that person, then you may have to find a new friend or even an entirely new group of friends. The person will be less likely to bother you if you're hanging out with all new people, and if you have new friends, it's likely you'll be hanging out at new places and the person will be less likely to find you or follow you around.

