 If you are walking down the street and realize a celebrity just walked past you, stay calm. Don’t scream their name and draw attention to them. You can politely approach them, if it seems appropriate, but don’t freak out so much that everyone else in the area runs after them., If you are running into a celebrity by random luck, you might not have a lot of time to fully introduce yourself. If you think it is okay to approach the celebrity, make sure to at least tell them your name so they know who they are meeting too!


You can say something like: “Hi I am Kelly! I am sorry to bother you. I just wanted to say hello and tell you I am a huge fan of your music.”

, Taking photos without the celebrity’s permission is disrespectful. Most people would not like it if they were followed by crowds of people photographing them. They get enough unauthorized photos from the paparazzi. Instead, if it seems appropriate to approach the celebrity, you can politely ask them for a photograph.


Say something like, “Hi, I am John! I love your music. I was wondering if you would mind taking a quick photo with me?”
If they say no, respect their wishes., You don’t need to announce to the world that a celebrity is at a certain place or doing something. You can post on social media that you ran into them, but don’t post every detail about it online. Don’t call everyone you know and tell them to hurry down to the restaurant they are eating at. Celebrities are people too, let them have their personal lives., You might want to run up to the celebrity and go for a hug, but be respectful of their personal space. If you are trying to get their attention don’t touch their shoulder. If they touch you (such as they put their arm around you for a photo), then you can reciprocate the touching if it seems appropriate., Celebrities are people too. You don’t need to act like they are above everyone else. Be polite and casual with them. Try not to freak out and act different around them then you would anyone else. Celebrities will likely appreciate being treated like regular people.You can compliment their work and tell them you are a huge fan, but try not to go overboard (like scream and cry) when you talk to them.

