 If you have chronic neck pain and are seeing a medical professional about it, ask what type of neck pillow is optimal for your specific needs. This can help you narrow down the list of potential choices.Make sure to give your doctor any potentially relevant information about the way you sleep such as position, snoring or sleep apnea, or even if you sweat a lot. Your doctor may know of specific brands that can accommodate all of your needs.
Ask for a couple of different suggestions from your doctor in case you don’t like one of the pillows. Let your doctor know if you are using the pillow for your bed or for travel, which may influence his or her suggestions.
 Your dominant sleeping position is the position into which you settle and is likely your favorite way to sleep. Establishing your dominant sleeping position can help you determine the best type of pillow to get you comfortably through the night or a long flight.The following are the types of sleeping position you may be:


Side sleeper, which is the most common sleeping position
Back sleeper, which is often associated with snoring and sleep apnea
Stomach sleeper, which may cause your neck to twist more easilyCombination sleeper
Travelers, who often sleep upright, slightly reclined, or leaning onto something, Each dominant sleeping position has different needs in order to maintain alignment and comfort. When buying your pillow, make sure you look at models that are the appropriate firmness and height for your sleep position. The following options are best for each dominant sleeping position type:Side sleepers: a firm or extra firm pillow that is 10 centimeters (4 inches) high
Back sleepers: a medium-firm pillow that is a medium loft, which is the pillow’s height when it’s lying flat on the bed
Stomach sleepers: a thin and soft, scrunchable pillow
Combination sleepers: a pillow with softer and firmer sections that is higher on the sides and lower on the center for when you change positions
Travelers: pillows that provide maximum comfort for your specific needs and how you sleep. This includes neck support and ability to shift in your seat., Just as the firmness and height are important to your neck pillow selection, the material can also make a difference. Materials like memory foam or down may be better for certain positions over others. Sleepers may want to consider the following materials for a more comfortable night’s sleep:Side sleepers: contoured memory foam or latex foam
Back sleepers: down alternative, memory foam, latex foam
Stomach sleepers: down, feathers, down alternative, polyester, or thin foam latex
Combination sleepers: buckwheat hulls and multiple-material pillows
Travelers: memory foam, gel, plush fabric, For as simple as sleeping seems, it can actually be slightly complex. Factors such as your mattress and size as well as how long you’re traveling can also have an impact on your pillow choice. In turn, this may affect the type of neck pillow you use.Think about how soft your mattress is. If it is on the softer side, it may cause your body to settle more in relation to your pillow. This means you should get a lower loft, or height, pillow.
Consider your body temperature. Do you get very hot at night? If so, you may want to consider a gel foam cooling pillow or a buckwheat hull version.
Keep your body frame in mind. If you have a smaller frame, see if you can get a smaller neck pillow to fit your body.Think about how you normally sleep when you travel. Do you shift positions frequently and need a little bit more space? You may want a larger travel pillow that allows you to fully relax in your space. Be aware that these options that let you sprawl out and sleep may irritate fellow travelers.Ensure the pillow is allergy tested and washable so that dust mites don’t build up on the surface over time.This can not only cause allergic reactions but actually alter the weight and shape of your neck pillow., Every person’s body is different. Part of having the right pillow is finding one that fits you and your body best. Trying out different options can help you use the neck pillow for the best possible night’s sleep.Keep in mind that it takes 15 minutes to settled into a pillow and about a week to know if your neck pillow is working.This can make it difficult to know exactly which pillow is best in a store. Consider asking the sales staff what the return policy is so that you can return a pillow if it doesn’t work for you.
Avoid discounting personal preference. If you like the feel of one particular pillow, that may be your deciding factor.
 It’s time to make your final neck pillow selection. Take into account the various factors such as your dominant sleeping position and how you sleep when you travel as you make your final decision.


Double-check what the company’s return policy is for neck pillows. If you are unable to return a pillow, even if it is very uncomfortable, you may want to find a different option you can return.
Be aware that you’ll need to replace your neck pillow about every 2 years.