 Don't try to look like a Cullen if you've never read the books. Also, watching the movies can help to give a some-what visual, but read the books, too. They tend to change things in the movies.;
, You should pick your character based on who you really look like. You should think about how long your hair is. If it's short, consider Alice and if your hair isn't black, you could dye it. If your hair is about shoulder length (and light brown or caramel), Esme is good. If your hair is longer and golden blonde to very blonde, go with Rosalie. If you're dirty blonde, use a lemon to lighten you hair some. If your hair is long and darker brown, be Bella. Remember that Alice's hair is short (pixie-cut), black, and spiky, Esme's is medium-length, wavy, and caramel, Rosalie's is also wavy, but longer and blonde, and Bella's is straight, long, and is mahogany in the books but dark brown in the movies.
 It's simple, but effective. Even in the dead of winter, use sunscreen.
 Unless you're very pale, get a foundation about two shades lighter than your skin tone. Then, apply a couple coats of mascara to your top lashes. Apply deep blue eyeshadow under your eyes, and a little plum-ish color on your eyelids. You want your eyes to stand out as a great feature, but don't want it to look like you applied a bunch of makeup. Next, apply lipstick. If you're going for Esme, wearing a pink lipstick or red is good. For Rosalie, blood red- don't get confused- just blood red. For Alice, nude, red, or orange works. For Bella, light pink or a clear lipgloss (she doesn't wear too much make-up). NO BLUSH.
 Exercise a lot to make sure you're skinny. Drink 8 glasses of water to give your skin a "glow." Eat healthy foods, too.
 Always make sure your hair looks perfect-no exceptions. If you're going for Alice, keep it in it's proper spikes with some hair spray. If you're with Rosalie, you need to keep it in long wavy curls-always; that means that if during a break or before lunch you have to sneak to the bathroom and re-curl with a curling iron, do it. Also, wash your face every morning and night, exfoliate 1-2 time a week, and use a face mask 1 time a week. Use lotion after you get out of the shower, wash your face, and before you go to bed. Shave. Make sure you're very strong and very fast. MAKE SURE YOU DON'T HAVE ACNE or pimples.
 Wear deodorant and shower every day so you smell great. Wear a beautiful perfume, but nothing too strong. To get the vampire smell wear a floral smell or a spicy smell.
 Get some contacts- either a butterscotch, gold, or black. Black means you need to be fed, butterscotch is just-fed, and gold is the "didn't-just-drink-but-doing-perfectly-fine" look. Don't get red contacts, because that is not a Cullen look AT ALL!

, They should have fabrics like lace or satin in them, and should look like they cost quite some cash. If you can't afford expensive clothes, buy clothes that look similar to wealthier fabrics. If you're trying to look like Alice, wear flats; If you're trying to look like Rosalie, wear stilettos. Wear muted colors like cream, white, navy, ivory, grey, and brown. If you're already pretty pale, wearing black can make you look paler.
 Brush your teeth AT LEAST twice a day, floss, use mouthwash, and take mints very often so your breath smells like heaven. Use either Whitening Strips or get your teeth whitened.
