 Many types of topical preventatives act as a flea repellent. This protects your pet by repelling fleas and ticks from them. It keeps them off your pet in the first place. Oral preventatives do not offer any repelling properties.An oral preventative only works if the flea bites the animal or is on the pet.;
, Oral medications are often chosen due to their convenience. With an oral preventative, you don’t have to worry about a drying period where the pesticide can transfer to children or other pets. Once the pet swallows the medication, you are finished.Some oral preventatives only kill the eggs or adult fleas, but not both. You may need an additional preventative if your oral tablet only focuses on one threat.Be aware that your pet may refuse to swallow the oral medication or may spit it out after you place it in their mouth. Even if you place it in their food, they may eat around it.
Some brands of oral preventatives come in flavored chewable tablets, like beef flavored., Collars are a different kind of topical preventative. Collars are easy to use because you put them on your pet and they are protected. Most collars kill and repel fleas. With collars, you have to make sure no one touches the collar, especially children, since it contains the chemical preventative.Collars may be less effective for fleas because fleas generally live close to the bottom of the body, around the rear area, instead of near the head where the collar will be.Collars may have a strong, unpleasant odor. They may also irritate your pet’s neck or skin.
 You may be interested in other types of topical preventatives, such as sprays, powders, and shampoos. Sprays, powders, and shampoos work immediately to kill fleas, but they do not protect your pet from reinfestation and do not repel fleas.Powders generally last for about a week and shampoos last for a day.Sprays generally last for up to a month, but your pet cannot get wet. This includes swimming, baths, or rain.If you want ongoing protection from fleas, consider something stronger than these products.
 If you are not sure what kind of flea preventative to give your pet, talk to your vet. Flea preventatives are a type of medication, which means if your pet already takes medication or has existing health issues, the preventative may interfere. Discuss which type and brand of preventative will be best for your pet with the veterinarian before choosing one.The age, breed, and species of your pet may also influence what you give your pet.

