 Too much make-up can often give the impression that you are false. Skip the eyeliner. Go for the 'every day, girl next door' look. This bodes well with suspecting mother in-laws. She knows her grandchildren will be naturally beautiful. This is all she cares about.;
, Nobody wants to sit at the dinner table and taste JOOP as they chew. The same applies to women and perfume. Subtlety is key.
 For a man, jeans and a shirt. Wearing tracksuit bottoms with white socks pulled over the end of them and a pair of trainers will have your mother in-law hiding her best silver.
 A nice pair of trousers and a blouse will suffice and if not, then a pretty dress that doesn't reveal too much. Don't wear heels that are too high. Go easy on the jewellery. You are not a Christmas tree.
 Remember your P's & Q's. Always say thanks. If your dinner is burnt, eat it or be in it. Nobody likes to be told their cooking sucks.
 I would actually advise to refrain from it altogether. If it is forced upon you, sip your drink slowly to deter a future top-up. The last thing you want is to get drunk and tell your respective parent in-laws how great your partner is in bed.
 Hanging off them, being touchy feely, kissing, is NOT cute. It's annoying. More annoying for people watching. It also makes a statement. It says 'he's mine now'. Mummy In-Law will not be a happy bunny. You are effectively stealing him. In reverse, the same applies to a woman with respect to her father.
 Modesty is attractive. Nobody is perfect. And I mean nobody.
 If the paint is peeling, the curtains are falling down, rats climbing out of bins, tough. This is a brief visit and you have to see it through for the one you love. This is not just about you.
 Unless you can come back with a comment that is both witty and includes a hidden innuendo to insult them right back, then you are wasting your time getting miffed. It will lead to an argument.
 You want them to know that you love him/her but you don't want to sound obsessed. A light & breezy comment 'He's brilliant at soccer, I go to some of his games and he has talent' should be a guider. Not something like "OMG, your son is AMAZING!! He's the next Maradona!! I rub his feet after training even when he's wearing smelly socks just so he can play again tomorrow" - queue, shut the hell up.
 Smile. Always smile.

