


To check the blood sugar of a cat, you will need several pieces of equipment, all of which are similar to those used by humans to test diabetes. These include a blood sugar monitor, which will read and evaluate the blood, a lancet to draw blood from the cat, and test strips upon which to place the blood. All of these pieces of equipment can be obtained from your vet, or from pet supply stores.;
,


Make sure that you have all of the equipment described above nearby and ready for use to achieve the best results when it comes to taking the blood sugar of a cat. This includes placing the glucose test strips into the appropriate port of the blood sugar monitor before performing each test. Having everything prepared and ready to use before getting the cat in place will complete the steps more quickly and thoroughly.
 This could be holding him between your knees, in your lap, between your leg and the back cushion of a couch or chair, or even wrapped gently in a towel with the cat's head exposed.


Having a blood sugar check performed is not an enjoyable process for cats. During testing, they may be more prone to scratching, biting, or otherwise injuring individuals who are in the vicinity, and especially those assisting with the actual test. To prevent this occurrence, consider asking a friend or family member to assist you in performing the blood sugar check. Encourage the untrained assistant to hold the cat securely, while you proceed with the proper protocol.
 The relatively fine fur and the abundance of veins on your cat's ears make them an optimum place from which to take a blood sample.


Before taking the blood sample, it helps to warm the cat's ear slightly to increase the blood flow. Wrap a warm wet washcloth in a sealed sandwich baggie around the ear, or wrap the ear around a pill bottle filled with warm water. You can also try gently massaging the ear for a minute to warm it up.
 Place it on the cat's ear, and press the trigger to engage the lancet's point. A small amount of blood should now be visible.


When finding the right place to take the sample, look along the edge of the cat's ear for a visible vein.
 You will receive a signal when the appropriate amount of blood has been absorbed by the test strip.


After transferring the blood to the test strip, relieve any pain your cat may experience as well as slowing the blood flow. You can rub the ear with a tiny amount of petroleum jelly or pain-relieving antibacterial cream.



Within a short period of time, the results of the test should be displayed on the screen of the blood sugar monitor. As ideal blood sugar levels may vary from cat to cat, it is important to work with your veterinarian to determine if the blood sugar levels you are receiving are appropriate for your pet.

