 These are open to interpretation and will expand or change over time as new elements arise and as aspects of open source, DRM, and file sharing solidify across all communities of users. The definitions at the moment are considered to be as follows:



Open source: This means “a program in which the source code of a computer program is made available to the general public for use and/or modification from its original design free of charge.” The code is typically developed by larger “group of programmers improve upon the code and share the changes within the community.”

The idea of open source “rejects secrecy and centralized control of creative work in favor of decentralization, transparency, and unrestricted ("open") sharing of information.”
Source refers to the human-readable source code of computer programs as opposed to the compiled programming language, or object code, that run on computers but cannot be easily understood or modified by people.
There is no direct law regarding open source. However as open source is related to IPR protection and copyrights issues, you can look at EU legislation at the moment.



Digital rights management (DRM): This is a generic term which is used to described a secure technological framework (system) to prevent redistribution of digital content (such as: music, movies, audio CDs, computer games, e-books, documents, raw data or any other electronic data) in a manner contrary to the will of the rights owners.

Rights owners are usually copyright-holding companies such as Amazon, Sony, Microsoft, Apple Inc., AOL or the BBC. These companies are using DRM systems to control how the digital content is distributed.
DRM technologies play vital roles in processes involving in the flow of digital content.
The legal regulations of DRM are stipulated in a WIPO Copyright Treaty and in the EU Directive 2001/29/EC.



File sharing: This is the public or private sharing of computer data or space in a network with various levels of access privilege, the term file sharing almost always means sharing files in a network, even if in a small local area network. File sharing allows a number of people to use the same file or file by some combination of being able to read or view it, write to or modify it, copy it, or print it. Typically, a file sharing system has one or more administrators. Users may all have the same or may have different levels of access privilege. It is the activity of making files available to other users for download over the internet, but also over smaller networks.

Usually file sharing follows the peer-to-peer model, where the files are stored on and served by personal computers of the users. Most people who engage in file sharing are also downloading files that other users share.
There has been great discussion over perceived and actual legal issues surrounding file sharing. In circumstances where trading partners are in different countries with different legal codes, there are significant problems to contend with. Read the existing case law and media stories for more information.

;
, The main thing for “this movement is that programmers not concerned with proprietary ownership or financial gain will produce a more useful and bug-free product for everyone to use. The concept relies on peer review to find and eliminate bugs in the program code, a process which commercially developed and packaged programs do not utilize.”


The concept relies on peer review to find and eliminate bugs in the program code, a process which commercially developed and packaged programs do not utilize.
 You can also refer this term to the restrictions associated with specific instances of digital works or devices.


The fact of use of DRM is controversial in itself. Some proponents of DRM are state that copyright-holders have to prevent themselves from unauthorized of their work in order to ensure revenue streams and artistic integrity. The other group of opponents states that word ‘right’ is confusing and in that place they are proposing term digital restrictions management.
Consider the possibility that the digital rights management term is adequate to use for general description - it is a generic term describing many technologies which ensure unauthorized redistribution of digital content.
 Therefore, it is important to filter through various definitions until you find the one which actually refers to file sharing in the IT context.

