


Go through the process of building your PowerPoint slideshow before you begin adding transitions.;
,


Click the button with 4 small squares on the left-hand side of the program. This produces a thumbnail display of all your slides in order.



Choose to place transitions between 1, 2 or all your slides.



Go to "Slide Show" on the top menu and select "Slide Transitions" to survey your options.
Notice the substantial number of transitions available. The list begins with "Blinds Horizontal" and end with "Wipe Up." Between the 2 are at least 50 other choices, each with its own effect.
Click 1 of the transitions to view a quick example of what that transition looks like.



Click on the thumbnail of a slide you would like to transition into. A black box should form around the slide to indicate it is selected.
Select the "Slide Show" tab and then "Slide Transitions" to return to the transition effects screen.
Choose 1 of the transitions from the dropdown menu.
Pick a speed at which you would like the transition to move. Your choices are slow, medium and fast.
Click "Apply."
Look for the small icon beneath the slide you added a transition onto. It looks like a slide with a right-pointing arrow over it.



Click 1 of the slides you are adding a transition to, then hold down the "Shift" key and select the other slides you would like the transition added to with your mouse.
Repeat the process of choosing a slide transition from the menu and clicking "Apply."

,


Choose 1 slide, go to the transition effects screen, select a transition and speed, and then select "Apply to all" at the bottom instead of "Apply." When you look at your slide thumbnails, there should be a small icon beneath every one of them.



Select a slide and return to the transition effects screen. Locate the "Sound" section and click the dropdown menu to view the various audio choices. Choose 1 and it will be added to your existing visual transition. You can add the sound transition to every slide the same way you add transitions to every slide.
, Look for the "Advance slide" section. Choose between "On mouse click" or "Automatically after every ____ seconds." The default choice is "On mouse click," which means that your first slide will not advance to the next slide until you click the mouse. Select the automatic choice and enter a time for the slide to transition to the next. This can be set for the same time for every slide or different times for different slides.

