 Wash the cucumber to remove any dirt or bacteria that may be present. If desired, peel off the skin of the cucumber using a vegetable peeler or paring knife.


One attractive option is to peel thin stripes off, leaving some present for decoration.






Peeling the cucumber is largely a matter of taste, whether you prefer the look and texture of a cucumber with its peel or without.;
, Using a sharp knife, cut the cucumber lengthwise in half. Slice the two halves into pieces .25-.5 inch (.6-1.25 cm) thick.


If desired, seed the cucumber by removing the soft middle portion with a spoon prior to slicing. Cucumber seeds are edible, but some people may prefer not to include them in the drink.
 Cucumber slices will float, so if you desire a stronger infusion put a layer of ice on top of the cucumbers to keep them below the surface of the water.


For best results, allow the cucumber to steep in the water for at least an hour before drinking so the flavor will infuse the water.
Allowing the water to steep overnight will make for a more strongly flavored drink.
Stir it gently before serving.
 How much water will depend on the size of the pitcher, but a good starting ratio would be two quarts of water to one medium sized cucumber.Cucumber water is best when it is chilled, so choose a pitcher that will fit easily into your refrigerator.
If this is not an option, add ice to the pitcher to allow it to chill before serving.
 The same cucumber, or other variations if you include them, can be used for multiple batches of cucumber water. Simply leave the slices of cucumber in the pitcher when serving and refill the pitcher.


When the water seems less flavorful, discard or eat the remaining cucumber slices.
Consume the cucumber water within two days, as the beverage lacks preservatives and over time the cucumbers will rot., Wash several mint leaves under running water. Slice the mint into narrow ribbons to allow the flavor to steep better and to make for smaller pieces in the drink.


Mint is available in most supermarkets and is also hardy enough to be grown in many gardens.
Adding mint to the cucumber water will make it sweeter without adding sugar., Lemons, limes and oranges all add strong flavor to water without adding calories. If serving immediately, slice the fruit in half and squeeze the juice into the prepared cucumber water. Slices of fruit may be left with the cucumbers to steep for a longer period.


Remember to wash the fruit, particularly if you are allowing slices to steep.
Be aware that the fruit may contain seeds which could fall into the drink.
Citrus is also an important source of Vitamin C which is necessary to strengthen bones and muscles., Remove the cap of the strawberry with a paring knife and wash the berries to remove dirt or other impurities. Slice strawberries lengthwise and allow them to steep with the cucumbers.


Strawberries are an important source of potassium which can help lower blood pressure. Strawberries will be most flavorful when they are in season. Look for dark red berries that still have their caps.
 Pineapple chunks will add a tangy acidic flavor to your cucumber water. Slice fresh or canned pineapple into chunks and keep them in the freezer for a quick additive.


Add ½ cup of frozen pineapple to a pitcher of cucumber water

, Fill half the pitcher with seltzer water for the initial steep and add the remaining chilled water just prior to serving for maximum flavor and bubbles.


Club soda or other carbonated waters can give the sensation of drinking soda without adding the calories or sugar of commercially available drinks.
If calories are a consideration, remember to check the label of the sparkling water to be sure you aren’t accidentally adding more than just bubbles.
Remember that sparkling water will go flat over time, so it is better to chill it before opening it rather than after.
