 You could either do this first, or wait until you've gathered some information on your own. Whichever option you choose, make sure to consult your doctor at some point in this process before making a final purchase. He can suggest which oximeter will work best for you and decide if you require any special features.


While consulting with your doctor, decide what your goals are for using a pulse oximeter. There are several varieties of oximeter, so your intended use for it will help you pick one. If you only want to check your oxygen levels periodically, a small clip-on oximeter will probably work fine. If you have a chronic illness that requires continuous monitoring, you'll need a model capable of constant use. If the doctor also wants to measure your heart rate, he may want you to get an oximeter with a heart rate monitor. By talking with your doctor, you can narrow down your specific needs and make finding the right oximeter much easier.;
, All pulse oximeters perform the same basic function: measuring the level of oxygen saturation in the blood. There are various types, however, all of which have specific advantages and drawbacks.Portable or finger oximeter. This version is most commonly used at home. It is small, rectangular shaped and clipped on the finger. The display screen is on the probe itself. This type is usually battery operated. It is commonly used to spot check oxygen saturation by clinicians, caregivers, or patients themselves.

Handheld oximeter. This is mostly used by medical institutes and hospitals since it is slightly more sophisticated and gives more accurate readings. The probe is attached to a cable connected to the screen. In order to get a reading, the probe must be attached to the person’s finger — ideally the index finger. This type of oximeter is utilized for spot checks, but is also capable of continues oxygen saturation monitoring. It is usually utilized by hospitals, ambulatory health settings, home, or EMS.

Tabletops with sensors. This model is usually bigger than a handheld pulse oximeter. It is capable of spot checks and continuous monitoring. Its size makes it ideal for hospitals, medical facilities, home care and subacute settings.

Wrist-worn sensors. This model is wireless, and usually used for continuous monitoring. Your doctor may want to monitor your oxygen levels on a daily basis or while you sleep, making this model ideal. This instrument is designed like a wristwatch. A small wire connects the probe, placed on the index finger, to a small monitor on the wrist. The readings will appear on this wrist monitor.

Fetal pulse oximeters. If you need to asses the oxygen saturation for children, you need to look for a brand that specifically indicated for children. Children’s pulse oximeters are designed to fit snugly on small fingers. There are also varieties that can attach to the foot or head that may work better if your child's fingers are very small., Besides different types, oximeters can include a variety of different features. Keep all of this in mind while gathering information to decide which are necessary for you.Levels of accuracy. Some devices feature warning light, which would indicate whether there is interference or inaccurate reading. This will help you determine if your oxygen levels are low or if your device is malfunctioning.
Alarms. Certain pulse oximeters would give out audible sound to alert users of low oxygen saturation. This is helpful for those who do not have a medical background and are not familiar with the normal range of oxygen saturation and heart rate.
Readability of displayed measurements. Screen color and size can make a difference in reading the displayed data. Pick a display that you can read with no trouble.
Durability and battery life. You intended use will help determine how durable of a machine you'll want. If it's just for personal use, you don't need an especially rugged machine. If you need only intermittent oxygen readings, your device doesn't need a long battery life.For continuous oxygen saturation reading, you'll need either a very long battery life or a plug-in-device. This would prevent you from having to replace batteries often., Most probes come in the 0.3 inch to 1 inch size range, which can accommodate most adult fingers. You'll only need to seek another option if your fingers are either very large or very small. The probe should fit snugly around your finger. If your finger bulges out or protrudes in any way, the probe is too small. Consult a store employee for a larger size.If ordering online, measure your finger from the top of the nail to the bottom of the pad on the tip of your finger. Use this measurement to search for your specific finger measurement., After purchasing the oximeter, you should test it with your doctor. If it proves to be inaccurate, you'll want to be able to return it and get a more accurate one.
 When you decide on an oximeter, you'll need to check it for accuracy. Tests indicate that various defects can make oximeters vary widely in accuracy. To check yours, take it to your doctor's office. Compare the readings from his pulse oximeter to yours. If they are the same, your oximeter is in good working order. If not, return it and get another one., Since a pulse oximeter works by shining light through the skin, dirt can interfere by blocking light and lead to inaccurate readings. You can also get an infection if bacteria contaminates the clip. To avoid this, make sure your hands are clean before placing the clip on your finger.Follow these rules from the CDC to ensure that you've properly washed your hands.
Make sure your hands are completely dry before using the oximeter.
 Nail polish absorbs the light the oximeter emits, which will make it difficult for the reader to detect hemoglobin. As a result, you will get an inaccurate reading. Be sure the finger you clip the oximeter to is free of nail polish.If this is an emergency and there is no time to remove the polish, you can place the clip on sideways to avoid as much of the polish as possible., Since the oximeter works by emitting light to detect hemoglobin, bright lights may interfere and lead to an inaccurate reading. Do not use the oximeter in sunlight and turn any bright lights away from the oximeter while it's in use., The most common cause of inaccurate readings is movement. To prevent this, stay perfectly still while the oximeter is taking its reading.You may use the oximeter while exercising to monitor your oxygen saturation under exertion, but stay still while the reading is being taken., If your hands are cold, there is probably not enough blood in them. Since the oximeter needs blood for a proper test, cold hands can lead to an inaccurate reading. Rub your hands together to warm them up and stimulate blood flow. This will help give you a correct reading., Make sure the probe is snug around the finger. If your oximeter has a monitor attached, make sure this sits above the fingernail.
If your oximeter has a plug, be sure the cable runs through the back of your hand.
 This helps minimize motion, as well as ensures that a good supply of blood will get to your finger. Holding your arm up in the air will drain blood away from the test site and lead to an inaccurate reading., After being placed on your finger, the oximeter should display your readings within about five to 10 seconds. If your model also measures pulse, this may take a little longer to calculate fully. Oximeter display styles vary, but the oxygen saturation reading is usually the top number, in percentage form. Consult the device's owner's manual if you are unsure how to read your oximeter's displayIf the oximeter fails to display a reading, try removing it and placing it back on your finger. If this doesn't work, make sure there are fresh batteries in the machine.
 Some newer oximeters store data or transmit readings to a computer. If you don't have one of these, make sure to write down all your readings and show them to your doctor., A normal oxygen saturation reading is 95% or above; 92-94% indicates that there may be a problem. Lower than 92% could be an emergency. If your hands aren't cold, you aren't wearing nail polish, you didn't move during the test, and the oximeter wasn't exposed to direct light, you should contact your doctor immediately if you read below normal., If your oximeter is battery-powered, be sure to keep it charged. That way if you need it in a hurry, it will be ready for use right away., Inevitably your oximeter will get dirty from use. Keeping the probe clean is important for two reasons. First, dirt and dust can block light emitted by the oximeter and lead to inaccurate readings. Second, buildup of microorganisms on the probe can cause an infection when you put it on.Use a lightly damp cloth or paper towel to wipe away dirt.
Use an alcohol swab to kill bacteria and viruses.
 Make sure your oximeter is somewhere it won't get knocked over and damaged.


If your oximeter is the plug-in type, make sure all plugs are out of the way and won't be tripped over., When unplugging a cable, you should always grab the plug itself, never the wire. This could damage the internal wiring and lead to a fire hazard.