
People give up their time to volunteer for many important reasons. Often the main motivator is a social one - they may wish to meet new people or to make new friends. Many are hoping to learn new skills. No matter what the motivator, your volunteers hope it's something they may enjoy, and they want to feel good about what they are doing with their time. If your volunteers' experiences are mainly negative, they will not be keen to continue.;
, You may have volunteers who have been assisting you for many years. They may have some valuable ideas about how their volunteering role can be improved.
Be open to any feedback you receive and always genuinely thank people who take the time to give feedback.



Often volunteering can seem thankless, but if your volunteers efforts continually go unnoticed - or worse still, they receive constant criticism from other volunteers - they are more likely to quit.
Contact new and experienced volunteers alike and sincerely thank them for their efforts. Seek feedback on how they are enjoying the role. Are there any issues standing in the way of your volunteers getting their job done? Are there any problems between volunteers you can assist to smooth over?

, Don't be surprised if they tell you that no-one contacted them to say goodbye or thank them - you may be the first person who has asked them why they finished up.
Asking former volunteers: "Why did you leave?" is a reasonable question, but a better question could be: "Can you tell me about the aspects of volunteering for us that perhaps, you didn't enjoy? If there was anything we could improve on, or change, what would you recommend?" Who knows - if things have changed and this volunteer feels 'heard', they may even agree to start assisting again.
 Do you understand what their responsibilities are? Is it something you could do yourself? If you can, make time to spend a couple of hours or even a day, working with your volunteers so that you can see the role through their eyes. This will give you invaluable insight into what your volunteers do for you.
 Always smile and personally thank them whenever you see them.
Think about writing personalized thank you notes and recognising extra effort.
You could also think about hosting a special volunteer breakfast or dinner, asking for nominations for "Volunteer of the Month" based on exceptional service and dedication.
Think about a monthly raffle based on the hours of service your volunteers work - they get 5 tickets for the draw for every 5 hours they volunteer, 10 tickets for 10 hours, and so on. The prize doesn't have to be expensive, but it is a nice way to recognise extra effort.

