 Time spent on educating upon diamonds is always a time well spent and it will help you to avoid multiple threats and tricks. A good way of action may be to find an independent and respected appraiser and pay a visit to him or her. Hiring this professional may be a wise choice too, in case you are sure he will not get kickback from the vendor.;
, There are only several places on Earth, where diamonds are found, that is why there are only several wholesale companies on the market, like De Beers. You are unable to contact them directly, unless you are a millionaire, so you will have to buy from the vendors. The basic prices for the gems of the same grade is the same, but every one of the vendors has their revenue and some have smaller, because they are a bit fairer or have better shipment contracts. Comparing prices in several boutiques of different companies before making a purchase will allow you to cut your expenses significantly.
 Diamonds are a very serious matter and each and every of them should be appraised. After appraisal, every gem receives the quality certificate, which states the gem’s grade, quality, clarity, carat weight and other parameters. In case the reliable and well-known appraising authorities like the Gemological Institute of America (GIA) or AGL (American Gemological Laboratories) issued those, this vendor may gain a credit of trust from you. Local authorities most likely have a kickback from the vendor and cannot be trusted blindly.
 Every certificate has some contacts list, allowing you to get in touch with the issuer. Big and reliable authorities have databases of all issued certificates, so you can contact them and check if everything matches. It will cost you some time, but it is better to wait for a week than to spend money on a fake. The certificate should be recent and outdated.
 After deciding to purchase a gem, sign a contract with the vendor for appraisal. Leave a deposit, but make sure it is refundable (get the vendor’s written agreement) and pay for appraisal by one or two local authorities. This will still cost much less, than the diamond and only if their certificates will match the vendor’s certificate, you may pay the rest of the money.
 This list is public and you can get access to it. If you know even the basics about the “4 C’s”, you will be able to trace the price dynamics and will know the real price for 1 carat of weight for every grade of the diamonds.

