 A business loan is used for a one time expense — renovating a restaurant kitchen, for example. A business credit card, on the other hand, is a card you keep for an extended period of time to cover regular expenses. A business line of credit is somewhere in between. It is used to cover short-term expenses; for example, if your off-season income is not sufficient to cover operating costs, yearly renovations, etc. A line of credit allows you to borrow against a limit for a predetermined amount of time.Lines of credit for business are typically used for and secured by accounts receivable or inventory.
In the kitchen renovation example, a business line of credit may be preferable if you don't have an exact estimate in hand. This way you can have the flexibility to handle unforeseen expenses that arise when you start the job.;
, Even if you are incorporated, some lenders ask for personal credit history. You don’t want your name to be on the line for your business. This is also important because it allows you to build credit for your business rather than your personal finances. Also, make sure the lender you choose is reporting transactions to credit agencies so that you're building your credit score.It is rare for a small business man to be able borrow non-recourse unless the business is very large with substantial net worth compared to the loan amount.
 If you have multiple banks, make sure visit the one(s) where you have your business accounts. Although you can always do business with other banks, most banks are more willing to take risks with existing customers than with new people. You also have a personal relationship with them. Don’t depend on them making an exception if you have a subpar credit history, but they will trust you more than strangers.


Making appointments with at least two banks gives you choices. Weigh your options, and use the offer of moving your other business accounts to their bank as leverage.
 You will need to bring them with you to the meeting with the lender. Treat it like a business proposal. After all, you are asking them to take a chance on your business. Wow them with a thought-out and confident proposal.


Financial documents you need to include are business tax returns; financial statements that reflect activity since the end of the most recent tax year; contact information for credit references, such as vendors you've successfully paid in the past; listing of accounts receivable or inventory, since they are most commonly used as security; business registration documents; and account numbers and balances for all bank accounts.
 Which is best will depend on your needs. If you need more available capital, the highest credit limit might be better even at a slightly elevated interest rate. If you only need a little credit, lower interest rates are often the better way to go.
 The rewards programs you have been using will continue to be useful for regular purchases. The business line of credit should be used to pay for a specific expense or set of expenses. It shouldn't simply become the single account you use for all purchases. Your credit score may suffer if you quit using open credit cards, or even fall behind on payments.
 This means, above all, paying your bills on time — rent, utilities, paying suppliers, etc. If you are turning a new leaf with your business and want to apply for a business credit card, you might need to wait 18 to 24 months. It's hard to get business credit with a less established history. If you don’t wait until you have a good credit score, your line of credit will be at a punishing rate of interest.


If you need a business line of credit before this point, you can negotiate for one using your personal credit. This can be convenient, but it makes you personally responsible for the balance if your business goes under.
 Business credit scores are more complex and trickier than consumer scores. Unlike with personal spending, businesses that you have transactions with don't always report them to credit reporting agencies. This means that you may be surprised to find that a bill you paid late or on time doesn’t factor in. Several credit reporting agencies like Dun and Bradstreet and Experian offer credit business credit reports but, unlike personal credit reports, there is a fee attached.The most inexpensive reports do not have your credit score, but a report may be enough to give you an idea whether your score will be better or worse than the last time you checked it. If you have never seen your business credit score, it may be a good idea to buy it this time so you have a reference point for comparing future credit reports.
For lenders making inquiries about your business credit, it is also possible for your personal history to be a factor. This is another reason business credit cards and lines of credit come at higher interest rates for sole proprietorships and partnerships.
Unlike personal credit scores, businesses are rated on a scale from 0 to 100. Aim for getting at or above 75.
 In most situations you don’t want to use your name to spend company money, or apply for loans or credit cards. In addition to putting your personal financial well-being on the line, you double the inquiries about your credit history as well as credit obligations. These both bring your credit score down., These register your business as a corporation and allow you to apply with a business credit bureau. This means you will file taxes as a corporation. In a sole proprietorship, the business is synonymous with your name. With a federal tax ID number or EIN, you can apply for a business line of credit.For a detailed guide to submitting an application for an EIN to the IRS, see this guide.
 A credit bureau not only works with lenders to evaluate risky lines of credit, but with businesses to build their credit. They will help you improve your credit score and find appropriate lenders from whom you should apply for credit.

