 Radical Muslims are manipulating the holy scripture for their own agenda, and are misusing the teachings of Islam to get more members. Of the total Muslim population, less than 1% identify as radicalized, and even fewer will use violence for their agenda. In fact, a verse in the Quran states the following (this is an English translation): "And when you look at them, their bodies please you; and when they speak, you listen to their words. They are as blocks of wood propped up. They think that every cry is against them. They are the enemies, so beware of them. May Allah curse them! How are they denying (or deviating from) the Right Path." The verse quoted above explains that the hypocrites (people who pretend to be believers, but truly disbelieve in their hearts) pretend to be Muslim and think that everyone is against them, but they are the true enemies of Islam and all Muslims. A perfect example of many "Islamic" extremist groups today.;
, Some Muslims known as “jihadists” have used violence as a means of power and control, but the concept of “jihad” is actually not a violent one. Jihad, which means “struggle,” was directed to mean the study of, the preaching of, and defense of Islam, but has been misused for military and political means. The use of force is seen as a last resort to protect one’s faith, and even if it is used, the killing of innocents, such as women, children, and the disabled, is strictly forbidden. In Islam, the killing of innocents is seen as the killing of humanity.
 The media may simplify Islam as bad, as a means to simplify a much more complex problem. Take a look at different points of view about a topic, and understand what both Muslims and non-Muslims have to say about Islam. Each news source may have their own biases about Islam.
 Muslims practice their faiths in very different cultural contexts. Muslims living in Indonesia, the country with the largest population of Muslims , have a distinct culture from those living in Iran. So when hearing about incidents such as honor killings or women’s subjugation, try to understand how various social, political, cultural, and religious factors influenced those negative events.
 Throughout history, religious extremism has been utilized as a means to gain political power, and to take control of land. Take the Christian holy wars during the Middle Ages, or the anti-Semitic rhetoric that led to the Holocaust during World War II. The manipulation of religious teachings for one’s own gain has been done before., By putting aside your own religious beliefs, and opening yourself up to understanding another perspective, there is an opportunity for acceptance rather than hate. This does not mean that you need to change your religious affiliation, but rather to know that many people of all faiths are often searching for the same meaning and purpose as yourself.
 No matter where you live, or your religious affiliation, there are ways to connect and learn, such as:


Watch documentaries and films about Islamic culture, and other religions
Take a class about world religions through a local college, or online
Read books about different religions, such as Islam, Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism, and Buddhism

, It could be through a local community center, a place of worship, or even a Meetup group in your area. In most religions, whether Christian, Muslim, or Jewish, the practice of one’s own religious beliefs (even if they are not the same as your neighbor’s) is welcomed instead of persecuted. Many religious leaders see the benefits of a strong faith, as well as of respecting the religious rights of others.
 By visiting a mosque in person, you can learn about the everyday practices of Islam. Traditionally, Muslims attend a mosque by removing their shoes when entering, and engaging in prayer five times throughout the day. The prayer is led by the local mosque’s leader, the Imam. , Some cities have very diverse religious communities, and make it easier to have interfaith friendships, while other cities may not. Be open-minded about opportunities to learn from people of different religious backgrounds. Listen to their own perspectives on the events occurring across the globe, and learn about their own experiences with their faith.
 Islam is the second largest religion in the world, after Christianity. Over 1.6 Billion people are affiliated with the Muslim faith as of 2010. In the US, there are about 3 million people who identify as Muslim, compare to 5.7 million who identify as Jewish, and 2.1 million who identify as Hindu. While Christianity predominates in the US, there are many communities with religious diversity. , The historical roots of Islam are the same as for Christianity and Judaism. Before these three religions came about, people often believed in multiple gods. Yet with the formation of Islam, as well as Christianity and Judaism, people started to worship one god. Though each religion may use different names, the basic belief is the same--belief in one god (Allah). , As with Christianity and other religions, over time there have been differences in beliefs, despite the same basic principles. Among Muslims, there are two main sects of Islam: Sunni and Shiite, which differ in beliefs based on who were the leaders following the Prophet Muhammad's death.


The majority of Muslims in the world today at Sunnis, with a larger Shiite following in areas such as Iran, Iraq, and Syria.
The extremist groups such as those led by Osama bin Laden, follow a strict sect known as Wahhabism, which has been manipulated for their political gain, and has been discounted by Islamic scholars. , By understanding the teaching of the Qur'an, the Muslim holy book, it will become clear that there are more similarities than differences between Islam, Christianity, and Judaism. The Qur'an actually contains similar information to the details told in Hebrew Bible. The basic articles of faith for Muslims are the following: :


Belief in God, known as Allah
Belief in angels as part of God's creation
Belief in the prophets mentioned in the Qur'an, including Muhammad, Adam, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and others
Belief in the holy book, the Qur'an
Belief in the Day of Judgment
Belief in Predestination

, Based on the Islamic religion, there are many prophets, including Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad. When reading the Qur'an, many scholars believe that the teachings called for peaceful interactions between Muslims and non-Muslims. There is a fundamental respect for religions to coexist. 