


Hitting or spanking your toddler, especially combined with an outburst of anger toward your child, teaches that hitting is a way to solve problems.
Try to take advantage of breaks from your child so that you are able to relax and get a fresh perspective. Taking care of a toddler can be exhausting. Find a parent group or ask a relative or friend to fill in occasionally. Even going for a quick walk or trip to the store while your partner watches the child can help.;
,


The average toddler needs between 10 and 13 hours of sleep daily. Most benefit from a two-hour afternoon nap. Overly tired children will act out and become difficult to handle.
Establish a bedtime routine and try not to deviate from it. Children will find numerous ways to postpone going to sleep. Stick to your established routine as much as possible.



Try to make following the rules fun for you both. Make a game of it and praise your toddler excessively when he does something positive.
Reinforce the idea that good behavior gets positive consequences while poor behavior does not. If he behaves well at the store, he gets a small toy and lots of praise. If he misbehaves, he doesn't. Make positive consequences for good behavior more significant than punishment for bad behavior.



Use music or play to redirect his behavior. Lead him into another type of activity.
If this does not work, remove the toddler from the situation, firmly telling him "no." Take away objects that could harm him or get broken.



Don't change nap times or reward or ignore poor behavior. You cannot be perfect, but consistency is the key to establishing good behavior in your toddler.



You cannot expect a 2-year-old to behave like a 10-year-old. Know what is considered normal behavior for toddlers. Demanding that your toddler remains quiet during a 2-hour concert, for instance, is unreasonable.



Assure him with your words and actions that you love him even when he is behaving badly. Never tell him he is "bad" or use abusive language. Remain firm and in control when disciplining him, but let your toddler know he is safe and loved at all times.



When you are off your normal routine, look for ways to keep your child from becoming too tired or anxious. If your child is ill or hungry, he may act out. Be prepared and find ways to keep the situation from getting out of hand.
 Discuss discipline, nap time and daily routines with your daycare or babysitter.


You may build your home schedule around that of the daycare, for instance, since it is easier for you to adapt to their routine rather than expecting them to conform to yours. If children are given naps from 1-3 p.m., for example, attempt to continue this nap time at home.
Be sure that the childcare workers who deal with your child share your methods of discipline and have similar goals and expectations for your toddler's behavior. Communicate frequently with them so you know what is going on when you are not there.



Children are exceptional imitators. Be sure the rest of the family observes polite behavior such as saying "please" and "thank-you". Expect your toddler to use those phrases as well.
 Share items with your toddler to teach him that sharing is an important social skill.


While having the occasional squabble over toys is a natural part of growing up, try to teach your child that it's more satisfying to give and share than to get and keep everything you see.

