 The end of a relationship--no matter how long it lasted--is a loss, and with loss comes grief. Everyone grieves differently, but grief has some common elements.


The five stages of grief introduced by Elisabeth Kubler-Ross in 1969 have become a universal guideline for what someone experiencing a loss can expect to go through: denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance.

You won't necessarily go through all of these stages in your journey toward healing and even if you do, you may not go through them in order. Still, it's good to know what you might expect and understand that what you're feeling is perfectly normal.
Depending on the circumstances of your breakup, you may also feel sadness, loneliness, regret, anxiety, guilt, insecurity or a variety of other negative emotions.
You may also experience physical symptoms of grief. Headaches, nausea, insomnia, loss of appetite, weight gain, aches, pains and fatigue are not uncommon for someone going through a breakup.
 Keeping your emotions bottled up can prolong the pain you feel. This is the time to reach out to friends and family members who are good listeners. Or if you're not much of a talker, you can share your thoughts in a journal or blog.


Talk to someone you trust. Turn to your mom, your grandma, your aunt, even your cousin or best friend. Sharing your feelings and knowing that someone else understands what you're going through can ease the burden of your grief.
Have an imaginary conversation with your ex. One study showed that people who had imaginary conversations and then said goodbye to their partner had more relief from grief than those who didn't. Write a letter to your ex--but don't send it. Rather than fuming about what you should have said and what you'd say now if you ran into your ex, commit those thoughts and feelings to paper. Don't worry about being terribly coherent, and good grammar and spelling certainly don't count here. The idea is to get the anger, sadness, resentment and whatever other emotions out of your system and onto paper.
 It turns out that using bad language may benefit you by reducing your pain. A study published in NeuroReport showed a link between cursing and pain reduction. , Whatever form it may take, turning to a spiritual practice can help you find peace in the midst of the turmoil caused by a breakup.


In a grief study reported in the British Medical Journal, researchers found that people who have strong spiritual beliefs seem to resolve grief more rapidly and completely than those with no beliefs.Try meditation. Every major world religion has some form of contemplative practice with a meditative component,so choose the one that suits you best. These include yoga, Tai chi, prayer, Qigong and transcendental meditation to name a few.
 Women who hadn't gotten over a relationship by 16 weeks after a breakup had decreased brain activity in the regions associated with emotion, motivation and attention. In other words, their brains physically changed, which explains the inability to concentrate and to get up and go. Do not let yourself go this length of time without intervention. 