 As a student you may not have the time or energy to hold a job while you are in college in order to start paying back loans, so knowing which loan lets you defer all payments while you are in school can be helpful.


With a subsidized student loan, interest is not charged until you graduate. Interest is considered deferred and is subsidized by the federal government. You start paying the principal amount and the interest after you graduate. With an unsubsidized student loan the interest is charged from the time that the funds are first disbursed to you.
Both types of loan will allow you to defer your principal and interest payments until after you graduate. However, an unsubsidized loan will accrue interest beginning from disbursement of funds.
 The amount that you need to borrow may influence which loan you choose. The cost differences at various colleges may weigh into your decision.


Subsidized loans carry a specific cap on how much you can borrow. Unsubsidized loans also have a cap, but it is typically about $4,000 more per year than with subsidized loans. , Your personal financial circumstances may not permit you to qualify for a subsidized loan.


Subsidized loans are offered according to financial status and specific need. Each college determines how much money their students qualify for in unsubsidized or subsidized loans. Many students use subsidized-loan money first and then piggyback it with an unsubsidized loan.
 Unsubsidized and subsidized student loans both give you ten years to pay them back. Depending on your circumstances, there are other programs that allow you to make payments for 20 or 25 years. They both feature fixed interest rates.Unsubsidized loans start charging interest from the moment the money is given to you. However, sometimes the lender will give you the option of making “interest-only” payments while you are still in school. You might also make arrangements to postpone paying the interest and the principal until you leave school and the repayment period starts. 