 Uncontrollable bleeding is the most obvious and indicative sign of postpartum hemorrhage.


Note that the blood loss that you can see is only a portion of the total amount of blood lost, since the total amount can only be measured internally.
Bright red blood is also an indicator of postpartum hemorrhage.
The most common source of uncontrolled bleeding is the uterus and the cervix.;
, Rapid and shallow breathing (tachypnea) is often associated with postpartum hemorrhage.


This kind of breathing indicates your body compensating for the loss of blood.
As blood is lost, your body loses its oxygen supply, and responds by breathing at an increased rate.
 Lower abdominal pain is also commonly associated with postpartum hemorrhage, due to the loss of blood and potential tissue damage in those areas.


Stomach pain can also occur if the bleeding causes peritoneum (stomach membrane) irritation.
In cases such as this, your abdomen might also feel rigid and board-like.
 Cold and clammy extremities can indicate extensive blood loss.


You may not be able to feel this change yourself, so it is always best to have it verified by a friend or family member.
Additionally, your nail beds will turn white, because of the lack of oxygenated blood circulating through your body.
 Decreased blood pressure is a common symptom associated with blood loss.


A significant drop in blood pressure is an alarming sign that indicates the potential for shock.
Additionally, a noticeable drop in blood pressure indicates that significant blood loss is already apparent.
 Although acute PPH is often accompanied by signs of shock, such as reduced blood pressure, tachycardia, low pulse rate, fever, rigors, faintness, or collapse, there are also less severe symptoms that may occur in the few days immediately after your delivery.


These accessory symptoms include fever, abdominal pain, painful urination, general weakness, and abdominal tenderness

, There are a variety of risk factors and pre-existing conditions that can drastically increase your risk of PPH. These include:


A previous incidence of PPH during a prior pregnancy.
Extra heavy baby birth weight, due to the size of the baby causing further tearing and stretching of the uterus.
Labor induction and augmentation using methergine.
Trauma (lacerations, instrumental delivery).
 Acute PPH, as evidenced by massive blood loss and symptoms of shock, should be treated by immediate and comprehensive medical care.


Call the Emergency Services, and do not attempt to transport yourself to the hospital, as you are at risk of feinting behind the wheel.
It is paramount that you get medical attention before you lose too much blood and risk permanent injury or death.
 Your doctor will determine the source of your bleeding with a physical examination.


This will allow the medical team to provide the most relevant care, and get you on the road to recovery.
The physical examination will consist of a methodical examination of your body to identify the cause of bleeding.
 Getting a blood test done can identify blood disorders, such as anemia, or low platelet count that could be the source of your excessive bleeding.


Recognizing an underlying disorder or disease can be a great help in treating your PPH.
 In case a physical examination doesn't reveal enough information about the source of your bleeding, get an ultrasound to confirm its source.


An ultrasound uses sound waves to assess the internal structures of your body, and can allow the doctor to gain a greater understanding of the source of your bleeding.
 In this procedure, your arm or groin is injected with an anesthetic.


Your doctor will then insert a catheter or a long, thin, hollow tube through an artery until it reaches your heart.
A dye is then injected, in order to locate blockages within the blood vessels.
In PPH, this is helpful especially when the cause is pregnancy induced hypertension.
This procedure can last 30 minutes to an hour.

