 Learn the beginner's method if you haven't already. You need this to know the move notation, in which each face turn is represented by a letter and an apostrophe denotes that the turn needs to be counterclockwise.
 Practice doing the method you might be doing right now to begin with. If you are doing beginner method, or layer by layer, practice that. Then, try to learn CFOP, Roux, ZZ, or some other method to solve it faster.


CFOP is the most popular method; it is basically an upgraded version of the beginner's method.
Roux, Petrus and ZZ are very popular methods as well. You can find excellent tutorials for each on YouTube.
You should take a look at each of these methods to see which one you enjoy most.
Try not to worry about time while learning these methods. You will naturally get faster once your learning has become so ingrained that you are solving automatically.
 You might be wondering" what is a finger trick?" A finger trick is a way to turn the cube with only one finger. If your cube cannot turn without one finger, and is very stiff, get a new cube right away. Try to practice your finger tricks because they will decrease the time needed to solve the puzzle tremendously.
 Algorithms are ways to move the cube to get to another position. Such as if you get a case with yellow and do a algorithm such as R U R' U R U2 R' you will solve yellow. These letters are faces of the Rubik's cube and you can search for these online.


When learning algorithms, it is usually best to learn one algorithm per step, using the beginner's method. When each algorithm is applied properly for each step you will end with a solved cube. Stick with it and try not to get frustrated. It is hard, but if you stay focused, you'll get it in no time.
 Practice your method and learn finger tricks and subsets for that method for maximum performance.


Do slow solves (start with 1 turn per second or TPS), concentrating on not using many moves for each case, turning accurately and being precise with finger placement.
Gradually increase your turns per second when you are confident of solving efficiently and precisely at that speed.
When you can solve it in an average time of 40 seconds, advance to the next step.
 When you average around 30 seconds, practice looking ahead. This helps, no matter which method you use. Looking ahead is when while you're solving, you are multi-tasking and tracking pieces to see what comes next.


For example, if you're using the Fridrich Method, practice your first two layers so that while you're solving one pair, you are looking ahead to find your next pair, which will eliminate any pauses in between steps. Work on this, and other subsets of your method, to improve more.
 Practice your method, your finger tricks, and learn more ways to solve the cube faster. The only way to progress to the point of solving without thinking is to practice regularly so that each case becomes locked in your muscle memory. You cannot get fast without practice.


Look around on the Internet for different variations and mirrors of algorithms and pick ones that you find most efficient.
 If you get to be this speedy, you might be a contender for some world records! However, learn at your own pace to begin with. Don't try to get sub-20 times in a month. Enjoy the experience. Don't just do it to get world records and awards. Understand that it takes most cubers at least 6-12 months to become sub-20.

