 If you've never had modeling experience, or you think you could benefit from learning more about the industry, taking modeling classes is a great way to start. Classes can also help boost confidence, so if you have extra time and money, consider joining a modeling class in your area. If anything, it will help provide insight into the industry.Modeling classes are not a prerequisite to becoming a model. Some models are discovered in public and asked to join agencies with little to no modeling experience. However, it never hurts to know more about a career before you pursue it.;
, While it may be tempting to get all dressed up for pictures to send to an agency, many agencies want to see what you look like as your raw, natural self. Have someone with a good quality camera, or even a professional photographer, take pictures of you that you can use in a portfolio. Try to take pictures in different outfits so that you have lots of variety, but keep the outfits simple -- bikinis, fitted t-shirts and jeans, etc.The industry will be able to envision what you look like with all of their styling options and don't need you to send them pictures with tons of makeup and styling done. They want to see you as you naturally are so they can really see your beauty.
Once you have a good amount of pictures, compile them into a clean, organized portfolio. Make sure your portfolio has enough variety that an agency or company can see your potential. Don't go into an interview without a portfolio -- companies want to see your work., Just like many companies, your success in modeling depends a lot on who you're connected to. Getting your foot in the door with agencies by meeting them, even if it doesn't go anywhere, is a great way for people to become familiar with your face. Even people who aren't directly in the agency, but are connected to it in some way like photographers, retail store owners, and those who work in fashion can be a great resource.Try to be outgoing in settings where you need to stand out. Network with the people around you until you get connected with someone who can give you a job. Be active on social media, as well, as this can help get your name out there.
 So many companies try to scam you by requiring you to pay fees to model for them. Other times, you may find an ad on Craigslist asking for models. Either way, be careful when you are looking for modeling jobs that you don't fall into traps or place yourself in dangerous situations. Some things to look for to know if an agency isn't legitimate are:You have to pay a fee to an agent before they do work. Legitimate agencies won't charge you a fee for you to work for them. They get paid when you get paid, meaning they take a certain percentage of your paycheck. If you encounter an agency that requires you to pay them, don't work there. Also, don't confuse agencies with modeling schools. Modeling schools may claim to provide instruction on how to model, but after you take their classes you are on your own.
You have to take the opportunity now or it's gone. Most agencies will give you time to explore their company and learn more about them. If they give you an offer today, it should still be good tomorrow.
Their website doesn't look legitimate. If you aren't sure if a company is trying to scam you, look them up online. You can type in the name of the agency with the words "scam," "rip-off" or "complaint" to see if anything comes up.
They can't give you references. An agency with working models should have a list of people you could contact or look up to show that they aren't just scamming you. An agency may have pictures on the walls of models they didn't actually represent, so try to ask for phone numbers or emails if possible.


If someone says they are an agent or scout of a certain modeling agency, contact that agency. Some agencies will even have statements on their website saying that there are scouts claiming to work for them when they actually don't. These agencies may have specific numbers you can call to figure out if the person you talked to works for their agency.As tempting as it may be, never respond to a Craigslist ad looking for models unless there is a reputable source connected to that ad. If they don't list their company and it sounds "too good to be true" it's probably not a good source for a job., Applying to an agency won't do you much good if you're unheard of. Apply to a variety of shoots and jobs. If a job seems legitimate, take it even if it's small time. Anything you can add to a portfolio or resume can be impressive when seeking representation. Work on maintaining relations you have with co-workers and peers in the field. Any connection, even small, could get you in contact with a bigger agency or agent down the road.
 Different modeling agencies are looking for different people. Check out a variety of agencies to find one that works for your needs. Bigger, reliable agencies can be found on websites like models.com.Keep in mind that if you've never had any modeling experience you probably won't be called in to work for one of the top agencies. However, you can still explore their websites and contact them if you have any questions or need insight to enter the modeling business. Even if they aren't interested in hiring you now, talking with agencies will help them become familiar with you. After you've had experience they may consider hiring you on. Stay in contact with anyone who reaches out to you. Even if they're sending you a rejection, send a follow up e-mail or phone call thanking them for considering you. Mention if they have something that works in the future, you would still be interested.
If you google top modeling agencies you can often find a website with a list of all the agencies in the nation or world. Then, you can usually find an email for a specific agency or you can call them. There may also be a link to submit your portfolio, which is a great way to get your foot in the door.Also, it's not common to find a modeling agency solely for swimsuit models. Often times agencies use their models for multiple things, some of which may be modeling for the cover of Sports Illustrated. On a local level you may be able to find agencies solely for swimsuit models, but the major companies represent their swimsuit models in the same divisions as editorial and commercial models., The more agencies you apply to, the better chance you have of getting an agent interested. Make a list of agencies you think you may be interested in and start making time each day to work on your applications.


Some basic information should be included in your application. You'll need to list your hair color, eye color, dress and shoe size, as well as your age. Some models include information about their passion for modeling or how they always dreamed of being models. Do not include this information. The agency does not need to know this information and workers going through applications may toss out applications that include unnecessary information.In general, less is more in an application. If you have extensive experience, it is worth mentioning in a cover letter. However, do so as briefly as you can. If they're interested, they'll review your portfolio. Some agencies may ask for specific information, like your interests or passions, but only include this information if you're asked directly.Include contact information. You don't necessarily need to include your address, but a phone number is vital. An e-mail also might be helpful as a lot of modern communication is electronic.You should never request an agency contact someone else to get information about you. The agency will want to talk to you directly., You will probably be asked to include pictures when applying to a modeling agency. Know what kind of pictures to include if you want to get a call back.


Do not use casual pictures. Photos from vacation or from when you were hanging out with friends are not appropriate for a portfolio. Use pictures specifically taken to be used to apply to an agency.You don't need to spend a ton of money on expensive photo shoots. Ask a friend or family member to help you shoot some nice looking photos of yourself, using a nice camera. If the agency asks for a video, you can make a simple 60 second video on your own. Spending a lot of money on photos won't necessarily result in a call back. An agency is just trying to get a sense of how you look and whether your appearance works for their current needs.If you have any professional photos from modeling shoots, send them in unless the application explicitly forbids this. Professional photos from a bigger magazine or website will be very impressive to a modeling agency., Modeling is not all about your looks. People are more likely to hire those who connect with others. Develop a social media profile and share silly, personal, or inspirational posts alongside photos from modeling shoots. If you're called in for an interview with an agency, be polite to everyone there. You're more likely to get hired if you seem like someone who would be easy to work with., If you look at any bikini model you'll see that she usually has a flat tummy. Part of this is produced by eating the right kinds of food, but you can also exercise to create a flat stomach. Some exercises you can do to improve your core and abs are:Plank: Lie face down on the floor. Place your hands under your shoulders and your feet shoulder width apart. Then, lift up onto your hands and your toes, straightening your arms. Engage your ab muscles by keeping your back straight and your butt in line with your back. Hold for one to two minutes, or longer if you can. Repeat this twice.
Side plank: Get in the same position as plank and lift yourself up. Then, turn your body and lift one leg and one hand off the ground so that your weight is solely on one side of your body (your right or left). You can stabilize your lifted foot on top of the foot you have on the ground. Press your torso up so that your hips aren't dipping. Hold for 60 seconds and then return to regular plank. Repeat on the other side. Then, do two more reps on each side.
Boat pose: Sit on the ground with your knees bent. Lean your upper body back, keeping your back straight, and slowly lift your legs off the ground. Extend them straight out in front of you and then extend your arms straight in front of you. Hold this position for five slow, deep breaths, and then lower your legs. Repeat twice.
Swaying warrior: Stand with your legs spread out in a wide stance. Shift one foot so it is pointing forward. Then, bend your front knee so that it is over your ankle and hold your arms out to the side. Lift your back arm straight up over your head and place your front arm on your bended knee. You should feel a nice stretch. Come back to center and repeat on both sides three times, but on the last time hold the position for three to five breaths.
Scale pose: Sit in a cross legged position. Place your hands on the ground next to your hip bones. Tighten your pelvic floor and your core and then push into your hands to lift your body off of the ground. Hold this position for three breaths and repeat three times.
 To fit in those small bikini bottoms, you'll need a toned and lifted butt. There are a number of exercise you can do to tighten your butt:Heel sky raise: Start on your hands and knees and then move to your elbows so that they are underneath your shoulders. Put one leg straight out behind you and flex your foot. Lift your foot until it is in line with the rest of your body. Do this slowly, pausing at the top each time. Do three sets of 12 reps on each leg.
Single leg ballet kicks: Start by standing straight up and tucking in your belly button so you have engaged your core. Then, slowly lean over, keeping your chest up and your back straight. Try to lean all the way over into a table top position without arching or curving your back. Then, lift one leg up to be in line with the rest of your body and as you do that, reach the same arm down to touch the floor. Slowly move back to starting position, but try to keep your leg from touching the floor. Do three sets of 12 reps on each leg.
Lower half lunge: Start in a lunge position, with your left knee bent in front of you, and your left leg behind you, with your knee bent and touching the ground. Then, slowly lift up so your back knee comes off the ground. Try to lift only your knee and not the rest of your body. Lower back to the ground and do three sets of 12 reps on each leg.
Bridge: Lie on your back with your legs in front of you and your knees bent. Slowly lift your lower body up until your knees form a 90 degree angle and your thighs are in line with your upper body. Squeeze your butt at the top of this position and then lower back to the ground. Do 15 reps.
 Last but not least, bikini models always have slim thighs. Butt exercises will likely work your legs and your butt, but you can also add on some thigh exercises to really tone up your legs. Some exercises you can try are:Inner thigh lift. Lie down on your side. Then, lift yourself up onto your elbow, keeping the rest of your body on the floor. Cross your top leg over your bottom leg and bend your knee so that your foot is pointed away from your body and resting near your hips. Then, lift your bottom leg up, with your toes pointed down and then lower it back to the ground, but don't let your foot hit the floor. Do this move 40 times on each leg.
Inner thigh side raise. Get into the same position as the inner thigh lift, but instead of crossing your top leg over, leave it straight. Bend your bottom leg so your knee is bent somewhat. Then, lift your top leg as high as you can without turning your body. Lower it back down until it almost touches the ground. Do four lifts on each side.
Plie squat pulses: Stand in a wide stance with your toes pointing outwards. Hold your arms out straight and slowly lower into a squat. Stay in that squat and pulse up twenty times.
Scissors: Lie on your back with your legs out in front of you. Slowly lift your legs up, keeping them straight until your legs and body make a 90 degree angle. Then, allow your legs to drop to the sides opening up into a wide V, but keep them at the same angle to your body. Bring them back up to starting position, crossing one foot slightly over the other, and drop them back down again. Do 40 reps.
 Instead of just cutting out carbs, or cutting your calories in half, why not focus on eating calories that are good for you? Losing weight is really about burning more calories than you take in during the day, so it is important to watch how much you eat. However, you don't have to starve yourself to lose weight. Some foods that are healthy for weight loss are:Beans: Not only are they inexpensive, they are also filling and versatile. Beans are packed with protein and fiber, and because they take longer to digest, you may feel full longer.
Soup: Starting a meal with a cup of healthy soup may prevent you from eating more through the meal. Try to aim for a soup that is packed with vegetables and is broth based-- not a creamy, baked potato soup.
Dark chocolate: So you still have your sweet cravings, but you don't want to eat brownies or ice cream. Dark chocolate is a great alternative because it is relatively healthy for you and will satisfy your sweet cravings with just a small amount. Snack on a square or two of dark chocolate anytime you want to reach for the cookies.
Pureed vegetables: You can add these veggies to any meals that are more unhealthy, to help you cut back on your calories as well as get the proper nutrients you need from the vegetables. Add them to a meal that may not be super healthy, and you'll probably eat less, or add them to an already healthy meal for more nutrients.
Eggs and sausage: Eating this in the morning will keep you fuller throughout the day because it's packed with protein. If you are looking for a healthier alternative, eat turkey sausage.
Nuts: These are a classic healthy snack, because they are packed with protein and fiber and are good to munch on. Eat a handful of these when you want to reach for junk food.
Apples: Eating whole fruits instead of fruit juice or pureed fruits, like apple sauce, will help curb cravings better. Fresh fruit is packed with more fiber and it can help meet that sweet craving you may be feeling.
Yogurt: Greek yogurt is packed with protein and can help with digestive health. It is also good for bone health as it is packed with magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, and calcium., Many people will eat three medium to large sized meals a day, but this isn't always good for you. Eating smaller meals throughout the day can help boost your metabolism, which in turn will help you lose weight. Aim to eat five small meals a day. You can have three meals that are a bit heftier, like chicken and veggies for dinner, but then in between the heftier meals eat smaller snacks like nuts, yogurt, or fruit.You can also follow a bikini competitors diet plan for a diet that will help you lose a lot of weight. However, this diet really isn't sustainable for a long period of time. You might consider doing a week or two of this plan every now and then for a detox, though., If you are really trying to get bikini ready, keeping a log of the foods you have eaten will help you know if you need to continue cutting back. After each meal, log the type of food you ate, how much you ate, the nutritional information, and how you felt afterwards. Then, overtime log the weight or inches you have lost.If you find that you aren't losing much weight after a few weeks of eating healthy and exercising, you may need to change something up. Check your portion sizes for your food to see if they are accurate. Often times we give ourselves more food than what one portion actually is. You may need to sacrifice certain foods if they are unhealthy for you.
 Water is not only good to keep you hydrated throughout the day, it can also help you lose weight by keeping your fuller, and can be good for your complexion. Aim to drink six to eight ounces of water a day. Recent studies have shown that you should just let your body tell you when you are thirsty, so listen to your body to know how much water you need., Many models live unhealthy lives, trying to sustain a below average weight by not eating enough or the right foods. If an agency wants you to get to a certain size that you believe is unhealthy, don't do it. Working as a model isn't worth the health risks that might be associated with it. Stay fit by exercising and eating healthy, but if you are only allowed to eat 11 grapes a day to maintain the size your agency wants, get out.Don't be discouraged or let someone tell you you are "too fat." Modeling is a business full or criticism and nitpicking, so you have to grow thick skin when you work as a model. Also, remember that the images that you are promoting through your agency are those that young girls and women see constantly. If you're promoting the image that you have to be super skinny or look a certain way, it's going to cause girls and women to feel insecure about themselves. Always strive to promote positive body image.

