 Herbs must have at least 6 hours of sunlight per day, so choose an east or south facing window in your home. Measure the windowsill so you know how wide your pots can be.


Fluorescent light can help your herbs to thrive, so you should also choose a room where you have Fluorescent light to help keep your plants alive through cloudy and/or winter months.;
, You should choose herbs that you use a lot in your cooking, because they need to be trimmed back, or used, on a regular basis. Not all herbs are the same; the following are types of herbs that you can plant.


Plant annuals, such as sweet basil or parsley. An annual plant will die back each year. You may need to remove it each year and start anew.
Plant perennials, such as oregano, rosemary, chives, thyme and sage. Perennials grow back each year and do not usually need to be replanted. You do not want to plant annuals next to perennials, because removing the annual plant can disturb perennial roots.
 If you want to plant seeds, you will need to buy a seed packet and start them in a moist environment, before weeding out the stronger plants from the weaker ones. If you buy seedlings, you need only plant a seedling with already-formed roots in your container and water it as usual.


You can find seeds at most gardening and home improvement stores. You can find seedlings or "starts" at home improvement stores or farmer's markets.
 Bring a ruler to the gardening or home improvement store so you can measure according to the width of your windowsill. Seeds require smaller pots, where starts require larger pots.


You can find a special container at gardening stores for planting seeds. A seed planter divides each seed into a small section. You plant the seeds in potting soil and keep them warm and moist. After they start to grow, you replant the sprout and roots in a larger pot.
Pick containers with excellent drainage. This means that they should have holes in the bottom where the water can seep out. If clay, plastic or wood pots come with trays, that is even better, because it keeps a wooden windowsill clear of water. Drainage is essential to keep the herb roots from rotting.
 Place potting soil in the seed tray or small pot up to 3/4 of an inch from the top of the pot. Sprinkle the seeds in, and then cover them with 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) of potting soil.
 If your house is not very warm, you can create a small greenhouse over each seed pot by covering it tightly with plastic wrap. You want to create a warm, moist environment.
 Spray them with a spray bottle to water them, so that you don't break the seedlings with strong water pressure.
 Place a small amount of gravel in the bottom of each pot to improve drainage. Place some potting soil into the container, and make a hole in the center for the plant.


It is a good idea to choose a potting soil with perlite in it. Perlite is a volcanic glass that has high water content. If not, you can add about 20 percent perlite to it for an even healthier planting environment. You should also choose a potting soil with peat moss in it.
 Do not let the soil get dry, or the plants will die off. Water from the bottom, near the soil, since some herbs do not like to get water on their leaves.
 You can use kitchen shears and cut them off at soil level, so they will not be competing for the same nutrients. Frequent snipping and trimming can give you bushy plants that provide enough sprigs for cooking.
 Wash them thoroughly. Use immediately.
, They will regrow tender shoots.

