 Veterinarians recommend brushing and grooming your pets regularly in order to reduce the amount of hair in the air and on the ground. Ideally, you'll want to brush your pets a few times a week. If the hair is on the brush, then it's not on the floor.


However, with every stroke, not all of the hair is guaranteed to end up on the brush. Some hair follicles will end up in the air or fall to the ground. Therefore, when brushing your pets, do it outside to minimize the impact it will have on the interior of your house.;
, No matter how many precautionary steps you take, pets will shed their hair and some of it will end up on your floor.


How often you vacuum will depend on the number of people and pets in your household. For every person and pet in the house, you should vacuum once a week. If it's just you and your pet, you should vacuum twice a week. If you have a 4 person family with 3 pets, you should vacuum every day.
You can minimize the number of locations that you have to vacuum by blocking pet access to certain rooms by closing doors or setting up pet barriers in doorways.
When cleaning hairs off of hardwood or tiled flooring, it may be more effective to use a broom or a dust-mop. In addition to being more effective, they have a lesser chance of causing damage to your floor than a vacuum.
 Never let a mess remain untouched, which will allow it to build up and become more difficult to clean up later. Furthermore, when you don't clean up a mess, your pets will interpret it as appropriate behavior and they will be encouraged to repeat.


When choosing a cleaner, avoid using industrial cleaners as they may be harmful to your pets. Choose a cleaner from a pet store, as cleaners offered in pet stores are often formulated to be safe for pets.
Never use ammonia-based cleaners when cleaning up after a pet. Ammonia has a scent that is similar to the scent of animal urine, which can send mixed signals to your pet and could potentially encourage them to make messes.
 Furniture of this sort will not only make it easier to clean pet hair, but will also mitigate damage against claws and scratching. With smooth surface furniture, you can simply squeegee the hair fibers right off.
 When a pet learns to enjoy their bed, the area around that bed becomes their space, and they are more likely to stay in that location. When properly trained, a pet will rest in their bed more often, which means less time spent on your furniture.

