 Fibroids are rubbery growths that form on the walls of the uterus. They occur most frequently in women of reproductive age, especially after age 35. In most cases these benign growths remain small, and they almost never lead to cancer. However, for some women, fibroids can significantly affect their quality of life.Fibroids are usually categorized into three groups. Submucosal fibroids grow in the uterine cavity. Intramural fibroids grow in the wall of the uterus. Subserosal fibroids grow on the outside of the uterus., Many women may have fibroids and not even be aware of their condition. For many women, fibroids do not cause any symptoms, discomfort, or health issues. However, fibroids can cause some painful or even debilitating symptoms in some women. If you experience any of the following symptoms, see your doctor:Heavy and/or prolonged menstrual bleeding. Fibroids cause the uterine wall to become thicker than normal during the menstruation cycle, causing much heavier bleeding than usual. In some cases, bleeding is severe enough to cause anemia.Significant change in menstruation patterns (e.g., sharply increased pain, much heavier bleeding).

Pelvic pain, or feelings of “heaviness” or “fullness” in the pelvic area. Fibroids can range in size from very small (smaller than a seed) to very large (grapefruit-sized). Large fibroids may even cause your abdomen to look distended as with pregnancy.
Pain during sexual intercourse.
Frequent and/or difficult urination.

Constipation. Fibroids may expand and cause the uterus to press against your bladder or bowels, causing constipation.
Backache

Infertility. This is very rare, but in some cases fibroids can reduce implantation rates, leading to infertility., While scientists are not definitely sure what causes fibroids, a few factors seem to be at play. Knowing more about these may help you determine what course of treatment is right for you.It is possible that abnormalities in a woman's uterine blood vessels may cause fibroids to occur.
Genes that cause uterine muscle cells to grow at an accelerated rate may be a cause.
Fibroids seem to be related to a woman's reproductive cycle, rarely occurring before the first menstrual period and often accelerating during pregnancy. Some scientists suggest that the hormones estrogen and progesterone may be involved.
 Unfortunately, there is very little scientific evidence to support natural treatment methods for fibroids.Even in cases where research seems promising, studies are often limited or at risk of clinical error. Not enough research has been conducted on any one method, whether it be dietary recommendations, homeopathic treatments, exercise, and so on.


This means that if you're in a situation in which living with fibroids has become uncomfortable or detrimental to your health, you should discuss standard treatment options with your doctor. However, if your fibroids are not causing you pain or interfering with your life in any major way, there's no harm in trying a few natural methods that are said by many to make a difference.
To be on the safe side, talk to your doctor about treatment methods you want to try to make sure they won't have any sort of adverse effects.

