 Legumes are a group of plant-based foods that include beans, lentils and nuts. Studies have shown that eating these foods on a regular basis can help reduce your risk of developing dementia.Research shows that these foods are higher in B Vitamins like thiamin and folic acid. These vitamins play a protective role in your brain preventing shrinkage, maintaining blood sugar levels and supporting a healthy nervous system.Include foods like beans and lentils on a regular basis. The serving size for these foods are about 1/2 cup.Have hummus as a snack, make lentil or black bean soup, put beans over salad greens or make a cold bean salad.;
, A specific nutrient that has been associated with decreased risk of dementia are healthy fats, such as Omega-3 fatty acids, polyunsaturated, and monounsaturated fats.


Studies have shown that heart healthy fats like Omega-3 fats reduce the risk of heart disease and stroke which are linked to dementia.These heart-healthy fats are found in a wide variety of foods like: nuts; seeds; cold-water fish like salmon, tuna and mackerel; avocado; olive oil; olives; and canola oil.
Almonds are also high in healthy fats and have been specifically linked to a reduced risk of dementia.If you're choosing nuts, go for a 1/4 cup almonds. Have them alone as a snack, mixed into a trail mix or sprinkled into your morning oatmeal or yogurt.
 Fruits and vegetables are very important food groups to maintain your overall health and reduce your risk of developing dementia.


Fruits and vegetables are low in calories, but high in vitamins, minerals and most importantly antioxidants. Studies have shown that a variety of the antioxidants present in fruits and vegetables have a protective like quality to the brain.Aim for five to nine servings daily. Including one to two servings per meal will help you reach this goal. Measure out 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens and 1/2 cup of fruit.One vegetable in particular that has been linked to decreased risk of dementia is spinach. This leafy green has been shown to prevent the buildup of plaques in the brain and is also high in folic acid and iron.Berries high in flavonoids, such as blueberries and strawberries, have been associated with slower rates of cognitive decline.Flavonoids are believed to have anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties that may have a protective effect against dementia.
 Your morning cup of coffee has also been linked to a reduced risk of developing dementia.Sip on coffee a little more often to help reduce your risk.


Studies have shown that those seniors that had mild cognitive impairment and drank three cups of caffeinated coffee daily were far less likely to develop full-blown dementia compared to those seniors who did not sip on coffee.The benefit is partially from the caffeine in the coffee, so decaf beverages are not as beneficial.
Dark chocolate is another tasty source of caffeine that can be added to your day to help prevent the development of dementia as well.
 Maintaining a normal Vitamin D level is difficult. It's very common to be deficient and a deficiency in this particular vitamin has been linked to the development of dementia.There are very few foods that are good sources of Vitamin D. Eggs, oily fish and dairy products are your best bet.In addition, you get Vitamin D from the sun. The UV rays cause your body produce this vitamin naturally. It is difficult to determine exactly how much sun exposure each person should get (it depends on season, time of day, cloud cover, amount of melanin in the person's skin, and many other factors).Some researchers suggest 5–30 minutes of sun exposure between 10 AM and 3 PM at least twice a week.However, if you do not eat these foods or spend time out in the sun, you may need to take a Vitamin D supplement. Always talk to your doctor prior to starting supplementation. Vitamin D that gets too high can be toxic.
 In addition to Vitamin D, there have been a few studies on other vitamins and herbal supplements that may also be promising in regards to reducing your risk for dementia. Try:


Coenzyme Q10. This compound is actually formed naturally in your body; however, when used as a supplement has been shown to have a positive effect on reducing the risk of dementia.It's typically safe to take 400 mg daily.Ginkgo. This herbal supplement comes from a plant that is high in antioxidants and and anti-inflammatory properties. Studies have shown that this herb may slow the progression of memory problems.It's typically safe to take anywhere between 250–600 mg of ginkgo daily.Vitamin E. This vitamin is found in many foods that have healthy fats - like nuts, seeds and cold water fish. Studies have shown that Vitamin E may also slow the progression of dementia.It's typically safe to consume up to 500 mg of Vitamin E daily.You can purchase these supplements at your local pharmacy, health food store or online; however, always talk to your doctor prior to starting any supplementation.
 Although there are a variety of foods that may help prevent the development of dementia or slow it's progress, there is also a style of eating that has shown similar benefits. Many studies have shown that those people in the countries that border the Mediterranean have lower incidences of dementia.This type of eating style has been associated with lower levels of inflammation which has been shown to be beneficial for reducing your risk of developing dementia.The Mediterranean diet focuses on many foods like: fish, legumes, whole grains, fruits and vegetables. It typically limits red meat, fatty meats, dairy products and sweets.By following the Mediterranean diet you'll automatically be including many of the specific foods that have been associated with a lower risk of dementia.
 High intakes of both saturated and trans fat have been linked to a variety of adverse health effects and chronic health conditions.Limit foods that are high in saturated fats and completely cut out foods that contain trans fats to decrease your risk of developing dementia.


Studies have shown that these unhealthy fats can cause a narrowing of your arteries which increases your overall risk for both stroke and dementia.Saturated fats are found in foods like: processed meats, fatty cuts of meat, full fat dairy products, and lard.Trans fats are found in fried foods, fast foods and many processed foods (like cookies, cakes and pies)., There are now studies that are linking foods that contain chemicals like diacetyl and nitrates with an increased risk of dementia. Limit foods that contain these harmful chemicals to help reduce your overall risk.Studies show that foods containing these chemicals may worsen an abnormal brain protein which has been linked to dementia in addition to reducing some protective proteins in the brain.Foods that typically contain diacetyl or nitrates include: beer, processed meats (like bacon, sausage, deli meat and smoked meats), margarine, candy and microwave popcorn., Refined carbohydrates are a group of foods that have been linked with a variety of chronic health conditions; however, studies have shown that refined carbohydrates have been linked to increased insulin levels and dementia.Even in people without diabetes, these foods spike your blood sugar and insulin. Studies have shown this leads to insulin resistance which predisposes you to dementia but also produces negative changes in your brain cells.Refined carbohydrates are those that are highly processed. The main two refined carbohydrates in the American diet are white flour and white sugar. These foods and any foods that are made from them break down to the same compound in the body - glucose - and cause a spike in your blood sugar and insulin levels.Limit foods like: white bread, white rice, white pasta, candy, cookies, cakes and pies, ice cream, sweetened beverages, pastries, cereals and crackers.
 There has been direct evidence that high or excessive amounts of alcohol are linked to dementia (especially Korsakoff's syndrome).You do not have to give up alcohol, but consumption should be kept in check.


Drinking large quantities of alcohol over a long period of time can causes negative changes in your brain cells. It's believed that a disruption in thiamin levels caused by alcohol consumption changes the signaling pathways in the brain and can cause scar tissue.The CDC provides guidelines on alcohol consumption. It's typically recommended for women to have no more than one drink daily and men to cut off their intake after two drinks per day., Whenever you're concerned about your risk for a chronic disease are are attempting to make changes to your diet or lifestyle to reduce your risk of that disease, you should always talk to your doctor first.


Your doctor is your primary resource for information and guidance on how to prevent chronic health conditions like dementia. If you're concerned about developing dementia, bring this up when you see your physician.
Talk to them about your family history, current medical conditions, medications, diet and lifestyle. Ask him or her about any changes they think you should make to lower your risk.
Also ask about the changes you're planning on making and whether or not they are appropriate and safe for you.
Also talk to your doctor about how to manage other chronic conditions like high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes and depression as these have been associated with an increased risk of dementia., Like the prevention for many chronic diseases, maintaining a healthy weight is also important to decreasing your risk for developing dementia.Although there has been some controversy over weight and dementia risk, most studies show that being overweight or obese midlife increases your risk for dementia.You can tell if you're overweight by measuring your BMI. There are many websites that allow you to plug-in your information and get your BMI calculated automatically. If your BMI is 20.0–24.9 you're at a healthy weight. If your BMI is 25.0–29.9 you're considered overweight. Anything above 30 is considered obese.Try to maintain a healthy weight for your gender, height and age. If you think you're overweight, consider speaking to your doctor about appropriate weight loss methods.
 Staying physically active and including regular exercise is an important part to maintaining overall health and preventing dementia.Regular exercise has many benefits; however, it's specifically good for keeping your heart and vascular system in shape which is key in preventing dementia later on.It's recommended to include at least 150 minutes of moderate intensity cardio each week in addition to one to two days of strength or resistance training.Include exercises like: walking, jogging, yoga, weight lifting, dancing, water aerobics or taking aerobics classes.
 Smoking cigarettes in addition to using other tobacco products is incredibly harmful to every organ system in your body. Smoking has been directly linked to many adverse health effects and conditions including dementia.Smoking damages your heart and vascular system. It specifically damages the blood vessels in your brain and there is a direct link to the development of dementia.Stop smoking immediately. If you're having difficulty quitting cold turkey, consider joining a smoking cessation program or ask your doctor for medications that may make it easier to quit.
 Newer research has shown that continued social activity may help reduce the risk of developing dementia.Engage in regular outings and gatherings with friends and family to help prevent dementia.


Although research has shown a link between increased social activity and decreased risk of dementia, not much is known about why. Research in this area continues to grow.
Make sure that you schedule in regular social activities during the week. Go out to dinner with friends, join a book club, attend group exercise classes, go to religious worship services or volunteer.
 It's become more popular recently to engage in "brain games" or "brain training." Some studies suggest that regular engagement in puzzles or games may help reduce the risk of dementia.Many computer games and apps for your smartphone or tablet are geared toward "brain training." They include fun games, puzzles or riddles for you to solve. If you do not have a smartphone or tablet, consider doing puzzles like Sudoku or crossword puzzles.
Research suggests that the increased mental activity helps the brain cope with and compensate for any damage that has occurred.It's important to note that the research for brain training is geared for those under the age of 60 years old. These games have not shown to be preventative of dementia after the age of 60. Start playing these games early on.