 You will need this number to either get the unlock code from AT&T or to purchase a code online.


Dial *#06# to display the IMEI, or tap Settings → About Phone → Phone Identity → IMEI.
Write down the IMEI number. You will need it when you request your unlock code. You won't be able to copy it to your phone's clipboard.;
, Call your carrier's customer service department. If you are using AT&T, you can dial 611. Your carrier will typically require an account in good standing with several months of service completed. For example, with AT&T, you should be able to get your code if you've completed three months of service and don't owe anything on your account.


You may be required to pay an early termination fee to get the code.
If your HTC One X was included in your cell contract, you will usually need to have paid off the device in full before your carrier will give you the unlock code.
 There are a variety of sites that offer codes for a payment. These sites come and go, so try to read as many reviews as possible and avoid sites with lots of advertisements. You can usually purchase a legitimate code for under $20 USD.
 Most of these are scams and malware in disguise. There is no free way to unlock your phone unless you get the code from your carrier after meeting their unlock requirements.


Anything that asks you to complete surveys or participate in trial programs as payment will most likely be a scam.
 When switching SIM cards, it's best to turn the phone completely off first. Hold down the Power button and turn the phone off.


Note: You cannot be running a custom ROM when attempting to unlock your device. If you are, you will need to flash back to a stock ROM.
 Flip your phone over so that you're looking at the back. Insert a SIM remover tool or bent paperclip into the small hole on the upper-right side of the back. Insert it at an angle and push it all the way in until the SIM tray ejects. Remove the tray and pull the SIM card out.
 Insert the SIM card from your new carrier into the tray, with the contacts facing down. Push the tray back into the slot. You must use a SIM card from a carrier that is not approved for your phone. It must also be running the same general network type (GSM or CDMA).
 The phone will boot up and attempt to connect to the network. When the new SIM is detected, you will be prompted to enter your unlock code.
 Enter the code you received from the carrier or the code reseller. Make sure you enter it correctly, as five incorrect tries will result in the permanent locking of your phone.
 Once you've entered the code, you should see signal bars for your new service. Ensure that you are in the coverage area for the service. If you cannot connect, contact your new carrier to see if there's an activation process that you need to go through.

