 It's the white phone icon on a green background on the Home screen.
 It's in the bottom right corner of the screen.If tapping Voicemail initiates a call, you'll need to follow the spoken instructions from here to finish setting up your voicemail.
 This option should appear in the middle of the page.

If you don't see this option, your voicemail is already set up; you can record a greeting by tapping Greeting in the top left corner of the screen. This usually happens when you transfer information from an existing phone to a new phone.
 It must be four to six digits long., It's in the top right corner of the screen., Doing so will confirm your voicemail password., Doing so will complete your voicemail password setup and take you to the voicemail greeting page., It's near the top of the page.

You can also tap Default here to use your carrier's default voicemail greeting.
 You'll see this option in the bottom right corner of the screen., Make sure you're speaking clearly., It's where the Record button was., This button is in the top right corner of the screen. Now your voicemail has a password and a greeting attached to it.

You can tap Play in the bottom left corner of the screen to preview your message.
Tapping Cancel in the top left corner of the screen will cancel your recording.
 It's the white phone icon on a green background on the Home screen., It's in the bottom right corner of the screen. If your AT&T phone doesn't support visual voicemail, doing so will prompt your phone to call the voicemail service.

If tapping Voicemail brings you to a page that says Set Up Now, proceed to the next method.
You can also tap and hold 1 to call your phone's voicemail.
 You'll do this after the voicemail assistant says "Please enter your password."If you're not asked for a password, skip this step.
If you don't know your password, enter the last four digits of your phone number.
 Your voicemail assistant will tell you what to do for each step of the set-up. Some of these steps include the following:

Setting a password (must be between four to 15 digits long)
Stating your name
Recording a greeting

, It's the white phone icon on a green background on the Home screen., It's in the bottom right corner of the screen., This option should appear in the middle of the page.If you see a password box instead, your voicemail is already set up. Simply type in your voicemail password and tap Done to access your voicemail.
 It must be four to 15 digits long., It's in the top right corner of the screen., Doing so will confirm your voicemail password., This completes your voicemail password setup and takes you to the voicemail greeting page., It's near the top of the page.

You can also tap Default here to use your carrier's default voicemail greeting.
 You'll see this option in the bottom right corner of the screen., Make sure you're speaking clearly., It's where the Record button was., This button is in the top right corner of the screen. Now your voicemail has a password and a greeting attached to it.

You can tap Play in the bottom left corner of the screen to preview your message.
Tapping Cancel in the top left corner of the screen will cancel your recording.
 It's the white phone icon on a green background on the Home screen., It's one of the options at the bottom of the screen., Doing so will call you voicemail after a few seconds., It can be four to seven digits long.

If asked for a password first, type in the last four digits of your phone number. If that doesn't work, dial 611 to speak to a customer service representative.
 Doing so will apply your name in your voice to your voicemail's greeting.,, Doing so will save your greeting and password settings. Your voicemail is now set up.

If you aren't prompted to tap #, wait for the voicemail instructions to tell you that your voicemail is set up.
 You'll need to type in the password you just set to hear any new voicemails., As long as your carrier supports visual voicemail, you can access your voicemails by tapping the Voicemail button in the bottom right corner of the Phone app's screen. You will be able to browse through all of your voicemails and choose which ones you want to listen to.Some carriers' data plans won't allow you to view your voicemails; instead, you'll need to tap and hold 1 in the keypad or tap the Voicemail button to call your voicemail inbox.
 Doing so should bring the message up in a window that includes several options like Delete and Call Back.

If your iPhone supports visual voicemail messages, opening a voicemail message will display a transcript of the message's content.
 It's in the bottom left corner of the voicemail message you opened, directly above the Speaker option. Tapping this will begin playing your voicemail message.

Tapping Speaker will play the voicemail message over your iPhone's speaker.
 The Delete button is in the bottom right corner of the message window.

To delete multiple messages, tap Edit in the top right corner of the screen, tap each message you want to delete, and then tap Delete in the bottom right corner of the screen.
 It's at the center of the bottom of the voicemail message window.

You can see how many new messages you have by looking at the little red number on your Voicemail icon.
 Restarting your device can solve a lot of minor problems you may be having. To do so:

Hold down the Power button on the side (or the top for iPhone 5 and below) of your phone.
Slide the slide to power off switch at the top of the screen right.
Wait for a minute.
Hold down the Power button until you see the white Apple logo appear on your iPhone's screen.
 There may be a bug that's causing your voicemail problems, and a more recent version of iOS may have fixed the problem. You can check for updates in the "General" section of the Settings app, or you can use iTunes.

Also check for any Carrier Updates, which can be found by tapping About in the General section of the Settings app.
 There are several issues that may occur when setting up your voicemail, especially if you are upgrading from a much older device. Contacting your carrier's Customer Service line can help you reset your voicemail settings, change your password, and get your visual voicemail setup. Common carrier Customer Service lines include the following:


AT&T - (800) 331-0500 or 611 from your iPhone.
Verizon - (800) 922-0204 or *611 from your iPhone.
Sprint - (844) 665-6327
T-Mobile - (877) 746-0909 or 611 from your iPhone.
Boost Mobile - (866) 402-7366
Cricket - (800) 274-2538 or 611 from your iPhone.
 If you need to change the password for Visual Voicemail on your iPhone, you can do so from the Settings app.


Tap Settings → Phone → Change Voicemail Password.
Enter your new Visual Voicemail password.
Tap "Done" to save your new password.

