 Find a spray bottle that measures around one to two ounces. If you will be using the spray to help an infant or a small child with nasal congestion, you should also have a soft, rubber-bulb syringe to remove nasal secretions gently and efficiently.


A saline (salt water) nasal spray can be used as often as needed, and they can be used for adults, children, and infants., Saline spray can be made with sea salt or table salt. If you have an iodine allergy, or if you don’t know if you have an iodine allergy, use a non-iodized salt such as pickling salt or kosher salt.
 To start the solution, boil eight ounces of water. You can use tap or distilled water. After boiling, allow it to cool until it is only very warm., Add ¼ teaspoon of salt to the eight ounces of water. The ¼ teaspoon of salt will make a saline solution that matches the amount of salt in your body.


You may want to try a salt spray that has a greater concentration of salt than your body. To do this, add ½ teaspoon of salt instead. This may be useful if you have major congestion, have a lot of mucus, and are having trouble breathing or clearing your nose.
Don’t use a concentrated salt solution for infants or small children younger than five years old. , Once you add the warm salt, mix it well. Make sure to mix until salt is dissolved. Next, pour the mixture into the spray bottle. If you find that it hurts your nose, add ½ teaspoon of baking soda. This will help make it less likely to sting a sore nose.
 To use the spray, put the top of the squirt bottle into your nose. Then, spray one or two squirts of the saline solution into each nostril as needed.


For infants and small children, spray one or two squirts and wait two to three minutes. Then, slightly tilt the baby’s head back and use a soft, rubber-bulb syringe to gently remove nasal secretions.
 Place the leftover saline solution in a covered container and refrigerate. Always warm up the refrigerated solution before using it. After two days, throw out any unused solution.
 This natural treatment is used to flush mucus from your system using the same saline solution in a process called nasal irrigation.Neti pots can be purchased at most drug stores or health food stores.
Make a solution of 1/2 teaspoon of kosher salt and one cup of water. Fill the neti pot with the solution.
Stand over a sink, tip your head to one side, place the spot of the neti pot in one nostril. Pour the solution into your nostril and let it flow out the other nostril until the mucus in your nasal cavity is discharged.
Fill the neti pot again and repeat with the other nostril.

