 Materials recommended for taking notes are college-ruled notebook paper, different colored pens (black, blue, red, and other fun colors such as green, purple, pink, etc.), pencils, erasers, highlighters, and stickers.


A recommended way for taking notes is to make a key. This is done by putting symbols, either by drawing them or using different stickers, on the left side of the notebook paper. There is a line about less than 1/4 wide on the left of the page, and the symbols should go before this line. An example of this is drawing a star for important facts, drawing a head for information about people, drawing a calendar for important dates, and so on. In the notes, put the symbol from the key next to those notes. For example, let's say a note is "Biologists are people that study biology." The symbol next to this note would be the head, because it is information about people. Another example is "The first person to see a live cell with a microscope was Antoine van Leeuwenhoek." Two symbols, a head and a calendar, would be put next to this note because it has information about both a person and a date. The purpose of this is to keep notes organized and to quickly refer to specific information.
Draw graphs, pictures, and charts on notes to remember what certain things look like, especially cells and cell parts, for example.
 On the top of the paper, write down the date of the class the notes are and the class name, which is Biology. An example is: Biology: August 14, 2015".


Under the class name and date, write down the topic. For example, if the teacher is giving a lesson about the characteristics of living things, write "Characteristics of Living Things".
As the teacher is giving the lesson, write down what is only necessary. This means it is not necessary to write down every single thing the teacher says. Although, it is important to know what to write down and what not to write down. Examples of what should be written down are names of important people, such as scientists whom made a great impact on the advancement of science and biology, dates of when important events happened, such as the day something significant was invented or discovered, vocabulary words and definitions, and other facts that are going to be on a quiz or test. Sometimes not all students will know what will be on a test, but the information listed above will more than likely be on a test. Do not be afraid to ask questions or talk to the teacher for information regarding this.
Depending on how the teacher gives the lesson, it is best to wait to add the symbols from the key until class is over. A good reason for this is so students can review and read their notes, and add the symbols as they read them.

