 Only certain prisoners qualify for a commutation under federal or state law.


Only the president has the power to commute federal sentences, and only governors have the power to commute state sentences in most states.Prisoners typically earn commutation through good behavior, so if you've gotten into trouble while behind bars, your odds of getting your sentence commuted are extremely low.Generally, any federal sentence is eligible for commutation, except one related to impeachment or treason. States may further restrict the types of sentences eligible for commutation. Your attorney will be able to tell you if you are eligible for commutation, or you can check with your state's department of paroles and pardons.State governors have the power to convert consecutive sentences into concurrent sentences. Many states also allow their governors to commute a death sentence to a life sentence without the possibility of parole. In some states, the governor also has the power to commute a life sentence into a sentence for a definite term of years., Before you apply for a commutation, you should make sure you've already exhausted any other means of reducing your sentence.


Petitions for commutation typically aren't accepted by the governing authority until you've completed any appeals or other court proceedings involving your case. This eliminates any redundancy by ensuring that you're not asking for a commutation of a sentence until that sentence is final., Both state and federal governments have forms you can fill out to petition either the president or the governor of the state for a commutation of your sentence.


If you want a state criminal sentence commuted, you should not fill out and submit the federal petition. The president does not have the power to commute sentences imposed for violations of state law.State petitions for commutation can be found by contacting the governor's office or your state's department of paroles and pardons.Type or print all your answers legibly in blue or black ink, and complete each item fully and accurately., If you have any information that might support your petition for a commutation, you should include it along with your petition.


If you have additional information that supports or reinforces your answer to any question, attach a copy of that documentation to your petition.For a federal petition and many state petitions, you may be required to include a copy of your criminal record – particularly if you have any additional arrests or criminal charges., Once you've completed your petition form along with all supporting documents, submit it to the state or federal office in charge of reviewing commutation petitions.


For example, if you are filing a petition for commutation of a federal sentence, you must send it to the Office of the Pardon Attorney at the U.S. Department of Justice.If you are filing a petition for commutation of a state sentence, you can contact your state's department in charge of paroles and pardons to find out where the petition should be sent.
 After you file your petition, you must wait for a response accepting or denying your request for a commutation.


The Constitution provides the president with authority to commute or reduce prison sentences for those convicted of federal crimes. The president also can reduce the amount of a fine, provided you haven't already paid it.If your federal petition is denied, you can apply again one year from the date of the denial., If there are conditions attached to your commutation, make sure you fulfill them exactly.


Since commutations are based in rehabilitation, nearly all commutations are conditions on being a law-abiding citizen after you leave prison.
Governors may attach other conditions to commutations, which typically are upheld by courts as long as they're reasonable.Violation of any of the conditions of your commutation usually means your commutation will be revoked and your original sentence will be reinstated.The conditions of commutation only last as long as your original sentence would have lasted. After that, the commutation is permanent and you cannot be sent back to prison to serve any more time for that particular criminal conviction.