 You can do this either using a Sharpie for a simple circuit or a printed out version from a computer program. Only one of these is needed, so select according to your preference.
 The schematic should contain a detailed description of all parts, as well as easy to follow connections.
 If no simulation program is used, assemble and test one or more prototypes of the circuit on a breadboard. Breadboards are very easy to use, and allow one to view the results of a circuit in real time without the need for solder or permanent etches.
, Circuit boards are about a dollar apiece, and are simply a layer of copper over an insulator. The typical size is usually 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) by 5 inches (12.7 cm). Drawing is simple; all that is required is an indelible marker, such as a Sharpie. A ruler is also helpful.
 (Skip this step if you aren’t using the computer program and are using the Sharpie method.) Print the design out from the software's print menu. Make sure the print is on a glossy paper (like those in magazines or separate glossy paper).

Turn on the electric iron (the same one used for clothes).
Carefully cut out the design and position it on the circuit board.
Put the hot iron directly on top of the circuit board for about 45 seconds.
Take the circuit board (careful it's hot). Wash the paper out such that the black ink is stuck to the copper circuit board.
 Note that it's really difficult to draw out a circuit design in real life, unless it's as simple as a led and a battery.

Keep in mind that copper cannot be between components, for example, if connecting an LED, there must be a gap in the copper between the positive and negative points of connectivity. Without a gap, the electricity would flow around the LED, as opposed to through it. Remember laws of electricity, all circuits must end at either a negative or ground, or no current will flow.






Use thin lines, but lay the ink on thick, it is important that the copper is dissolved before the ink, and that there are no thin patches in the ink exposing copper.
, Do not heat it above 115 F (46 C) to prevent toxic fumes from being released., Be sure to do this in a well-ventilated space., Allow 5 to 20 minutes, depending on the size of your circuit board, for the exposed copper to drop off the board as it etches away. Use the plastic tongs to agitate the board and tray to allow for faster etching if necessary.,, Wear safety goggles and a protective mask to protect your eyes and lungs while you drill.
 Add your board's electrical components and solder them into place.
, Copper dust is toxic, wear a dust mask.
 Remember not to make the hole to wide, or soldering will be very difficult.


There are two types of components: Through hole components (have long legs) and SMDs (surface mount devices). For SMDs you don't need to drill because they are surface mounted, but through holes need holes in order for them to be soldered on. Through hole components enter the board from the opposite side of the copper.
 Gently bend the legs of the component against the underside of the board, to hold the part in place. Make sure parts with polarity are lined up correctly with the corresponding positive and negative. Check and double-check the location of all parts before soldering.
 Please see Soldering Electronics for help.
 Use a multimeter, if possible, to diagnose connection problems. A De-soldering gun can be used to make minor switches and repairs.

