 It may seem strange to you, but traveling light is essential if you want to keep going and have enough useful bullets.  You'll only ever find ammo for the weapons you have in your attache case from random drops and boxes.  If you don't have the Rifle?  You won't get Rifle drops.  If you don't have a mine thrower?  Ditto. In general, you should stick to maybe three weapon types- plus a magnum for sticky situations and bosses. Try the Pistol, Shotgun, and Rifle, but feel free to mix and match and find your own play style.;
, Learning how to effectively use your knife will go a long way in preserving your ammunition.  Use these tips and practice to master the knife!


Slash boxes with the knife to open them.
Slash downed enemies with the knife.
The enemy AI in the game is programmed to start swinging early if you're running towards them.  If you stop short when they wind up and back off, they'll miss and you'll have an opening to run in and slash their face- which will have the same stunning effect that shooting them in the head would, leaving them open for a melee attack.
 In general (with a few rare exceptions towards the end of the game) you don't want to shoot at the body of a Ganado.  Instead, aim for the face or knees.  Shooting these targets will allow you to perform a melee attack that will knock an enemy down and send them flying.  


However, past the castle section, it's worth it more to shoot them in the knees.  If you manage to send a Zealot or Militia Ganado to their knees, then you can perform a devastating suplex.  It has a very high chance to decapitate your foe, and will never generate a Plaga.  
You're also completely invincible while performing melee attacks, so no need to fear.  If you play your cards right, and use this strategy in conjunction with your knife-work, you can use as little as one handgun bullet to take out normal enemies.
 It is one of the greatest tools in the game, especially for boss enemies.  El Gigante, Salazar, Verdugo, U-3, whatever- nothing is a match for this weapon.  30,000 Pesetas for an instant boss kill you can easily waste whole stacks of ammo on is a winning exchange.
 If you run out of ammo and you're near or about to hit a merchant's stand, go and upgrade the weapon's capacity.  The merchant will be kind enough to throw in the bullets to match the upgrade, so you're basically getting free ammo.
 Those who fight and run away, live to fight another day.  Don't get wrapped up in a fight that you absolutely don't have to get involved in.  Save your bullets for required fights.
  Primarily because they can be insta-killed with a flash-bang.  However, it should be noted that the crawler Plagas need to be crawling on the ground before you try it.

