 There are two primary ways to do this. As every child is different, a parent is best suited to judge which method works best for their child. Consider your circumstances before you decide.


Gradual weaning may be the easier way to phase out your bottle if your child is fussy. By slowly eliminating the bottle, your child almost won't notice. This is good when you have a lot of time. It is not ideal for older children, as they will not have the time frame to go slow enough.
In some cases, it may be necessary to just go cold turkey. This can be harder for some parents as it may result in fussiness or tantrums, leaving the parents feeling cruel; however, this is the fastest way to wean. Going cold turkey works best with very willing children and children who should have already been weaned from the bottle.;
, During certain ages children are more likely to try to appease their parents. Also, there is a certain age before which you should not wean your child. The success you have weaning your child has much to do with your timing. It is recommended that most children start to use sippy cups between the ages of six and nine months.Your baby needs to be developed enough to sit on his own and to eat solid foods from a spoon. You will not have success if you introduce the sippy cup sooner than your child is developmentally ready.
You should not choose to take away the bottle during the time of trying to move the child to a new bed, getting a new family member or pet, moving to a new home, changing babysitters, teething or any other potential events that may cause upsets for your child. These can derail your attempts.
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends weaning from the bottle by 18 months. Waiting too long increases your child's risk of tooth decay, obesity, ear infections, and changes in the position of your child's teeth., This introduction can begin as early as six months of age. Allow the baby to explore the cup. He may even "play" with it rather than drink from it during the initial introduction. You will see him trying to use it as he becomes more familiar with it.


In general, only give formula or breast milk or, rarely, water, in the bottle. Offer other drinks such as healthy juices or milk (once the child is a year old) only in the cup. Your child will learn that the cup is where he gets these other drinks.

