 A name is a powerful thing, and it can say a lot about you. Think about the connotations of each name, and imagine the kind of person that you associate with that name. Consider how you want to represent yourself. You can find inspiration anywhere you look, but ultimately, your choice will come down to something that feels right―something that fits.


If you want your name to blend in, choose something common and classic, like Joseph, William, Mary, or Elizabeth.
If you want your name to stand out, choose something less traditional.;
, Write down any names that appeal to you. Peruse a list of thousands of possible names, and wait for something to stand out. If you care about the meaning and etymology of your name, make sure to read the origin of each name.
 This word need not even be a traditional human name; it just needs to be something that you feel represents you on a deep, existential level. Bear in mind that a unique name may draw attention to you.


Choose a color that you've always liked, such as Rose, Indigo, Scarlett, or Emerald. Don't be afraid to choose something that isn't traditionally used as a person name, like Blue, Topaz, Cinnabar, or Vermilion.
Draw inspiration from a plant. Choose a flower for your name, like Lily, Daisy, Belladonna, or Aster.Use an herb or spice, like Sage, Pepper, or Basil. Try using a tree, like Magnolia, Aspen, Willow. Ivy, Peach, Juniper, or Pippin.
Borrow your name from a piece of the world that speaks to you, like River, Mountain, Cloud, Rain, Autumn, Blossom, Boulder, Moonshine, Dawn, Ravine, Fog, or Flight. Name yourself after an animal (Bear, Fox, or Badger) or a place (London, Kili, or Sequoia).Adopt a word or idea that you find particularly lovely, like Morning, Serenity, Cellar, Yonder. August, Aura, Apricot, or Joy. Follow your heart. You can name yourself anything!

, This can range from the nontraditional (Bilbo, Brock, or Huck) to the fairly inauspicious (Cedric or Samwise). Pick a character that you aspire to be like, or just pick a name that you appreciate. Bear in mind that if your name is obviously derived from a character in a story, people may call attention to the connection, and they may compare you to that character. Consider whether this is an association that you want people to make.
 Walk around a cemetery reading the headstones; flip through history books and ancient records; choose a name held by one of your ancestors. You can give a unique flavor to your moniker by picking up a name that doesn't get used anymore. like Gertrude, Beatrice, Cornelius, or Rutherford. This is a way to pay homage to the past and choose a traditional human name that is still unique.
 Think about personal heroes, illustrious family members, or famous historical figures. Be aware that when you borrow someone else's name, you permanently associate yourself with that person's deeds, words, and personality. Ask yourself whether you want to pay homage to another person in this way. Think about how this decision will affect your self-identity.


Consider changing your name to that of a family member who did something brave or good. This can get confusing if they're still alive, so you may want to talk to them about it first., This is a way to make your name feel more unique (or more "you") without making a dramatic shift. For example, the name Mackenzie could also be spelled McKenzi or Makenzee. You may want to pick something unique and creative instead of the typical spellings. If you have a more traditional name, like Elizabeth, you might change your name to Bethany if you really like being called Beth.

