 There are five main types of kayaks: recreation, touring, whitewater, and downriver models. Each of these are designed to provide comfort and maneuverability suited for specific waters and purposes. Some differences between the types are as follows:



Recreational kayaks are non-specialized kayaks used for fun. These tend to be the cheapest kayaks.

Touring kayaks are used for longer trips, perhaps even overnight. This craft is sturdier than its recreational counterpart and has more cargo room.

Fishing kayaks have wide beams to offer better stability while you're wrangling your fish into your net. Some even come with rigging to improve stability.

Whitewater kayaks are designed to stand up to and easily negotiate the rough conditions created by rapids and rivers that have a fast current.

Racing kayaks are designed to go fast and are typically used for racing.;
, The material your kayak is made of will influence things like durability, weight, and ease of transport. You've already decided on the kind of kayaking you want to do, so you should think about the construction of those terms. There are three general types of kayaks: rigid, folding, and inflatable.



Rigid kayaks are the most common type of kayak. They are made of plastic (heaviest and cheapest), fiberglass (medium weight and price), or composite materials (lightest and most expensive). Wooden kayaks are also available.

Folding kayaks are easier to carry and store. They are usually more expensive than rigid kayaks, but maintain value and last longer.

Inflatable kayaks are the lightest and easiest to store of the 3 types of kayaks and are typically inexpensive. With routine maintenance, they can last a long time.
 Stability, in kayaking terms, is the ease with which your kayak stays upright in water. It is further broken down into two categories, primary and secondary stability. A short description of differences follow:



Primary stability is how stable your boat is when sitting flat on the water, with the correct side of the boat facing up. The flatter your hull, the better your primary stability.

Secondary stability is your boat's ability to balance when turned on its side. Secondary stability acts as a buffer when your balance exceeds the primary stability., The shape of your hull will effect the stability and maneuverability of your craft. Also, by learning the different varieties of hull available to you, you will be better equipped if you go to a store and talk with a salesperson about the kayaks available. Some common hull shapes are:



Displacement hulls imitate the traditional bottom of a boat, giving the profile of this hull a continuous curve along the profile and cross-section. The streamlined shape gives these boats efficient maneuverability.

Planing hulls will have angled sides that meet a flat bottom. The flat bottom of this boat will allow you to skim the surface of the water when you reach higher speeds.

Chine hulls come in two different shapes and two varieties. The shape can be either boxy or rounded, and the variety can be soft or hard. The name "chine" refers to the area where the boat bottom and sides meet.

Rocker hulls define a continuous curve to the hull of the boat stretching from bow to stern. Rocker hulls come in two styles: kick and continuous. These hulls are intended for trick moves and high maneuverability and will likely be unsuitable for a novice., Though not all boats will have these, some will come with adjustable pegs that you can push against with your feet, in addition to providing a foot rest. Other boats might have padded plates that you may or may not be able to adjust, or cut and shape foam blocks called "bulkheads."Foot pegs are usually more easily adjustable than other foot rests. This should be kept in mind while purchasing.
 Due to the fact that many modern boats sacrifice space and room for lighter weight and better maneuverability, peg-assemblies are sometimes difficult to find. Bulkheads are cut-to-shape foam that will provide a surface to rest and support your entire foot.


The stability offered by bulkheads can minimize ankle fractures cause from turbulent waters and rough impact., Though the name might be less than appealing, the big appeal of thigh-hooks is an increased ability to transfer body movement to your kayak. Since your lower body controls the tilt of the craft, lifting or dipping the edges of your kayak will offer greater control., You may be inclined to think of volume in terms of water, but where kayaks are concerned, volume refers to the inner capacity of the kayak, often measured in gallons.


High-volume craft will in many cases have a ballooned ends so the kayak resurfaces more quickly, which is exactly why this style of boat is ideal for beginners.
Low-volume kayaks are thinner and in many cases will have a "scooped" bow, which translates to a profile that cuts through water more efficiently at the cost of stability and cargo room., Kayak pricing varies greatly depending on model and the material in making the craft. An entry-level plastic kayak can cost as little as $250, while a top-of-the-line, folding, 2-person kayak can cost more than $4,000., Kayak requirements differ according to purpose. Flat or open water trips and whitewater trips utilize different kayak designs to effect the best in-water transportation.


For short, occasional trips, a cheap kayak is a good choice, but for frequent or longer trips, especially in treacherous water, you will want a higher-end model.
For the purposes of fishing and other traveling across smooth water, a larger kayak will allow you more room to stretch.A tighter fit, however, is recommended in a whitewater kayak., Before any other considerations, you should take into account how many people you will need to accommodate. Some sea kayaks can carry as many as three people. And while tandem kayaking can be a romantic activity for you and your partner, two solo kayaks will offer more autonomy and opportunity for exploration.


When inspecting 2-person kayaks, you should keep in mind that the extra length of these craft will make maneuvering more difficult.
Tandem kayaks usually weigh anywhere between 70 and 100 lbs. If you have to make a crossing with your kayak, or carry it between launch points, a lighter model might be best.
Long kayaking trips will require more room for cargo. Be sure the kayak you purchase has enough storage space to suit the duration of your trip., Some stores will allow you to check the fit of your kayak before you purchase, and kayak sellers on a waterfront might even allow you to take out a boat. You may even want to ask a friend if you can borrow a kayak and take it for a short test run.While doing so, you should consider:


The stability of the craft. Do you think you will need more or less stability? Do you feel comfortable with how your test kayak balances?
The maneuverability of the craft. If you feel that your kayak doesn't maneuver naturally or intuitively, you may want to consider a different style.
The shape of your kayak. Do you find that the shape facilitates your handling of your boat, or do you think a different configuration might be better?
Ask yourself, "Am I going to be comfortable in this cockpit for an extended period of time?"
Think about whether the storage capacity of your test kayak will fit the needs of the kayaking you plan on doing., You can find kayak providers online, but many kayaking fans argue in favor of beginners testing out a purchase before paying for it in full. Many waterfront kayak sellers will allow you to take a test paddle for a small deposit, but once you have found your ideal water chariot, pay for your boat and get ready to enjoy.

