 Reacting to a behavior you don’t like will only give the behavior more attention.Do not get upset with the other person. Do not raise your voice, hit him, or call him names for his behavior. Instead, you might say something like, "I'm not going to talk to you when you are like this. I'm going for a walk and we can talk when you've calmed down."

, It may be tempting to explain to someone why her behavior is wrong, inappropriate, or unhealthy; however, giving feedback and explaining often makes people resistant to change. Instead of explaining why one behavior is wrong, instead explain what other positive and more appropriate behavior you’d prefer.


If you want your child to stop hitting her sibling, you can say, “When you get upset with your brother I want you to try talking to him or come and find me. Just keep your hands to yourself.”If you want your spouse or partner to stop eating unhealthy foods, you might say, “I want you to try to eat more fruits and vegetables. If you get hungry, there’s plenty of apples and carrots to snack on.”
If you want your employees to stop gossiping during downtime at work, you could say, “I want you and the team to work more on organizing and planning. If you get bored or have downtime, there’s plenty of filing and research on new projects that can be done.”

, Whenever you see the other person doing what you want him to be doing, express your appreciation and support. Reward him with praise, compliments, and encouragement.If your spouse has been trying to exercise more, you could say, “You’re doing such a great job with walking every day! That’s great!”If your coworker is trying to be more productive at work, you might say, “You’ve done great work with staying on task with your projects lately! I’m impressed!”
If you have children, consider rewarding your child with things besides just praise. For example, you may give him a snack he likes, a few extra minutes of play, a new toy, or a sticker., People make mistakes and the transition to new behaviors may not be easy for them. Be patient and encourage the person to stay on track. If the person has been making an effort but backslides into the behavior, you might say, "I saw that you snuck a cigarette last night. You've been doing so well up until now — did something happen to make you want to smoke?"


Encourage the person not to give up just because he got off track. Say something like, “Relapses are very common when trying to quit an addiction. Your progress so far has been so great — don’t let this one little setback get you down. It happens to everyone.”

, Ask the other person what she needs from you in order for her behavioral changes to be successful. Offer specific suggestions and help her think of ways to make these changes easier. Only offer support that’s realistic for you.


If your wife is trying to eat healthier, you may ask, “What can I do for you to help you? Would it be helpful if I cooked from home three nights every week?”
If your employee is trying to stop procrastinating on projects, you may say, “How about I check-in with you on the status of your projects every two weeks? Would that be helpful to keep you on track?”

