 Because smoke alarms can be so finicky and are not optimal in every are of your home, it’s a good idea to consider alternative methods to detecting smoke or fire. This can help ensure that your home is fully protected from fire or smoke and may minimize the number of unpleasant false alarms.


Most fire alarms in the United States fall into two categories: photoelectric and ionization models. Ionization models are better at detecting flaming fires, while photoelectric models react more quickly to smoldering fires.
Although most homes have ionization models, most experts consider the photoelectric detector to be more effective.You can get dual models that may minimize false alarms., Technological developments have produced smoke alarms that are wireless and can alert every one in the house if there is smoke present. Purchase wireless alarms to prevent nuisance alarms and help avoid problems with power sources.Wireless alarms are especially useful for multi-level homes., Some new thermostats are “smart” and include heat detectors that can sense significant changes in temperature that may indicate a fire. Position this type of detector in areas that experience shifts in temperature or humidity.The heat detector is useful in rooms such as the kitchen, bathroom, and laundry room.Some heat detectors will allow you to turn off the alarm with a wave of your hand., Carbon monoxide is a dangerous and colorless gas that can kill you. Although it doesn’t cause fires, carbon monoxide, or CO, is often near places where there are fires. Consider employing a carbon monoxide detector in your home to help prevent death or potentially detect conditions rife for fire.Consider purchasing a combination CO/ smoke detector., There are many things, such as dust or weather, that can affect the air quality in your home and either set off false smoke alarms or cause fires. Watching the air quality in your home may help prevent false alarms and buildup of chemicals or gases that can cause fires.Most indoor air quality monitors test for temperature, relatively humidity, and carbon dioxide, or CO2., They can provide information on where devices should be located, what type of devices to use in each location, and even come to your house to perform an inspection.