 has different security measures. All of the above companies timely provides security steps to protect user's account. They timely send emails to their customers like your account is being attempted to compromised from different IP addresses. A good password is hard for other people to guess but easy for you to remember. To keep your Facebook and email account protected keep your password safe and always log out to prevent others hacking your Facebook and email accounts. Always keep your Facebook settings private.;
, Have a complicated email address, not so you will forget it, but so no one else can guess it through your name (it should contain a number - for example, John023@_____.com)

, Passwords are there to protect your account; without passwords we would be lost. Make sure your password is complicated; do not use your name, or last name. For example, do not put in "John" because the first thing that hackers will do is to guess your password based on your name. Don't use a phrase or use a pet name that most people know about. For example, do not put in "MyPetMaddy" or "ShowUsYouFeelGood". Try to use a complicated code like "mkael092" or use a code like this "09484M92", so it is impossible to guess. Choose a password you have not previously used on your account before. A good password will contain a combination of uppercase and lowercase letters; numbers; and/or special characters such as %, $, and +. It is very important to keep your password private at all times. A password that contains a mixture of letters and numbers is a good way of securing your password.
 If your computer is wireless or does not use any antivirus software and is used not just by you, your email address and password is completely at risk. Download free antivirus software by going to www.avast.com. Using wireless isn't the safest form of using the Internet, as it can be hacked by people using network sniffers. If you have no other choice, make sure you have a WPA key on your wireless Internet connection. You can change or add one by going into Connections -> Your Wireless Network -> Wireless Map -> Your Router -> Properties -> Device Webpage. Then click Wireless Security Settings and then "WEP/WPA Key". It's best to have it set using a WPA key as it's the latest version of security.
 No company's employee will ever ask you for your password in an unsolicited phone call or email message. The sender is a hacker, no doubt. S/he wants to gain access to your account and send spam emails, like asking money from your contacts or make an unauthorized third party send spam or fraudulent emails to your contact list.
 Every company has an account verification department. They also provide instant chat support/phone support. By changing your password immediately, you quickly minimize the resulting risk of your Yahoo! account.
's mail abuse department.
 The answer to a good security question:


Cannot be easily guessed or researched
Doesn't change over time
Is memorable
Is simple or definitive

