 This is the most important step, so don't skip it. Teeth should be brushed three times a day, after each meal.


Be sure to brush the full surface area of your teeth accessible with your toothbrush; this includes the cheek side, the tongue side, and the chewing surface of your teeth. Angle the toothbrush 45 degrees where your teeth meet your gums, and gently massage the toothbrush over this area to ensure it is cleaned as well. Do not press too hard here as it can be damaging. Brush your teeth for two minutes.;
, This helps to clear away plaque and bacteria, and to keep your teeth clean and shiny. Flossing should be done at least once a day.


Flossing cleans an additional 33% of tooth surface area that cannot be reached with a toothbrush alone. Flossing also removes plaque before it hardens into tartar, which keeps your teeth looking cleaner and healthier. For optimum flossing, take a piece of floss about 12 inches long and wrap it around your index finger on each hand, leaving at least 2 inches in between. Slide it between each of your teeth, being sure to go from the top of the tooth all the way to the base. Repeat two to three times to ensure plaque is removed.
 This can help to keep your mouth and teeth clean. Some mouthwashes have additional "whitening" properties, but it depends on which brand you buy - read the product label for more information.
 This is critical in maintaining good oral hygiene, and your dentist can provide you with additional information and suggestions specific to you.
 In general, they whiten teeth only at the superficial level; however, some contain stronger chemicals that can induce whitening in the deeper layers of the tooth. These toothpastes can lighten the color of your teeth by about one shade. In contrast, some prescription whitening techniques (ask your dentist about options that may apply to you) can lighten your teeth by about three to eight shades.
 These can help to freshen your breath as well as to improve the color of your teeth. However, since a rinse is in contact with your teeth for only a brief period of time, it may be less effective than whitening strips and gels, which are discussed below. , These are substances that contain hydrogen peroxide, which has a chemical effect on whitening the teeth. Generally they are used for about 30 minutes at a time (instructions vary depending on the brand and method chosen) about twice a day for a couple of weeks. The final results should last for a few months. These are some of the most effective over-the-counter methods for whitening your teeth. ,


Procedures done "in-office" with your dentist are definitely more costly, but also more effective.
The strength of the hydrogen peroxide solution is notably higher in the dentist's office (and therefore more effective).
The tools used to apply the solutions can be specifically designed to optimally suit your mouth and teeth shape. They will be tailored to maximize the surface area on your teeth that receives the whitening treatment, while minimizing potential damage from whitening treatments to other areas of your mouth.
Your dentist will also be able to use his or her expertise to provide additional oral health suggestions specifically for you. , While you may be trying to avoid a costly trip to the dentist, you may end up spending more in the long run — and causing yourself a considerable amount of pain — if you try something that damages your teeth or gums. Even just a call to your dentist's office to verify the safety of your chosen at-home method is a good idea.

Whitening your teeth at home without a consultation with your dentist is risky and could damage your teeth or mouth.
 Put some toothpaste on a toothbrush and then sprinkle some baking soda on it. Brush your teeth with this. Baking soda helps to remove the stains from the enamel, which is the outermost layer of the tooth. Do this step regularly, and you'll be on your way to having those Pearly Whites for the rest of your life! , Mix baking soda and hydrogen peroxide to form a sort of "toothpaste." Brush your teeth with this paste, but not too often.


Use 3% hydrogen peroxide in your mixture. Hydrogen peroxide is the active ingredient in many over-the-counter teeth-whitening remedies. It functions by the process of "oxidation," which is a chemical reaction that helps to whiten teeth.
 There is a substance called "lauric acid" found in coconut oil; this can help to prevent bacteria-induced discoloration of the teeth. It may sound unpleasant, but the taste is actually not too bad when you try it! 