 Add extra letters to the end of words. Typing like a scene kid has no grammar or spelling rules. Use unusual amounts of emoticons and <3's. Some example include: D= :3 ^_^ and c:


Some examples of how you might type:

"ZOMG dats HxC." = "Oh my god, that's hardcore."

"Srsly, i don't caaaare if he liks me. hes got to shutup." = "Seriously, I don't care if he likes me. He has to shut up."



, This point of your name is to convey that you are both scene and creative. Scene names do not follow any spelling or grammar rules that regular names do. This doesn't mean that they don't follow their own rules, guidelines and/or basic themes:


Play with a phrase. Take a fantasy story like Alice in Wonderland and change it so that people believe you are cultured and clever, like AllisonWonderland.
Make an alliteration. Think of an adjective you would like associated with you like brutal, homicidal or catastrophic, and add it to your name. If it's not an alliteration, force it by misspelling the adjective, like KatastrophicKatie.
Add some X's. It's just a xXfunXx way to look more scene. But always balance out the x's so that there is the same number of x's on both sides of your name.
Ignore grammar rules. Try adding incorrect punctuation!, avoiding spacingwordsproperly, and using upper and lowercase letters intErchAngEably.
 Social media profiles are judged by sheer volume of "friends" someone has. That means: If you met someone briefly, add them. If you went to middle school with them, add them. If you have a mutual friend, add them. If you like the same band, add them. If you have the same pose in your profile picture, add them. If you are from the state, add them. And so on.


Flirt with everyone you friended. If someone adds you, be sure to thank them for the add. Then be sure to mention that they are cute and that you are interested, whether it is through a comment on a picture, a wall post, or in a private message.
 The photo shouldn't actually be a picture of you, so much as a picture of part of you. Here are some typical picture tricks to get the perfect scene profile photo:


Cut yourself out of the photo. Don't feel the need to include your entire face or body. Just your eye and bangs, just your body or just your mouth is enough of a photo to help someone identify you.
Use a mirror. Extra scene points are giving for using your iPhone to take the picture. This lets everyone know that you: 1) Took the photo yourself, and 2) that you spent a lot of money on your camera or smart phone.
Rotate the camera/photo. A basic straight on shot isn't creative. Everyone takes pictures like that. Angle the camera, or move it so that people have to struggle to find your in your hair. It makes your profile picture so much more interesting.
Set the camera on a table and bend over/sit at your computer. Ever bored and have nothing to do at the computer? Take pictures. This is like the exact opposite of suggestion 2, so much so that it's ironic and creative that you didn't rotate the camera.
Don't look at the camera! Look down, look up, look to the left, look to the right, just don't look at the camera.

Hide behind your hair. Unlike other people, scene kids care about two parts of their bodies: their eyes and their hair. This should be the focal point of the picture. So don't distract people with your face.
Filter your pictures. Change your picture to black and white, faded-vintage, blurred or color tinted settings to achieve the scene look.
Write on your hand. Write a quote, your name, or a heart on your hand and hold it up for the camera. Everyone thinks this is cute.
Do a creative face. Smile, stick your tongue out, look like your contemplating, just be creative! Don't do a boring smile, everyone smiles in pictures!

, If you have even heard a song by that band, add them. It's important to showcase your wide taste in and vast knowledge of music. The more music you include, the more "scene" you will look.


Go for obscure, not-yet-popular music. Scene kids, like hipsters, adore the idea of having liked a band before they were cool. It means they're on the cutting edge, a trendsetter. If this means resurrecting a once-popular band that has since fallen into obscurity, that's ok too.
 Music shows are important to the scene culture. Go to as many as you can. If there is a concert within a 60 mile (97 km) radius, try to go. Update your status to let people know that you are really into music. Don't forget to take pictures to prove that you went. Pictures should be of the stage and mob pits. It's not important that you are actually in the pictures.
 Constantly update your status to tell people that you are bored, what's bothering you, that you feel like chatting, or that you are off to a show. People wouldn't have become friends with you if they didn't want constant updates on your life.
 The right scene attitude will do a lot to help you fit in and distinguish yourself as a true scenester. Because you dress the way that you do, expect to get a lot of grief from other people, especially older folks. Brush it off. A scene kid isn't interested in getting approval from random haters, much less from adults (although s/he isn't that rebellious). To master the attitude:


Be carefree. You are who you are and you know it. You're happy with yourself, so you wear your badges with confidence and style.
Don't be rude. Scenesters don't really have a chip on their shoulders like some hipsters do. Whether it's to someone's parents or a friend in your circle, you seek to be pleasant and easy-going, even if you're being teased.

