 This will be where you store all the information you have in the binder.


If you want a simple binder that gets the job done, go for black or white. But if you want to have a fancier binder, go for one that is a bright color or even one that has a pattern on it!
No matter which binder you choose, make sure that it's one you like. If you don't like the binder, you might not want to open it, no matter how important the information in it is!;
, You know those plastic sheets that you put over paper when you put it in a binder? You want a lot of those. That way, the pages inside won't get ripped or crinkled, and if you accidentally spill something on the binder by mistake, the information inside won't be destroyed.
 You want something to draw with; a pencil is best, but if you are really good at drawing and don't make many mistakes, a pen is also useful. You also want something to color with, like markers, crayons, or colored pencils. You'll need paper, and you'll also need your Webkinz and any information about them that you want to put in the binder.


If you are storing your account information in this binder, gather this while you gather your other materials.
If you like, also gather any pictures of your Webkinz that you have. If you don't have any pictures, and you have a camera, over time, take a few pictures of them (and also take a group picture) and get them printed.
If you are a good drawer, you could also draw your Webkinz, but this could take some time.
 You could use a table, a desk, the floor, a chair, etc. but no matter what kind of surface you will be using, you want the surface to be flat.
 Try to make it Webkinz-related! You could draw some of your Webkinz, or various Webkinz items and symbols! But make it creative, make it about you and your Webkinz, and make it unique! You don't want your binder to look exactly like every other Webkinz Binder ever created by anyone.


If you're not a drawing kind of person, print out some pictures of your Webkinz off your computer and glue them to a piece of paper, and then write on that piece of paper (just not the photos!).
 This will help fill up your binder so that it's not just an empty page with a cover and you will have all your information gathered into one place!


If you so desire, spruce up the pages a little bit by drawing fun pictures on them. For example, if you have a piece of paper devoted to all of your Webkinz' birthdays, you could draw a birthday cake or party hats.
 Naturally, you may get another Webkinz, so if you do, add information about them to the binder. Also, if you set up a second (or third, fourth, fifth, etc.) account, you may want to either start a new binder for it or add that account to your current Webkinz binder.
 You're not limited by the steps here or what others are doing; add your own pages and your own flair! It's your Webkinz Binder, so go with it!

