 Antihistamine creams and tablets are medications that can ease an itch resulting from an allergic reaction. They work by blocking histamines binding to your cells and thus, prevent the release of mediators that cause the symptoms of allergy (including itching).Apply Benadryl (diphenhydramine) topical cream to the skin or take oral tablets/liquid before bedtime. Besides helping with the itching, oral Benadryl also causes drowsiness, which can help you sleep better.If you have large areas of skin that itches, you should choose an oral anti-histamine instead of putting a topical cream on a large area.
However, choose either the topical cream or the oral diphenhydramine. Never use both together or you could be exposed to too much of the medication.
Always follow the directions in the label and never exceed the recommended dose.
Other antihistamines you can try include over-the-counter Zyrtec (cetirizine) and Claritin (loratadine).
Make sure you check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking oral medications if you have medical conditions, allergies to medicines, or take other medications.;
, Corticosteroids are effective in controlling inflammation by altering the function of a number of cells and chemicals in the skin. If the itching is caused by an inflammatory condition (such as eczema), try using corticosteroid cream.When using corticosteroid cream, you may want to cover the area with a damp cotton material soaked in water. This will help the skin absorb the cream.Corticosteroid creams are available in mild forms over-the-counter, or stronger by prescription only.
If the itchy area isn’t large, your doctor may prescribe calcineurin inhibitor drugs (such as Protopic or Elidel) instead of corticosteroid creams.
 These may help for mild itching if you prefer not to use over-the-counter or prescription medications. Apply the moisturizing cream before bedtime and, in case of a prolonged condition, at least twice a day until the symptoms are gone.Try Cetaphil, Eucerin, Sarna, or CeraVe moisturizers or Aveeno, which is made of oats.
Calamine or menthol are also good anti-itch products that can temporarily relieve the symptoms.Optionally, form a protective barrier on the skin by using barrier creams that contain zinc oxide, lanolin or petrolatum. For example, petroleum jelly is an inexpensive treatment that is gentle in handling itchy, dry skin., This can help reduce irritation but also protects the skin and prevents you from scratching it during the night.You may be attempted to scratch the affected area but try to avoid this. You can easily break your skin by constant scratching during the night, making the skin vulnerable for infection. If you can’t avoid scratching, trim your nails or wear gloves at night.
Optionally, you can tape a plastic wrap around the skin to protect it and prevent yourself from scratching it.
 Oats have chemicals called avenanthramides that fight inflammation and redness and can help soothe itching.Grind oatmeal in a blender and slowly sprinkle it into the tub while the water is running. Then soak for at least 15 minutes before bedtime.
Or try Aveeno oatmeal baths, which are available over-the-counter and easy to use.
Or add 1 cup baking soda to a tub of warm water and soak your itchy skin for 30 to 60 minutes before bedtime.
Localized itches can also be treated with a baking soda paste. Combine 3 parts baking soda and 1 part water and mix, then apply over the affected area. Only use over skin that is not broken.
 These materials can help reduce irritation. Avoid clothes that irritate your skin, such as wool and some man-made fabrics. It may also beneficial to avoid tight-fitting clothes., Some materials can cause irritation or allergic reaction, such as jewelry, perfume, skin products with strong fragrances, cleaning products, and cosmetics. Do not use these at night.Also use unscented laundry detergent when washing your pajama or bedding and use the extra-rinse cycle on your washing machine.

