 If your site is hard to look at, you won’t retain many visitors. Make sure that your style matches your niche, and that it is modern enough to be pleasing to the eye and easy to navigate.
 To improve your website, balance your page because when users enter a website, their focus first starts at the top left of the page and hovers there before slowly tracking to the right. The web user is focused more on the text of the page, rather than images or graphics. This is where balance comes into place.Balance will not only make your page more visually appealing, but it will make your page easier to read and items easier to find. A good object will help the objects on your page flow.
 If you clean your website up by removing all the unnecessary visual elements, it will allow important items to stand out. You should leave some white space on the page so the illusion of the space is visually pleasing, as well as easier to navigate.


Use clean backgrounds. The background textures and color you choose have the ability to drastically affect the overall appeal of the website. Lots of texture and graphics in the background can be distracting. If you are going to use a color on the background, you should make sure there is significant contrast between the background color and the text. Be careful when using brighter and darker colors such as red or yellow. They cause visual fatigue (temporary loss of strength and energy resulting from hard physical or mental work) and the reader will lose their focus on the text.
 If you are using photographs on your site, ensure that they are as high-quality as possible. This may mean investing in a better camera if you take your own photos.
 For easy navigation, you should create a toolbar with links that are easy to navigate and position the toolbar in an area that makes sense. Web users often look for the toolbar across the top or down the left the left hand side of the page. You shouldn't forget a link to your homepage. It’s often forgotten but very important to point your users to your homepage.
 If you don’t have much artistic flair, you can commission art for your site to give it a professional look. This can cost a little money, but can have a big impact on the feel of your site.
 These are very shareable, and dominate social media feeds. There are sites online that can create infographics for you based on your data and template choices.
 Podcasts are a popular way to share your thoughts and views with your readers. They can listen to your podcasts on the go, and you can even earn money from them.


Start-Your-Own-Podcast

, If your suite lends itself to video, consider linking a YouTube channel to it. You can embed YouTube videos in your blog posts and send YouTube viewers to your blog for more details. You can even monetize your YouTube channel for additional revenue.

