 Take a step back and try to understand the real reason for your self-harming behaviors. Are you cutting to reduce stress or escape painful emotions? Are you cutting to as a way to feel in control of a part of your life? Was there a traumatic experience in your life that lead you to begin engaging in self-harming behaviors? Understanding the catalyst to your cutting behaviors will give you a launch pad to begin your healing. , Once you have established the root of your cutting behaviors, you must access your feelings and learn how your feelings are connected to your cutting. Do not hide your emotions or bottle them up. Express what you are feeling as they occur. Try writing them down or talking to someone about your feelings.Recognize that your feelings directly impact your actions. If you are feeling exceptionally sad, the urge to cut may become stronger. By acknowledging that you are sad, you will anticipate your urges and begin to become more aware of the patterns of your self-harm behavior.
Acknowledge your feeling by saying phrases like “I am feeling ____” and, “I accept that I am feeling___.”, Triggers are people, places, or events that provoke your cutting behaviors. Triggers vary by person, and you must understand your specific triggers to better handle your cutting behaviors. Deciphering your specific triggers may help you more readily understand what is causing your cutting behaviors.Write down events and feelings leading up to each time you cut yourself. Look for patterns and similarities to better understand your specific triggers.
You will know you have been "triggered" when your emotions surge and become intense and out of proportion following the event that triggered you., Do you enter a quiet room and lay out your cutting tools or listen to a specific song before each cutting event? You likely have ritualized and sometimes unconscious behaviors you do surrounding your self-harm behavior. Become aware of these will help you notice when you are going to cut.Engage in mindfulness exercises to bring your unconscious "rituals" to the conscious. Take explicit notes on each action you engage in. For example, “I am going into my room. I am closing the door. I am rolling up my sleeves.” These thoughts will interrupt your rituals and make yourself more aware.
Practice being mindful by going to a quiet room and noticing your posture, where your arms hang, the temperature and smell of the room, etc… Keep practicing this and soon, you will be able to become aware of your cutting rituals., Visualize how your life would be if you didn’t cut. Do you think you would feel more fulfilled or could you do certain things that your cutting is holding you back from? Think about the future repercussions of your cutting behaviors such as your children asking about the scars on your arms, or jobs you might miss out on.Visualizing your life without cutting should help motivate you to end the behavior. Further motivate yourself by telling yourself that you can stop and you will stop.
 When you get the urge to self harm, try to distract yourself from that urge by doing something you enjoy such as reading a book, cooking a healthy meal, or dancing. Do an activity that you enjoy and feel good about doing.


Exercise is a great distraction because it releases cooped-up energy, promotes positive self-esteem, and improves your mood through the release of endorphins, the “feel good hormone.”, Putting your feelings into a concrete and tangible form can help the pain and negativity feel less intense, according to a recent study from UCLA.Putting your feelings into words can help you come to terms with them and clarify your thoughts. It can also reduce your stress and even boost your immune system.


Journaling is most effective if you do it every day for about 20 minutes. To get started just write! Don’t worry about grammar and spelling. Try to just get all of your thoughts on paper., You might get a release just from the sensation of cutting. So if you get the urge to cut, find a safe alternative to substitute that feeling. Try writing in red pen where you usually might cut, or place rubber bands around your wrists, and snap them for a short period of time. Another alternative is making ice cubes with red food dye in them. When you want to cut, rub ice along your cutting sites, this gives the sensation and appearance of cutting , Mindful breathing has been scientifically shown to have multiple health benefits.In terms of helping you cope with your cutting, mindful breathing can center you and slow down your though processes when you have been triggered. It can calm you and help you not to cut. Go to a quiet room and begin breathing regularly. Then slow your breathing down inhaling deeply through your nose, and exhaling slowing through your mouth.Breathe in the good thought and release your negative energy through each exhale.
 It is very challenging to overcome a serious negative behavior, such as cutting, without the help of others. A healthy set of friends and family who love you are critically important to your recovery. Building a support system will help keep you accountable, be a lifeline for tough times, and be a sounding board for you. Select a support system carefully, ensuring you select people who make you better and are a healthy influence.


Select people who are supportive, listen carefully to you and provide feedback, are loyal, and you implicitly trust.Select people who you know will be there for you at all times, and do not make you feel guilty for talking about yourself.
You don’t even need to talk about your cutting behaviors. They can just be people that you turn to when you are going through a rough time and need a distraction. Go have coffee or a meal with people to take your mind off of cutting.
 Make an appointment with your GP and tell her what is going on. She can guide you in the right direction in terms of support. She can give you referrals to therapists and evaluate whether you are in immediate medical or psychiatric danger.


Be completely honest with your GP in terms of your feelings and medical history. If you are unsure why you self harm, tell her so she can institute a plan to help., A therapist is specially trained to help you deal with a wide range of issue with respect to mental health. A therapist will help you talk through your issues and implement an actionable plan aimed at recovery. Choosing a therapist is an important process in your recovery. You must feel comfortable, safe, respected and understood with your therapist, and if you do not, try seeing someone else.Cutting is not necessarily a mental disorder and you may not feel that you need therapy. Yet a therapist can be immensely helpful in better understanding your self-harming behaviors and associated feelings, developing coping mechanisms, and defining recovery goals.
 A medical professional might recommend taking prescription medicine, such as anti-depressants. Deeply consider this options and discuss the possible reactions or side effects of each drug. Do your research and take the medicines with caution, using the exact directions given by your healthcare provider.
 You might need full-time care in a treatment facility to overcome your self-harm behavior. It could be an outpatient facility or a residential one, depending on your needs. Consult your GP and therapist about whether this would be a valuable option for your recovery. A treatment facility will take care of both your physical and mental needs.


Look into both hospital and private facilities in your area to find the best fit for your needs. Do not be afraid to ask questions and seek multiple opinions.

