 Check out other auctions or reseller’s websites to look at common prices, especially for RVs of a similar make and model or similar condition to one you’re interested in. Be wary or prepared to negotiate on starting bids or asking prices that seem much higher than others in the market.


Consult the NADA Guide for the RV model you’re interested in to find out the low value for the specific make and model. Make sure a seller isn’t asking a rate that’s higher than its true value, and that you’re prepared to bid no more than it’s really worth.Consider that you want to pay less for a repo RV than you would if buying a regular used RV from a dealer or a private seller, especially if you don’t have a lot of information about the vehicle. Considering all the unknowns about the previous owner, the risk to you warrants a significant price reduction.
 Determine whatever information you can about an RV you’re interested in from a lender, reseller, or dealer. Then do any additional research you need to to find out if you’re getting a fair price and a good value considering the risk and quality of the vehicle.


Look for sellers that provide photos, vehicle histories, VIN numbers, and certified titles. The more information provided upfront the better, as it usually means the RV is in better shape, you can do better research, and you are closer to getting it road-ready.If there are known repairs that need to be made on an RV, get a quote from an auto repair shop for the estimated amount it would cost to fix them, and factor that into your budget and considerations.
 Determine when and for how long you are able to inspect a repo RV you’re interested in, and look it over thoroughly for possible damage. You might be able to schedule an appointment in advance, or view a unit along with the public before the start of an auction. You may even be able to test-drive a motorhome or truck camper.


Bring along an experienced mechanic or an RV expert to your inspection if you can. Get the fullest assessment possible about the car’s conditions and possible problems so you know exactly what you’re bidding on or buying.
If you are buying a repo RV from another state and can’t inspect it in person, hire an independent inspection service or trusted mechanic to look at the RV for you.