 You qualify for a domestic violence restraining order if you and the person you want to restrain are dating or live together, or if you used to date or live together and have since separated.If you want a domestic violence restraining order, you must fill out a request for a restraining order, a notice of court hearing, and a temporary restraining order.
These forms are available here: http://www.courts.ca.gov/1264.htm online or at your local superior court. If you get them online, you can fill out the form directly in your browser and print it. If you do, be sure to click the button at the bottom of the form to clear the data you entered.If you are staying at a domestic violence shelter, you may have a staff member or volunteer attorney available to assist you.If you have any questions or find the process difficult, you can seek assistance from your county court's family law facilitator or contact the self-help center.You also can use these resources to have your paperwork reviewed and make sure everything's in order before you file.
 If you have children with the person you're attempting to restrain, you can request the judge grant you custody of those children when you request the restraining order.If necessary, you also may fill out a request for a no travel with children order, which would restrict the other parent's ability to travel with your child to another county in California, another state in the United States, or another country.You also will fill out a child custody and visitation order. If the judge approves your request, she will sign the order along with your temporary restraining order.
 The request for child custody and visitation should accompany your request for a domestic violence restraining order, while your child custody and visitation order should accompany your temporary restraining order., You will need to file the original, but you'll need one copy for yourself and one copy for the person you want the court to restrain. The extra copies you should keep in a safe place., Contact your local court to learn the filing procedure, and find out if you need to include any additional forms.


You'll need to take your forms to the court clerk, who will give them to the judge. If the judge wants to talk to you or give you more information, the clerk will let you know.
The clerk will tell you when to come back and get your paperwork. When you return, you'll find out if the judge signed your temporary order and when your court hearing is scheduled. Your temporary restraining order runs out on the same date as your hearing, so if you want your order extended, you'll have to appear at the hearing.
There is no fee for filing a restraining order., You'll have to get a disinterested third party over the age of 18 to give the papers to the person being restrained. You can also hire a private process serving company or talk to the sheriff's office.


The judge cannot make the order permanent until the other party is served and has a chance to respond to your allegations in a hearing., Once the restrained person has a copy of the documents, have the server fill out the proof of personal service form so you can file it before your hearing.


Make copies as you did with all your other documents, because the clerk will stamp your copies "filed" and keep the original when you file it. You'll need to bring a file-stamped copy with you to the hearing., If there are child support and custody issues involved, the judge probably will send you to mediation so you can work out a parenting plan with the other parent.


The judge may extend the length of your temporary restraining order if you attend mediation. If you and the other parent haven't resolved paternity of the child, you can also deal with that., Arrive early and come prepared with all documents and evidence you need to show the reasons for the restraining order and that you should be granted sole custody of the child.


For example, you may bring along photos, police reports, or the child's records and schedules. You may also bring a witness to support you, but she may not be allowed to speak.At the end of the hearing, the judge will issue her orders. If your request was granted, you'll need to fill out a permanent order of protection.
The form is available here: http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/dv130.pdf.

