 Pour 4 cups (950 milliliters) of water and ¾ cups (180 milliliters) of low-sodium chicken broth into a 2 or 3-quart (2 or 3-liter) saucepan, and bring it to a simmer over medium-low heat. Using a low-sodium chicken broth is the first step to creating a healthier chicken soup., Add 1 pound (454 grams) of boneless, skinless chicken breasts into the saucepan, and simmer uncovered for 6 minutes. Next, take the saucepan off the burner, cover it with a lid, and let it stand (off-heat) until the chicken is cooked through. This will take about 15 minutes.


The chicken is cooked through when it is no longer pink inside and the juices run clear. Do not undercook the chicken.
 Using a pair of tongs, take the chicken out of the broth, and let it cool on a plate for 10 minutes. Then, using a knife and fork, shred the chicken to ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) wide, 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) long pieces. Set the broth aside for later.
 Peel and chop 1 medium-sized onion, then add it to a heavy-bottomed 4-quart (4-liter) pot with 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of oil. Let the onion cook, stirring occasionally, until it softens. This will take about 6 minutes.


Do not let the onion turn brown or caramelize.
 Peel 1 garlic glove, mince it, then add it to the pot with the onion. Continue cooking, stirring from time to time, until the garlic turns fragrant. This will take about 1 minute.
 Cut the carrots and celery into ⅓-inch (0.85-centimeter) thick slices, then add them to the pot. Add ½ teaspoon of salt and ¼ teaspoon of pepper. Cover the pot with a lid, and let the vegetables cook until they turn soft. This will take about 8 to 10 minutes.


Give the vegetables a stir every so often so that they don't burn and cook more evenly.
Don't worry about cooking the vegetables all the way through. You will continue cooking them in the next step.
 Take the water-and-chicken broth mixture from before, and pour it into your saucepan over the vegetables. Give it a stir, then simmer it, covered, over low to medium-low heat until the vegetables turn tender. This will take about 10 minutes.
 Give everything a stir, then ladle it out into 4 soup bowls and serve. If you have any soup left over, you can store it in the fridge or freezer.