 For example, if the city you visit has a bad (not safe/expensive) public transportation, paying a few bucks more and staying in the city center means more time in there. Also, hard-to-reach location might mean a long walk after dark in unknown place for you.;
, Look for a method of payment, cancel policy, key system, and curfew. Photos and reviews by guests can be very tricky - people's tastes and what they expect to the place differs greatly. Always add a pinch of salt to them when you read the page.
 If the beds are fully booked and you do not know other place to inquire, it would cost much more.
 Of course you can call from the destination, but think about this: If you just exchanged money into the currency, you might not have small coins for the public phone. Plus, in some countries, you need to buy a phone card to call. What if the plane delayed and the kiosk you can buy a card is closed? Or closed for a national holiday you didn't know?

, These places are cheap for reason: you need to follow the certain rules, and keep it.
 Others might be asleep. Do not turn on the lights when you enter the room if you think there are people in their beds.
 It always helps you to stay in the room comfortably. Say your name and nice-to-meet-yous. If they have stayed longer than you there, they might give you some tips on the city. If they get to know you, they are more likely to help you when you are in trouble. But do not over-share: do not show them where your passport/money/cheque is or detailed information about you.
 Accessing to the hostel room is easier than you think. Leave your valuables in the lockers, and carry most-valuables (passport, money, ID etc) with you, even to the toilet, shower, or a bed, if you do not trust the safety box system of the hostel.
 You cannot stop or change it. So if you are sensitive to others' sound, carry earplugs and an eye-mask.
 They can talk to the others, or relocate you to the new room with less noise. If it fails, just grin and bear.

