 This is the most common, standard way of telling someone “I love you” in Chinese.


Standard Chinese and Mandarin are, essentially, one in the same. Mandarin has more native speakers than any other Chinese dialect, and it is spoken across the majority of norther and southwestern China.
In traditional Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我愛你。
In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我爱你。
This expression is roughly pronounced, wo-eye-knee". The "wo" should be pronounced in the 3rd tone (slightly dipping and then rising to a higher pitch). The "ai" is a fourth tone (sharp, falling pitch) and the "ni" is again a 3rd tone.
;
, If speaking or writing to someone who speaks Cantonese, this would be the best way to tell him or her “I love you.”


Cantonese is another common dialect, but it is mostly spoken in southern China. Many people speak this Chinese dialect in Hong Kong and Macau, as well.
In traditional Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我愛你。
In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我爱你。
This expression is roughly pronounced, ngo ngoi nay.
 For speakers of the Hakka dialect, you should use this phrase to say “I love you” instead of using the Standard Chinese phrase.


Hakka Chinese is only spoken by a small amount of people, usually ethnic Hakka people who live in provincial areas of China, including Hunan, Fujian, Sichuan, Guangxi, Jianxi, and Guangdong. It is also spoken in various parts of Hong Kong and Taiwan.
In traditional Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 𠊎愛你。
This expression is roughly pronounced, nai OI nee.
 Speakers of the Shanghainese dialect use this expression to say “I love you.”


Shanghainese is a kind of Wu dialect spoken in Shanghai and the surrounding area.
In traditional Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 侬愛你。
This expression is roughly pronounced, nuhn EH nohn.
 The most proper way to say “I love you” to a speaker of the Taiwanese dialect would be this phrase.


Taiwanese is spoken most frequently in Taiwan, where it is used by roughly 70 percent of the population.
In traditional Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我愛你。Notice this is the same as the Cantonese written characters.This is because most spoken dialects use the same characters; they only pronounce them differently.
This expression is roughly pronounced, gwah AI lee.
 When translated into English, this phrase roughly means, "When I'm with you, I feel very happy."


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 跟你在一起的时候好开心。
This expression is roughly pronounced, gun knee dz-eye ee-chee duh shir-hoe, how kai-sheen. "Gen" is a first tone (a high, sustained pitch). Ni is a third tone, zai is a fourth tone (the z is pronounced like combining a d and z sound together), yi qi 1st then 3rd (try to make this a chunk as together the characters mean "together"), de is neutral (pronounce it lightly as if it were barely there) shihou is another chunk made of a 2nd tone and a neutral tone. Hao is a third tone and kaixin (another chunk) is two first tones (this means the pitch of your voice should not change).
 The most direct English translation of this phrase would be "I'm interested in you."


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我对你感兴趣。
This expression is roughly pronounced, whoa dwei knee gan shing qu. The wo is, as before, a third tone. Dui is a clipped forth tone. This "ni" is different before. Because gan is also a third tone, this "ni" becomes a second tone. This makes the phrase easier to pronounce (and is a rule in Chinese pronunciation). Xing is a fourth tone. Qu is tricky. The q is pronounced like a "ch-" sound in English, but the "u" is actually a ü, which is pronounced almost like an e that turns into a u. This qu is also a fourth tone.
 This phrase roughly means, "I like you lots” or “I really like you.”


In traditional Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我很喜欢你。
This expression is roughly pronounced, whoa hun she-huan knee. Wo becomes a second tone (rising tone) because it is followed by the third tone hen. The third tone xi should rise to a high pitch that is maintained in the first tone huan. Ni is a third tone.
 This phrase can be used to say, “I like you very much” or “I really like you.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我非常喜欢你。
This expression is roughly pronounced almost exactly like "I really like you", except the "hen" is replaced with "fei chang" for emphasis. Fey-chang is pronounced with a first then second tone. The a in chang is a long a sound, not like in the word "apple" but as in "awe".
 Translated into English, this phrase means, “I've fallen in love with you.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我爱上你了。
This expression is roughly pronounced, whoa eye shang knee le. Wo is a third tone. Ai is a fourth tone. Shang (with a long a sound) is also a fourth tone. Ni is a third tone and le is a neutral tone.
 This phrase essentially means, “You are the only one in my heart.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我的心里只有你。
This expression is roughly pronounced, "whoa de sheen lee, jir yo knee". Wo is third, de is neutral, xin is a first tone and should be chunked together with the third tone li. Zhi is tricky; the zh is pronounced like a j. Imagine after the i is an r that kind of tags along, there but only barely. This is a second tone because you is a third tone. Ni is a third tone.
 This statement is used to say, “You are the first person I feel like this about.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 你是第一个让我如此心动的人。
This expression is roughly pronounced, "knee shir dee yee guh rang whoa ru tsi sheen dong duh ren." Shi is similar to zhi but the sh is just like in English. Di is a fourth tone. Yi is a first tone (make sure to draw it out). Rang is another long a word, fourth tone. Wo stays as a third tone. Ru is a second (rising tone). Ci is another tricky sound. The c is pronounced like the combination of a t and an s. Ci is a third tone. Xin is first and dong (with a long o) is fourth. De is neutral and ren is second. If you can try to make your r sound like a French j and an r mixed together. This is more standard pronunciation.
 The English equivalent of this phrase would be, “You have stolen my heart.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 你偷走了我的心。
This expression is roughly pronounced, knee tow dzou le whoa de sheen". Ni is third. Tou is first, which is grouped with the third tone zou (dz combo) and the neutral le. Wo is third tone, de is neutral and xin is first.
 This statement roughly means, “I will always be by your side.”


In simplifed Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 我会一直在你身边。
This expression is roughly pronounced, whoa hwey ee-jir dz-eye knee shen bee-en". Wo is third tone. Hui is fourth tone. Yi zhi is chunked together (first, second). Zai (dz combo) is fourth. Ni is third. Shen bian should be put together. Shen is a first tone,as is bian so they should be pronounced with the same pitch.
 This phrase translates loosely into, “Let's slowly grow old together.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 让我们一起慢慢变老。
This expression is roughly pronounced, rang whoa-men ee-chee man man be-en low". Rang is fourth tone. Women is a chunk, a third tone that rises high for the neutral tone. Yiqi is also together, first tone then third. Both mans are fourth tones with long a sounds. Bian is one syllable, a fourth tone word. Lao is a third tone word.
 The equivalent of this expression would be, “Your smile mesmerizes me.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 你的笑容让我着迷。
This expression is roughly pronounced, "knee duh shee-ow rong rang whoa jow mee". Ni is a third tone followed by the neutral de. Xiaorong is one word (meaning smile); it is a total of two syllables. Xiao is a fourth tone word, whereas rong (with a long o) is a second tone. Rang is a fourth tone word with a long a. Wo is a third tone. Zhao (with zh=j) is a second tone, as is mi.
 Use this expression to tell someone, “You are the most beautiful person in my eyes.”


In simplified Chinese characters, this expression would be written as, 你在我眼里是最美的。
This expression is roughly pronounced, knee dz-eye whoa yen lee, shir dzui may duh." Ni is a third tone, zai is 4th (remember the dz combo), wo is third, yan changes to second and li is third. This is a fourth tone. Zui is also a dz combo; it's a fourth tone word. Mei is a third tone, but the neutral de after should be higher than the end pitch of mei.


