 Before brainstorming for ideas, you need to design a budget. After designing a budget, you'll know the exact resources you have to create your dining room.


Start with savings or other money you've set aside for your dining room.
Allocate money for painting, flooring, and other structural elements. It might be best to get estimates from several contractors for these costs.
Determine how much money you have for major pieces of furniture. This includes your table, chairs, and buffet.
Figure out how much money you want to reserve for accessories like artwork, plants, or rugs.;
, Spend time browsing a variety of media in order to get ideas about how you'll plan your dining room. Without looking at how others have designed inviting dining rooms, you won't be equipped to prepare your own. Consult:


Furniture catalogs.
Home improvement magazines. Consider magazines like "Better Homes and Gardens," "Martha Stewart Living," or "Good House Keeping."
Websites. Try websites associated with popular magazines or TV channels like HG TV.
 The style of a dining room is largely responsible for the feel of the overall room. Thus, you need to make sure you are conscious of the style you are choosing when you design your dining room. If you’re not, your room may clash or send mixed signals to guests.


Consider styles such as neoclassical, Tudor, art deco, French countryside, or shabby sheik.
Your style may or may not reflect the overall style of your home.
If you choose a clashing style, make sure to clash responsibly and do so deliberately. For instance, you may choose to stick an art deco serving table into a room decorated with a Tudor style., As the centerpiece of your dining room, your table will set the tone for the whole room. If you choose an inappropriate table, you’ll inadvertently set a tone that you don’t want.


Your table should be an appropriate size for your room. You should have at least 36 inches (91 cm) between your table and the wall (or furniture). Ideally, you should have 48 inches (123 cm) between the two.
Think about whether you want an expandable table with leaves.
Consider the style of your table and whether it will match other accent furniture. Major styles include traditional (with many ornate details), contemporary style (relatively simple), transitional (some ornate details but relatively simple), and the country style (these might appear shabby chic or distressed).
Determine the material you want your table made from. While some people prefer a traditional wood, others might want a upscale mahogany, and some people may want a modern-looking glass or metal table.
Think about whether the table will age well. Ultimately, a cheap table that looks good today might look horrible in 5 years – forcing you to redesign your whole dining room., Seating is an essential element in any dining room. Thus, you need to put a lot of thought into the types of seating and number of options you’ll include. When picking seating, consider:


Provide seating for your average dining party. For most people, this ranges from 8 to 12.
Pick chairs based on style and comfort. The style should match or compliment the overall style of the room. In addition, chairs should be comfortable so people can relax and enjoy their meal.
Think about using benches or even stools as an alternative to table chairs.
Consider adding couches, loveseats, or extra chairs throughout the space. Couches and loveseats, in particular, can create a more intimate setting in a large dining room., After your table and chairs, you need to think about serving tables and side tables when designing your inviting dining room. These tables are important, as they’ll likely make your serving experience easy and more user-friendly.


Consider a buffet. A buffet is a long table or piece of furniture where you can store dishes (underneath or in cabinets) and place food before it is served.
Think about adding a simple serving table. Like buffets, simple serving tables are a place to stage food before it is served or a place to sit food and allow people to serve themselves.
Add side tables. Side tables are important if you have informal seating areas in your dining room. They may be a place for company to set drinks or appetizer plates while they chat., After picking your furniture, you need to pick accent pieces that will add more character to your dining room. Accent pieces will tie everything together, add your personal touch, and impress guests with your thoughtfulness.


Lighting fixtures.
Mirrors.
Artwork. Artwork could include paintings, pieces of pottery, glass work, or more.
Plants.
Rugs.
Remember to not add too many accent pieces, as you don’t want the room to feel crowded. This ultimately, is an art rather than a science. A typical rule of thumb, though, is to make sure there is plenty of wall space, floor space, and table space between each item or cluster of items., An important and often overlooked element of any inviting dining room is the drapery. Drapery can set the tone of the room and tie different, contrasting elements together. On the other hand, a poor choice of drapery can send negative messages to your guests.


Choose your drapery after you’ve chosen other major elements of your dining room, like the main pieces of furniture (seats, the table, and serving tables).
Depending on your taste and style, you may want to match your drapery to rugs or other accent pieces.
Your drapery should always be chosen when considering the color of your wall and floor., At its very core, your dining room is a place where people will experience the colors and textures you’ve chosen. Thus, you need to make sure the color scheme is appropriate, planned, and inviting.


Don’t mix warm and cool undertones. For instance, don’t choose a warm wall paint (tan) and cool drapes (light blue). Consider this when matching the floor, wall paint, and furniture.
Avoid mixing smoky or muted colors with bright colors. For instance, don’t choose a washed-out red for drapes and a bright lime for the wall paint. Think about this when you are creating a plan for the whole room.
Paint small rooms cool colors. Cool colors, like grey, white, or light blues, will make a smaller space seem larger.
Use warm colors in large spaces. Warm colors, like browns, tans, or reds, will make large spaces seem more intimate., When it comes to dining rooms – and other rooms – first impressions are very important. To create an inviting dining space, you need to make sure that the view from your entryway is truly inviting.


Avoid blocking the entryway with tables or chairs.
Make sure the space of the entryway transitions into the space of the dining room. For example, if you can balance the walkway space from the entryway and the space between your table and a side table or buffet, do so.
Pick a couple pieces of artwork or furniture that will capture your guests’ attention as they enter the dining room., As a place where food will be served and people will dine, your dining room needs to be a place where people can easily move around. Without ample space to move, your room won’t be inviting.


Space chairs so people can easily leave the table.
Don’t situate a table to close to a wall or piece of furniture.
Take out any pieces of furniture that inhibit the movement of people. For example, while you want to add a cute coffee table to your informal sitting area, it may hinder the movement of people through that corner of your dining room., The easiest way to turn an inviting space into an uninviting space is to clutter it up. By cluttering a space, you send the message that items are more important than people. You also distract people from all the planning you’ve done on your color scheme and furniture.


Don’t view wall space as something to fill or conquer. Position painting and furniture a couple feet apart.
Never try to cover table, curio, or china cabinet space completely. Focus on an elegant and balanced look rather than a full look. For instance, you don’t need to display all your rare salt and pepper shakers. Display your most cherished ones, and store the rest.
Ask friends and family if they think your dining room has a bare or cluttered look. Let them know that you just want their honest opinion. For instance, say “John, can you honestly tell me whether this room looks bare or cluttered? I’m trying to create an inviting dining space and I think I’m not there yet.”