 For babies who are not yet potty trained, collecting a urine sample is a bit more involved than for a toilet trained child. You will need to coax your son to urinate and then collect the urine. Start this test one hour after your son has had plenty of liquid so that he has urine in his bladder., Wash thoroughly with soap and water to prevent contaminating the urine sample., Set up your clean, sterile urine container, sterile wipes, sterile cotton swabs or gauze, and paper towels or baby wipes (in case of mess) prior to beginning the test. Make sure they are within reach and easily accessible during the test.
 Place him on his back on the changing table., Do not worry if your son has already urinated in the diaper. He may have more urine in his bladder., You must clean your son's penis in order to prevent contamination of the urine sample.


If your son is uncircumcised, gently retract the foreskin. Ask a nurse or doctor how to do so if you are unsure. Wipe the entire surface with the sterile/alcohol towelettes provided by the doctor's office.Using the sterile wipe, stroke around the urethral opening (end of the penis) toward his stomach. Discard the wipes.Replace the foreskin once the area dries.Gently pat the tip of the penis dry with a sterile cotton swab or gauze pad., Have the test cup ready. Do not allow anything other than the urine to touch the inside of the container or the lid, otherwise the urine test may be contaminated., Tap with two fingers on the center of his stomach toward the lower abdomen. This will encourage his bladder to empty. Ask if your doctor or nurse will show you where and how to tap before beginning the test.Alternate giving one tap every second for one minute, then stopping for one minute, until your son urinates or until 10 minutes have elapsed.Pay attention. The urine stream may happen very quickly, and you may miss it if you're not looking.Keep the urine cup in the hand that you're not using to tap with so that you can catch the urine as soon as it comes out.
Be patient. The average time it takes to collect urine in this way is approximately 5.5 minutes. 77% of children will produce urine within 10 minutes.If your son does not urinate within 10 minutes, stop and try again after the next feeding.
 Even if it is just a few drops, that may be enough for the test, so collect whatever you can.