 This includes pencils, pens, binder paper, highlighter, calculator, folders, planner, binders, glue sticks, note cards, backpack, and any other material your teacher tells you to bring. More could be found in the syllabus you are handed out, but this would be a good amount of thing to make sure you bring everyday. Check your backpack to see if any material needs refilling, such as paper.;
, This will help you remember all the assignments you have to turn in and anything you have to get done. Weather it is big or small, all assignments could be remembered this way. It will also help you remember important due dates.
 This is good because some teachers do not tell you the assignments in class or they don’t tell you all of assignments. Teachers will like it if you visit their websites frequently.
 Do not think you could get the assignment done in an advisory period/free period or at lunch. Things may come up that will prevent you from finishing your work. Also, you may not have enough time because the work takes longer than expected to finish.
 Some times there are special schedules for different events. There could be an assembly schedule, a minimum day, or a different schedule for testing.
 Reread the directions that you have to follow. Also, read ahead to help you get ahead of your classmates. Start studying for tests even if they do not come up for a couple more days. There may be a lot of material to cover.
 To do so, you will need to understand all the topics that was covered in your assignments. To do this, fully concentrate and understand your assignments.
 Being fully alert allows you to perform very well in class. This is especially true when taking a difficult test or doing a presentation.
 The teacher may be telling you important information that will be needed in the future. Some of the material may come up on tests even if it is not on textbooks.
 Do not wait until the last minute and find out that it is going to take longer than expected. If you start early, you know how long it will take and you could plan accordingly.

