 Many experts recommend foregoing canine hugs entirely, but if you just must embrace your pup, you should work up to it slowly. When your dog is sitting still and relaxing, sit next to it with your shoulders touching. Slowly rest your hand and then arm on top of its back, give it a treat, and start encircling your arm more and more around your dog’s shoulders and neck., Once you've worked up to a hug with gradual closeness and intermediary levels of contact, you can begin hugging your dog. Just be sure to do so with positive reinforcement: give your dog a brief hug, then reward it with a treat. Repeat often over time and make the hugs longer the more tolerant your dog becomes.Many widely available dog treats are the equivalent of human junk food, so look for small, organic varieties, or use individual kernels of you dog’s high-quality, everyday kibble.
 Even if you’re pretty sure your dog loves hugs, remember that some moments are more opportune than others when it comes to cuddles. For example, never go in for a snuggle when your dog is eating or playing vigorously with another dog.For the best reception, embrace your dog when you’re both at home alone together and the dog feels relaxed, secure, and happy.
 No matter how adorable that dog at the park is or how jubilantly they might have approached you, you should never assume that a strange dog will be amenable to your hug. After all, even the friendliest dogs don’t greet other dogs with hugs; they show their interest in one another through tail wagging, sniffing, and licking.In the same way, you should refuse when others ask to hug your dog. Even if your dog has never bitten or growled at anyone, you never know how they’ll react to a new person’s smell and movements.
 Children are not good at discerning distress in dogs, even explicit threat signals such as snarling and bristling. Gently and firmly discourage children from giving your dog hugs.If your child persists in wanting to hug your dog, try educating them on other ways they can show their love. Teach them to tickle the dog’s tummy, rub its ears, and stroke its back.

