 When planning a road trip, the destination is as important as the journey. You will want to enjoy your destination as much as your beloved. You may want to pick the location together to ensure that you both contribute to the destination and are both happy with the choice. A surprise trip may not be fun if your significant other does not enjoy the chosen location.Pick a location that has significance or meaning for one or both of you. For example, you could visit the city where you both first met, or you could both visit a childhood home.
If you do want to make the trip a surprise, but don’t know where your loved one is interested in visiting, have them pick three places that they would someday like to visit and choose from one of those three places.;
, The time spent on the road is just as critical as the destination, especially if it is a longer route that could take two or more days. When planning your road trip, look carefully at a map of the route to find romantic places to stop. There may be a nature preserve or park to stop and have a romantic picnic. There may be a winery along your route, which can make for a romantic excursion. Perhaps there is a lake or river where you can rent a boat and paddle for your loved one while they relax.


If you’re not sure, try using a search engine to look for interesting locations along the interstate or route you plan on taking. For example, you could type into Google: “romantic stops along I-75."

, A great way to set the mood for a road trip is with the right music. Assemble a playlist of songs that are meaningful to you and your significant other. These could be songs you both enjoy or songs that have sentimental value for the both of you, such as a wedding song or a song you both heard on your first date. Request input from your significant other as to some songs they would like to hear that evoke pleasant memories of the two of you.


On iTunes, click on “File” and select “New” and then “Playlist”
It will prompt you to name the playlist.
Go back to your library, and click and drag the songs from the library to the playlist in the lefthand menu.
 Taking a scenic, rather than the fastest, route will be both memorable and romantic. You and your significant other will bond as you take in the views and experience something new together. You could drive along the Pacific Coast Highway in California, Bear Tooth Highway in Wyoming and Montana, or Route 100 in Vermont, to name just a few of the beautiful highways in the United States.