 Daffodils must complete their natural growing cycle after they have bloomed so that they can store enough nutrients to bloom again the following year.;
, Simply twist or snip the foliage off before excavating the bulbs. Be careful not to damage the bulbs when you dig them up as bruised bulbs have a greater likelihood of spoiling in storage.
 Loosen the soil all the way around each group of bulbs by pushing a shovel or garden fork into the soil about 6" (15cm) away from the stems.
, Once the daffodils have been unearthed, all bulbs that show signs of disease should be discarded. This prevents them from contaminating the others.


Damaged bulbs should likewise be tossed because they are not likely to bloom again.
 Before removing the roots, brush off the bulbs to remove dirt and outer layers of loose skin.
 The bulbs should be allowed to air dry on a tray for a day or so. This hardens them and helps keep them from rotting in storage.
 You may want to dust your bulbs with a fungicide, a pesticide, or with both before storing them. This will help keep bugs and disease at bay.
 These types of bags allow air circulation and help to prevent rotting. Make sure to store the bags in a well-ventilated place.



Alternatively, you can place the bulbs in boxes and cover them with media—sand, perlite, peat moss, or vermiculite. Pour dry sand or vermiculite into a storage container or cardboard box until it is about one-quarter full, then place the dried daffodil bulbs upside down on the layer and pour several more inches of the vermiculite or sand on top.
 Make sure the storage environment has a temperature of about 50-60℉ (10-15℃). Cool temperatures keep the plants in dormancy and prevent them from blooming prematurely.
 If you are growing more than one daffodil cultivar and/or other bulb plants, you will need to label the bags to prevent confusion the following spring.
 Daffodils need a chilling period of 16 to 18 weeks before the flower becomes fully formed inside the bulb. At that point they're ready for light and warmth.


If you cut the time short, the flowers may emerge but they will not be fully formed.
 You should monitor the bulbs to catch any problems that may occur. Remove and discard any unhealthy organic material or diseased bulbs to avoid spread of rot or disease.
 Fruits which ripen in the refrigerator emit ethylene, a gaseous hormone. This hormone aids the ripening of fruit and the blooming of flowers. Exposure to this hormone will encourage your bulbs to start the blooming process prematurely, before they've had the necessary chilling period to form the flower. Therefore, make sure that any bulbs that you keep in the refrigerator or kitchen pantry are segregated from ripening fruits.

