 When you notice that your child is in pain, contact your pediatrician right away. He or she will be able to diagnose the ear infection and prescribe medication that will help your child to overcome the infection. Your pediatrician will most likely prescribe antibiotics, and possibly some pain medication. Follow the doctor’s orders when giving your child the medication.


Trust your instincts when it comes to bringing your child to the doctor. Because children have a hard time expressing what they are feeling, it is up to you to figure out when your child needs a doctor. Trust your instincts; if your baby does not look or act as if she feels well, you should consider taking her to the doctor.;
, Many times, pain relievers will relax your child so that she will fall asleep. Sometimes the pain relievers will have something in them that may even help your child to become sleepy.


If this is the case, your baby may be sleepy for a couple of days as the medication works its way through her system.
 Ear infections can make it hard to lie down. A baby with an ear infection may be more comfortable being held. She may need to be propped up on a pillow or have a wedge placed under her crib mattress so that she is not lying down in a completely flat position.


If your child’s ears have fluid in them from the infection, then lying flat on her back will cause pressure that feels like all the air has just been sucked out of the room. Propping your child up will help the Eustachian tubes in her ears to clear out, and it will relieve some of the pressure.
 Ear infections may cause pain and/or discomfort when eating or drinking so it may sound strange to recommend giving your child a drink. However, drinking a few sips of water or juice can help to stimulate the muscles in and near the Eustachian tubes in your child’s ears.


When these muscles are stimulated, they can clear the fluid out of your child’s ears more efficiently. That means that the tubes in your child’s ears can open and begin to clear; this will help to reduce your child’s pain and allow her to sleep more soundly.
 If at all possible, try to limit the amount of milk and dairy that your baby consumes when she has an ear infection. Dairy products increase the mucus in your child’s body and make it hard for the tubes to drain fluids away effectively.

