 If you've done any ab work at all, you probably are familiar with planks. A vinyasa in yoga involves moving between different poses with a breath for each movement to stimulate blood flow and burn fat.Start on all fours on the floor with your wrists directly under your shoulders, palms spread wide. Straighten your legs behind you, balancing on the balls of your feet. You are now in plank position.
Your body should be a straight line of energy from your heels to the crown of your head. Make sure you can maintain deep breathing through this pose before you continue. If a full plank is too difficult for you, modify the position by coming to your knees and elbows.
On an exhale, bend your right knee and tuck your right leg towards your chest. As you inhale, move your right leg back to join the left. Exhale and tuck your left leg the same as you did your right. Inhale return to plank position.
Alternate 8 to 20 times, maintaining your breath. Once you finish, you may want to counter by lifting your hips into a downward dog, or you can lower your hips back to sit on your heels and rest in child's pose.
 The bridge pose builds strength in your core. Lifting in time with your breath adds an aerobic element that will encourage the burning of fat around your midsection as you build muscle.Lie on your back with your legs extended. Bring your knees up so that your feet are flat on the floor, about hip-width apart. As you exhale, lift your hips and press down into your feet. You can bring your hands together under your body, or keep them at your sides. Lift your chest toward your chin, keeping your shoulders rolled back and down so that your shoulder blades are in line with your spine.
Slowly lower your hips as you inhale. On exhale, lift your hips again. Repeat this lift 5 to 10 times, focusing on doing the work of lifting with your core.
After your repetitions, release and draw your knees into your chest to counter the stretch. You can slowly rock from side to side to massage your spine and lower back.
 Windshield wipers really work your obliques, the abdominal muscles running down the side of your body. Doing this twist with a breath for each movement gets your blood flowing to the abdominal region to help flatten your abs.Start by lying on your back with your legs lifted in your knees bent so that your shins are perpendicular to the floor. Extend your arms from your shoulders out flat on either side of your body, palms spread wide.
On an exhale, lower your legs to the right until they are 2 or 3 inches over the floor. Inhale and bring your legs back to center. On your next exhale, lower your legs to the left with the same motion.
Focus on moving with your core and keeping your shoulders and arms flat. Repeat the motion 10 times, or 5 times on each side. Once you're done, you may want to bring your knees to your chest and rock side to side or up and down to massage your spine.
 The boat pose by itself strengthens your abdominal muscles, but when you add movement with the rocking boat you set a fire in your belly that will work to help burn away that stubborn belly fat.Get into boat pose from a seated position. Bend your knees slightly, keeping your feet flat on the floor. Grab the backs of your thighs just below your knees and lean back at about a 45-degree angle.
On an exhale, raise your feet off the floor, pressing your feet, legs, and knees together. Your shins should be parallel to the floor.
Reach your arms forward at about shoulder height with your palms toward the floor.
To start the rocking, tilt your knees first to one side and then to the other. Try to follow your breath for at least 10 repetitions. It doesn't matter whether you start on an inhale or an exhale.
You can add a twist by reaching in the opposite direction your "boat" is rocking.

