 Antique stores are an excellent place to find vintage silver coins. Ask your local shop owners if they collect or sell "junk silver," the antique term for old coins in good condition.If so, inspect their coin collection for silver half dollars. Thrift shops may also carry vintage coins, depending on their policies.

Ask friends who work in retail to put aside half dollars for you. You can come into their store and trade your paper money for their half dollars, which you can then inspect.
 Search in your local classifieds for flea market listings. When you arrive, move from booth to booth and look for vendors selling coins. If you find a silver half dollar, ask your vendor questions about where they obtained it and whether they have a certificate of authenticity for the coin.If you want to get up early on the weekends, check garage and estate sales. Someone nearby may be selling their personal coin collections. Yard sales aren't a guaranteed place to find silver coins, but you never know.
 Look for reputable coin dealers in your area and ask if they have silver half dollars for sale. Dealers often work with a variety of coins, and you're likely to find at least one who sells half dollars.

Find a dealer who is an Authorized Purchaser working with the U.S. Mint. This guarantees that your coin dealer is professional and safe. Most Authorized Purchasers have been in the business for over five years and have a strong client base. , Buy or build a metal detector and go searching in local areas. The best spots to look for coins are urban areas, like beaches, ski resorts, or campsites.Metal detecting will help you find a variety of old coins: you never know whether you'll get lucky and find a silver half dollar.

Heavily-trafficked areas are best for finding coins. While you can metal detect in the countryside or forests, you are unlikely to find what you're looking for.
For older coins, visit old areas. A building constructed in the last ten years might not have older coins, but a building fifty or more years old might have vintage coins.