 Pulling during walks may be a sign your dog is overly excited to go outside. If your dog associates being leashed up with an exciting adventure, he or she may be more likely to pull and lunge on your walk. By desensitizing your dog to being leashed up, you may be able to discourage your dog from pulling on the leash.When you put on your dog's leash, do so silently and without any trigger words. The goal is to get your dog accustomed to being leashed up without getting excited.
Leash up your dog between walks and stay indoors. Walk around the house with your dog on-leash as you read, watch TV, or just move about from room to room.
 Clicker training is a common method of breaking dogs out of bad behavior. Using a clicker and plenty of treats when you walk your dog can help your dog associate good behavior with food rewards, which will reinforce good behavior over time.Carry a clicker and dog treats on every walk.
As you walk outside, wait at the door until your dog looks back at you. Don't give any verbal commands, and don't move until your dog looks at you.
As soon as your dog looks at you, activate the clicker and give your dog a treat. Then stop every few steps on your walk, click the clicker, and reward your dog with another treat.
Transition to stopping only when your dog begins to pull. When your dog stops pulling and turns to face you, activate the clicker and give your dog a treat.
 If you don't like the idea of clicker training, you can try training your dog by just offering treats. Over time, your dog will learn that when he or she stops pulling you will offer more treats.Carry some treats with you on walks. Keep a few treats in whichever hand is closest to your dog as you walk him or her.
Give your dog a treat every so often if he or she is walking appropriately.
Any time your dog begins to pull, stop walking and wait for your dog to look back at you.
Once your dog stops, give the "sit" command. Hold the handful of treats in front of your dog's nose so he or she smells the treats, but don't give any treats until your dog starts behaving again.
 If you let your dog get his or her way from time to time, your dog will pick up on this and act out accordingly. The goal in any type of training is to be consistent every time you walk so that your dog breaks out of his or her undesirable habit.