 Though you may think of it as a delicious spice, nutmeg has had many non-food uses throughout history, including use as treatment for diarrhea, nausea, and stomach upset. Nutmeg is anti-inflammatory and has a mild antibacterial property, and can be used in topical applications to help fight Propionibacterium acnes, the bacteria on your skin that causes inflamed acne.Nutmeg’s anti-inflammatory properties likely come from its myristicin, eugenol, and isoeugenol.You should note that nutmeg is still considered less effective than standard treatments for acne, such as clindamycin.Any nutmeg powder will work fine for this treatment, but it should be fresh to ensure that its properties are most effective. You can also use nutmeg essential oil.;
, "Non-comedogenic" just means that the product won't clog pores and promote acne. According to the American Academy of Dermatology, the most non-comedogenic oils are mineral oil, shea butter, and sunflower oil.Castor oil is slightly comedogenic, but still ultimately harmless to the skin.


Highly comedogenic oils that you should avoid putting on acne-prone skin include coconut oil, sesame oil, cocoa butter, and avocado oil.Coconut oil does contain lauric acid, which is effective at combating the skin bacteria P.acnes that is responsible for inflamed acne (pus, pimples, etc.). However, coconut oil does not dissolve well in water, so it is difficult to completely cleanse your skin of it after you apply it., Mix two teaspoons of nutmeg powder with the non-comedogenic oil you chose. Only use enough oil to make a thick paste — it should not be watery. Add a few drops of lemon juice to the mixture. The lemon juice is used to lighten any darker areas of the skin. This combination of nutmeg, oil, and lemon juice is used to treat pimples and reduce scars and marks on the skin.If you don’t have a non-comedogenic oil in your pantry, you can replace it with honey. The honey is antibacterial and can help heal blemishes., Instead of nutmeg, you might use two teaspoons of ground cinnamon, ground fenugreek leaves or ground orange peels with your chosen oil/honey and lemon. Two teaspoons of turmeric mixed with neem oil is another wonderful option, as neem oil has astringent, antiseptic, and antibacterial properties and turmeric is an antibacterial, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant herb.Garlic has many antibacterial, antiseptic and anti-inflammatory properties.A traditional Ayurvedic skin treatment calls for you to crush 2-3 cloves of garlic into a paste and apply it directly to your face.Mix in some plain yogurt before applying it if you have sensitive skin.
All of these alternatives to the nutmeg paste should follow the same application steps listed below.
 Before applying the paste, you want to make sure you’re working with a clean canvas. Using a gentle cleanser, wash your face to clear away excess surface oil and debris.


Do not use products that contain alcohol, as they dry your skin and can make acne worse. Use a gentle cleanser such as Cetaphil or Aveeno.
Do not use exfoliating brushes or other implements. Gently massage the cleanser into your skin using your fingertips. Rinse well with warm (not hot) water and pat your face dry with a clean towel.
 You don’t need to smear the paste all over your face, as you might with a mud mask or home-facial peel. Instead, use a Q-tip to dot the paste onto problem areas on your skin, where you have either blemishes or scars/discolorations that need treatment. Leave the paste in place for at least 2 hours.


Consider applying the paste before you go to bed, and letting it treat your skin while you sleep overnight.
If you make the paste in larger quantities, you can use it as a facial wash or scrub, applying it to your entire face.
 Once you’ve allowed the nutmeg paste to do its work, you can wash it away. Simply rinse it off with lukewarm water, and pat your skin dry. Make sure not to rub your face with the towel, as that could irritate your skin.

