 The more documentation of misconduct or ineffectiveness you can provide, the more likely your complaint will be taken seriously.Include copies of any supporting paperwork with your complaint. This could include correspondence between you and the agent, listing agreements, rental or sales agreements, canceled checks, and more.
The copies you provide must be legible so they can efficiently be reviewed by the Real Estate Division of the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation (DBPR).
Provide only one copy of every form and document to the DBPR, and keep one for your records.;
, Use this form for all complaints related to Florida real estate. Print it from the Internet or obtain it from the DBPR Real Estate Division office.


The required Uniform Complaint Form (RE-2200-2) is available here or on the Real Estate Division page (http://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/re/complaint.html).
You may also call the Real Estate Division office at 1-850-487-1395 to obtain a form if you do not have Internet access.
 Fill out the form completely and honestly if you hope to have your complaint succeed.Indicate the nature of your complaint by placing a check mark in the appropriate box. The options provided include "unlicensed activity," "escrow deposit," "appraisal," and "property management." You can also choose "other" and indicate the nature of your complaint in the field provided.
Provide your name, occupation, address, phone number, and email address in the appropriate fields.
Write a detailed description about your complaint in the field for "Complaint Description." If you run out of room on the form for your description, you can use and attach additional sheets.
Enter your attorney's information if you have hired one to assist you with your complaint.
Provide the name, business, and contact information for the agent you are filing the complaint against under the section for "Subject of Complaint." If you are familiar with the agent's private attorney information, you can provide documentation for that as well.
Enter the names and contact information for up to two witnesses into the appropriate fields, then sign and date the complaint form.
 While it might be easier to email or fax your packet, it is clearly stated that complaints must be provided in writing and by mail.Address your envelope to: ATTN: Consumer Complaints Section, DBPR, Division of Real Estate, 400 West Robinson Street, Suite N801, Orlando, FL 32801.
 If the DBPR decides your complaint has merit, it will contact the agent with a copy of the complaint. The agent will either be required to respond to your complaint or the DBPR will open a confidential investigation into your complaint.If an investigation is opened, all information pertaining to the complaint will be kept confidential for ten days to ensure it is handled appropriately, without interference from either party.
In some cases, the DBPR may request additional documentation from you to aid them in their investigation of your complaint. If so, you must provide the additional documentation within 30 days to prevent the DBPR from closing your case.

