 Sit down to write your spec script in an environment that inspires your creativity without distracting you. Choose a large work space where you can map out your note cards to organize your story (e.g. a study room in a library or a home office). You might also opt for a space where you will be free to watch an episode of the television series for reference, or in case you need inspiration.
 Even the best story ideas will make for a bad spec script if your ideas are not viable for television. Keep the camera in mind at all times when writing, and remember the value of an easy-to-film episode - for instance, if you are writing a spec script for a science fiction or fantasy series, do not incorporate elements that would require too much man power or expensive effects to make. Similarly, make sure to write brief but clear set directions and practical descriptions., After writing your script, make sure to pare it down and streamline it. An ideal spec script should be about 90-110 pages in length - keeping within this limit will demonstrate your knowledge of the industry standards. Remove any extraneous detail about mood, costumes, or elaborate set details, and keep paragraphs brief (3-4 sentences)., Feedback is integral to the writing process, particularly from other writers or people in the television industry. If possible, ask at least 3-4 people to review your work to give you a range of opinions from different perspectives. Ask for detailed criticism and notes - if any note is given by multiple people, you will know that it needs to be addressed.Notes will allow you to identify aspects of the plot that might be unclear, incomplete, or simply not enjoyable to the reader.
 Taking all of the feedback into consideration, rewrite your spec script. Allow yourself ample time to incorporate changes, and to do multiple rewrites if necessary. To approach the script with a fresh perspective, try leaving it for a short time (several days at least) and rereading it before starting your edits.