 Make sure that the pot has a drainage hole in the bottom. If you are planning on using very fine soil, you can prevent it from escaping through the drainage hole by lining the bottom of the pot with a coffee filter. The paper will prevent any soil from escaping through the hole, but it will still let water pass through and drain.
 The soil should be good-quality gardening soil with nutrients. It should also be damp, but not soaking wet or soggy. Catmint will also do well in coco peat, perlite, rockwool, vermiculite, and other soil-less potting mixes., Take a chopstick, dowel, pen, or pencil and make a few holes in the soil. You will be inserting the cuttings into these holes, so make as many holes as you have cuttings.
 Look for a stem with little to no flowers and plenty of leaf bumps or nodes. The stem should be easy to bend and snap. If the stem does not snap when you flex it, then the plant is too young to take cuttings from. If the stem does not bend easily, then it is too old. The best time to take cuttings is in the morning, during spring and early summer.


The leaf nodes appear as little bumps along the stem. They are important, as that's where the roots will form.
If it is not possible to find a stem without flowers, choose a stem with as few flowers as possible, and pull them off. Producing flowers requires energy, and the cuttings will need that energy so that they can get to put out roots.
 Sterilize a sharp knife or garden shears with rubbing alcohol, then cut a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) section from the top of the plant. Cut just below a leaf bump, at a slight angle. If there is no leaf bump 4 inches from the top of the plant, then cut below the closest bump.
 Gently tuck each cutting into the holes you have made and pat the soil around the stems. Make sure that there are at least a few leaf bumps on the stem section going into the soil. The roots will grow from these bumps.


Consider dipping the cuttings in rooting hormone to encourage root development., You can do this by placing a glass cloche over the pot, or by draping a plastic bag over it.This will help keep the cutting damp while it grows.
 After your cuttings grow a few more sets of leaves, you can move them to a larger pot or even a sunny spot in your garden. Keep in mind, however, that catmint is very invasive. To prevent it from taking over your garden, consider reining it in with a brick, plastic, or wood border. Also, cats do find catmint attractive; if you do not wish to have cats rolling around in your catmint, consider protecting it by covering the plant with chicken wire.


If you are planting multiple cuttings in a garden, choose a location with well-drained soil that gets plenty of sunlight. Plant the cuttings 18 to 24 inches (45.72 to 60.96 centimeters) apart.