 The natural oils on your skin can corrode the exterior of your guitar strings.You may even notice the strings losing color and developing bits of rust. To combat this, be sure to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before playing to extend the life of your strings and keep them grime-free.


Avoid applying perfumes or lotions to your hands before playing, as they are not suited for guitar strings and their ingredients may cause damage.;
, When first learning to play the guitar, it’s natural to press on the strings firmly as you gauge proper finger position. Once you have a better command of playing, though, you can actually use much less pressure to achieve your desired notes.Doing this will help minimize excessive pressure of your metal frets against the strings, which can cause physical wear to their exteriors and shorten their longevity.
 When you push a string tightly over the fret board so the pitch goes up—a technique often used in rock and blues music—it strains the string. While this effect can sound desirable, doing this excessively can damage the string’s internal structure, causing it to wear out more quickly.Nylon strings have a higher tolerance for string bends than metal strings, which tend to have more trouble snapping back into their original shape.
 If you play your guitar with your fingers rather than a pick, your nails are one of the items that most frequently touch and manipulate your strings. Uneven or jagged nails can actually cause abrasions to your strings’ exteriors, which shortens their playable life.A smooth, rounded nail shape is preferable to a square shape for guitar playing. What’s most important, though, is filing them smoothly, so no rough edges can scratch your strings.
 While some tinkering is necessary to properly tune your guitar, most amateur guitar players manipulate string tension far more than is necessary. If your guitar is in tune, try not to mess around tightening and loosening the strings just for fun.


Excessive slackening and tightening wears down the interior structure of the strings, causing their integrity to break down over time.Avoiding this will help increase string life.
Try to stick with one method of tuning to preserve your strings. That way you’re not manipulating them excessively by switching between methods—for example, between standard tuning and drop-D tuning.

