 Mindfulness is a lot like taking meditation into everyday life. Except, instead of focusing on your breathing, you're focusing on everything that happens to you without passing judgment. So, for instance, instead of letting your mind wander away while you're drinking a cup of coffee, you focus on each sip, savoring the flavor and warmth., Bring a stressful situation in your current life to mind. Acknowledge that it is painful. You could say something like "This situation is causing me suffering," or "I find this painful."Connect your suffering to others. Basically, you're acknowledging that suffering is part of life and that you are not alone in what you feel. You could say "Suffering happens to everyone," or "All of us feel pain from time to time."Place your hands on your chest, and feel their weight there. Acknowledge that you need to be kind to yourself and not beat yourself up. You could say, "I should be kind to myself," or "May I be compassionate to myself."

, If you think about, you may be easier on your friends than you are on yourself. Often, you're your own worst critic. However, you can use a mindfulness exercise to help change how you treat yourself.Get out something to write on. Bring to mind a time when a friend was struggling or felt bad about herself. Write down how you responded or tried to help.Now bring to mind a similar situation you faced. Write down how you responded to yourself.Notice if the responses are different. Question why they are different, and what anxieties lead to them being different. Employ that knowledge the next time you're feeling bad by responding to yourself as you would your friend., With each activity you do in a day, you have the opportunity to be mindful. That is, you have the opportunity to be truly present, to pay attention to what you're doing and feeling.For instance, while you're showering, you can pay attention to rubbing the shampoo in your hair, the sensation of your fingers on your scalp. You can feel the soap as you rub it into your body.
While eating, you can make sure you are tasting each bite, savoring the flavors.
Every time your mind wanders, bring it back to what you're doing.