 You only need a few cups of water to do a proper steam. Boil the water on the stove or in the microwave.;
, While the water is heating, wash your face to remove makeup and dirt. Use a gentle face cleanser and warm water. Removing makeup and dirt is a must before steaming, because steaming opens up your pores, and anything on your face will be able to get inside and cause irritation or pimples to occur.


Don't exfoliate your face before steaming it. This could increase the likelihood that the steam treatment will irritate your skin.
After washing your face, pat it dry with a towel.
 Pour it into a glass or ceramic bowl resting on a folded towel or two. Part of the facial experience is to add some beauty to your day, so if you have a pretty bowl on hand, use that one! If you're in a hurry, you can also just use the pot you boiled the water in.
 You don't have to add anything to your steam, but to make it truly special you can add some fresh or dried herbs or essential oils that will release beneficial aromas. An herbal teabag will also do the trick! Try the following herbs and oils to enhance your steam:


Use lemongrass or peppermint for an energizing steam.
Use chamomile or lavender for a relaxing steam.
Use peppermint or eucalyptus for a cold-conquering steam.
Use sandalwood or bergamot for a stress-relieving steam.
 Drape a towel over your head so that it creates a sort of tent over your face, and hold your face over the water. Keep your face over the steam for about 10 minutes. Close your eyes and breathe deeply, allowing the heat to awaken your face and open your pores.


Don't steam your face for too long, or get too close to the hot water. The heat can cause inflammation if exposure is too high.
 The next step is to use a mask to pull the impurities from your now-open pores. A clay mask works well if you have one on hand. Mix the clay with some water and smooth it over your face. Let it sit on your face for about 15 minutes before gently rinsing it off with lukewarm water.


Instead of a clay mask, you can use plain honey to achieve the same effect. Also check on wikiHow on how to make your own facial masks if you so choose.
If you don't wish to do a mask, just rinse your face in fresh water after you're finished steaming it.
 Time to close up your pores again! Do this so that after your facial, dirt doesn't get into your pores. Using a toner after steaming will help your face look toned and fresh. Use a cotton ball to apply the toner of your choice to your nose, forehead, cheeks and chin.


Apple cider vinegar makes a great natural toner - try it out!
You can also use lemon juice as a toner. Try this on a small area of skin prior to using on your whole face, some individuals may be more sensitive to this than others.
 The final step in your facial is to apply a moisturizer to keep your face hydrated. Steaming it can actually dry it out, so this is an important step. Smooth on your favorite moisturizer, or try a face-softening oil like coconut oil, jojoba oil or argan oil. Pay attention to the ingredients on oils to verify that they natural and have no harsh chemical additives.

