 If you're trying to gain employment or change jobs, make sure whatever school you select will have programs that fulfill those requirements. There are several news magazines that have school rankings, but it's best to make sure the one you pick actually has a department and faculty that cover what you want to do. A local college in your area may be just as suitable for business training and far easier on your schedule than a national university. In your 50s, you want to pick a school that is going to meet your lifestyle needs.
Consider vocational/community colleges for an associate degree or certificate training. These are usually faster degrees, approximately one or two years of course work depending on your class load. If you are in your 50s, this may be a better option especially if you're already working or need to return to the workforce sooner. Thoroughly explore the website/program listings of the colleges you're interested in. See if they have classes you can use. Be aware that sometimes classes on the books are not always offered every semester.
 Whatever type of school you select, within your program's department, most colleges will have a specific department page along with specific faculty pages within each department. Look up the professors/instructors credentials to see if they have sufficient background in the fields you're going to study.
Most faculty should have a curriculum vitae, the academic version of the résumé, available. See if they have at least some publications, teaching experience, and/or work experience in the areas you are pursuing.
 It's a good idea to e-mail or call the program you're interested in to make sure they will accommodate adult learners and flexible scheduling. This is a good opportunity to also find out about degree requirement details beyond what's listed on the program website.


Be polite, and remember you are likely one of many students contacting this individual or office on any given day.
This may be a good time to inform your program contact that you are an adult learner. In your 50s, you might be able to contribute experience and knowledge to the program beyond the traditional student--something you could bring up if applicable.
You should consider coming up with questions before-hand--especially about the program of study, degree requirements, and schedule options.
If you are uncertain if you are dealing with Ph.D.s (doctor of philosophy), you should address the faculty members as "Professor."

, If you can arrange a physical visit to the school, that would go a long way to improving your chances of attending classes in person. Not counting online schools/classes--a campus tour is usually available at most colleges/universities at regular intervals. Contact your prospective college's main office for more information.
 This is a significant factor in going to any college regardless of age. If you are already employed, your employer may provide funding for some specific educational training. Otherwise, you will have to find other financial means. Besides paying out of pocket--there are Federal loans, private loans, grants, scholarships, and work-study programs. Fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . All Federal financial aid eligibility is determined first through FAFSA. It can be completed as early as January 1st of the year leading up to enrollment (so for students entering school that same Fall/Spring). The earlier it's completed, the better your chances for funding.
There are several other types of specialized aid including for the military, AmeriCorps volunteers, education tax credits, foster care youths, etc... available through the U.S. government's official site: Grants and scholarships will require you to apply to specific groups, usually with thematic projects in mind. They will provide funding over a specific term--frequently 1 or 2 semesters--and expect some manner of academic achievement from you in return. This will vary from program to program.
Work-study, as the name suggests, pairs the student with employers in exchange for direct funding to scholastic needs. As a person in their 50s, you will have a great deal of experience to offer for this option.

