 One of the easiest ways to include more ginger in your diet is to start drinking ginger tea. You can make ginger tea using a commercial brand of ginger tea or by steeping fresh ginger root in hot water.To make ginger tea, place about one teaspoon of minced ginger into a mug. Then, pour boiling water over the ginger. Let the tea steep for about 10 to 15 minutes, and then strain the tea through a sieve.
You can drink up to three to four cups of ginger tea per day.;
, Adding ginger to food can give you some of the potential benefits of the herb without the risks of taking a concentrated supplement. Some easy ways to add ginger to your meals include:


In dinner recipes. Try adding 1 to 2 teaspoons of minced ginger to a stir fry, soup, or curry recipe.
In baked goods. Include about ½ teaspoon of dried ginger in your next batch of muffins or cookies.
As a garnish. If you like the taste of raw ginger, then you can try adding about ½ teaspoon of minced fresh ginger to a salad or a bowl of soup.
 If you really like the taste of ginger, but prefer it on the sweet side, then making your own candied ginger is a great option. The process is not difficult, but it is a bit time consuming.


Peel and slice 1 cup of fresh ginger root. You can slice the ginger however you want. Just keep in mind that larger pieces will take longer to dry.
Combine 1 ½ cups of water and 1 ½ cups of sugar in a small saucepan and bring the mixture to a boil.
Then, add the ginger to the pot, reduce the heat to medium-low, and simmer for 20 minutes.
After 20 minutes, use a slotted spoon to place the ginger on a wire rack. You will need to let the ginger dry on the rack overnight.
Store the ginger in an airtight container in your pantry for up to three months.
 Ginger is also available as a capsule supplement that you can take to help with various symptoms and conditions. Some common uses of ginger supplements include:


Stomach troubles. If you are dealing with nausea, gas, or other types of indigestion, then taking 1g of ginger each day may help you to feel better. You can divide this amount into a multiple doses taken throughout the day, such as two 500mg doses or four 250mg doses.
Pregnancy nausea. If you are dealing with nausea from pregnancy, then you may get some relief by taking between 650mg to 1g of ginger daily.
Arthritis pain. If you have pain caused by arthritis, then taking 250mg of ginger four times per day may help.