 Separation anxiety can take various forms in a dog, but the most common signs of separation anxiety are destroying the house/apartment and barking incessantly. These behaviors are typically only engaged in when the dog's owner is at work or otherwise out of the house, and if the dog is not destructive, some owners may not even be aware that their dogs have separation anxiety.Common signs of separation anxiety to look out for include:


following you from room to room, no matter how briefly you are goneshaking, panting, or crying when you get ready to leave for the dayurinating or defecating indoors while you're not homechewing household objects when you're not homescratching or "digging" at the floor, walls, or doors when left alonepossible complaints from neighbors about barking or howling when left at home alone, Counterconditioning is a common treatment method for dogs that typically involves training the dog to associate something fearful with a reward. In the case of separation anxiety, instead of fearing someone or something, the dog fears being left alone. To counter condition  separation anxiety, you'll need to train your dog to associate being left alone with something the dog enjoys (like treats).Whenever you leave the house, try giving your dog a puzzle toy stuffed with food. Something hollow that can be stuffed with treats, spray cheese, or low-fat peanut butter will keep your dog occupied for at least 20 to 30 minutes, which may be long enough for her to forget that she was afraid of you leaving.When you get home, remove or hide the puzzle toy(s) so that your dog becomes conditioned to only having access when you're out of the house.Be aware that counterconditioning typically only works for mild cases of separation anxiety. Though puzzle toys will certainly be enjoyed by your dog no matter how severe her condition, you may need to resort to stronger approaches if your dog suffers from moderate to severe anxiety., If your dog has moderate to severe separation anxiety, she most likely will not be cured overnight. A good way to get your dog more accustomed to solitude is to gradually desensitize her to being left alone and reinforce the fact that getting ready to leave does not mean abandonment. This is a slow process that will take several weeks of practice and consistency, but should prove effective for long-term results.Work on pre-departure anxiety by exposing your dog to your various departure cues, like putting on a coat or picking up/jingling your keys. Try engaging in these behaviors at various times throughout the day without actually leaving the house.Teach your dog to become more comfortable alone by working on "out-of-sight stays." This entails having your dog sit or lie down and then stepping out of the room or otherwise out of sight.As your dog gets comfortable with you being out of her sight, try closing a door to block her access to you, and gradually extend the duration of time that you are out of the room or behind a closed door.Start out doing out-of-sight stays at a low-stakes door, like a bathroom or bedroom door. Do not attempt to jump right to the front door, as this may alarm your dog.After several weeks, you should progress to practicing out-of-sight stays at an exit door. But even then, it's best to use an alternate door (if possible) than the one you typically use to leave for work. For example, instead of going out the front door or the door to the garage, try going out the back door.As you extend the amount of time that you're out of your dog's sight or behind closed doors, you should incorporate counterconditioning methods like a puzzle toy to keep her distracted. Try adding this component once you're behind closed doors or out the back door for at least 10 to 20 seconds at a time., It takes a lot of training and practice to get your dog comfortable with prolonged absences. Most of an anxious dog's undesirable behavior will take place within the first 40 minutes that you're gone, and it will take many, many training sessions before you can comfortably reach a 40 minute absence.Only increase your absence by a few seconds each training session. Anything more than that may upset your dog and trigger her panic reactions.Once your dog can be comfortably left alone for 90 minutes, she will most likely be able to handle four to eight hours of solitude. However, in the early stages of that comfort level, it's best to "test" your dog at four hours of solitude, rather than jumping right to a full work day (if possible).If you are consistent with your training and practice several times each day on the weekends and at least twice a day on weekdays (such as before work and in the evening), you may be able to accomplish long-term comfort in under a month.However, every dog is different, and your dog may need a longer training period or more training sessions each day.
Be patient, and remember that your dog is only acting out because she loves you and is afraid you'll abandon her., If your dog absolutely will not calm down in spite of training, or if your landlord or neighbors have expressed impatience with your dog's need for training, you may need to consider alternative arrangements.See if you can bring your dog to work with you (depending on your workplace). It may not be ideal, but many offices are dog-friendly, especially if you explain your circumstances to your boss.Make arrangements for a friend or family member to watch your dog while you're gone. Most dogs only experience separation anxiety if they are left completely alone. In other words, having anyone there will usually help.Consider crate training. Crate training's success varies considerably from one dog to another. Some dogs are frightened by having to be left in a crate, while others see the crate as their own safe space and an assurance that someone will be home at some point to open the crate.Seek assistance from a Certified Professional Dog Trainer (CPDT) if all else fails. A CPDT will know how to help your dog in the best way possible. Find a CPDT in your area by searching online, or ask your vet for a recommendation.