 The website for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has a section devoted to international adoption information and the process you must go through to adopt a child from another country and get U.S. citizenship for that child.The USCIS refers to these adoptions as "intercountry adoptions." Using that term in your internet research may yield better results. You may want to start your research at uscis.gov/adoption.
The State Department also has information online about international adoption. You also can find other information there about international travel, such as if you were planning to travel to the child's country of origin to meet the child.
Through your research, you can learn more about the immigration requirements so you can better prepare for the adoption process. For example, there may be documents and information you need to gather to make the background check and home-study process move more smoothly.
 The USCIS is responsible for evaluating prospective adoptive parents and determining whether you are eligible to adopt a child from another country. Researching these requirements on the internet ahead of time can make this process easier.If you want to adopt a child from a foreign country, you must first file an application with the USCIS. You can download this application, Form I-800A, from either the USCIS or State Department website.Look at this application so you can plan ahead of time and gather the information you'll need.
Keep in mind that you must complete this application and have it approved by USCIS before you accept a placement. You also must refrain from talking to anyone who is responsible for caring for the child. If you intend to use a particular adoption service provider, such as an adoption agency, you must provide the name of the agency and contact information on your application.
The application requires basic contact and background information about you and your spouse (if you're married).
As part of the application, you also must provide a home-study report. In some circumstances, you can get your state to complete an adoption home study and send the report directly to USCIS. Check with your state service to find out if your state sends this report or if you would have to send it yourself.
 You potentially must follow a different adoption process, depending on the country from which you want to adopt a child. Researching the countries where children are available for U.S. adoption can help you understand more about how you would adopt that child.There are two basic processes. If the country is a member of the Hague Convention, you follow the process set forth in that treaty. Otherwise, you use the non-Hague Orphan Adoptions process and guidelines.
If you already had several countries in mind before conducting your research, learning more about these processes may help you narrow down your list.
Keep in mind that adopting a child from another country implicates the laws of your state, the federal government, and the laws of the child's country of origin, as well as international laws and treaties.
 The process for adopting a child from another country is complicated. An international adoption agency or adoption facilitator such as an adoption attorney can make the process easier for you.Conducting internet research on your own can help you understand the process, but doing research on your own in this complicated area can often result in more questions than answers.
Keep in mind that an international adoption potentially implicates state and federal law in the U.S., the laws of the child's country of origin, and international laws and treaties. These laws can intersect and interact with each others in ways that make the process seem confusing or redundant.
Often, there is a specific order in which the various steps must be done and applications completed or approved. Doing something out of order can result in a denial or extensive delay. For this reason, it typically is best to have someone on your side who has experience completing international adoptions.
 If you want to adopt a child from another country, you must comply with the home-study requirements set forth in international law. You can research these requirements online so you're prepared for the process before you start.Whoever completes your home study must be licensed or authorized to conduct home studies under the definitions of the Hague Convention. State adoption services and most private accredited adoption agencies typically are approved.
A home study for an international adoption may have greater interview requirements than if the home study is completed for domestic adoption. Keep this in mind especially if you've already had a home study completed.
When you get your home study completed, it must be submitted to the USCIS within six months of completion. If you delay any longer, you'll have to get another home study done. Do all the research you need to do to prepare for your home study before you schedule one, so that when the process starts you have everything ready.
In addition to reading about home study requirements on the USCIS website, public and private agencies also may have information that you can review in advance on their websites.
 In some situations, a child you adopt from another country will not be granted U.S. citizenship automatically. Generally, this depends on the age of the child and where the adoption takes place.There are particular visa types that you must complete, depending on whether the adoption takes place in the U.S. or in the child's country of origin. Researching these visa types on the internet before you begin the adoption process can ensure that no mistakes are made.
You can read about these visas on the USCIS website, and also download copies of the visa applications so you understand the information that must be included.
Learning about required visas and documentation in advance also can help you ensure that your adopted child automatically becomes a U.S. citizen, rather than having to wait or go through the naturalization process.

