 Only teachers can create and distribute assignments., This will take you to that class' page., This is in the bottom right corner of Chrome; clicking it will prompt you to add a new assignment., This will open the new assignment form., This title should alert students to both the content of the assignment and the format in which it will be completed ("written", "read", etc.). If you don't want to add a title, you can skip ahead to the due date., This will help students adhere to specific guidelines as they complete the assignment. Make sure you tie in connections to the content to which the assignment relates--the current day's lesson, for example.

This is a good place for you to make your grading criteria clear as well.
 Do this by clicking the arrow next to "No due date", clicking "No due date", and selecting a date from the calendar. Though you will likely cover the assignment's due date in class, your students will benefit from having the assignment's due date in writing beside the assignment itself.You can also add a specific time to this assignment from here.
 You can do this by clicking the arrow next to "No topic", clicking "Create topic", and entering a topic name. Your topic should reflect whichever unit your class is currently studying. This will help students stay organized.

You can also select a pre-existing topic from this menu.
 This button resembles a paperclip. You have a couple of attachment options at your disposal:

Select a file from your computer, then click "Upload" to attach a physical document.
Click the "Drive" icon instead of the "Attach" icon to attach a Google Drive document.
 This will post the assignment to the class forum; students should receive a notification in their streams regarding the assignment's availability.

You can also schedule assignments ahead of time by clicking the arrow next to "Assign" and clicking "Schedule". From this menu, click the date and set a time for the assignment to go live, then click "Schedule" when you're done. Your assignment will post on the selected date.

