 If you have a significant other who lives with you and will be “sharing” your dog, have a conversation about what you each want out of a dog. Caring for any pet is a big responsibility, so figure out if this one will be evenly shared between the two of you, or if all that your partner intends to share is living space. Discuss matters like:


Whether they’re willing to tag-team the constant supervision and training that a puppy would require, or if they would be more comfortable with an older dog that is more likely to behave itself when left on its own..Whether they have any experience caring for dogs. A lack of experience may place more burden on you (meaning an older dog may be the way to go if you have other commitments). A history of caring for dogs, however, could offset your own lack of experience (which means that a puppy may be back on the table).
How long of a commitment they’re willing to make. Depending on the breed, dogs may live as long as 14 years or even longer.While your partner may be eager to bring a dog home, they may be hesitant about such a prolonged commitment, especially if they’ve never cared for a dog before.
 If you have children in the house, your decision may be easier. If the children are young, go with an older dog. If they’re old enough to more or less take care of themselves, an older dog may still be the way to go (depending on how hectic everyone’s various schedules are), but consider teens as a possible extra hand to help raise a puppy if you’re heart is set on one.Training and socializing dogs effectively means being consistent in your approach. Since puppies require the most work (and therefore the most consistency), only consider them if your kids are mature enough to exercise self-control.Obviously, if you have kids, your primary concern should be them. Regardless of how old they are, weigh considerations like how much money and time you can dedicate to a new dog versus how this will affect similar demands on you from your children.
Puppies are usually very playful, which may make them seem like ideal playmates for young kids. However, dogs often use their jaws to play-bite, which might confuse and scare very young kids. This is another reason why a calmer adult dog is more suitable.
Adult rescue dogs with behavioral issues may require the same level of attention, patience, and consistency as puppies.
 If your final decision is to bring home a puppy, try to find one either direct from a responsible breeder or a legitimate animal shelter. Be aware that many pet stores get their puppies from mills, which often keep the parents in unsavory conditions. Instead of supporting this heartless practice, either adopt a rescue dog or research the breeder. A responsible breeder should:Wait until the puppy is at least eight weeks old before offering it for sale.Should be willing to give you a complete tour of their facilities.
Share both the puppy’s and the parents’ medical histories and tell you who their vet is.
Ask you questions about your own situation to ensure that you and the puppy will be a good fit.
Allow parents time to recuperate from giving birth, meaning they should not have puppies available 365 days out of the year.

