 Once you’ve pre-treated the beetroot stain with cold water, it’s best to take any dry-clean only garments straight to the dry cleaners and let the professionals remove the stain., If you don’t want to dry-clean your garment or if the beetroot stain is on cloth furniture, carpet, or another bulky item, soak a thick piece of white bread in water at room temperature until it’s saturated but not soggy. Set the soaked bread over the stain.Allow the bread to absorb the stain. This can take 5 to 10 minutes. When you remove the bread, be careful not to squeeze it so that the absorbed color doesn’t leak back onto the fabric.The bread may not remove the stain completely, but it may help remove more of it than the cold water dabs did.
 To remove any excess staining, mix 2 cups (16 ounces) of cool water with one tablespoon of liquid dishwashing soap. Using a white cloth, apply the solution to the stain and blot. You can repeat this several times., Once the stain is gone, take a new dry cloth and blot away any remaining dishwashing solution with cold water.You can also blot with a dry cloth afterwards to speed up the drying process.
 For particularly stubborn stains, mix one tablespoon of ammonia with ½ cup (4 ounces) of water. Dab the solution onto the stain with a white cloth and repeat if necessary.Ammonia is not typically recommended for cleaning garments and upholstery because it can be very tough on fabric, but it does help remove beetroot stains.
Before applying the ammonia, dab some of the solution on a hidden area of the fabric to make sure it doesn’t cause harm to it.
Never use ammonia and bleach together because the combination can produce toxic fumes., If you’re trying to eliminate beetroot stains from a cutting board, liberally sprinkle coarse salt over the stain and rub it in using a lemon cut in half. Rinse the board with soap and water, and then pat it dry with a towel., For white linoleum floors or counters, mix 1 part bleach with 4 parts water and apply the solution with a white cloth. If the beetroot stain is particularly stubborn, try leaving the cloth (soaked in the bleach solution) on top of the stain for an hour.If you're worried about harming the color or pattern of your linoleum, use a color safe bleach.
 If you’re trying to get beetroot stains off your hands, scrub them with course salt and a little water. Wash the salt off your hands using dish soap.