 Pour 1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil into a medium saucepan and place it on the stove over medium heat. Your oil is heated when it starts to shimmer slightly.


If you are on a diet or you want a light sauce, you can remove the oil, and add onion and garlic powder.You can also use a skillet.;
, Dice up 4 garlic cloves and drop them into the pan. Be careful, once the oil is hot, it may pop when you add the garlic. Cook over medium heat for 5 minutes. Stir occasionally to keep the garlic from sticking.


Adding the garlic early gives it a chance to brown up a bit, helping it release flavor.
Garlic is a very strong herb packed with anti-oxidants that are great for the heart. Unfortunately, the sulphuric compounds that give garlic their health benefits and taste can also cause garlic breath. If you are sensitive to garlic, use just 1 clove of garlic, or a few dashes of garlic salt instead., Use your own personal preferences for this step. You can chop up 2 fresh tomatoes or use 2 canned tomatoes. Follow with 1 can of tomato sauce, or use homemade tomato sauce.


You can also remove the tomatoes and use only tomato sauce.
If you are using chopped up whole tomatoes, you may want to blend them first to get a smoother consistency for your sauce.
 Add 1/8 tsp cayenne powder, 2 tsp oregano and 2 tsp cumin. Cook for another 5 minutes.


Cayenne powder is very spicy so be careful how much you add. If you are sensitive to spices, just use a pinch. If you are interested in a spicier sauce, you can use 2/8 tsp and a dash of black pepper.
 Use either 3/4 cup water or vegetable broth, not both. Using vegetable broth will give your sauce more flavor, but many store bought broths have preservatives and additives so you may be better off making your own vegetable broth.


Making it yourself will take a little extra time, but will enhance the flavor of your sauce., Cook your sauce for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.


If you want to get creative with flavors, you can use a separate spoon to taste your sauce after it has had some time to cook and take the opportunity to add a little more oregano, cumin, or any other spice you desire.
 After 15 minutes, pour your finished sauce over a dish of freshly assembled enchiladas, or store your sauce in an airtight container to save for later.

