 To do so, press and hold the Sleep/Wake button on top of the iPod's housing until you see the Apple logo on the screen, then release the button.

To power off your Nano, press and hold the Sleep/Wake button on top of the iPod's housing until press and hold the Sleep/Wake button on top of the iPod's housing until the screen goes blank, then release the button.;
, The icon looks like a multicolored musical note inside a white background with a multicolored ring around the outside.

If iTunes prompts you to download the most recent version, do so.
 Using your iPod cable, plug the USB end into your computer and the other end into your iPod's charging port.

Connecting your iPod Nano to iTunes on a computer enables you to add media and content to your iPod.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the iTunes window next to the icon of your iPod.,, In the "Library" section in the left pane of the iTunes window, there are several ways in which to view the media in your library:


Music is organized by:

Recently Added
Artists
Albums
Songs
Genres



Movies and TV Shows are organized by:

Recently Added
Movies

Home Videos, which are videos that you've added to your iTunes library but did not purchase from the iTunes Store.

TV Shows, which are series that you've purchased from iTunes.

Episodes, which are individual episodes of the TV series you've purchased.
Genres



, Drag a movie, series, episode, song, or album from the library on the right side of the window to your iPod's icon in the left pane of the window, under the "Devices" section.

A blue rectangle will surround your iPod's icon.
You can select multiple items by clicking on them while holding down Ctrl (PC) or ⌘ Command (Mac).
 Do so by releasing the mouse or trackpad button, which will start the upload to your iPod.

Because iPod Nano does not support HD videos, you won't be able to add them to your Nano.
 It's the orange app with a music note on the Home screen.

Press the round Home button below the screen to get to the Home screen.
Your iPod Nano must be disconnected from the desktop to play media.
 It's located between the volume buttons on the left side of your Nano's housing.

Give your iPod a quick, brief shake to shuffle songs.
 On your iPod, Music is organized into the following categories:


Genius Mixes, which are smart playlists that iTunes generates based on music you like.

Playlists, which you create on your iPod or computer.
Artists
Albums
Songs
Genres

,, Controls will appear onscreen:

Tap ⏸ to pause playback.
Tap ⏮ to go back to the beginning of a song; double-tap to go to the previous song.
Tap ⏭ to go to the next song.
Tap ▶️ To resume playback.
 It's a blue app with a white film icon on the iPod's Home screen.

You may need to scroll down to see all the videos available on your iPod.
 The video will start playing and controls will appear onscreen:

Tap ⏸ to pause playback.
Tap ⏮ to go back to the beginning of a chapter; tap and hold to rewind.
Tap ⏭ to go to the next chapter; tap and hold to fast-forward.
Tap ▶️ To resume playback.
 It's the gray app on the Home screen with a radio tower icon.

Your Nano uses the earbud or headphone cord as an antenna. For best results, use wired earbuds or a headphone when listening to radio on your iPod.
 To do so manually, swipe right or left on the radio dial on the screen. You can also tap ⏮ or ⏭ to move to the next signal up or down the dial.,, Your iPod will buffer the stream so that you can resume listening where you left off when you tap ▶️.,