 The most convenient dimensions for your book are 8.5 x 11”, or standard size copy paper. Most commercially-made coloring books fit those proportions, so children are already accustomed to the size. Also, if you’re stumped coming up with your own illustrations, you’ll have the option of printing new designs off of the internet and adding them to your book later.;
, If your theme is the seasons, a natural number of pages would be four. Make the decision now, however, regarding page length because once the binding process begins, adding or taking away pages could become trickier.


Opting for fewer pages might be better given the shorter attention span of young children.
 The quickest and simplest way to bind your finished book together is with a row of staples. For a more finished look, though, you might want to use liquid glue. Or, you could use a hole puncher and create three holes in the area to be bound along the left margin of the book (one near the top of the pages, one in the middle and one near the bottom). Then, you could thread twine or decorative ribbon through the holes, bring together the ends and tie them into a bow or knot.


Binding the book after you’ve created your hand drawn illustrations makes more sense. That way you’re not struggling to fit your drawings in on the smaller surface of a pre-bound page.
 With drawn designs you can literally add a personal, loving touch to the book. Not all of us are accomplished artists, however. So if you choose to use prefabricated, printable designs take the time to locate pictures that really reflect your children's’ personalities.


A quick web search will unearth numerous websites that offer free, printable children’s coloring book illustrations.
 Does your daughter love ponies? Or are spaceships more her style? Choosing a theme for the book can help narrow down the endless possibilities out there. Also, keeping a common theme going can inspire the creation of various designs within the same category. For example, if the theme is superheroes, you can make up all types of crazy characters and draw them in different ways. Cartoonish, realistic, etc.

