 You have a lot of options when it comes to using decals to decorate your laptop. You can decorate the top, the keyboard, or even the touch pad.


When sticking anything directly onto your laptop (not the laptop’s protective cover), make sure you are careful to choose decals, skins, and stickers that are meant for that purpose. Stickers meant for this purpose are often made from vinyl.;
, In order for decals, tape, skins, and stickers to apply smoothly, all of the surfaces on your laptop should be clean. Use water and avoid using surface cleaners.


Use a damp, not soaking, towel to wipe down the surfaces to which you will be applying any kind of decoration.
Wash your hands to help ensure the laptop stays clean after wiping it down.
Use a dry towel after the wipe down to ensure the laptop is completely dry and ready for applying decals. , Using washi tape is a popular way to customize your keyboard. Washi tape is a type of decorative masking tape that is safe to apply to your keyboard. It comes in dozens of patterns that you can mix and match. You can buy washi tape at many craft stores. It is also available online from many vendors.
Cut strips of tape the size of individual keys, and stick them to the keyboard. You may want to gently write the corresponding letter on the tape. Sometimes washi tape is quite thin. In that case, you might be able to see the lettering through the tape anyway.
 Skins cover the entire back (behind the screen) of the laptop with an elaborate image. Skins are great when you want a single, dramatic image.


Many websites sell pre-made laptop skins or even allow you to upload your own images to be made into skins.
You can also make your own laptop skin by buying sticker paper and printing the image you want onto the sticker paper using your computer’s printer.
Apply the skin by by slowly peeling one edge of the skin back and sticking it to one edge of the laptop. Then, slowly peel the back of the skin away a little at a time while smoothing the skin down with a straight edge (a credit card will do the trick). , Individual stickers can be used on your laptop to provide personalization and customization. Decals can be purchased from a variety of online stores.


Decals are often vinyl. Vinyl decals are easier to remove than ordinary stickers.
Remember that stickers that look upside down when the laptop is closed and facing you will look upright to everyone else when the laptop is open.
Ordinary stickers may be very difficult to remove, so be sure you want them before you stick them on.

