 Read the Bible and see where the knowledge of good and evil comes from: from God.
 From childhood on, we try to fill that gap that exists within us. Sharing a life with another person, enjoying the companionship, stems from Adam and Eve who desired to love and be loved, as companions and as a means of creating a world of mankind. The Christian idea that humanity is God’s most prized creation is quite tenable. We need air and it is all around the planet we call home, we require water and it falls in purified form from the sky, we must consume food to live and it grows from the ground and roams water and land in abundance, and a family model of having parents, a spouse and children exists to satisfy our greatest vacancy for love. Consider that ones strength, beauty and knowledge exist for the edifying, maturing and uplifting of the full spectrum of humanity. No other religion besides Christianity most forcefully establishes that life is a gift of love from God and that our lives are to be lived in service to humanity (and credited is unto God). If we believe that there is a cause for every effect, as if things are designed, then it follows that there is a builder and maker: a God of creation.




When I see all the glories of the cosmos, I can’t help but believe that there is a divine hand behind it all. Albert Einstein


People travel to wonder at the height of mountains, at the huge waves of the sea, at the vast compass of the ocean, at the circular motion of the stars and they pass themselves by without wondering. St. Augustine


I believe in Christianity as I believe that the Sun has risen, not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else. C.S. Lewis


Some people complain because God puts thorns on roses, while others praise God for putting roses among thorns. Author Unknown


If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him, just to say thank you. Pastor Robert Schuller

A heathen philosopher once asked a Christian, 'Where is God'? The Christian answered, 'Let me first ask you: Where is He not?' Aaron Arrowsmith

What I am really interested in, is knowing whether God could have created the world in a different way; in other words, whether the requirement of logical simplicity admits a margin of freedom. Albert EinsteinMy religion consists of a humble admiration of the illimitable superior spirit who reveals himself in the slight details we are able to perceive With our frail and feeble minds. That deeply emotional conviction of the presence of a superior reasoning power, which is revealed in the incomprehensible Universe, forms my idea of God. Albert Einstein