 Be prepared to remain calm, friendly, and welcoming, as opposed to defensive, hostile and superior.;
, Carry a pocket sized Bible (like a Gideon's) so that you have some reinforcement.
 When you're in a large group of people, such as at a party, unless you're approached specifically, that's probably not the best time. The most agreeable circumstance is in a small group or one on one. Even then, watch for an opening - and recognize that if there isn't one, you shouldn't be the one to bring this subject up.
 Once the discussion has begun, it's very helpful to understand why a person believes other than what you believe. Hearing them talk about their own belief system will allow you to then, thoughtfully and calmly, say, "I see, you know, I don't think I ever knew that about you. You know that I'm a Christian, right? (they nod or whatever) Generally, the Christian belief is ________." Keep your response as brief as possible.
 As mentioned, particularly in a setting where there is more than one person you're chatting with, let them talk first. You respond.
 If you start getting hostile or frustrated, you will give the other person the impression that they are not only NOT entitled to their own beliefs, but that they're actually stupid for having them. Nothing will get you - and Christianity in general - shut out quicker than for the person you're trying to reach to think that you believe they are (1) stupid, (2) condemned, (3) misguided, (4) ignorant. Even if you do think so.
 You're not there to 'win' this argument. You're not there to argue. You're there to present the Christian faith in a positive way that is interesting enough to at least one other person that you will be granted the privilege of sharing your faith with them. You are not better than them because you're a Christian. You are simply blessed in a way they are not as of yet. Don't make this about you. Remember who you are - you are the face of Jesus that this person is seeing at that moment. Make sure you're presenting him accurately.
 Sometimes we feel that the Word is the most powerful tool there is for reaching the non-Christian. It is, no doubt. But it's only that powerful tool when used at the right moment - a hammer is a powerful tool, too, but it isn't much help in tying a fly fishing lure. At that first moment, the most powerful tool you have is your own charming personality. Believe in yourself - you're a nice person, you know how you want to be treated in a conversation. Just do that for the other person, and talk from your own heart. Pray for help. It'll be there.
 Keep it light - for now. A sense of humor about God is very appealing to many people who are seeking. A lot of these people are lonely, searching for meaning, but don't want to be involved in something they perceive as restrictive or limiting, and they really don't want to be all depressed. Reminding people that it really was God who said, "Hmmm. Here's a... yellow horse... with a really long neck and brown spots... and ANTENNAS! I like it! We are SO keeping this guy!" can be very attractive.
 Don't threaten people with damnation and hell. You will see their shields go up every single time. Instead, concentrate on explaining that the reason you're at peace, that you are confident and assured is that you have faith that all is well in God's hands, and that faith and hope that you have in Him is what makes your serenity possible in the face of the worst storms in your life. That's attractive. Fire and brimstone is not with some people.
 A conversation about Hell is necessary to people who don't already know that a particular habit or path leads to destruction and need or want someone to care enough to remind them. Fire and brimstone should only be spoken when you know that your relationship of heart will end up closer before the nightfall. WARNING: You don't want to do a disservice to them and Christ. Also, it shouldn't just be spoken as "fire and brimstone", but (also) more specifically. If your friend drinks heavily, they aren't facing up to where they are heading from subtle hints from society and friends, and you've gotten to a stage to talk to him or her about this, only then let them know directly the bad health, bad family picture, and disrespect of company that is probably ahead of them. Remember, this should only be done with people with whom you've had a long-standing relationship with and will continue to have a long standing relationship. The shorter and weaker the relationship, the more "love quota" in the "grace bank" you need to meet first before constructively criticizing.

