 Define a process in your business operation that has a clear starting point and output. The process can be simple, like the redirection of a customer complaint, or complex, like the entire order and shipping process for an online product. The process can involve one department or business organization level or several of each. Whatever process you are measuring, just be sure that it can be easily split into clear parts with easy-to-identify relationships between them.For example, one process that can be modeled relatively easy is the receipt of an online order and checking whether or not the customer has the money to pay for it and if the item is in stock. The output is that the order checks out (in stock, able to be paid for) and is sent to the shipping department.;
, Any process requires a first step, which can realistically be anything. However, the starting point of a business process should be what raises your process to action. In other words, it is the input that the business seeks to convert into an output. Starting points generally fall into one of several categories:


External events. These include the initiation of a transaction or a transmitted alert from another business system. For example, a problem in automated system that requires human attention is an external event.
Content arrival. For content management systems, the starting point might be the arrival of a new document or other form of content.
Human intervention. This includes customer complaints and other human intervention within or outside of the business.For the previous example, the starting point is the receipt of a customer order.
 Next, you will need to identify each individual step in your process and how it is connected to the other steps. On the most general level, you will have events (steps that require no action by the business), activities (performed by the business in response to input), and decision gateways (splits in the process where the path of the process is decided by some qualifier). Between these objects, there are connectors, which can be either be solid arrows (activity flow), or dashed (message/information flow).


In traditional business process modeling notation (BPMN), the steps are represented by different shapes depending on their function. For example, events are circles, activities are rectangles, and decision gateways are diamonds.For the previous example, we would use steps such as "customer order" (an event), "process order" (an activity), "Check credit" (an action), "Credit?" (a decision gateway that leads to one of two other actions, depending on a "yes" or "no" determination), and so on.
 In order to make your process as clear as possible, you should determine which part of the business completes each step. Different parts of the process may be completed by the accounting department, customer service, or order fulfillment, for example. Alternately, for a small business, these steps may be completed by specific individuals. In BPMN, the associated person or department for each activity is either denoted by a designator next to the step or by a "pool," a horizontal division in the flow chart that shows which part of the business performs each step. Pools may be further divided into "lanes," which specify a particular part of the company or person within the pool.For the previous example, we might just write outside of the step "check credit" that this action is performed by the business's online retail platform (if this is the case).
 BPMN can take many forms, from sequential modeling to causation model. It can also be done using anything from specialized software to post-it notes or a whiteboard. It is up to your business to choose which method works best for working with your process model. However, keep in mind that these models usually work best with group input, so you may be better off using the type of modeling that can be worked on most easily by the group., When you are creating your model, make sure you can move around each step as necessary. You may find that some parts of the model can be consolidated, moved around, and reordered to make the system flow more effectively. Make sure also that the labels associated with each step, if any, can be moved easily with the step., Begin by including the starting point of the process at the top left of whatever platform you are using to illustrate the process. Identify each subsequent step, including decisions between them, and places that steps in order from the first one. Check each step as you add it to make sure there are not any steps between that step and the previous one. Continue until you have reached the output of the business process.For the previous example, your steps might be as follows:


Customer order (event) to process order (an activity) to check credit (an activity) to credit? (a decision gateway).
If the customer's credit doesn't check out, you would move to the step contact the customer (activity), labeling the arrow between the steps with a "no" label. Then, you would move to cancel the order (activity).
If the customer's credit checks out (a "yes" response), you would move on to check stock (activity) and connect the steps with an arrow labeled "yes." Then, you would check the stock in the decision gateway labeled as "stock?".
If the item is in stock, label the arrow "yes" as before and send the order to shipping (an activity).
If the item is not in stock, you would move to contact the customer and cancel the order (both activities).
 First, look over your model with a coworker or a group. Examine it for any potential holes or missed steps. Then, follow the actual business process and compare it to your model. Alternately, you can run the model in a focus group or meeting to see any steps that don't flow or are left out., Once you've run through your model to make sure that it works, start looking over it again to locate areas where resources aren't being used efficiently or where communications or steps that need to happen are not completed. Again, having a coworker or a group of coworkers present to help you with this adds to your ability to find these issues.For the previous example, you may realize that the process fails to let customers know that the item may be back in stock soon. This cancels the order that could otherwise be fulfilled within a number of days.
 Using your list of issues with the as-is model, identify potential fixes to the problems. You may find that issues can be fixed by focusing on three primary areas: automation, geographical coordination, and removing middlemen. Automation may help you reduce resources or time required for a step. Geographical coordination can include outsourcing steps for reduced cost or efficiency. Cutting out middlemen involves reducing the number of participants in the process to reduce the chance of miscommunication or cut costs. Other areas for locating improvements may include:


Informational: measuring more data regarding the process to find issues.
Sequential: rearranging steps.
Tracking: helps you monitor process progress.
Analytical: improves decision-making at decision gateways.For the previous example, you could think about implementing a system for checking when an out of stock item will be back in stock and alerting the customer to an estimated delivery time.
 Before implementing a new system based on your improvements, make sure that the improvements actually help either the customer or the business, or both. Making a change just because you can may result in unnecessary additional costs or more process mistakes.
 Convert your suggested improvements into steps and place them in your previous model appropriately. For the previous example, this might include creating an activity step to check whether the item will be in stock soon after the decision stock? and the "no" arrow. This would be placed before the "contact customer" activity and would change the output of that activity from letting the customer know that the item will not be shipped to letting them know when it will be shipped and that it will be later than expected.
 Test the model using the previous method and then implement it in your business. Make sure to test it regularly and reassess it for inefficiencies and issues.