 If your child is afflicted with a bully at school, take some action. Talk to your child’s teacher or principal about what’s going on. Call the child’s parents and talk to them. You can also teach your child to stick up for themselves and for others being bullied. Teaching your child to stand up to a bully helps increase their confidence and handle problems.If your child is being bullied, empathize with them and tell them that they do not deserve to be bullied about anything. Tell them to seek the assistance of an adult or tell the bully to go away.
Make sure to give your child specific suggestions for how to respond to a bully and rehearse these suggestions with them. For example, you might encourage your child to tell a bully something like, “No. You can’t have my pudding cup. Bring your own next time!”

, If your child is having a hard time understanding concepts or is struggling with certain subjects or just cannot stay focused, you may want to see if they’re experiencing learning difficulties or attention problems. Talk to your child’s teacher about difficulties you notice at home and ask if they notice any problems at school. If you both have concerns, schedule an appointment with the school psychologist or a child psychologist in your community.If your child does have learning or attention problems, they can receive accommodations in school. These accommodations can help them experience more success.
 If your child dislikes attending school, schedule a meeting with their teacher and/or school counselor. Talk about any problems they have noticed such as lagging behind academically or problems with peers. Ask them for feedback about your child’s behavior. Then, ask what can be done to help your child adjust better.Raise your concerns and talk about what your child is doing or saying that makes them dislike school.
If your child is struggling with a subject, then look into getting them some tutoring so that they can get better with the subject and gain confidence.

