 You can apply for Medicare 3 months before your 65th birthday. Even if you're not filing for retirement benefits yet, it's a good idea to apply for Medicare on-time. You can contact your local office or start the process online here. The initial enrollment period for Medicare benefits begins 3 months before your 65th birthday and ends 3 months after the month of your 65th birthday, making it 7 months long in total. If you miss the initial enrollment period, you'll have to wait for the general enrollment period, which is between January 1 and March 31 each year. Some applications for Medicare Part B qualify for a special enrollment period.


Find out if you're a special case. People receiving Social Security disability benefits and people suffering from end-stage renal disease automatically qualify for Medicare.
 You can apply for Medicare online or through your local SSA office; or over the phone at (800) 772-1213 (if you are hearing-impaired, call 800-325-0778), Monday through Friday, between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Eastern time.
 There are four parts to Medicare coverage, and each covers a different facet of your health care. Generally, people in the US who are over 65 and qualify for Medicare qualify for both Parts A and B; beneficiaries in Puerto Rico or those receiving Railroad retirement benefits will have the option to add Part B coverage. Parts C and D are administered by private, Medicare-approved insurance companies.


Part A provides hospital insurance. It's paid for by a portion of Social Security tax, and finances inpatient hospital care, skilled nursing services, hospice care and home health care.
Part B is supplemental medical insurance funded in part by the US Treasury, and by monthly premiums you'll pay. Part B covers outpatient care, home health care, medical equipment and some preventative services.
Part C is also known as Medicare Advantage. Medicare Advantage plans are administered through private insurance companies that have been approved by Medicare, and they offer coverage for Part A and B benefits, and sometimes Part D. Some plans include extra benefits at an extra cost.
Part D is Medicare's prescription drug coverage plan. Like Part C, it's administered by private insurance companies. It's primary purpose is to lower the costs of your prescription drugs.
 The term Medigap is derived from the difference between what Medicare pays for health services and what the patient still owes. Medigap (or Medicare Supplement) plans provide additional coverage from private insurance companies for these costs. In order to qualify for Medigap coverage, you must be at least 65 years old and already qualified for Medicare Parts A and B. People receiving Social Security disability benefits and those suffering from end-stage renal disease are ineligible for Medigap plans.


Find the best fit for you. Medigap plans are lettered A through N, and provide varying levels of coverage at different costs. Start here and figure out which plan will best suit your needs.

