 How you make the in-text citation depends on what kind of source you pulled the quote from.
 Provide a word or phrase (the author’s name) and the page number. If you state the word or phrase in the sentence, you do not need to add it to the in-text citation.The meat factory workers of Chicago “were tied to the great packing-machine, and tied to it for life” (Sinclair, 99).or
Upton Sinclair described the workers as "tied to the great packing-machine, and tied to it for life” (99).
 If there are three or less authors, list all of the authors’ last names in alphabetical order within the parentheses followed by the page number. If there are more than three authors, write the last name of the author who appears first in the alphabet, followed by "et al." and the page number.





Two or three authors
The authors state, “citing quotes can be annoying” (Hu, Koller, and Shier 45).

More than three authors:
The authors state, “citing different sources can be confusing” (Perhamus et al. 63).
 Use a shortened title of the work in place of an author’s name.




Citing How to Cite Like a Champion and Be Better Than Other Writers:
Citing sources can get annoying because “it can take a while” (Cite like a Champion 72).
 List either the web page’s author, website name, or article name in parentheses. You do not need to put a page number.



The sky is blue but “clouds are white” (Obvious Observations Online).
 Include the first item that appears in that source's listing on the Works Cited page--usually the interviewee's last name.



An email message confirmed that “the sky is indeed blue” (Smith).
 This is where you list the full bibliographical information for each source that you quoted or cited in your paper. You should list your sources in alphabetical order. Use the following formats:





Book with one author:Lastname, Firstname. Title of Book. City of Publication: Publisher, Year of Publication. Medium of Publication.Note: The Medium of Publication is "Print" for paper books. Other media include Web and Radio.


Book with multiple authors:Lastname, Firstname of first alphabetical author, then Firstname Lastname for other authors. Title of Book. City of Publication: Publisher, Year of Publication. Medium of Publication.

Book with no known author:Title of publication. City of Publication: Publisher, Year of Publication. Medium of Publication.

Web page:“Name of Article.” Name of Website. Name of website owner, date of publication. Web. Date of access.Note: Write n.d. if no publishing date is listed.


Personal interview:Lastname, Firstname of interviewee. Personal interview. Date.

Published interview:Lastname, Firstname of interviewee. Interview with (Name of Interviewer). Publication or program (year): page numbers if applicable. Medium of publication.

Personal message:
Lastname, Firstname of sender. “Title of Message.” Medium. Date.



