 You should learn to recognize your “inner critic” or, in other words, the voice in your head that says mean things. If you hear yourself saying things to yourself that you would never say to a friend, it is your inner critic. If you hear this critic, take a deep breath and let the thought pass. When you feel more relaxed, notice that things aren’t as bad as your inner critic may have described them. Try to think about the topic you were considering in a more grounded and reasonable way.If you hear yourself saying things in black and white terms, in an irrational but persistent tone, you may also be experiencing your inner critic., Remember that the things we say about ourselves, even when they aren’t expressed to someone else, make a difference in our lives. Try using affirmative statements such as the following:“I can get through this situation.”
“I am a basically good human being.”
“I love myself.”
“I have something to contribute.”
“My work matters.”

, Find a relaxing and relatively quiet room in your home. Find someplace to sit such as a chair or a cushion. Sit up straight, with a straight back and an open chest. Imagine a string pulling you up from the base of your spine to the top of your head. Notice that you are breathing. If you find your mind is wandering, simply turn your attention back to your breath. By meditating, you can learn to listen to your own experience and be more mindful of your life.Use an application such as Headspace, Buddhify, Calm or the Mindfulness App. With a meditation application, you can follow a guided meditation. You can also customize meditation sessions with different start and end bells or gongs. Most apps have a timer function so that you can set the length of your meditation session and not worry about looking at a clock.Find meditation classes in your area. Try searching online for local meditation classes.
You can find a list of meditation centers that offer classes and retreats in a variety of meditation traditions at the Center for Mindfulness website., If you experience a lot of self-doubt or low self-esteem, you may want to seek help from a mental health professional. Look for a counsellor, psychologist, psychiatrist or other mental health practitioner in your area.


You may be able to find a referral service for a therapist in your area, which would involve talking to someone about your needs and obtaining a recommendation.
Consider asking a friend or a family member for a referral.
You could search for a therapist online.