 When it comes to buying a tablet, the main choice you will need to make is the operating system. The operating systems for tablets fall into three basic camps: Apple (iOS), Google (Android), and Microsoft (Windows). The one you pick will be based a lot on the kind of things you do on your regular computer and smartphone.If you already have a smartphone with one of these operating systems, you may want to consider picking up a tablet running the same OS. Both Android and iOS behave almost exactly the same across devices, making getting used to your device much easier. This will also allow you to connect your devices easier and share things between them.
If you regularly use services provided by one of these operating systems, (iCloud, Google Drive, OneDrive, etc.), you may want to pick a tablet from the same OS. This isn't necessary, however, as there are apps available for all devices that allow you to access other services.;
, Apple's iOS is what powers the iPad, the device that kicked the tablet market into high-gear in 2010. iOS is known for it's intuitive interface, and Apple products are revered for their construction quality.


Seamless integration with OS X and iTunes purchases.
Easy-to-use interface.
Tons of apps, usually first to get the latest and greatest.
iMessage allows you to send messages for free across all Apple devices.
 Google's Android operating system is the most popular mobile operating system on the planet, thanks in large part to the massive number of devices that can run it. Android used to be a bit more finicky than iOS, but updates have brought a large number of improvements over the years.


Seamless integration with your Google account and Play Store purchases.
Android devices can be significantly cheaper than iOS or Windows.
Lots of customization and rooting options for advanced users.
Large variety of models and manufacturers to choose from.
Android supports multiple user logins for one device.
The Android operating system can be modified by the manufacturer to be very customized. For example, the Amazon Kindle Fire runs a modified version of Android built around the Amazon ecosystem.
 Windows isn't available on as many devices as iOS or Android, but it can be a good choice if you work heavily with Office and other Microsoft products. Windows 10 is currently the main Windows mobile operating system, and some versions are as full-featured as a regular computer.


Can run a variety of Windows programs, including Office. Surface Pros run a full desktop version of Windows 10.
Seamless integration with your Microsoft account and Windows Store purchases.
Pairs well with Xbox. Smartglass allows you to use your tablet as a secondary interface for many Xbox 360 and Xbox One games.
Most Windows tablets come with detachable keyboards.
 Low-end tablets start at around $200 USD, while the highest-priced iPad will set you back $800 USD. A lower price usually means less processing power and limited storage. The quality of the display will also suffer on the low-end models.
 Apps are the main point of having a tablet, and the selection of apps will dictate a lot of what your device can do. You can browse each operating system's app stores using your web browser. Take a look through the app stores and see which operating system has more apps that appeal to you and your app budget.Not all apps are optimized for tablet use, but more and more are releasing tablet versions.

