 This should be a sentence (one line) that describes your film. It's purpose is to grab your reader's attention. Once you've thought of one, it'll be easier to expand on your story without writing too much. Your tagline may determine whether or not your reader will read on.;
, (Think: movie trailer.) They show enough for the audience to know what it's about and decide to go out and watch the film, but they don't reveal the entire contents of the film. When elaborating on your film, remember to try and keep your story original, so it doesn't sound like every other film ever made.


For example, a young teen enters a grocery store. As he's paying for items, armed men enter to rob the store. Shopkeeper doesn't cooperate and gets killed. The young teen is a witness. (A very basic and familiar story beginning, right?) Armed men decide to kidnap the young teen and decide to hold him hostage in hopes they will get paid for his return. Except no one turns up looking for him. (This is the beginning of your twist and originality).
 Also, if there is a well known character from another film that is similar to your character, mention that to give your listener a better sense of your character. For example, if your character is a Jack Sparrow type, saying "Jack Sparrow type" will let them better understand what you mean.
 The general rule for writing and delivering a pitch is, "the shorter, the better." This also depends on who will be receiving the pitch. In some situations, a time/word/page limit is given. (If so, be sure not to exceed it!) Try to keep it down to a few sentences if possible. If you don't need to elaborate, don't.


For example, 'Wedding Crashers' can be described using only the title. It's a film about people who crash a wedding. The only elaboration needed would be to explain how these wedding crashers are different from any others. What's their story? Do they have a motive?

, You're pitching to someone you want to invest or pay attention to your film, you need to be sure to pitch your entire story. Again, keep it short and sweet. Your aim is to intrigue your readers, not bore them to death.
 Is it absolutely necessary? If it is, steer clear of common, frequently repeated cliff-hangers such as " ...and the rest is history." Writing about your whole plot may help in selling your film.
 Pay attention to how busy and influential they are. And whether they will have time to read through it all. Time is of the essence. Pay attention to the demands of the reader. If your pitch is voluntary (the reader hasn't actually invited you to send a pitch), don't write too much. If they are interested in your story, they will contact you for a longer treatment or script.
 This includes your name, email address, and phone number. If it is appropriate, you can include an address or P.O. box to which that they can mail letters.

