 This method can be used with any crossbow regardless of the draw weight and the amount of strength or body mass you have.


As a general rule, using a stringer is safer and easier than stringing a crossbow without one. This method can take a little longer, however.
 Loop one end of the actual string in one nock of the bow.Keep the crossbow lying flat on the ground or on a working surface as you do this.
 Hook one end of the stringer onto the loaded nock of your bow, directly on top of the bowstring. Draw the stringer behind the prod of the crossbow and hook the other end onto the other nock.


Note that the bowstring must be shorter than both the bow span and the crossbow stringer, which is why the bowstring itself cannot be hooked directly onto both ends without the application of pressure. The crossbow stringer should be roughly the same length as your bow span, however.
 Tilt the crossbow so that it stands vertically with the barrel pointing up. Pull the stringer back and hook the center of it into the latch of the crossbow.


If the crossbow has a stirrup, place your foot in the stirrup as you draw the stringer back and cock it in place.
The stringer essentially serves as a weak crossbow string. It should be easier for you to cock it, making it easier for you to bend the bow far enough to load the real bowstring on.
 Pick up the loose loop of the actual bowstring and hook it into its appropriate nock.


Make sure that the loop of the bowstring is beneath the loop of the stringer. It can take some time, concentration, and effort to maneuver the bowstring loop underneath the stringer loop.
 Release the safety and pull the crossbow trigger to fire the empty crossbow. When you do this, one end of the stringer should naturally fall off.


If loaded correctly, both ends of the actual bowstring should still be in their correct places.
 Slowly remove the other end of the stringer from the other nock, working with care to avoid accidentally removing or loosening the bowstring, as well.


The stringer and bowstring will likely be intertwined at this point, making removal a bit tricky.
You may need a flat screwdriver or similar tool to help you pry the stringer off.
 Look at both nocks of your crossbow to verify that the bowstring is seated securely in each one.


An improperly seated bowstring can be a safety hazard.
 If you need to remove the bowstring, attach the stringer to both nocks and cock the crossbow with the stringer instead of the actual bowstring. Unhook both ends of the actual bowstring, then fire the crossbow and remove the stringer off both ends by hand.


You may also opt to only unhook one end of the bowstring while the crossbow is cocked. If you do this, the other end can be removed when you take the stringer off.

