 Though not ideal, some airlines may not allow animals in the cabin and if your cat is healthy, they can cope with air travel in the cargo hold. Most U.S. airlines are required to report all companion animal incidents that occur in the cargo hold.Look at the performance record of the airline you are planning to fly with. If possible, choose an airline with a low number of companion animal incidents in the cargo hold.


Animals flown in the cargo area of airplanes are killed, injured, or lost on commercial flights each year. Excessively hot or cold temperatures in the cargo area, as well as poor ventilation and rough handling are often to blame for these incidents.However, many cargo holds are now pressurized and have a certain level of climate control. Talk to the airline about any safety features in the cargo hold that will make your cat's travel more comfortable.
 This will cut down on the amount of security checks you and your cat will have to go through. It will also lower the delay time of getting your pet off the plane, especially if your pet is traveling in the cargo hold.Always travel on the same flight as your pet. You can confirm this by asking the airline if you can watch your pet being loaded into the cargo hold before getting on the flight.
Look for early morning or late evening flights if you are traveling in the summer as this will be the cooler times of the day and make the cargo hold less hot and stuffy for your cat. Choose afternoon flights if you are traveling in the winter, as it will be less chilly in the cargo hold for your cat.
 Look for a collar that can’t get caught in the carrier doors. Put your name, home address, telephone name, and final destination on the collar.You should also put a travel label on the carrier with the same information in the event the carrier, and your cat, get lost during travel.
 This will protect your cat’s nails from getting hooked in the carrier’s doors, holes, and other crevices in the cargo area., You will need to ask your vet for vaccination records for your cat and a health certificate for travel. These documents are required by the airline to allow your cat to fly.Your vet should give you a health certificate that confirms your cat is in good health and free of parasites. All your cat’s vaccinations should also be up to date, including his Rabies vaccination.Your vet may also suggest implanting a microchip into your cat that will make it easier to locate him if he goes missing during travel. It acts as your pet's ID for life. Microchipping your pet is a simple procedure, where your vet injects a microchip the size of a grain of rice (12mm) under the surface of your pet's skin, between his shoulder blades. It does not hurt your pet and no anesthetic is required., Traveling on an empty stomach will cut down on any nausea or vomiting. You can give your cat small amounts of water, or place ice cubes in the water dish in the carrier to keep your cat hydrated., If your cat is lost or misplaced during the flight or landing, the photograph will help airport security identify him., Your cat’s travel carrier must go through the luggage x-ray screening device at the airport, but your cat cannot. So you will need to attach a harness to your cat with a leash to prevent him from escaping. You should then carry your cat in your arms through the human screening device.Before you take your cat out of the carrier, prepare yourself and your belongings for screening. Remove your shoes, toiletries, and electronics and place them in bins to go through the x-ray machine.
Remove your cat from the carrier, keeping him in the harness, and send the carrier through the machine.
Carry the cat as you go through the human screening device. Then, find the carrier and safely place your cat inside before gathering your belongings.
 Do this as you board the plane. The captain may take special precautions when flying, like avoiding turbulent areas while in the air.
 Your vet should give you medication for your cat that is specifically for air travel, such as Buprenorphine, Gabapentin, or Alprazolam.Be sure to give your cat a dose at home before the flight as a “dry run” to make sure your cat does not react negatively to the medication.
 If anything seems wrong with your cat, take him to a vet immediately. Get the results of the vet exam in writing, including the date and time, in the event you complain to the airline about the treatment of your cat in the cargo hold.