 Open the Settings app then locate the Battery app, which is just below “Touch ID & Passcode.” Open the Battery app to view detailed information about your battery.View the Battery Usage heading to see a list of the apps you use. A percentage value is listed to the right of each app, denoting the proportion of battery each app used. The apps will be listed from highest to lowest, with the worst battery hogs listed first.
Uninstall or limit use of identified battery hogs to extend your battery life.;
, Apps that are battery hogs can be optimized to perform better by limiting background functions. This step can slow performance for apps like Facebook, but will add precious minutes to your battery life without much detriment.


Tap the Settings icon to open and go to the General heading, which is at the top of the 3 group presented on a list. Tap “Background App Refresh.” It is the first entry on the list, with a power toggle to the right. Then turn the switch to off to disable Background App Refresh for all apps.
Alternatively, you can view the list of installed apps in this section and turn off Background App Refresh only for specific apps that are known battery hogs.
 Swipe upwards from the bottom of your screen to open the Control Center. This action can be performed on from the home screen, lock screen or while using any app.


Find the horizontal slider just beneath the WiFi and Bluetooth icons, and then slide the setting to the left to dim the display as much as possible without straining your eyes to see. Dimmer screens use less battery power.
 Placing your phone face down on a table or desktop when not in use can save precious drops of battery power. Notifications will still come through, but your screen won’t turn on. This won’t make a huge impact, but it can help.
 This is especially helpful when in poor service areas because it prevents your phone from continually searching for a signal when there is none to be had. Keep in mind, you will not be able to send or receive calls while Airplane Mode is active.


Swipe upwards from the bottom of your screen to open the Control Center, and tap the airplane icon on the left to activate Airplane Mode.
You can also open the Settings app and find Airplane Mode as the first entry on the list. Toggle the switch on the right to the On position to enable it.
 Location Services uses your phone’s GPS, Bluetooth, and WiFi to pinpoint your approximate location. This can be a vital feature for many iPhone functions, but disabling it will make a big impact on your battery life.


Open the Settings app and then go to the Privacy app, which looks like an open hand. Tap “Location Services” at the top of the list to go to the next screen. You’ll find another “Location Services” at the top of the next screen. Tap the power toggle on the right to turn off location services for all apps and functions.
Alternate method: On this same screen, you can disable location services for specific apps only. To the right of each app on the list below, you’ll see grey text that reads “While Using” or “Never.” Tap any app that reads “While Using” and set it to “Never.” Do this only for non critical apps while keeping the main Location Services power toggle on.
 You will automatically be prompted to turn this feature on when your phone has 20% battery remaining; however, it can manually be set to remain active at all times. This should be a last resort feature intended for temporary use because it will drastically reduce your phone’s performance.Go to Settings and access the Battery app. Now, turn on Low Power Mode by tapping the toggle switch to the right.

