 To have a successful hot chocolate party, you need to have variety. There are many different sorts of drinking chocolates available, so try to get a good selection from the possibilities. Consider such varieties as:


flavoured hot chocolates (vanilla, mint, hazelnut etc.)
different cocoa level hot chocolate mixes (72%, 60% etc.)
white/milk/dark hot chocolate mixes, powdered chocolate and shavings of chocolate mixes
different country hot chocolate styles; and
different brands, as each brand tastes different.;
, Have urns for hot water, hot milk (and don't forget those who can't consume dairy - have soy/rice milk available also) and cold milk arranged for guests to help themselves to. Place bowls filled with each hot chocolate powder or shavings. Put a sign in front of each one indicating what type of hot chocolate it is and any significant features, such as that it is imported from Switzerland, is allergy-free, is dairy-free, is flavored etc. Provide a teaspoon next to each bowl. If you have a chocolate pot, put it on display or even use it. You should have a variety of hot chocolate already made up in chocolate pots or jugs and hot chocolate that guests can add hot milk or water to along with the chocolate powder or shavings.
 Keep the chocolate theme, as well as having some less sugary snacks available, such as slices of fruit dipped in dark chocolate. Anything that goes well with hot chocolate is perfect! Put side plates out for guests to help themselves and include serving tongs etc. needed to pick up the dainties easily.
 Which one you choose is entirely up to you - cups are more dainty (especially fine bone china), mugs are larger and more meaty and glasses are modern (make sure they are strong and heat-resistant). The French drink hot chocolate in bowls, so you might like to try this idea too!

, Encourage them to try at least 3 different sorts and to compare notes on which they like the most. You might even run a competition for the person who manages to try all of them and who can describe the flavors well; or you can even run a blind taste competition to see if guests can guess the hot chocolate!

, Make hot chocolate sample bags to send guests home with. Label each sample clearly and add some print-outs on the background to each hot chocolate. You could add other goodies too, such as a truffle or two, a book on chocolate and some chocolate recipes. You might even let them take home their tasting cup/mug/glass - consider having specially printed mugs with the occasion and date embossed on each mug.

