 Most of the usual signs of ripe fruit don't mean much on a pineapple. Sniff the base of the pineapple instead: a strong scent means the pineapple is ripe. If you can barely smell it, it's probably not. Cold pineapples never smell strong, so leave them at room temperature for a while before you try this.


A yellow-skinned pineapple is a safer choice than a green one, but this isn't a perfect test. Some pineapples are ripe when completely green.Others have golden or red skins, but are still hard and unpleasant to eat.;
, Pineapples do not ripen properly after they are picked.On your kitchen counter, the pineapple will become softer and juicier, but it will not become sweet. All of a pineapple's sugar comes from the starches in the stem of the plant. Once that source is cut off, the pineapple cannot make more sugar on its own.Green pineapples will usually change color as well.
It's possible that the pineapple will become even more acidic if stored too long.
 If the pineapple does have a little starch left to convert to sugar, this will be in the base of the fruit. In theory, the sugar might spread better if you keep the pineapple upside down. In practice, the effect is hard to notice, but it might be worth a try.The skin color also travels from the base upward, although this isn't relevant to the ripeness after picking.
If it's difficult to prop up your pineapple, twist off the top and place the exposed end on a damp paper towel., The pineapple should soften within a day or two. Most pineapples will quickly ferment if stored for much longer than this.If the pineapple was picked unripe, it will still be unpleasant to eat. Keep reading to find out how to improve the taste of an unripe pineapple.
If you're not ready to eat the pineapple yet, move it to the fridge for another 2–4 days.
 Very young, unripe pineapples may be toxic. Eating them can irritate your throat and have a severe laxative effect.That said, most pineapples sold commercially should be at least partially ripe, even if they look green.


Even ripe pineapple can hurt your mouth or cause it to bleed. The techniques below will help prevent this as well.
 Cut off the stem and crown of the pineapple, then stand the rest flat on a cutting board. Cut off the rind and eyes, then slice into rounds or chunks.
 Grilling will caramelize the sugars in the pineapple, adding flavor to a bland, partially unripe fruit.The heat will also neutralize bromelain, the enzyme that can cause pain and bleeding in your mouth., This has the same results as grilling: a delicious, sweet pineapple. If the pineapple is quite tart and unripe, sprinkle brown sugar over it before heating.
 Although this won't caramelize the sugar, simmering will neutralize all of the bromelain.Try this if raw pineapple hurts your mouth:


Add pineapple chunks to a saucepan along with all juice collected while cutting.
Add enough water to cover.
Bring to a boil over medium-high heat.
Reduce to a simmer and heat for 10 minutes.
Drain and let cool.
 If your pineapple doesn't taste sweet, sprinkle the chunks or rounds with sugar. Eat right away, or store covered in the fridge.

