 To start the game, the first person to take a turn picks someone and asks "Truth or dare?" The girl called on has to pick one or the other. If the she picks truth, she has to answer a question about anything at all, like who she has a crush on or who she thinks is hot. If she picks dare, she have to complete a dare. Dares commonly involve kissing or pranking someone, depending on the darer's sense of humor.
 For this game you need a large piece of paper, and everyone participating needs a pen or pencil. One person starts the game by writing a sentence at the top of the paper, then passing the paper to the next girl in the circle. That person reads the sentence, then draws a picture representing it right underneath. She then folds the top of the paper back so that the original sentence can't be seen and the picture is still visible before passing it to the next girl. The next girl writes a sentence describing the picture, folds the paper down to hide the picture, and passes it to someone else. The next person reads the sentence, draws a new picture, folds the paper down, and so on. It's like the game telephone, but with paper., Everyone sits around a table and gets a blank notecard. Each person writes down a random name, like Taylor Swift or Harry Potter, then turns her card face-down on the table so no one can see the name. The cards are passed to the left. Still without looking, each girl takes her new card and tapes it to her forehead with the name facing out. Each person gets to ask the group one "yes" or "no" question to get clues about what name is on the card. Keep taking turns asking one question a piece until someone is able to correctly guess the name on her card.
 Everyone sits in a circle and puts their hands out in front of them on the table or floor. One person starts by saying "Never have I ever," followed by something she has never done. For example, "Never have I ever flown in a helicopter." Anyone who has flown in a helicopter has to drop a finger. Now it's the next person's turn to come up with something she has never done, and so on around the circle. A player is out when she drops all ten fingers. The winner is the person still left in the game when everyone else has dropped out.
 One person starts the game by saying three statements: two that are true and one that's a lie. Everyone gets to guess which one is the lie, and those who are right get a point. Go around the circle until everyone has had a turn telling two truths and a lie. The girl with the most correct guesses wins.

