 Cool water can help reduce the swelling and irritation associated with hives.Take a clean, cotton towel and soak it in cool water. Squeeze out the extra water and place over the affected areas.


You can use a cool compress as long as you need to. Re-soak the towel every five to 10 minutes to keep the area cool and soothed.
Avoid using very cold water because in some people, this can make the hives worse.Warm or hot compresses may temporarily relieve itching but will make the hives worse and should be avoided.;
, An oatmeal bath is a commonly used to soothe itching from hives, chickenpox, oatmeal, sunburn, and more. It is a folk remedy for itching and irritation.Oatmeal baths are usually best for hives that are spread over a large area of the body, but you can make a smaller preparation in a large bowl and soak your face by holding your breath and immersing your face in the water, or soaking a towel in the water and laying it over your face. You can also try making an oatmeal face mask. Use uncooked oatmeal of colloidal oatmeal, which is specifically made for use in the bath.


Place a cup of rolled oats in a clean knee-high nylon. Tie this over the water tap so that the water runs through the oats as it enters the bathtub or a bowl to make an oatmeal bath. Putting the oatmeal in a nylon will make for an easier cleanup and won't clog your drains. If you are using colloidal oatmeal, you can just sprinkle it in the water. Use cool water, as warm, hot, or cold water can make hives worse. Soak a towel in the oatmeal bath and apply to your face. Repeat as often as needed.
To make an oatmeal mask, mix 1 tablespoon colloidal oatmeal with 1 teaspoon honey and 1 teaspoon yogurt. Apply the mixture to your skin and leave it on for 10 to 15 minutes. Rinse the mask off using cool water.
 Bromelain is an enzyme found in pineapples. Bromelain may help reduce inflammation and swelling.Try taking pieces of fresh pineapple and place them directly on the hives.Be aware that this is not a scientifically proven treatment and you should not apply or ingest pineapple if you are allergic.
 Baking soda and cream of tartar can be used to make pastes to relieve face hives. Both of these substances have astringent properties. They help reduce the reaction, swelling, and itching where applied.Mix 1 tablespoon of cream of tartar or baking soda with enough water to make a paste. Spread the paste over the hives.
Rinse off with cool water after five to 10 minutes.
Use as often as needed.
 Nettles have been traditionally used to treat hives. The scientific name of nettles is Urtica dioica and the term urticaria is derived from that name.Make a cup of nettle tea by placing one teaspoon of dried herb into a cup of water.Allow it to cool. Soak a cotton towel with the nettles tea. Wring out the excess tea and place the damp towel over the hives.


This remedy is not verified by scientific study — any evidence that it can soothe hives is anecdotal, or based on personal experience.
Use as often as needed. Make new tea every 24 hours.
Store unused nettles tea in the refrigerator in a closed container.
Nettle tea is safe for most people, but avoid it if you are pregnant or breastfeeding and do not give it to children. Talk to your doctor first if you have diabetes, low blood pressure, or if you are taking any medications.