 Your veterinarian may supply you with a special fecal specimen pot. These plastic containers are usually color coded with a blue lid and come with a collecting scoop attached to the underside of the lid.


Where possible use these containers. Not only are they leak-proof and smell-proof but they are specially designed for the job. This makes it is easier for the lab technician to retrieve the sample from the pot for analysis.
Theoretically you could use a glass jar with a tight fitting lid, but this presents the lab technician with a problem when it comes to scooping the sample out, so where possible be considerate to their needs and use the special pot.;
, Before you start collecting the sample, clearly label the container with the cat's name, your surname, and the date.
 The easiest way to collect a fecal sample is to harvest it from the litter tray. It is fine to use cat litter as normal.


Wearing disposable plastic gloves, use the scoop from inside the fecal pot to break off a small nugget of feces and drop it in the container (a half inch square is plenty).
If the cat has diarrhea then scoop up a teaspoon's worth into the pot.
 The vet will usually require you to collect multiple sample over a number of days. This means that you will need to store the samples you collected earlier.


Be mindful of hygiene. Never store feces in the same room where food is stored, prepared, or eaten.
Place the fecal pot inside another container such as a clean ice-cream tub with a lid, or a heavy duty plastic bag.
Keep this in a cool dry place such as a garage or outside cupboard. Do not allow the sample to freeze or expose it to high temperatures.
 Fecal samples are more robust than urine samples. Whereas the latter need to be taken to the clinic as soon as possible after collection, there is no great urgency with fecal samples.


Although it's preferable to take the sample on the same day, if you happen to collect the last sample on a Sunday, don't worry, dropping it off on a Monday is just fine.
 Sometimes the veterinarian requests a "pooled" fecal sample. This refers to putting 3 fecal specimens in the same pot, collected over 3 days.


A pooled sample is more likely to give a reliable result. Some pathogens are only excreted intermittently and are not present each time the cat has a bowel movement.
It is therefore possible to get a false negative result from a single sample, if the sample happened to be on a day when the pathogen wasn't shed.
 Simply collecting a sample from the litter tray is easy if you own one cat, but if you have a multi-cat household things can get more complicated. However, there are a couple of things you can try to ensure that you collect the sample from the right cat.


Keep the cat in a separate room. To ensure you collect feces from the correct cat, keep that cat isolated in another room and provide a litter tray.
If the patient has a problem, such as diarrhea, but the other cats' feces are normal, it is fine to keep arrangements as normal, but only sample the diarrhea.
If you can't separate the cats and the feces all appear normal then feed the other cats sweetcorn for 2 – 3 days prior to sampling, and continue until you have the required samples. Sweetcorn passes out undigested, so you can easily avoid collecting feces containing sweetcorn.
 This is a tricky one, however, most cats will use a tray if given no other option. Try keeping the cat confined to one room, with food, water, and a litter tray. Eventually, rather than soil his living space most cats opt to use the tray.


An alternative would be to watch the cat and see where he deposits feces outside. Many cats mark their territory by "middening" or passing feces to act as a scent marker for other cats. Places to look are the boundaries of your property and garden.
Cats usually have a regular toileting area so once you have found the feces; watch to check it is your cat that is toileting there.

