 While it might make you a bit uncomfortable initially, this is a great opportunity for you to spend time with a diverse group of friends, so embrace it! You will probably hear and see things that you never would with a group of guys. Let others in the group know that you having fun by smiling, laughing, and just being in a good mood overall.Keep your smiles sincere, but try to smile as often as you can. It draws other people to you and they can’t resist smiling as well. You will be known as a person who elevates the mood of the whole group.You may feel closer to one or two of the girls but, when you are in a group, try to interact with everyone. If you spend all of your time smiling at one specific girl, then the others may get the impression that you are romantically interested in her, which could create awkwardness.;
, Laugh at others' jokes and maybe even tell a few yourself. Find humor in goofy situations or in what other people say. Just keep your humor light and most people will appreciate it. You might suggest hanging out in ways that provide opportunities for laughs, such as seeing a comedy movie.


Laughter also breaks the ice in tense situations and lowers stress overall. As you laugh your blood pressure drops (in a good way) and your circulation improves as well.Make sure that you are laughing with the group, not at a particular person. No one likes a bully.
Tailor your humor to the group. The same jokes that you use around your guy friends may be okay with this group or they may offend. Tread carefully here and avoid jokes that are crude, etc., until you can gauge the reaction that you’ll get.
 It may be tempting to take on a “macho” persona when surrounded by a bunch of girls, but resist this impulse. Likewise, don’t feel as if you need to mimic their behaviors or act “girly” to fit in. Show off your true personality and that will be enough to make them like you.
 Don’t be or act fake. Be exactly who you are when hanging out with these girls. They want to get to know you or they would not have bothered to hang out with you. Do them, and yourself, the favor of being honest about your accomplishments.Part of being confident is not putting yourself down. When talking with the girls try not to say things like, “I’m so stupid,” or, “I’m no good at this.” Instead, asking for help when you need it will solidify your friendships., If you hang out at a place that requires a dressier outfit, ask your girl friends what they would suggest you wear. There is a good possibility that they will consult with each other prior to going, so it’s okay if you do the same. Tailoring your appearance to the rest of the group shows that you respect your time with them.


If you aren’t comfortable asking your friends directly, you can always go online for fashion advice., Many times the single best thing you can do for someone is to listen to them. Whenever one of your girl friends talks, turn toward them and make eye contact. Let them finish speaking before you start what you have to say.If you have questions, ask them. Open-ended questions are the best. You might say, “That sounds like a really fun night. What part did you enjoy the most?”
It also helps to provide feedback and cues to continue. Nod your head or say, “Yes,” as they are speaking. If you disagree, resist the urge to interrupt and wait until they’ve finished.

