 It's the grey cog icon on one of your Home screens, though it may be hiding in a folder entitled "Utilities".;
, It's in the fifth group of options on this page.
 This is the fifth option down from the top of the Notes menu.
 You'll type this into the "Password" field.
 This is to make sure the password you provided above matches your intended password.
 This is optional, but recommended in case you forget your password.
 If you're using an iPhone 5S, 6/6 Plus, 6S/6S Plus, SE, or 7/7 Plus, you'll see an option entitled Use Touch ID at the bottom of the screen. If you don't want to use it, you'll need to slide the Use Touch ID switch left to the "Off" position.


Touch ID is usually enabled by default.
This will use the same fingerprint already registered with Touch ID., It's in the top right corner of your screen. After doing so, your password settings for the Notes app will be saved.
 This is the yellow and white notepad icon on one of your Home screens.


If prompted, tap "Upgrade Notes" when you launch the app. This is required in order for passwords to work.
 If you already have a note open, you may have to tap < Notes in the top left corner of your screen to view all saved notes.


Tapping the < button again will take you to the account selection screen where you can view all the accounts in which your notes are stored.
 It resembles a box with an arrow coming out of the top. You'll find this in the top right corner of your screen.
 This is the lock-shaped icon in the bottom row of options.


You cannot lock notes that have PDFs, audio, video, or Pages attached to them.
If your note is ineligible for locking, you'll be notified that you cannot lock the note when you select Lock Note.
,, It's at the top of the page, to the left of the Share button. Doing so will lock your note, meaning you'll need to use your Notes password or your Touch ID to open it.


Whenever you unlock a note to view or edit it, you'll need to re-lock it by tapping the open padlock again.
 Locked notes will have a closed padlock next to them in your list of notes.
 This option is the yellow text in the middle of the note's page.
 You can also scan your fingerprint if you have Touch ID enabled for Notes. Doing so will unlock your selected note.
 Remember, this is in the top right corner of your screen.
 This option is at the bottom of your screen. Tapping it will remove the lock from your selected note, meaning that you will no longer need to provide a password (or your fingerprint) to view or edit it.

