 Driving your own car to restaurants may not seem useful if you're worried about dining out with IBS. However, having the ability to leave whenever you need to is a good idea.


One marker of IBS symptoms is that they can hit at anytime. It might not be right after you eat something. It could be something that you ate earlier in the day that caused a delayed response.Consider driving yourself to the restaurant. Offer to meet friends, family members or a date at the restaurant instead of carpooling together.
If you're going with close friends or family, let them know that it's not that you want to avoid them, but it makes you feel more comfortable to have a way out.;
, Certain foods will encourage more mucus production in your intestines. This mucus production exacerbates IBS and also prevents you from the uptake of nutrients. Look out for these foods, and try to avoid or limit them:


Dairy products
Fried foods
Ice cream
Chocolate
Junk food
Margarine
Citrus fruits
Nuts
Processed foods
Smoked meats
Seeds
Spicy foods
Sugar
Wheat bran
Wheat products
Pastries
Caffeine
Carbonated beverages
Alcohol
Candies or gum with sorbitol

, Specific foods will trigger your symptoms of IBS. To prevent symptoms, make sure you thoroughly read the entire menu to look for foods that are "safe" and foods that you should avoid.


Everyone with IBS will have a specific set of foods that will trigger symptoms. Make sure you're aware of what your trigger foods are to help you pick them out from menu descriptions.
Spend a few minutes when you sit down at the restaurant to read the whole menu. This will allow you to have the most options of what to order.
Narrow down your choices after reviewing everything. Then, when you're ready to order you have a list of a few things to choose from.
 There are many foods that are still good to eat if you have IBS. These foods should be boiled or steamed, without the addition of MSG or spices. Here are some good foods to look out for:


Brown rice
Oatmeal
Barley
Pasta
Polenta
Brown rice pasta
Corn tortillas
Carrots
Squash
Avocado
Banana
Steamed fish
Chicken
Turkey
Vegetable and chicken broths

, When you do go out to eat and are looking for something to order, choose a smaller item. This can help minimize any symptoms and ease your fears about eating out.


If you eat a large meal, this can aggravate IBS symptoms more compared to a smaller meal. Big meals can cause cramping and diarrhea since it's an overload to your system.Look for items that are automatically small. You can have an appetizer for your main meal or order two side dishes.
Also ask those you're with if they'd like to split a meal with you or ask the server if you can do a half portion.
Worst comes to worst, order a regular meal, eat 1/3 or 1/2 and take the rest home for another day.
 Although everyone has different trigger foods with IBS, one very common food that causes symptoms is fat. Whether it's fried foods, creamy sauces or fatty cuts of meat, try to minimize these foods at your meal out.Fat is hard to digest and takes a long time to digest as well. In addition, it stimulates your GI system which can cause cramping, diarrhea and gas with those suffering with IBS.
Foods to be wary are include: fried foods, fast food, creamy/high fat sauces, fatty cuts of meat (like sausage, bacon or a ribeye steak) or mashed potatoes.
If you do want some of these foods, have a very, very small serving. Enough for a taste, but to keep you safe during dinner.
 Some beverages, such as sodas, coffee, and ice cold water, can irritate your GI symptoms and cause a flare up of your IBS. However, don't think you're only stuck with room temperature water.


Both alcohol and caffeine are known GI irritants and stimulants. Stick to decaf drinks, like herbal tea.
Stay away from alcohol.
Exclude soda from your diet completely. The carbonation can increase the sensation of bloating, and the sugar or artificial sweeteners in these beverages can also cause symptoms.
Try to stick to water without ice, herbal tea, and 100% fruit juice (but avoid citrus and apple juices).
 Dairy based products can also be the source of IBS symptoms. They contain fat which could irritate your GI system, but also lactose which is additional irritant.


Many people with IBS do not tolerate dairy products well. Whether this is only IBS or associated lactose intolerance, dairy products may not be something you want to try when you're out to eat.Dairy products include things made with cheese, butter, milk or heavy cream.
Avoid high fat dairy products like heavy cream sauces, butter-based sauces, adding butter to potatoes or rolls, and foods with a lot of cheese (like pizza).
 Know your trigger symptoms; keep track of them in a food journal of what you eat and your symptoms. When you know you have a dinner out later with family or friends, make sure you mind your diet during the day. This can help make sure you're feeling good and symptom free.You don't want to go into a dinner out not feeling your best. If you had a bigger lunch or something that was a little bit higher in fat, your stomach and GI system may already feel upset.
Instead, eat smaller, more frequent meals during the day. Try to avoid all trigger foods - even in small amounts. This will help you be stress-free and relaxed going into dinner.
Plus, some foods can cause symptoms a few hours after you eat them. You don't want to show up to dinner and experience any delayed symptoms.
 One trigger that many sufferers of IBS share is stress. Instead of worrying about your dinner out, try relaxing and working on staying calm during the day.


Those with IBS generally experience increased occurrence of symptoms and increased intensity of symptoms in times of stress.Going out to dinner may be exciting and relaxing for some, but with those with IBS this could actually be a cause of additional stress.
If you're feeling nervous about going out to eat, try to engage in relaxing and calming activities during the day. Try taking a long hot shower or bath, reading a good book, listening to your favorite music or talking to a friend.
Make time for some exercise during the day.
 To help you feel more confident and secure when you do go out to dinner, spend some time doing research before you go. This can help you come up with a plan.It can be annoying to have to find options of what to eat before you go out. However, if you review the menu ahead of time, you can plan your order before you go.
This can help save time when you're at the restaurant. You'll have a few options to choose from and to ask more in-depth questions when you get there.
You can also give the restaurant a call ahead to ask the chef or manager more questions about the ingredients in certain foods.
 Since IBS does come with a variety of symptoms, you may want to bring medications with you to help alleviate any possible side effects.


If you're going out for a long night or want to be able to hang out a little longer, consider packing some medications with you.
If you notice any symptoms or side effects (especially mild ones), you can take some medications to start feeling better and allow you to stay out longer.
The most common symptoms of IBS are gas, diarrhea and cramping. Consider bringing an anti-diarrheal medication, such as loperamide or bismuth subsalicylate; antispasmodic agents, such as dicyclomine hydrochloride, for cramps; and simethecone or charcoal tablets (available in health food stores) to relieve gas., Another trick when you're dining out with IBS is to try to locate the restrooms. You may even want to choose to sit a little closer to the bathroom.Although you might not want to sit right next to the bathroom, consider asking for a table a little closer. If an emergency arises, you'll be able to make a quick break for it.
If you don't want to sit right next to the bathroom, at least scope it out so you know exactly where it is. There won't be a need to postpone an emergency by having to ask where the bathroom is.
 It can be difficult to dine out when you have IBS. You might feel nervous or stressed when everyone else is enjoying the night out. Try to focus on having fun instead of a potential issue.Even though it can be difficult, focus on relaxing and having fun. Going out to eat should be an enjoyable and sociable event for everyone.
At your meal, make it a point to do some deep breathing. If you sit there and only focus on possible symptoms, you'll be missing out.
The more often you go out, the more you can practice focusing on your friends, family and conversation instead of possible symptoms of IBS.
 If you're not too sure that you want to go out to eat with co-workers or acquaintances, go with close friends and family members instead.


The added pressure of being out to dinner with someone or multiple people you don't know very well can cause unnecessary stress.
Instead, just go out to eat with people who you're comfortable with. They understand you and your symptoms and can help you deal with any issues that arise at a restaurant.
 If you need to, stick with things that you know. Whether it's a specific type of food or restaurant, this can help minimize the stress.


You shouldn't feel pressured (by yourself or other people) to try new foods. If you feel comfortable only consuming a certain type of foods or certain dishes that's OK.
The same goes for the actual restaurant. If you feel more comfortable going to a certain restaurant, especially if you've eaten there before, that's OK.
Try new things or new restaurants in moderation. Make sure to prep and enjoy smaller servings of foods you haven't tried yet.
 Lastly, if you are having difficulty managing your IBS symptoms, consider talking to your doctor. He can help you work through your issues.


Make an appointment or give your doctor a call. Ask to talk more about your IBS symptoms and if they have any tips or medications they can give you to better manage symptoms.
Ask what you can take with you to social gatherings that can help prevent symptoms from occurring or can relieve them if they're triggered.
Share your typical diet and ask if they can help you pinpoint any specific foods that could be potential trigger foods.

