 This should be a last resort, because it can set a negative tone to the interactions between a mother and potential father. Even if you don't believe you are the father, if there is any chance you could be, you should try to preserve a respectful relationship with the child's mother. Unfortunately, sometimes legal action is your only option.


If a mother refuses to determine paternity, a court can order a paternity test in order to gain visitation or custody rights, or to prove you are not the father in a situation where your name appears on the birth certificate.
 Laws vary by state, but in most states if you have signed an establishment of paternity and are paying child support or otherwise supporting a child that you believe is not your biological child, you can take certain steps.


In most states, you must file what is called a "Disestablishment of paternity" or "termination of child support obligation" in the circuit court that has jurisdiction over your child support ruling.
You can find out your state-specific rights by contacting an attorney familiar with your jurisdiction.
 While mothers receive default custody under the law, fathers' rights are also important in the eyes of the law. Knowing your rights will help you determine the proper course of action.


In most states, you have the right to file a paternity case if you are not listed on the birth certificate or acknowledgement of paternity (a form that is usually completed by parents in the hospital at the time of birth). In some states such as Texas,if another man is listed as the child's father on the birth certificate, you can only file a paternity case if it has been 4 years or less since the birth; be sure to check your local laws.
You can find out your state-specific rights by contacting an attorney familiar with your jurisdiction.
 Whether you are wanting to establish or disestablish your paternity of a child, the nuances of paperwork, court filings, and court appearances can be complicated. It helps to have a professional on your side who knows the local laws and procedures and can guide you through the process.


Explain to your attorney that you have tried to (dis-)establish paternity with the mother of the child you believe to be yours.
Let your attorney know that you want to know for sure whether you are the child's father so that you can establish visitation, a relationship, and begin paying for his or her monthly support, or because you feel you are being made legally responsible for a child who is not yours under false pretenses.
 State statutes and ordinances vary. The attorney will be well versed in these procedures.


Request the appropriate legal forms so you can file your paternity lawsuit. In most states, you will be required to fill out a Petition to Establish Parental Relationships or a Petition to Disestablish Parental Relations (sometimes called a Termination of Child Support Obligation); a Summons; and a Declaration under Uniform Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act. Since these can vary by state, it is important that you talk to your attorney.
 This is usually done at your county's courthouse, where you might be required to pay a filing fee. Your attorney can file your forms for you.


Serve the mother your court documents. This is the legally required method of informing her that you have filed a paternity lawsuit. Among other things, this has the effect of preventing the mother from pursuing an adoption of the child by her current partner without your consent.
After serving her papers, file your proof of service with the court clerk at the county courthouse. They will typically have 30 days to respond to the paternity suit.
Understand that, just because you file a petition for a paternity test, the court is not obligated to order the test. The judge has to determine if sufficient evidence exists, based on the petition, to order the child's mother to undergo the testing and take the child for testing. In some states (such as Florida), when you file a Disestablishment of Paternity you can also submit tests from an independent lab that shows you are not the father,but this may be hard to obtain if the mother is uncooperative, and may require a court order to obtain.
 Typically, you will only have to appear if the other parent chooses to contest your suit (that is, if you claim to be the father and she chooses to argue in court that you are not). Otherwise, the suit is considered "uncontested" and is automatically decided in your favor.


Answer your attorney's questions and those of the mother's attorney. Be truthful, courteous and calm.
Make your request for a paternity test through your attorney. The judge will listen to you and order a paternity test if you present compelling evidence in a professional manner. In general, the requesting party is responsible for any fees associated with these tests.
Request that the child's mother be held in contempt of court if she disregards the judge's court order.
 This is done if the findings of the court differ from the findings already in place (e.g., the court finds that the child is yours and you are not listed as its biological father on the birth certificate, OR the court finds that the child is not yours and you are listed).


If the court finds that the child is yours and there is no existing order, ask your attorney to file for custody, visitation, and child support. Keep in mind that in many states you can be held responsible for back child support (up to 18 years depending on the age of the child).
If the court finds that the child is not yours, request that your attorney file to terminate parental obligation. Unfortunately, in most states, you are not entitled to a reimbursement of support you have paid to this point.

