 Many people treat email as an instant messenger system. Prioritize emails from overseas workers so that you know to get to them more quickly, and you will be rewarded with a more efficient working relationship.
 Sarcasm is notoriously hard to convey via email. Rethink your phrasing to overseas workers more than you would to your office mates, because you'll have a harder time working through a miscommunication remotely.


Sense of humor is highly subjective. If the overseas workers are of a different nationality, you should not assume that they understand your sense of humor, especially by email. Try to control the amount of idiomatic phrases you use.
 Both Windows and Apple computers have applications that allow you to set a foreign time. Keeping it on your desktop for easy reference will help you to manage work with overseas workers or clients.


On Windows 7 operating system (OS) or above, go to your control panel. Select the "Desktop Gadgets" option. Select the clock. Hover over the clock on your desktop. When a small wrench appears, click it to change your clock options. Set the clock's time to your overseas worker's time.
On Mac OS, drag your dashboard application onto your desktop/shelf, if you have not already. Click on the clock. Click the small "i" for "info" in the lower right corner. Select a location and click "Save."

, Working with people overseas may seem daunting, but it also gives you the opportunity to learn about a new person and country. Deal with creative and cultural differences as they come up, instead of ignoring them.
 Consult your manager about the productivity of the work and any changes you'd like to make.
 To start with, many people are uncomfortable with this, but after a few weeks, this can become very natural and keep you connected, build relationships and greatly improve business by enabling collaborative meetings wherever you are located, in an instant.

Not everyone works well remotely or works well with remote workers. If you have given it a good try to it isn't working, be honest with your manager. Remember that learning to work with remote workers can be seen as a valuable skill in the new business environment.

