 Get your profile on every free online model search engine and model directory website. ModelMayhem.com is the number 1 social network website for models and others in the biz. There are iPhone and Android apps used by promoters and employers searching for local talent. You can usually find promo codes for these and other sites that let you create a free profile. If you can't find one, email them asking for one. It can't hurt to ask.;
, The talent must be polished and confident enough to do the job with little or no direction if needed.
 Does your portfolio or resume show you have worked and trained successfully in the past?

, Often they have to make a hiring decision within 30-60 seconds. If they cast you and they have not worked with you before they are taking an educated risk. A good impression is made by being early, prepared, looking like a professional and having amazing charisma!

, Can you think quick on your feet? Sign of an experienced professional. Can you make the adjustments they ask for?

, Are you worth the money they are paying? If the client is going to pay a rate of $400-$1500 a day, you must show them you are worth it. They have to account for every dollar spent.
 When auditioning many models or actors it becomes hard to differentiate between each talent. You need to make a creative statement and lasting impression within the context of the project.
 It is natural not to feel natural. (That is why it is important to constantly be practicing and training).
 This business is all about networking and exposure.
 Ability takes time. Be patient with yourself and your agent. You can spot an experienced model or actor a mile away. You cannot fake it!

,, Track what happened, how you did, things that worked and things you need work on. How you adjusted to each audition, who did you meet with, etc.
 When you book a job, always make a note on what the project was, what part you played and who the production company, casting director or client was. Update your resume and make copies for your agent and yourself. That may land you your next job.
 After all, it is a business.
 That is why most actors and models fail! Circle yourself with positive people who are also in the industry or support you in your passion. At the same time, don't fall for the hype or for over-glossing of other people's virtues. Be strong-minded and self-trusting.
 It takes that kind of mental approach and dedication to achieve results in this competitive

