 Fish that contain high levels of omega-3 fatty acids are some of the healthiest seafood choices. Salmon, halibut, and sardines are all rich in omegas and delicious additions to your regular diet.Try grilling salmon or halibut and serving it with a side of vegetables.;
, Certain types of fish are high in vitamin B-12, which is a critical nutrient for all humans. To get the most out of your fish choices, opt for varieties that are high in vitamin B-12 like clams, sardines, anchovies, and salmon.Try broiling fresh clams topped with a little bit of butter for a wonderful dinner option.Eat some sardines as an easy, healthy snack at home or on the go.
 Mercury is harmful to your central nervous system. Certain types of fish contain high mercury levels and should be avoided. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recommends completely avoiding king mackerel, marlin, orange roughy, shark, swordfish, tilefish, and bigeye tuna.It is especially important for women of childbearing age, pregnant and breastfeeding women, and young children to avoid fish that are high in mercury content., These choices should also be low in mercury. Some of the healthiest choices include Atlantic mackerel, wild-caught salmon, catfish, and sardines. Good shellfish choices include shrimp, oysters, American and spiny lobsters, and clams.A serving of fish or shellfish is 4 ounces for adults.
For children between 4 and 7 years old, a serving is 2 ounces.
 When you are deciding what types of fish and seafood to consume, you should think about sustainability and how your food choices affect the environment. Increasing demand for fish as well as unregulated fishing practices can harm fisheries and species that are at risk. Check out the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch at www.seafoodwatch.org to choose seafood that has a minimal impact on the environment.Some sustainable seafood choices include farmed catfish, farmed mussels, wild-caught cod, and wild-caught clams.
Unsustainable seafood choices include Chilean seabass, orange roughy, shark, and Bluefin tuna.
 If you eat fish caught by family and friends, or if you catch the fish yourself, you should check local advisories. Contact your county or state fish and wildlife service and ask about fish advisories. If there is not an advisory, you should eat only one serving of the fish. You should eat no other fish in the same week that you eat the serving of local fish.