 An associate degree is generally 60 semester credits. This is half as much as is required for a bachelor’s degree. Ideally, an associate degree should take half as long and cost half as much a bachelor’s, though this might not be true if your institution is charging exorbitant tuition., There are three types of Associate degrees. An Associate of Applied Science (AAS) and an Associate of Science (AS) concentrate on teaching a particular trade. On the other hand, an Associate of Arts (AA) will provide a general education designed to fulfill requirements for a bachelor’s degree.If you believe that you have the time and interest to pursue a bachelor’s degree, but don’t have the educational background to be accepted by a major university, an AA can be a good way to improve your chances of acceptance as a reputable institution.
An AA and AS, on the other hand, can be fast track to a lucrative career.
 There are many lucrative careers that only require an associate degree. These typically tend to be technical jobs.


The ten highest paying occupations that only require an associate degree are air traffic controllers, radiation therapists, dental hygienists, nuclear medicine technologists, nuclear technicians, funeral service directors, diagnostic medical sonographers, registered nurses, magnetic resonance imaging technologists, and web developers.If you have a particular career in mind, review classified ads to see if employers in that field ask for a bachelor's. If you the ads do not specify, contact the employer and ask.
 Determine if what you want to do can be accomplished with an associate degree. There is no easy way to figure out what to do with your life. But you should consider what you enjoy doing. Talk to people who work in the industry to determine what options are available.


Don’t take for granted that just because you can’t be a doctor or a musician that you can’t make a living in those sectors. With a bit of research you might find that a career as a nurse, medical assistant, or band manager is possible for you. That is why it is important to talk to people in the industry to see what careers are possible.
 An associate degree is a great idea if you already have some college credits and you want to quickly convert them into a formal degree. An associate degree can also be a great idea if you know that your career does not require a bachelor’s or if you do not have the time or the money to invest in a longer degree program.