 Phototherapy, or bright light therapy, is a prescribed treatment for seasonal depression. However, the only way to know if it is the appropriate treatment for you is to see a doctor for a diagnosis. In order to receive a diagnosis, your primary care doctor might refer you to a special kind of mental health provider such as a psychiatrist or psychologist.


At your appointment, your mental health provider will ask comprehensive questions about your symptoms, such as how long you have experienced depression and whether it occurs at specific times each year.Your doctor will also ask questions about your medical history and family history. This professional may also administer psychological assessments to better understand your condition.
Your doctor can also discuss other treatment options, such as vitamin supplementation, as SAD is often caused by a vitamin-D deficiency.;
, After your mental health provider confirms diagnosis of seasonal affective disorder, you will discuss your treatment options. Light therapy works by exposing you to artificial light that imitates natural light found outside. It is believed to impact the production of different chemicals in the brain that regulate your mood and sleep cycle., You might visit your doctor for bright light therapy or you might purchase a light therapy box to use at home. Be careful about some boxes available on the internet. Ask questions about the wavelength of light delivered from the box, as most experts suggest using boxes with fluorescent light without ultraviolet wavelengths. Other types of light boxes may be harmful. Only purchase a light therapy box that has been recommended by your doctor.It’s important to work with your doctor in choosing a treatment for seasonal depression and using a light therapy box. If you have undiagnosed bipolar disorder, using a light box for an extended period can cause manic symptoms.
In addition, people with certain eye disorders, such as cataracts or glaucoma, or diabetes need to speak with an eye doctor before using a light therapy box., Your mental health provider will offer specific instructions on how to use your light therapy box for the treatment of seasonal depression. In general, most people experience better outcomes when they undergo bright light therapy the first thing in the morning.Depending on the type of seasonal depression you experience (i.e. fall/winter versus spring/summer), you might begin light therapy at the onset of fall when the days become shorter and more overcast.
Typically, doctors suggest using a 10,000 lux (a measure of light intensity) light box for better outcomes with your seasonal affective disorder.
 The effectiveness of the light used in light therapy disappears with distance. That’s why it’s important to sit close—approximately 23 inches—to the light box during therapy.The box usually sits at an angle to offer the best exposure without undesirable glare. While it is recommended that you sit near the light box, you should not look directly into the light as doing so can cause damage to your eyes.
 Your mental health provider will tell you the duration of light therapy recommended for your situation. Still, most people see great results from sitting near the light box for about 30 minutes each day immediately after they wake up.


You are welcome to engage in other activities while you undergo light therapy. For instance, most patients eat breakfast, read, write, make telephone calls, or watch TV while using the light box., Keep in mind that some people will not see improvements with light therapy alone. For optimal treatment of seasonal depression, your mental health provider may suggest that you combine the use of your light box with other recognized treatments such as psychotherapy or medications., Psychotherapy, or talk therapy, has also been proven effective for the treatment of seasonal affective disorder. Certain types of psychotherapy like cognitive-behavioral therapy have been extremely helpful in treating seasonal depression and other types of depression, too.In talk therapy, you will work with your mental health provider to identify and challenge negative thought patterns that worsen your mood, develop healthy coping mechanisms for stress, and learn positive ways to cope with seasonal depression., In some people with severe depression, your doctor may recommend trying antidepressant medications. You may benefit from starting an antidepressant regimen several weeks before you usually experience SAD symptoms each year.


One type of extended-release antidepressant, bupropion, has been shown to prevent depressive episodes in people with SAD. Talk to your doctor to see if medications are the right choice for you.
It’s important to note that it takes several weeks to experience the positive effects of antidepressant medications. Don’t stop taking your medications simply because your symptoms don’t disappear right away. Follow your medication regimen as prescribed by your doctor., In addition to using a light therapy box and trying out other seasonal depression treatments, you can also benefit from making some lifestyle changes. These are strategies you can incorporate into your daily life to improve the symptoms of your seasonal affective disorder.


Lifestyle changes may include going to sleep early, avoiding processed foods, increasing your intake of omega-3 fatty acids and probiotics, getting more physical activity to naturally relieve stress and lift your mood, making your home environment brighter by sitting close to windows and opening blinds, and spending more time in nature to get sunlight even on cold or cloudy days., Although not necessarily a prescribed treatment approach, many people see positive outcomes after participating in support groups. Sharing your experiences and hearing the stories of others with seasonal depression can help you feel less alone and more capable of battling the symptoms of your condition.


Talk to your doctor or mental health provider for recommendations of depression support groups in your area. Or, search for groups that meet online.