 Before you start preparing or apply for an exam, you must make sure that you fulfill the eligibility criteria for taking the exam. There are basically two eligibility criteria for this recruitment exam:

Educational criteria: For most Indian Railways recruitment exams, having a graduation/ bachelor degree is the basic eligibility criteria. Each candidate must possess a bachelor degree from a recognized university.
Age requirements: Age is another restriction for gaining railway jobs. Check the job notification to make sure that you fulfill this criteria, it will be stated in the application forms.;
, Training is an important part of any examination. If you have applied for a railways exam, but you're not prepared for it, you may not succeed in the exam. Join a coaching institute for exam training and preparation. Or you can also go with self-study for railway recruitment exams

, Along with exam training, you must also focus on doing sufficient self-study for the exam; prior practice with test exams is very important. Get hold of the right educational resources and study materials for your next railways exam by using such helpful items as online study resources, practice tests, training and other resources for better exam preparation.
 Indian Railways has different branches and all of them recruit thousands of candidates for various posts through different recruitment exams every year. Make sure that you get the right information at the right time so that you can apply for an exam before its last date. Here are some useful ways to do that:


Subscribe to some popular job alerts
Read the newspaper job advertisements daily
Keep yourself updated via the Indian Railways website (Indian Railways: http://www.indianrailways.gov.in/).
 "Life does not end with an exam." So what if you do not succeed at your first attempt? Try again! Many people find success after hundreds of attempts. Keep moving forward and keep trying until you get what you deserve. Stay confident and hope for the best.

