 Typically, at the gym you would do fewer repetitions with heavy weights to build strength, and more repetitions with light weights to build endurance. Doing both together in one routine allows you to build muscle strength, size, and endurance all at the same time.Design a routine that involves four exercises for each muscle group. Each exercise should target that muscle group in a different way, requiring movement from a different angle, or with different grip positions. You can use dumbbells, plate loaded bars, and machines or body weight to do strength training exercises.
For the first exercise, you'll do four repetitions per set with the heaviest weight you can handle. Do three sets with a brief rest of a minute or two in between.
Your second exercise uses lighter weights, with eight repetitions per set for three sets.
For your third exercise, choose even lighter weights and do three sets of 12 repetitions each.
In your fourth and final exercise for that muscle group, do three sets of 16 repetitions with the lightest weight.
For example, to build the strength and endurance of the muscles in your back, you might start with T-bar rows for your first, then do wide-grip lat pull-downs, move to one-arm dumbbell rows, and finish off with straight-arm pull-downs.;
, In your strength training, you may focus on one muscle group more than another. If parts of your body are stronger than others, this imbalance causes your body to work inefficiently. That inefficiency not only decreases your muscle endurance, but also makes you more at risk for injury.You might recognize significant muscle imbalances from viral images you've seen on the internet that show bodybuilders with skinny, underdeveloped legs and a massive upper body. These images typically are captioned with a caution not to "skip leg day." While your imbalance may not be that significant, you probably have a general idea of which muscle groups need more work – typically, the ones you don't enjoy, or even dread, working on.
You can find more specific muscle imbalances by looking to common muscle group pairs. If a particular muscle is consistently tight, or always sore after a workout, it may be that its opposing muscle needs to be strengthened. For example, if your triceps are tight and sore, strengthening your biceps can improve this (and vice versa). If you have tight hamstrings, work on your quadriceps, abs, and hip flexors.Bringing the weaker muscle groups into balance with the others can go a long way towards building muscle endurance. Keep in mind that all of your muscles ultimately work together, even if certain exercises work particular parts of your body more than others. If one group has to pick up the slack for the others, efficiency suffers.
 Exercises that employ your full range of motion enable you to work the entire muscle, as well as improving your flexibility. Flexibility is not only essential to helping prevent injury, but can help you build muscle endurance by encouraging your muscles to work more efficiently.With increased flexibility, you'll be able to move more deeply into exercises which require a full range of motion, such as squats. This enables you to work your muscles more effectively. Greater range of motion accesses greater length of the muscle and hence more muscle fibers. Perhaps more importantly, increased flexibility enables you to consistently perform exercises with correct form, which can help prevent strains and injuries.
Full-range-of-motion exercises improve the function in your joints and reduce stress on your tendons. They also will keep the muscle groups surrounding those joints from being overworked.
Using your full range of motion, over time, will increase your muscle strength as well as your muscle endurance.You can use your full range of motion on nearly any exercise. For example, if you're doing squats, make sure every repetition is a full squat, rather than the shorter "pulse squats" that only employ about a quarter of your full range of motion.
 If you continue to do the same exercises with the same level of resistance for an extended period of time, eventually you'll get no benefit from the exercises. Progressive overload is the key to continually building muscle endurance.It only takes your body a couple of weeks to adjust to resistance, so you should be increasing the amount of weight you use at least that often.
Along with increasing resistance, you also should increase the number of repetitions you do. This doesn't just apply to weight lifting. If you're running, for example, you should increase the distance you run every couple of weeks to increase your cardiovascular and muscular endurance.
 Before doing any kind of stretching exercises, increasing your body temperature by one or two degrees is essential to get blood flowing to the muscles you intend to stretch. Otherwise, you could end up injuring yourself.Your warm-up doesn't have to be complex. A simple 10-minute walk or jog typically will do the trick.
You may also want to incorporate lunges or squats, particularly if your stretching or strength-training exercises for the session are going to be focused on your lower body.
If you're doing a whole-body workout, you might try a five-minute walk or jog followed by five minutes of jumping rope or jumping jacks to get the blood moving to your arms and shoulders.
 Just as the strength of your muscle groups should be balanced, so should your flexibility. The dominant side of your body may naturally be more flexible than the other, which means you have a deficit to make up.To increase your flexibility for the purposes of building muscle endurance, you should stretch each muscle group every time your exercise. If your non-dominant side is weaker or less flexible, start there and then work on your dominant side.
With all stretching, go as deeply as you can without feeling any pain. Stop when you can feel tension, but before the stretch hurts. You should only feel a pull, not intense burning.
If you've not done a lot of stretching or are particularly stiff, you may want to work with a certified personal trainer in the beginning. They can ensure that you're using correct form and aren't going too far or putting too much stress on your joints.
 Slow, controlled movements that work through your entire range of motion are better suited to building muscle endurance. These stretches also mimic many of the motions you'll use in your full routine, which can enhance your performance.You may be accustomed to static stretches, in which you move into a position to stretch a particular muscle group, hold the stretch for several seconds, and then release. With dynamic stretches, your body is continually moving. This makes them ideal for a continued warm-up at the beginning of your workout.
Start with basic movements, such as neck rotations, shoulder circles, and arm swings. Keep your movements slow and controlled. Breathe deeply and make every movement with intention and focus.
Your movements should be smooth and continuous. Go as far as you can, moving through your full range of motion. If particular muscles are tight, push them as far as you can without pain.
 Using weight with static stretches may help to lengthen your muscles. However, keep in mind that this type of stretching may be too extreme for some people and it can lead to pulling a muscle. Start with unweight stretches and only move up to this form of stretching if regular static stretching becomes too easy for you.


For example, you can do a chest stretch using lightweight dumbbells. Lie on your back on a weight bench with your legs hanging off the end or flat on the floor. Lift the dumbbells to a contracted position over your chest, then slowly lower them so your arms are at your sides. Lower as far as you can without pain, feeling the stretch in your pectoral muscles. Hold the position for about 10 seconds, then slowly raise them back to the contracted position above your chest.
You can also stretch your biceps and triceps using dumbbells and a weight bench at a 60-degree incline (or lying completely flat for a deeper stretch). Lean back on the bench and curl the dumbbells, then lower them slowly into a maximum stretch for your biceps. Extend your arms straight up and then lower the dumbbells to either side of your head for a triceps stretch.
It's possible to add resistance to almost any static stretch, using dumbbells, wrist and ankle weights, or resistance bands.
 Stretching encourages the growth of fascia, the connective tissue that holds your muscles in place. Not growing this connective tissue as you are building muscles can inhibit your ability to build both strength and endurance over time.Dynamic stretching may be better to do at the beginning of your routine, while static stretching works better as you're entering your cool-down phase.You don't have to limit your stretching to a dedicated "workout time," however. There are plenty of basic stretches that you can do throughout the day, such as when you are sitting at your desk at work. These stretches not only keep your muscles active, but encourage the continued growth of fascia. For example, you can do neck rotations after working on the computer for an hour, or stand and do shoulder circles or arm swings.
 If you're trying to build muscle endurance, you don't want your muscles to recover – you want them to continue to work for longer. When you exercise, particularly during strength-training exercises, shorten your rest breaks and take fewer of them.To really build muscle endurance, you should be working yourself to your limit at every session. Try not to stop until you feel as though you absolutely must, or you can no longer complete the repetitions or movements with good form.
You can push yourself this way and build muscle endurance without fancy equipment or a gym membership. For example, you can do 10 pull-ups, 10 squats, 10 push-ups, and then 10 sit-ups. Do each exercise back-to-back with no rest. At the end of that set, if you can no longer continue, take a brief rest, then go through the circuit twice more. Keep in mind that this builds cardio endurance, but not skeletal muscle endurance unless the exercises are repeated to failure.
You also might replace the traditional rest time with a cardio interval. For example, do a set of strength-training exercises, then jump rope or jog in place for 30 seconds, then return to another strength-training exercise.
An added benefit of decreasing your recovery time between sets is that you may find your exercise sessions don't take as much time out of your day.
 When you divide your training regimen into "strength days" and "cardio days," you'll have a difficult time building muscle endurance. To successfully build endurance, you need to engage all of your energy systems at once.Working out in intervals is a good way to do this. For example, you might use a bench press, then jump rope for a minute, then do squats, then do overhead presses, then do crunches.
Set your intervals so that upper-body movements are followed by lower-body movements. This gives your muscles a little more recovery time even though your body is constantly moving.
When you're doing strength-training exercises, try to do your repetitions as quickly as you can while still maintaining good form.
 Compound exercises require using more than one joint, while hybrid exercises combine two distinct types of movement into one exercise. Doing both of these together increases the whole-body component of your routine, which will help you build muscle endurance.Squats, push-ups, and pull-ups are examples of compound exercises. Bicep curls, on the other hand, are an example of an isolated exercise – they only focus on your biceps, with some work being done by your other arm muscles, but nothing in your lower body.
Combining two compound exercises, or one compound exercise with an isolated exercise, produces a hybrid exercise. For example, you might do a squat with an overhead press. The more muscles you involve in each exercise, the more your heart is stimulated. This increases both your muscle and cardiovascular endurance.
Adding an isolated exercise to a compound exercise, such as doing lunges with bicep curls, is a good way to build muscle endurance while also targeting a particular muscle group for more intense exercise. This can be especially helpful if you are trying to correct a muscle imbalance.
 Plyometrics involves explosive movements that stimulate the development of fast-twitch muscle fibers to increase your speed and power. While this might not sound so much like endurance, these movements require a lot of energy and will present a significant challenge to your muscles.Full plyometrics routines are designed primarily for professional athletes, and can take quite a toll on the body of beginners or amateur workout enthusiasts. However, you can borrow some of the more basic, lower-impact plyometrics movements and incorporate them into your regular workout regimen.
For example, you might include a set of burpees or jumping knee tucks between regular strength-training exercises. Keep in mind that even activities such as jumping rope are technically plyometrics exercises.
 In as little as a couple of weeks, your muscles are going to get used to doing even the most well-crafted exercise routine. Switching up activities keeps your muscles from being overused because you're asking them to move in different ways. If you want to build stamina and endurance, it's important to be agile and able to adapt to different movements.One way to ensure you have constant access to a variety of different fitness activities is to join your local gym or fitness center. Most offer many different classes that you can jump into periodically to challenge your muscles as well as motivate yourself mentally.
If joining a gym is out of your reach, you can still increase the variety in your training regimen by planning several different routines and rotating them. One way to ensure you don't know what to expect (physically or mentally) would be to provide each routine with a number. Each day, draw a number or use a random-number generator online to pick the routine you'll do that day.
You also might consider joining a community sports league, if there's a particular sport that you enjoy. Playing a sport is a good way to add variety to your training regimen, and most sports also build muscle endurance.

