 In some cases it may mean catching more than one bus. Finding out which bus to catch can include:



Researching online to find the routes. Many bus companies now include complete maps with route markers on them. Some will also show connections.
Phoning the bus company and asking for advice.
Going to a public information counter and asking for advice.
Visiting a tourist center and getting advice on bus routes and timetables.;
, Many bus services now require accurate change, or at least coins so that the bus driver does not have to give change. Others do not mind giving change and some even have conductors to take care of this, such as London buses (you can't use cash on London buses). If you need to have a ticket in advance, you will have to work out where to purchase this from; it may be a ticket booth or an automatic vending machine. Again, ask about this when seeking the information in step one.
 Some buses are express, meaning they don't stop at all stops and might go right past the stop you want; if you are not sure, ask as you get on and be prepared to hop off and wait for another one.
 Depending on the type of bus and where you live in the world, the front door is not always the only, or even right, way on the bus. Some buses allow entrance via the middle doors, or the back. It can be of especial importance during crowded peak hour times to know that you can squeeze in through a different door.
 Some buses can take your bike. Don't assume this is possible though; always check beforehand. Also, put large parcels, suitcases etc. in an appropriate place after getting on a bus. Buses that go to airports and railways often have large case areas. Other buses will often have a smaller place for school packs and briefcases. And always remove your pack or large back from your back and carry before getting on. There is nothing more unpleasant than being clobbered in the face by a school bag on a student's back. Be thoughtful and considerate of others.
 If you have any difficulties using a bus, you might need to get a bus able to provide disabled access. Some buses are able to "kneel" to let on wheelchair. However, in many places, these buses are only assured at certain times of the day and you will need to find out about these in advance.
 Buses are a popular form of transport and often there is standing room only. If you have a genuine reason to sit when everyone else is already seated, be ready to ask people politely if someone is willing to stand up because you are "sick/disabled/pregnant/exhausted etc.". And be prepared for some people to be a little rude but persevere. Usually one person will feel guilty enough to give up their seat in this situation; this is why it is important not to single out one person but to address a group of seated people instead.
 Most buses have buttons or pull cords that ring a bell and alert the driver that somebody wants to get off at the next stop. If you can't reach it, ask for help from a passenger nearer to the bell or cord. And the best thing ever is to let the bus driver know in advance where you need to get off if this is your first time and you are unfamiliar with the route. That way, he or she will stop without you having to worry.
 It is really important to acknowledge the driver's care in getting you to where you want to go. A civil society that says thank you is a pleasant one to live in. It is especially important to say thank you when you catch the bus regularly and you get to know the driver well.
 Always wait until the bus is clear of the bus stop before trying to cross the ride; you can't see what is coming up alongside a parked bus and walking in front of a bus is just not a good idea. Be patient, or better still, walk to the lights to cross the road after alighting the bus.

