 The door should be at least 2 inches (5.5 cm) above the top of your dogs shoulders to be tall enough for them. Additionally, the door must be at least 2 inches (5.5 cm) wider than the widest part of your dogs body (usually the shoulders or hips).When installing your dog’s door, be sure to consider that they may gain weight as they age. Though you want to ensure that your dog stays at a healthy weight, if they are on the thin side at the moment, consider that they may get a bit wider in old age.
If your dog is a puppy when you install the door, be sure to think about the fact that they will grow. In the case of some breeds, your puppy will grow significantly. When installing the door, find out how big the dog could possibly get and install a door that will be big enough for a full-grown dog of that size.
 This doesn’t necessarily refer to people, though if your dog door is big enough, burglars could potentially enter through an unsecured dog door. You should also think about potential animals in your area that might enter through the dog’s door. For example, if you live in an area where there are many raccoons, they could sneak in through the door.


If you are worried about this issue, consider installing a plastic door that comes with a lock. This will allow you to manually lock and unlock the door when you need to. You could also consider an electronic door. These doors come with a chip that goes on your dogs collar, and will only open for an animal wearing the chip. Some doors even work with your pet’s microchip, and will open for your dog when he comes close to it.
 Dog doors should open to an area that will be safe for your dog. Usually, this will be your fenced-in yard. Before training your dog to use the door, take time to make sure that your yard will be safe for your dog.For example, make sure that your fence is high enough so that your dog cannot jump out. Some dogs can jump higher than you might think, so do some research into your dog’s breed to see how high they might be able to jump.
 If a dog can’t jump out, they may dig themselves out more easily. You can prevent this by lining your fence with large stones or by having your fence extend into the ground so that your dog would have to dig very deep in order to get out.


Before letting your dog in the yard unsupervised, be sure to spend time watching their behavior in the yard to help identify any areas in the fence where your dog might consider as a good play to jump over or dig under.
 Some plants are toxic to dogs; for example, a weed known as foxtail grass can make your dog very sick if it get’s in their eyes or mouth. Other plants such as ferns, Aloe Vera, and Alocasia are all toxic to dogs. You can find a more complete lists of all plants toxic to dogs here


Put away any pesticides or chemicals that are laying around. If you notice any bottles of weed killer, chemicals, or any substance that can be potentially harmful to your dog, find a safe place to store it. Don’t leave it laying around or your dog may get bored and play with it.
If you have treated your lawn with any pesticides or chemicals, check the label to see what it says about pets. If it doesn’t say anything, keep your dog off of the lawn for at least 24 hours after application and contact your veterinarian to see what they say.
 Dogs sometimes swallow rocks on accident, and these stones can get caught in their intestines. The same goes for any small items your dog could fit in his mouth, which they could swallow or choke on. Limit the things lying in your yard to toys that are safe for your dog.
 While you want your yard to be safe for your dog, you also want it to be fun so the dog doesn’t get bored and look for ways to escape. Make sure your dog has access to fresh water, shade to get out of a hot sun, and plenty of dog-friendly toys to play with.


For example, toys that are made of rubber and are free from strings or other pieces that might be chewed off and ingested are a good choice. Make sure that the toy is large enough so that your dog can chew on it or play with it, but can’t be swallowed.If you want to give your dog something soft to give them comfort while you are gone during the day, try wearing around a soft, old sweater for a few days. Then give this to your dog to have. It will provide them with something to carry around in their mouth, and will be comforting to them because it smells like you.
 If you have young children, it is important that you teach them that the dog door is only for the dog. A small child trying to squeeze through a dog door could get stuck and suffer from injuries. It could even prove fatal if the child gets stuck in the door and cannot breathe.Installing a dog door that can only be opened with a microchip or a chip on the dog’s collar may also help prevent this.

