 The gloves should fit but not be too tight or too loose. Gloves that are too small can easily rip and feel uncomfortable and gloves that are too big will make it hard to perform a task.


Sizes normally start at 5.5 and go up by increments of .5 until size 9. The average size is 7.5.;
, Having a ring, watch, or bracelet on while wearing sterile gloves will contaminate the glove and also presents a risk of ripping the glove and/or getting in the way of the task.


Put jewelry in a safe place.
 Use the proper medical technique to wash your hands


In some circumstances, a sink may not be available, so an alcohol-based hand-rub is acceptable.
 It is important to stay standing the entire time to avoid contamination.


Standing will help keep your arms above your waist.
Anything below your waist is considered contaminated.
 Open the sterile glove package on a sterile, flat surface to prevent contamination of the gloves


Peel the corner of the package until the sterile paper wrapper, which contains the gloves, falls out. Let the sterile paper wrapper drop on the sterile surface.
Discard or set aside the packaging the sterile paper wrapper was inside.You do not need it anymore.



Do not touch the one inch folds yet.



Caution: Everything is sterile except for the one inch folds.
Turn the sterile paper so it is in front of you. The L and R symbols should be facing you.
The paper wrapper is sterile except for one inch (2.5cm) all around the edges.
Using the one inch non-sterile field, open the paper wrapper all the way. You should now see two gloves in the middle of the sterile field. The tops of both gloves are turned down to form a cuff.



Caution: Do not touch the outside of the glove with your ungloved hand. Keep your hands above your waist at all times.
Using your non-dominant hand, grasp the glove for the dominant hand by the fold of the cuff using your fingers.
Most people use their thumb and index finger to grasp the glove.
 Allow the cuff to stay turned back on itself for now.



Caution: Do not touch the inside of the cuff with your gloved hand because that area is not sterile.
Using your dominant hand which now has the glove on, place your fingers under the cuff of the other glove.



Caution: Remember to keep your hands above your waist and do not touch the inside of the second glove with your already gloved hand.
Ease the glove on by pushing on the inside fold of the cuff.
Turn back the cuff.



Turn back the cuff of your first glove without touching the inside of your glove.
Use your gloved hands to adjust the gloves to a comfortable position.
 Turn your hand and look to see if there are any visible rips or tears.


If you see a tear, a new pair of gloves must be applied.

