 Search the Internet for free templates for your invitations. Some will have the designs already in place, and some won't. Before you begin, here are some things to watch out for:


Note that some web sites only let you access their free templates if you buy blank cards from them.
Other sites will truly have free templates, designs, and wording samples that are cost-free.
If you can't find what you're looking for, don't be discouraged--just be creative!

, You can either look for images that are appropriate for the occasion online, or look through your photos. Here are some other tips for having the perfect image:


If you're an artist, what better image to have than a picture drawn by you?
If you know someone who is a talented artist, ask him or her to help out by drawing the perfect image.
Dig through your old photos. If you're helping Grandpa celebrate his 80th birthday, a baby picture will be a perfect addition to your invitation.
If your image is not online, you'll have to scan it to get it on your computer.
 The words you choose will the entire birthday card together. You can look online for inspiration, but since you're making your own invitations, a personal touch will work best. Here are some things to do:


Make sure the words match the picture. The words can reference the picture in some way, or just match the tone of the picture. If it's a silly picture, a somber tone won't work.
Pick your tone. If you want to invitation to be serious and meaningful, don't be goofy in your wording.
Be specific. Write some inside jokes about the guest of honor that your friends will appreciate. If it's your birthday, say something about yourself.
Have fun! This is your own invitation, so if you want to have a silly rhyme, be off-color, or just make your guests laugh, go for it!

, The invitation will set the tone for the party and will tell your guests exactly what to expect. Here are some things to tell them:


When and where your party will be held.
The time of the occasion. If it's a surprise party, tell them they absolutely have to be there by a certain time. Hint: tell your guests they have to be absolutely be there by a certain time, but plan the surprise for half an hour later than that. It's impossible to make sure everyone will be there on time and you don't want a straggling guest to ruin your surprise.
What to bring other than gifts. If you're having a pool party, for example, tell them to bring a suit.
To RSVP by a certain day.
 Looking at the sample invitation will let you know if there's anything you should fix before you print off a whole batch. Here are some things to look out for:


Typos. Though you should check for spelling errors on your computer, read your invitation aloud to make sure it's typo-free.
Alignment. Make sure everything is centered properly.
Make sure that your invitation is pleasing to the eye. Check that the colors aren't too flashy and that the invitation doesn't look too busy--it shouldn't be crowded with images and words.
Make sure it's easy to read. Have you used an approachable font? Are the details about your party clear?
Can you fold it properly? Is the image on the front, with the details on the inside?

, Before you print the rest of your invitations, you'll need to have blank invitation paper. Make sure it's thick enough to be sturdy, but thin enough to run through your printer without any problems.


When you buy your blank invitation cards, get a few extra in case of a paper jam, ink smear, or other unforeseen problem.
 Once you've printed your invitation, you can add some more personal touches to spice up your invitations. This is optional--if the invitation looks great already, or if you don't have the time, you can forgo this step. If you're interested, here are some great ways to add pizzazz to your invites:


Add glitter to the final product. Add just enough so it doesn't get too messy.
Add fuzzy stickers, stamps, or anything else that is fun and silly.
Have fun! If it feels right, kiss the card or envelope.
 To make sure your guests show up to your party, send them your invitations at least a month in advance. Here are some tips:


Make sure to have the right addresses for your guests. If you haven't heard back from them, it may be because you wrote down the wrong address.
Start talking about your party before you send out your invitations. This will make your guests even more eager to help celebrate.

