 Be sure to blend it well, especially around the edges of your face, into your hairline, and along the jaw. You will be applying bronzer and highlight over the foundation; the foundation will help them stick better to your face.


If you are going to use concealer to hide any blemishes, do this now. Once you start applying the highlight and bronzer, it will be too late.
For best results, use a cream or liquid foundation.;
, Blend it up towards your eyes using a smaller brush. You'll end up with something that looks like upside-down triangles. This will help make your cheekbones look more angled.Choose a color that is two shades lighter than your skin tone. You can also use a light-colored eyeshadow instead, in cream, white, or ivory. Some slight shimmer will help catch the light., Use a thin brush to make a long, thin line down the middle of your nose. Do not make the line too thick, or your nose will appear too wide.
 Be sure to blend upward towards your hairline.
 Use a large, fluffy brush. This will bring more attention to your lips, and it will make your face appear longer. If you already have a very prominent chin, you may want to consider skipping this, or making just a thin line no wider than your finger.
 This is essential to creating a slender face. If you are worried about making things even, suck in your cheeks and pout like a fish. Use the indentations as a guide.


Use a color that is one to two shades darker than your skin tone. Try not to use anything shimmery. If you don't have bronzer, you can use a matte, brown eyeshadow instead. Use a warm brown if you have a warm undertone and a cool brown if you have a cool undertone., Take a small, fluffy brush and apply some bronzer along the sides of your nose. Blend down and outwards towards the sides of your face. This will make your nose appear thinner.
 Use a small, fluffy brush and blend downward. You might even have little impressions or dents there already.
 Focus more on the middle of your jaw and less on the chin. Be sure to blend downward under your chin and towards your neck. This will give your jaw a more angled look.
 If you used cream-based makeup for the shadows and highlights, then try using a blending sponge instead. Sweep the brush over the edges of your highlights and shadows, blending them into your foundation and into each other. You want your face to look smooth; any lines will give away the fact that you contoured your face using makeup.








