 Having a guiding principle will make all the rest of your decisions simple and easy. Are you hosting a themed dinner party, or a blow-out with all of your friends? Do you want something small and intimate or the big banger that no one forgets. Ask yourself what kind of party you want to host before doing anything else -- this will help you decide who to invite, what to buy, and what to prepare., When sending out invitations, assume everyone is going to say yes instead of inviting tons of people and hoping only a set amount can make it. You can always send out more invitations later. Asking for an RSVP is a great way to help you plan food, drinks, and party events.


Let people know if they can bring their families or friends with a "plus one" or "family and friends invited" attached to the email, card, or event notification.
Consider the type of party you want when sending invitations. If you want close conversation, you may want to limit it to 8-12 people. If you want a big, raging party you'll go much bigger.
 If you're having a classy party, let them know that it is "black tie," or "formal." If it's a loose, casual party, you can tell them to "come as they will," or "be ready to party." Try and use language that conveys the type of party you want so that no one gets surprised.


For example, if you're throwing a Halloween party, most people appreciate knowing upfront if they should wear a fancy dress costume or not.
You don't have to be obvious with the dress code. Describing the party as a "evening to catch up and share a nice dinner" clearly lets people know that they shouldn't wear glitter and a crop top, unless they want to., Don't give your guests any reason to think they're imposing or intruding on your life. If you don't want people in certain rooms, simply close the doors, and leave the rest of the doors open. Stock the guest bathroom with extra toilet paper, in plain sight, and make sure that there is a clean room where people can put their coats and other things. Finally, if you're using your own dishes, make sure they are all clean and ready to eat off of.


Make sure there is ample seating for everyone unless you're having a rave up dance party or an outdoor picnic party.
Decorations aren't required for a good party, but they help create the party atmosphere. If you're going to put them up, however, make sure they are up well in advance.
If you're throwing a big party, remove anything delicate or breakable in advance to avoid costly and embarrassing mishaps., You should have food out for the entirety of the party, especially if there is drinking involved. This can be simple, like bowls of chips and dips, cheese and crackers, and pre-made veggie plates. If you're hosting a meal, put out these little snacks to hold your guests over while the courses come out. Don't feel, however, like you need to cook all day to throw a great party. You can always buy pre-prepared foods or simple things that you just warm up in the oven.


Don't put out all of your food at once. Fill up a few bowls, then refill them as the party needs.
Anticipate any dietary restrictions in advance. If you're unsure, make sure you have a gluten-free, (like veggies or rice crackers) kosher food, halal food, and vegetarian substitutes available. Consider anything containing nuts is labelled for those with nut allergies.
If you're cooking, give yourself ample time to prepare, and always cook more food than you think you'll need. Plan for an extra 2-3 guests to prevent running out., If you're having a mixture of ages, a couple of sodas and juices should be with the alcohol. It is often best to have at least two types of alcohol available as well to accommodate different tastes, such as beer and wine, mixed drinks and champagne, beer and spirits, etc. Ice and lemon can be appropriate too.


Depending on the type of party, you may want to think about where the drinks go. It is often best to keep hard alcohol out of sight but accessible, with less alcoholic beverages like beer open and in plain sight to prevent over-drinking too early., At the end of the day, you'll realize you forgot napkins, the appetizers might burn, or you'll forget that you need to shower and get dressed as well! Take the stress off yourself by building in a nice little buffer between your first guest arriving and your final preparations. If you seem relaxed and together when the guests arrive, they'll be relaxed too.