 Looking for one can be a fun activity. It’s important to be careful when looking for one, since you can easily step on or run over garter snakes.


Search in the primary habitats of garter snakes. Keep an eye out for hidden garter snakes underneath logs or behind bushes.
Walk slowly and carefully in the grass or other environments. Consider wearing light shoes, since garter snakes can feel vibrations in the ground.
Look for any movement in the grass or other garter snake environments. They move quickly, but you may be able to spot them through close observation.
Watch for any sunny areas. Garter snakes need to bask in the sun during the day, so you may be able to find them there.
Be careful not to step on a garter snake. It may injure them, but it will almost certainly frighten then enough to run away or bite you.
If you’re on a bike, be careful not to run over garter snakes. They can easily get trapped in the spokes of your bike's wheel.
 After you locating a garter snake, be very careful and gentle when you pick it up. Try not to restrict the garter snake, so it will get frightened and potentially bite you.Use a net or forked stick to capture the garter snake. You can trap them underneath until they finish thrashing and are subdued.Try catching a garter snake by the tip of its tale. This may be harder, since they can slip out of your hands, but it’s possible to catch a garter snake by hand.
Give garter snakes plenty of support. They may slide or crawl over your hands, but may also fall. Be careful to not drop them or let them slip out of your hands.
Don’t restrict garter snakes’ movement. They will get frightened if they feel restricted in movement by you handling them.
Garter snakes may musk on you. This is a bad smelling fluid that comes out of their vent. It’s harmless, so simply wash it off.
 Garter snake bites are not dangerous, though they can hurt and be unpleasant. If you are bitten, stay calm and maintain a grip on the garter snake.Though they are unlikely to bite, it may occasionally happen if they are frightened. If the snake does bite, stay calm and handle the snake carefully.
Since garter snakes are trying to escape, they do not usually hang on to the bitten area. They will try to strike and escape after biting.
Some garter snakes may be hungry and hang onto the bitten area. If they do, gently push its head forward to remove its teeth from where it has bitten you.
The best way to avoid being bitten by garter snakes is to avoid handling them. Garter snakes do not seek out humans, so if you stay away from them they will not bite you.
 Even though garter snakes are not venomous, care for your snake bite wound the way you would any other injury. If it becomes infected, go see a doctor immediately.


Garter snakes have fangs in the back of their mouths that produce small amounts of a mild neurotoxic venom. It is not dangerous to humans though.
Make sure to clean out the wound thoroughly if you are bitten to avoid it becoming infected. You should clean it and bandage it the same as you would any other wound.
Some people react to snake saliva. This usually happens if the snake chews on your bitten area. If you notice the wound becoming infected, go see a doctor immediately.