 Jekyll', 'Jekyll', or 'Henry'. Henry is only for close friends, others may call you 'Jekyll' or 'Dr. Jekyll'. Make it clear that close friends can call you any of the three.;
, If a skirt has to be a certain length, do it. If you need a tie to be a number of stripes, yes, DO IT. If you don't have a uniform, wear a white blouse, black trousers, a black waistcoat, and, if you can, a Victorian style black jacket. Or, just look neat and smart.
 You will need good grades - Jekyll is, after all, a doctor/scientist! It is important to at least act as if you like science. Find out random scientific facts, and also case studies of people with dissociative identity  disorder ! Occasionally (about four - twenty times a week), tell people one of the facts. If they ask 'how did you know that?' or similar. act confused: 'Why, (insert name), I thought you knew I got my university degree! I needed to learn it!'

, Every now and then (about two - ten times a week) argue with 'Hyde' while look at the mirror. Or snap a comment at it. Here are some ideas:


Just shut up! I won't be tricked again!
No! I just want a moment without you taunting me!
It's all your fault that you're wanted for murder! I had nothing to do with it!
What? Why? Why did you... WHAT DO YOU MEAN YOU DIDN'T MEAN TO?!? Excuse me... (leave)
(After turning back into Jekyll) Ok, where did you put my (pencil, maths book, ruler, etc.)
Look, people are staring... just be quiet... please?
I am not weak!
At least I have friends...you do need friends!...yes, I get by with a little help from my friends!
(When a friend comes by)Look, all I want is-oh, hi, uh... just a minute, (back to mirror) calm down, ok? You're making me stressed.
 It may seem boring, but wait for the next step! Well, not ALL the time, but, well, I hope you know what I mean, A scientist/Doctor doesn't USUALLY go running around like a lunatic (unless they ARE a lunatic...)

, Hyde is important. Why? Well, he drives Jekyll insane, so act insane, grouchy, even mean. Just don't go too far.
,,,,, "Just yesterday you called me a (weirdo, idiot)"), respond, nervously, but as if you are genuinely sorry, and didn't mean to (which, of course, you didn't) such as, "I...I-I'm sorry, I didn't mean it offensively...I-It was meant to be...a nickname. Not mean, or, or anything!" Argue your case, but if you think you're losing, just sigh, apologise for wasting their time, and leave, muttering comments like 'Oh, shut up' or 'You go and argue then, go on', (after saying that one, try 'exactly, so shut up and be quiet).
Hyde: Argue until you win. If need be, make things up (a few WHITE LIES ONLY won't hurt...) and point out truths which may embarrass people, just don't go overboard. Shout if you really want to, and tell them exactly what you think (unless it's rude and you'd get into personal or non-personal trouble) Just be careful about what you say.

