 Few gestures are quite as romantic as the home-cooked meal, especially if she is usually the one who does the cooking. If you are confident about your cooking abilities, try making your girlfriend a gourmet meal. If not, make something simple like grilled cheese or ramen noodles. You can make breakfast, lunch, or dinner. The meal does not need to be anything fancy, but make sure that it is something she will enjoy.


If you are nervous about cooking a meal on your own, surprise her by bringing up the idea of cooking a meal together. The two of you can spend some fun time together, and the gesture will still be romantic.
Clean the table, use matching dinnerware, and light candles. This will show that you aren’t just getting the nightly meal out of the way, but that it is a special occasion.
If you have roommates or live with your parents, find an evening when they’ll be gone for at least an hour or two to make this date all about you and her.
 Show up at her workplace or meet her at her locker with a meal from her favorite café or fast food restaurant. Homemade sandwiches, wraps, or salads also work great. If showing up at her job is not an option, you could pack a picnic lunch on a random weekend and take her out to eat at a park.


Make sure to pay attention to her schedule. If she normally has lunches free, but has something going on during lunch every day this week, then you might need to wait.
 The restaurant can be a new place with good reviews, or it can be an old favorite that the two of you visit less than you used to. Moreover, if you choose a new restaurant, pick one that your girlfriend has expressed an interest in or that at least serves a type of food your girlfriend enjoys.
 If you don’t feel the need for a grand romantic gesture, sharing a simple box of chocolates is nice. Go to a chocolatier and pick out a box together. Keep them on your kitchen table and enjoy them over the next week. Discussing your favorite flavors and sharing samples are fun bonding activities.

