 This is important; some shelters do not allow children volunteers. Make sure that kids your age can volunteer without an adult watching them. If you have to have a chaperone or adult monitoring you, find out if the shelter employees themselves are willing to supervise, or whether you need to go with an adult.

Make a plan for your participation; find out how often you'd be volunteering, how you'd get there, what you'd be doing, and how you'd balance this responsibility with your other tasks. The more information you can prepare about your plan, the more seriously your parents will take your wish.;
, Write a list, if it helps to organize your thoughts. List why it might be good for you, your family, and the shelter for you to volunteer. There's no doubt that time with people is good for the animals, and the experience can be good for your resume and college applications, too. Write it all down to present your case., If you are responsible in other tasks, it'll show that you're ready to take on this responsibility, too. Show your maturity. Try to do your chores. If you have younger siblings, take care of them. If you have older siblings, offer to help with something. If you have pets, make sure they have food and water. Complete school work, and offer to help around the house., Be mature when you do this; rather then demanding an answer through tears, kindly ask them their reasons. See if you can fix it. Ask them what they'd need you to do in order to consider your volunteering, and then go out and do it. Are they concerned that your grades will slip if you start volunteering? Then work hard and get your grades up. Are they worried that you won't get around to your chores? Then be extra productive in getting all your responsibilities handled, with time to spare, to show them you have the extra time to devote to this activity., If you do chores for money, you might also want to offer to do chores without money. If you do things like cleaning your room or walking your dog for money, offer to do the same chores for less, or no, money. If they ask why, tell them that you're trying to show them that you're ready to volunteer at the shelter; don't hide your intentions., If you're animal crazy and your parents won't let you have one, you may be driving them crazy by asking for a pet. Point out that if you volunteer at a shelter you will be around animals a lot of the day, and won't necessarily want one at home anymore. This might make your parents more likely to agree, or at least consider letting you volunteer., If you scream, cry, or demand that they let you volunteer, they will be way less likely to let you, as this shows a lack of maturity. Feeling upset is perfectly fine, but making a big deal and screaming directly is not a good thing.