 Idioms like "coger el toro por los cuernos" aren't often listed in a dictionary because they are usually translated, word for word, from one language into the other, whereas "la última gota que colma el vaso" has little in common with "the last straw that breaks the camel's back".;
,, There are also some idioms that result from the translation of English expressions such as:



come off it! = "¡venga ya!"

chances are = "lo más probable..."

I told you so = "ya te lo dije"

, Everybody is welcome to supply fully translated idioms and to help translate them adding to the meanings shown here, or providing new meanings that are common in the area where you may live. Up to now (2014) the expressions gathered in this article have been picked up in Spain itself.


If you don't fully grasp the meaning of a phrase that you think might be idiomatic, type the phrase under the first letter of its most important word; add a couple of question marks and separate it from the previous entry with two forward slashes (//) so that you won't upset the layout. Hopefully, someone else will drop by and give a hand translating that particular set of words.
Remember that this article is only for building up a list of current Spanish idioms and their hopefully equivalent English translations. If you just want to comment on a particular idiom or translation, please drop a line on the Discussion Page for this article.



The similarities between English and Spanish idioms will surprise and delight you. And the striking differences will serve to highlight the capricious nature of phrase evolution.
You will want to know more about how different cultures manage to convey similar thoughts. By getting involved in learning languages you will reach a new understanding of how folklore makes its way into language and becomes a defining element of people's way of thinking.
Bear in mind, too, that idioms are an integral part of every language. How else would you spice up your spiel to prevent it from being plain, ordinary and mundane? How would you make jokes, use double entendres or make puns? To highlight this, two basic Spanish idioms, were quoted in a Spanish newspaper article and in a banner hung outside a local branch of the Red Cross. The last one belonged to a Sunday newspaper.

