 A legal cause of action is made up of elements, which are a set of separate statements that must be true in order to prove the fault of the person being sued (the Defendant). To prove his or her case, the person who is suing (called the Plaintiff) will need to prove every element of libel in order for you to be held accountable. Likewise, as the Defendant, you can disprove the libel claim by demonstrating that one or more of the elements of libel are missing.


The wordings and numbering of the elements of libel differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. However, the substance of the elements should be the same.
Generally, the burden is on the Plaintiff to prove each element of his or her claim. This means that it is not your responsibility to "disprove" each element of libel, but you can certainly point out and argue when the Plaintiff fails to prove an element.
As you consider each element and defense, note what evidence and witnesses you can use to disprove each element or prove each defense. You will most likely want to rely upon the written statement itself, any writings or communications you relied upon when you made the statement, and any witnesses who can corroborate the truth of the statement.;
, The first element of a libel action is that the Defendant made a certain statement that harmed the Plaintiff. If you did not make the statement, and you are not legally responsible for the actions of the person or entity that did make the statement, then you cannot be held liable.


You might be held "vicariously liable" for the statement if it was made by your employee or minor child., The second element of a libel action is that the defamatory statement was false.A statement is not false if it is either true or an opinion (which cannot be proven true or false). The Plaintiff must prove that the statement was false. You can counter this by arguing that the statement was either true or merely your opinion.


"There are rats in the restaurant" can be true or false.
"This is the worst restaurant in the world" is a mere opinion, as it cannot be proven true or false.
 The third element of a libel action is the harm suffered by the Plaintiff. It is not enough that the statement hurt the Plaintiff's feelings. There must be actual damage to his or her reputation that is measurable in monetary damages, such as the loss of a job or harm to a business.


Some types of defamatory statements are always considered to be harmful, whether or not the Plaintiff can prove that he or she suffered monetary damages.These types of statements include:

Indications that the Plaintiff was involved in criminal activity;
Indications that the Plaintiff had a "loathsome," contagious, or infections disease;
Indications that the Plaintiff was unchaste, or engaged in sexual misconduct; and
Indications that the Plaintiff was involved in behavior incompatible with the proper conduct of his or her business or profession.
 In the context of libel and slander, "publication" means communicating the statement to a third person other than the Plaintiff.For the fourth element of libel, the Plaintiff must prove that the statement was communicated to a third person, whether through the media, a letter, email, or even a social networking post. As the Defendant, you can offer evidence that you did not communicate the statement to anyone besides the Plaintiff.


For example, if you sent an email to the Plaintiff that read, "Your restaurant has rats," the email probably wasn't libelous, because it was communicated directly to the Plaintiff and not published to a third party.
 For the fifth element, the Plaintiff must prove that the statement was obviously about the Plaintiff. If the statement did not mention the Plaintiff by name, then the Plaintiff will need to bring other evidence to prove that he or she was the subject of the statement. You can also argue that a third person reading or hearing the statement would not come to the conclusion that the statement was about the Plaintiff.


For example, if the statement was "That hamburger place I went to last night was full of rats," you could argue that a third person hearing that statement would not know you were talking about the Plaintiff's restaurant.
 If the Plaintiff is a public official or public figure, then he or she must prove an additional element of fault to prove a libel claim about his or her official conduct. The Plaintiff is a public official if he or she publicly represents a government or other entity. The Plaintiff is a public figure if he or she is famous enough to be considered a public figure in all contexts (like an entertainer or media figure), or if he or she voluntarily assumes a central role in a public debate or controversy (like an activist or advocate for a specific cause).
 "Actual malice" refers to the type of fault a Defendant must have had to be held liable for libel against a public figure or official.The Plaintiff must prove that the Defendant made the statement with actual malice, just like the other elements of libel. The Defendant acted with actual malice if he or she knew the statement was false or had serious doubts about the truthfulness of the statement, but made the statement anyway. To disprove this element, you can present evidence that you did not know the statement was false and that you had no reason to believe that it might be false.


For example, if your statement was "Senator Smith is leading a double life," it was probably not made with malice if you heard it first from Smith's campaign manager. However, the statement was probably malicious if your source was an anonymous internet forum.
 A matter of public concern is a controversy that affects more than just the direct participants.If the statement relates to a matter of public concern, then the Plaintiff must prove that Defendant made the statement negligently.


A "matter of public concern" is sometimes defined as one that is "newsworthy." However, courts differ on how they define public concern and newsworthiness., A defendant is considered to have acted negligently if he or she was not reasonably careful in attempting to verify the statement before making it. To disprove this element, present evidence of how you attempted to verify the statement and argue that a reasonable person in your position would have done the same.
 There are three legally recognized defenses to libel: truth, consent, and privilege.If the Plaintiff is able to prove every element of libel, you can still avoid liability by proving that one of these defenses applies to your situation.
 If the statement in question happens to be true, then truth is a defense to the Plaintiff's libel claim.You will need to present evidence that the statement was true.


For example, if a restaurant owner sues you for libel because you wrote a review of the restaurant that said that you saw a rat in the kitchen, you can prove that you actually saw a rat in the kitchen by presenting a picture of the rat, a witness who also saw a rat, or even a copy of the health inspector's records describing a rodent problem.
 Consent is a defense to a libel action. If you can prove that the Plaintiff consented to the publication of the statement, then you have a complete defense.To prove consent, you would need to present evidence, such as an email or letter, wherein the Plaintiff gave you permission to publish the statement.
 "Absolute privilege" means that you had a certain position or status that protects you from liability for libel. You may have absolute privilege if you:Only communicated the statement to your spouse;
Only communicated the statement to participants in a judicial proceeding, such as a court hearing;
Are a legislator (or a legislator's aide) and you made the statement in your official capacity during a legislative proceeding; or
Are a government executive official and making the statement was part of your job.
"Qualified privilege" means that, under the circumstances, the statement was made for a proper purpose. You may have qualified privilege if you:


Made the statement without malice (meaning that you did not know it was false and did not have reason to doubt its truthfulness);
Made the statement to an interested person (such as a potential employer of the Plaintiff); and
You are so related to the Plaintiff that your motive was probably innocent.

Qualified privilege is common in cases where the defendant gave an unfavorable employment reference to the plaintiff's potential employer. If the defendant believed that the plaintiff stole from the cash register, and the defendant told the potential employer about it, the defendant would probably be protected by qualified immunity.
 After a plaintiff files a complaint, he or she must serve the complaint and summons on the defendant.If you have been served with a summons and complaint, you typically have 30 or fewer days to respond (time limits vary by state). To respond, you can file an answer, a demurrer, or a motion to dismiss the case. If you fail to respond in time, the Plaintiff may be able to get a default judgment against you.


If you have been sued, you should consider hiring an attorney to handle your case. Libel suits can be particularly complicated.
 An answer is where you admit or deny each allegation in the Plaintiff's complaint. You can also make your own claims against the Plaintiff, bring new parties into the lawsuit, and raise affirmative defenses that can negate your liability., A demurrer is a type of pleading that asserts that the Plaintiff's complaint is legally insufficient.For example, the Plaintiff may have sued you in a state where the court does not have jurisdiction over you, or the Plaintiff's complaint may fail to state facts that constitute a cause of action for libel. If your demurrer is sustained by the court, the Plaintiff's complaint will be dismissed, or he or she will be granted leave to amend the complaint. If your demurrer is overruled, you will be given a short period of time to file an answer.
 Motions to dismiss are formal requests asking that the court dismiss the Plaintiff's case, and are usually made on procedural grounds similar to those used for a demurrer. Some states also have what is known as an "anti-SLAPP motion," which is a motion to dismiss a "Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation" (SLAPP). A SLAPP refers to a lawsuit, such as a libel suit, filed by a plaintiff for the purpose of dissuading a defendant from exercising his or her free speech rights.For example, a small newspaper might print a damaging story about a big corporation. In response, the corporation files a libel suit against the newspaper. The corporation does not expect to win the lawsuit at trial, but it hopes that the lawsuit will intimidate the newspaper into backing off, settling the lawsuit, and not printing anymore damaging stories. In response, the newspaper can file an anti-SLAPP motion, arguing that the lawsuit should be dismissed because it is merely an intimidation tactic intended to suppress the newspaper's free speech.
 A motion for summary judgment allows you to ask the judge to rule on the merits of the case by looking only at the undisputed facts.For example, if your published a statement stating that the Plaintiff was arrested for a DUI, and the Plaintiff filed a libel suit against you, you could file a motion for summary judgment based on the truth of the statement and supported by a certified copy of the arrest record.
 Every case is different, but if you case proceeds toward trial, you will most likely need to engage in and respond to discovery (whereby both parties exchange evidence and witnesses) and motions to resolve procedural issues along the way. At the trial, you or your attorney will have the opportunity to argue before the jury (at a jury trial) or the judge (at a bench trial), present evidence, and take the testimony of witnesses. Your goal is to disprove the elements of libel and/or assert defenses that would justify or excuse your statement.


The Plaintiff will present his or her case first. As the Defendant, you go second. Once the Plaintiff has concluded, you may be able to move that Plaintiff failed to present sufficient evidence of each element of libel. If your motion is sustained, the case may be dismissed without further argument.

