 If the criticism is truly constructive, it will be given with the intention that you or your work improves somehow. See if you can see how the criticism is geared toward that. If the criticism does not offer clear guidelines on how you can improve something, it may not be constructive. An example of the difference between valuable constructive criticism and criticism that isn’t valuable at home is:Valuable: "I wish you would put the dishes in the dishwasher when you're done with them. When I come home and see a sink full of dishes, I feel frustrated and exhausted and I feel like that makes spending quality time together difficult." This makes it clear why the criticism is being given, how the person can change their behavior, and what the value of that change would be.
Not valuable: "You're such a slob! I hate how you always leave the dishes to me." This does not offer a solution or make it clear what a change would do for either party.
 The criticism should be clearly about a specific behavior or product, not you as a person. If you’re unclear about whether the criticism is specific, ask for clarification. You may discover that the critic simply hadn’t been clear, or that the criticism isn’t in fact constructive.You can say something like, “I hear that you’re upset with my work this week. Can you tell me exactly which reports you had trouble with, and why?”
If the person has been specific but you suspect there is more that they’re not saying, you can say, “Thanks for clarifying that I need to spend more time on this week’s report. Is there anything else you’re concerned about?”

, Receiving criticism can be difficult. You may feel embarrassed, hurt, or even angry if you feel you’re being unjustly criticized. However, unless you listen carefully, you won’t know whether the criticism is actually constructive or not. Once you know that it is, you can make changes so that things will go more smoothly in the future.Paraphrase what the person critiquing you says. Repeat what you understand back to them, so that they can see that you’re taking it in. It will also help you both clarify that you understand.
Ask questions if you don’t understand. You can always say, “Can you give me an example?”
Avoid becoming defensive. You may want to argue or defend yourself. However, if the criticism is constructive, remember that the best answer is to say, “Thanks for letting me know. I’m going to do my best to make those changes in the future.”

, Constructive criticism always aims to help you grow and improve. It should also be specific. Therefore, if you make the changes to the specific situation, and do the work to improve and grow, that should satisfy the person who critiqued you.Once you’ve made the changes, check back in. You can say, “So, I made those changes. Have you noticed a difference? Do you have any further suggestions for me?”
If you make the changes but the person critiquing you still seems unsatisfied, they may simply have a personal problem with you and their criticism may not actually be constructive.
 You may feel reactionary to feedback, even if it's constructive. Before you respond to feedback, take a moment to let it sink in. That way, even if your reaction is justifiably strong, you'll have the calm and presence of mind to respond from a grounded place, rather than rashly.Count to ten and take some deep breaths before responding.
If you're receiving the criticism face to face, you may need to let yourself be silent for a moment before responding. That's okay. You're never required to respond to someone immediately. You can even say, "Excuse me, I need to think about that for a moment."

