 It is rare that someone who is self conscious and unsure of himself is respected. Being confident means having the ability to stand up in front of your whole chapter and saying what you have to say even if a negative response is inevitable. Confidence is not caring what others think of you and just going for it. Most college men use alcohol and drugs to portray confidence (for example, having a few drinks before talking to a girl). A respected fraternity man oozes confidence. You can see it in his mannerisms, his relationships with woman, on the intramural football field, and in his interviews where he knows he is going to get the job.


Essentials to being confident, or at least portraying confidence:

Having a firm handshake
Always making eye contact
Having good posture
Speaking loud enough for a room full of people to hear you clearly, but low enough where you don’t come off as abrasive or obnoxious

;
, What you wear goes hand in hand with confidence. Take pride in your appearance. A confident, respected fraternity man does not follow a trend just because everyone else is doing it. It is disappointing to see a dozen fraternity guys walking around campus wearing the same outfit of sperrys and a Ralph Lauren shirt. Try to exceed people’s expectations without coming off like you are trying hard. If only a dress shirt and khakis are required, show up wearing a blazer and pocket square on top of it. It is okay to follow a trend as long as you have you incorporate your own unique style into it.


Essentials to dressing nice:

Wear slim fitted clothing; consider wearing one size smaller than you usually wear
Always match your belts with your shoes
Invest in more professional/upscale shoe styles such as penny loafers or oxfords
Invest in a nice timepiece; a classic yet sharp style is the leather/gator band watch
Add accents such as cuff links, tie bars, or pocket squares to your formal wear
Stay away from anything with rips or tears in it
Avoid wearing graphic tees, especially ones with inappropriate messaging on it; try sticking with solid color tee shirts
Never wear socks with loafers, boat shoes, or sandals



, Make an effort to personally acknowledge every brother at an event. This means saying hi, giving a handshake, and making light conversation. Even if they are not one of your closest friends within the fraternity, do it anyway. It will give them a lasting impression that you’re a good guy. Being friendly also entails knowing basic information of each brother. This may sound obvious but there are cases where brothers don’t even know simple info about their peers. You should know first and last name, hometown, academic year, and who their girlfriend is if applicable. Nothing can tarnish a relationship between brothers like hitting on someone’s girlfriend can. Last but not least, never, ever, lay a hand on another brother in a hostile situation. Rough-housing is natural among men but you should never be in a real physical fight with another brother.
 Not in life, but on your stance of issues, whether they are political, religious, or fraternal. An easy way to distance yourself from a group of your brothers is to be on the extreme opposite of the spectrum as they are on issues. That is why it is smarter to be moderate. This is how political candidates get elected. A great way to earn respect from the brotherhood is coming up with an idea/solution/policy that makes both sides happy. A brother who only cares about partying is bound to be respected less than the brother who cares about partying and philanthropy or partying and community service.
 To be respected means to show that you care about your organization. If the fraternity needs a volunteer for something, step up. If a big idea or solution is needed, propose something. Apply for committees and chair positions. Making your presence known doesn’t mean bragging about your home run in intramural softball, it means being passionate and enthusiastic about your fraternity to the point where the brotherhood notices what an essential part of the organization you are.
 This means not being that brother that is walking around like a zombie after popping pills and taking too many shots. Sure you may be respected by some in terms of how wasted you could get, but you will never gain true respect this way. By all means, have fun at parties, and make other people thrilled to be at your parties, but do it in a manner that isn’t going to put your fraternity at risk of getting into legal trouble, losing their charter, getting kicked off campus, or losing their good reputation. An easy way to mess up your fraternity’s reputation is throwing up on a girl because you are too drunk.
 Chivalry, gallantry, whatever you want to call it, is a requirement of a respected fraternity gentleman. If you are a jerk to women at your parties, other women will find out and won't come to your parties anymore. You may feel cool being an asshole to women but it won't gain you respect. If you respect women, especially sorority women, they will come to your events and your brothers will be happy. If not, don’t be surprised when you ruin your fraternity’s relations with sororities on campus, then see how much your brothers respect you.
 Who do you think will be respected more, the brother with good grades who has a high-paying job lined up for him, or the brother with straight D’s who is dropping out of school to become a DJ. If you picked that latter, you are far from being the most respected brother of your fraternity. Sure, trying hard in classes may take a toll on other things with a higher priority such as getting girls and partying, but it will pay off in the end. When you have that corner office and are hooking your brothers up with jobs and internships, you will be respected.
 Sucking up and tattling are two qualities that should not be associated with fraternity men. These are qualities of weasels who will go nowhere in life. Blowing smoke up the judicial chair’s behind in order to get out of a punishment is sucking up. Strategically being friendlier to certain people in order to win an election is not sucking up, it is being politically savvy and is natural in the fraternity world.
 If someone is tarnishing or slandering the name of your fraternity, set them straight. If a group of meat heads are messing with one of your brothers, have his back no matter what. However, defending your letters does not mean going out and looking for fights. Nothing shows your commitment like sacrificing yourself for the welfare of your house. If you happen to get punched in the face defending a fellow brother, walk into your next chapter meeting with your black eye and be proud that every single brother now has an enormous amount of respect for you.

