 A federal court cannot hear your case unless you are able to demonstrate that the court has jurisdiction over both the subject matter of your lawsuit and the individual or company you are suing.


Although state courts can hear almost any civil suit, federal courts can only hear lawsuits that deal with violations of federal law or the U.S. Constitution, suits against the federal government, or suits in which the defendant lives in a different state and the amount in controversy is more than $75,000.Beyond filing in federal court, you must make sure you file in the right district. There are seven districts in Texas, and generally you want to file in the district where the defendant lives or where the events that gave rise to your claim occurred., Because federal court rules and procedures are extremely complex, you should consider consulting an attorney before you attempt to represent yourself.


Although you have the right to represent yourself in federal court, you will be expected to know all the rules and procedures just as any attorney would.Hiring an attorney can help you ensure that you don't make a mistake, especially considering you have no way of knowing how lenient your judge may be with you if you do something incorrectly.
If you don't think you can afford an attorney, you can check at legal aid clinics or your local bar association to find out if you qualify for free or reduced-cost representation.
 The law that applies to your case sets forth the basic elements you must prove and other requirements that must be met for you to win your case.


To have a legal claim, you must be able to point to a particular federal or state statute that entitles you to recover money or other remedies for the wrongs the defendant committed.You also must be able to prove that the statute of limitations has not passed. Each type of case has a statute of limitations that provides a deadline for you to file a lawsuit. If that deadline has passed, you no longer have the right to sue.If you're filing a lawsuit against a federal agency, the law requires you to exhaust administrative remedies before you file suit in federal court.Typically you'll know if you've done this because the agency will send you a letter stating that you have the right to sue.
 The federal court clerk's office can provide information on the local rules and format necessary for your complaint. The clerk's office also may have a blank complaint form that you can adapt to your case.Rule 8(a) of the Federal Rules of Procedure describes the particular information that must be included in your complaint.
Generally, you want to start by listing your name and address, as well as the full legal names and addresses of each defendant, and why you're suing. Then explain why you believe the court has the power to hear the case and make a decision.
Explain what the defendant did and why you believe he is responsible for your injuries, and then lay out the facts of your case in numbered paragraphs.
Once you've completed your facts, state the law that provides you with a remedy, and how that law applies to your facts.
Close out your complaint by stating specifically what you believe the defendant owes you.Leave space for your signature, then include your printed name under your signature along with contact information such as your address, phone number, and email address.
 The federal district court requires you include other forms such as a civil cover sheet and a summons along with your complaint.The clerk's office will have information on the forms you must include with your complaint.
Once you've filled everything out and signed it, make at least one copy for your own records as well as a copy for each person you're suing – the clerk will keep the originals for the court files.
 To initiate a lawsuit in federal court, you must file your complaint – along with any other required forms such as a civil cover sheet – with the clerk of the federal district court.


When you file your complaint, the clerk will assign a case number and judge for your case.You must include your case number on any subsequent documents you file with the court for your case.
You also must pay a $400 filing fee when you file your complaint. If you cannot afford the filing fees, you can file an application for a waiver. This application requires you to disclose details about your income and finances. If the judge approves your application, you can proceed without paying filing fees., After you've filed your complaint, you are responsible for making sure the person or company you're suing has legal notice of the suit.


Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure sets forth the proper legal methods to serve the defendant. Typically, you will send copies of the documents using certified U.S. mail, returned receipt requested., Before trial, you can prepare your case by exchanging information with the other side during the discovery process.


Both you and the other side may send each other interrogatories, which are written questions that must be answered under oath. These questions can only be sent to parties in the case.You also may participate in depositions, which are interviews held under oath and on the record.After the interview is completed, the court reporter provides a transcript of the interview which you can use in trial. For example, if the witness says something on the stand at trial that contradicts a statement she made during the deposition, you can introduce her deposition testimony to impeach her credibility.
 If you are otherwise unable to arrive at a settlement, a neutral, third-party mediator may be able to help you resolve your dispute.


Some federal judges may order mediation before you proceed to trial. The process is informal and non-binding, but can produce a compromise that eliminates the need for a full trial., If you cannot settle your case, the court will set a date for a final trial.

