 Most cast nets should come with a hand loop that's adjustable. You'll want this to be cinched down fairly tight and secured. The last thing you want to do is launch your expensive cast right into the lake. You might be successful at getting it back, but that's a lot of unproductive time on the water.






;
, The only thing attached to the net at this point, should be the loop of the hand line that is attached to your left wrist.
 Your coils will depend on the size of cast net that you are using; smaller lines require fewer coils. Generally, the smaller the cast net, the easier it is to handle and throw.
 The horn of the net is the top of the net, where the top cylinder of string is bunched up neatly, forming a neat end piece.
 First, bunch the net up. Then, coil one circle that's a little larger than the coils you made with the hand line. The coiled net








, Untwisting it as you pass it into your right hand, grab a hold of the net halfway between the leaded weights (skirt bottom) and the end of the coil (upper net).









If you've done this step correctly, one-half of the leaded weights should now be resting at the end of the net you have in your right hand.
 Be sure to keep a hold of the coils while you do this, and to roll your wrist down when transferring, so that the two piles of net don't really intersect.









If you've done this step correctly, the skirt bottom, where the leaded weights are attached, should have two distinct piles, one at a different height from one another.

Specifically, the pile that you just rolled over your left thumb should be higher than the other pile.
 It's not the most pleasant step, but it's not unpleasant either. If you don't want to do this step, you have an alternative, however:









Throw it over your left shoulder. You're going to need to use a little more of the skirt bottom in order to do this; it shouldn't make a difference. It should be comfortably resting behind your left shoulder and not slip off.
 Grab it with your right palm positioned upward, in between your pinky and ring finger.
 You'll be grabbing the top pile that you rested on your left thumb during Step 7.
 Unleash like a coil, spinning back to the right and when your whole mass is facing the same direction as your toes, let go of everything (especially with your teeth).









Let the net unfurl by using centrifugal force. Don't try to use a lot of power to cast your net. Like a golf swing, the easier and more natural your motion, the better the final outcome.
Remember to keep your arm outstretched as you uncoil the net. You don't want to extend your arm like you're throwing a frisbee; you want your arm to already be extended, and then simply release the cast net at the proper position.
 Let it sink to the bottom and then pull it in by the hand line and reap the rewards of a whole mess of baitfish.








