 Fat buildup around the throat area can constrict airflow and cause snoring. This is one of the most common causes of snoring, especially if it increased as the dog aged, or if the dog stops breathing for a few seconds, then gasps.Make sure your dog gets enough exercise for its age and breed:Young or young adult dogs of active breeds (such as retrievers or Jack Russell terriers) need at least 30–60 minutes of active exercise every day.
Even "indoor" breeds and toy breeds need regular exercise beyond a short walk. Play an indoor game long enough to tire them out.
Even old dogs should be walked daily, but not to the point of limping or exhaustion.
Playing at the dog park is usually better for the dog than sustained jogging or running. For best results, look up recommendations for your dog's breed.
 Dog breeds with short noses often have breathing problems that can cause snoring. Even if your dog has been this way its whole life, this can still be a serious health problem.If your dog has any of these breeds in its ancestry, take it to a vet.


Common short-nosed dog breeds include bulldogs, Boston terriers, pugs, boxers, chihuahuas, Pekingese, Shar Pei, and shih tzus. If you're not sure about your dog's breed, search for the breed name and "brachycephalic syndrome."
The vet may recommend surgery to fix more serious problems, such as gagging or choking.In one study, 74% of dogs who underwent surgery still snored, but more serious symptoms typically improved., If your dog recently started snoring, it may have a cold, or allergies to spring pollen. This is especially true if the dog is sneezing, or dribbling liquid from its nose. Visit a vet if the symptoms don't go away within a few days, or if the nasal discharge becomes bloody or full of mucus., An untreated tooth infection can lead to an abscess that limits air flow.Check the dog's mouth for loose teeth, inflamed gums, blood, or lumps on gums or under the tongue.Take the dog to a vet if you notice any of these problems.


Even if you don't see these problems, keep the dog's teeth clean with a doggie toothbrush and chew toys.
 If you still aren't sure what's causing the snoring, visit the vet. Fungal infections, tumors, or other health problems take a professional to detect. The snoring may not be a sign of anything serious, but you don't want to take that risk.

