 Spiced nuts are traditionally prepared using almonds and pecans, but you could also make room in your recipe for cashew halves, walnuts, peanuts or even macadamias. Any type of nut that’s tender and easy to snack on will work. It’s all a matter of personal preference.


Avoid using overly hard nuts or those with tough, fibrous shells.
A basic jar of mixed nuts is the perfect thing for whipping up a quick and convenient batch of spiced nuts.;
, Place the nuts at the bottom of a large mixing bowl. In a separate measuring cup, separate the whites from 2 large eggs and combine them with 3 tablespoons of melted butter and 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract. Stir the mixture until it becomes frothy, then slowly pour it over the top of the nuts, covering as much surface area as you can.The blended liquid ingredients will give the dry spices something to stick to.
Adding the wet and dry components separately is easier than trying to do it all at the same time, as combining the dry spices with the egg, butter and vanilla extract will form a paste that’s hard to spread or pour.
 Take another small container and add the sugar, brown sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, orange zest, salt and cayenne pepper. Shake or stir the dry ingredients together to evenly distribute them. Then, sprinkle the sugar and spices over the nuts and toss them until they’re thoroughly coated.You have total freedom over any other spices you wish to add at this point, including ground ginger, cloves, allspice or paprika.
For slightly different flavor notes, ¼ cup of maple syrup may be used in place of granulated sugar., Flatten the foil against the bottom and sides of the cooker. Spray the foil lightly with cooking spray. This will help keep the nuts from burning while they cook and also prevent them from sticking to the inside of the cooker.If you prefer, you can also grease the foil with butter, shortening or coconut oil.
Whatever you do, don’t skip this step—if you do, you can expect to spend an hour or two scraping rock-hard dried glaze off the sides of your slow cooker later.
 Pour the spiced nuts into the bottom of the lined and greased slow cooker. Turn on the cooker and crank up the temperature. The high heat will caramelize the sugar and other dry ingredients, forming a syrupy glaze and infusing the nuts with sweet, pungent flavor.Make sure the nuts are spread evenly over the bottom surface of the cooker.
Unlike the oven or stovetop, cooking your spiced nuts in a slow cooker or crock pot will ensure that they get perfectly done without turning into scorched mess.
 Place the lid on the slow cooker. For their first phase, the nuts will need to cook for about an hour. Set a timer to let you know when you should come back and check on them.Keeping the lid on the cooker will stop moisture from escaping. If the nuts happen to get too dry (the glaze will appear thick and glue-like), add a tablespoon or two of warm water to thin out the glaze.
 After the initial hour is up, remove the lid from the cooker and stir the nuts. Turn the heat down to the lowest setting and continue simmering the nuts for another hour. Come back and stir them every 20 minutes or so as the glaze begins to solidify.The intense heat will cause the candy coating to melt and pool at the bottom of the cooker, so stirring will help recoat the nuts.
By the time the nuts are finished cooking, the glaze should have reduced enough to stick to them.
 Turn off the slow cooker. Remove the lid to let the heat escape so the nuts can begin cooling and setting up. After a few minutes, scrape the spiced nuts onto a baking sheet covered with wax paper, spooning any remaining glaze over the top. In 1-2 hours, the glaze will dry and the nuts will be ready to eat!Make sure to cool the nuts on a nonstick surface, as they’ll be very sticky when they first come out of the slow cooker.
Once dry, the nuts will have a crisp, sugary exterior and a tender crunch inside.
 Once the nuts have had time to dry completely, transfer them to a tupperware container and place them in the refrigerator or pantry until you’re hungry for a bite. They’ll usually stay good for up to a week or even a little longer, but they’re best enjoyed while they’re fresh.You won’t have to worry about spiced nuts going bad, since none of the ingredients used to make them actually spoil, but they may lose some of their crunch after a while.
If you plan on serving the nuts right away instead, arrange them on a serving tray with sliced cheese and crackers, or set a bowlful out on the kitchen counter and watch them disappear.
 Play around with your spiced nut recipe until you arrive at one that suits your own personal tastes. Those with a sweet tooth, for instance, can finish with a sprinkle of powdered sugar, while others may prefer an additional shake of salt, ginger or cayenne for a more savory snack. You can even experiment with different combinations of nuts to alter the subtle flavors of the confection.Vary the amounts of individual spices to satisfy picky eaters.
Every time you make a batch of spiced nuts, you’ll get a little closer to finding the perfect proportions of each spice.
 Spiced nuts make a great grab-and-go finger food any time of day. Pack them in with your lunch for the day, use them to take the edge off your hunger while you’re waiting on dinner to be served or savor a handful with a hot cup of tea before bedtime. There’s no wrong way to enjoy the scrumptious crunch of spiced nuts!A pinch of spiced nuts will pair well with oatmeal, yogurt or fresh fruit.
Be careful not to spoil your appetite—all that sugar makes them awfully filling!

, Pour small portions of nuts into cellophane gift bags or miniature mason jars, then tie ribbons around them and hand them out to friends, family and coworkers. Spiced nuts make a unique, addictive offering that’s guaranteed to have the lucky recipients asking for more. They’re perfect around the holidays, but are right at home at any event or time of year.Spiced nuts fresh from your kitchen would make a wonderful housewarming, graduation or engagement gift.
Make spiced nuts in large batches and mail them to loved ones who live far away.

