 Start with your state Department of Education. You will most likely be required to apply for a license to operate. You may be approved with a provisional license to get your college started and then be required to submit additional information for a final or ongoing approval. Once you have researched the license requirements for your state, you will be able to determine at what point you should submit the application for approval to operate a college.
 You can form a founding committee consisting of fellow participants and supporters for advice and information. This committee should consist of people with a variety of expertise in areas such as law, education and business.


You will need to recruit a formal board of trustees if you will be operating as a non-profit organization.
 You will file your business entity status with your state, usually through the Secretary of the State.


You can make a non-profit 501(c)(3) status election through the IRS by going to www.IRS.gov.



Secure your loans, grants or donations.
Hold fundraising events to gather additional support.
 Designing your policies and procedures will be guided, in large part, by the regulations of your state and the department that oversees the formation of colleges and institutions of higher learning. This is why the earlier research step was so important.


Your infrastructure includes operational, educational, curricular, business, legal, hiring, training, admissions and enrollment procedures.
Determine your location. Will your college be virtual, have a physical location or both?
Decide on the degrees and classes that will be offered. Some of this will have been determined by your state requirements. Develop a curriculum for your college based on the requirements of your state for granting degrees.
Begin networking with and interviewing potential faculty and hiring key staff members. You will be able to hire faculty based on your enrollment, but you will need to have a pool of qualified teachers to draw from.

