 Some pieces just seem to get marked for special scratching treatment because they feel just right to your cat. In this case, there are several options you can try:


Apply double-sided tape to the furniture.Cats dislike the sticky feeling and won't continue to stick their claws wherever it's sticky, as the hairless skin of the cat's paws is extremely sensitive to touch.For larger furniture, adhere masking tape over the arms, or on the back of the furniture where the cat will often enjoy playing (and hiding from water spritzing).
For a larger area, such as a rug or carpet, leave contact sheets sticky side up over the surface you want to protect.You can also buy a product called "Sticky Paws," which are medical grade adhesive sticky strips that can go on curtains, drapes, carpets, and anything else that might be a bit too tempting for your cat.Use the “knobby” side of a plastic or vinyl floor runner along the back of the couch to deter scratching. The cat won’t like the feel of the pointy knobs on their feet.
For cats who seem to live it up when you're at work or away from home, cover the furniture in plastic covers. Cats are not fond of walking over plastic because of its smell and feel.You could also try placing blown-up balloons hidden underneath a sheet covering the furniture which will burst when clawed, causing the cat a fright that will be associated with that piece of furniture long after the balloon has popped.Also consider using a “Scat mat” to deter cats from certain surfaces and areas.
 It is generally recommended to correct your cat remotely so that they do not associate the negative correction with you or other humans. Otherwise, you will create fear in the cat toward humans and likely train the cat to scratch in secret.


These products can be found online at various retailers.
 If you have antiques or furniture that is of great value, consider leaving it in a cat-free zone. Ensure that everyone in the family is aware that the cats must not be let into that area or room and always keep doors to these areas closed. Ask the humans in the house to take care rather than expecting the cat to know the difference between important furniture and less important furniture.


If the cat does wander in, shoo him out abruptly so that he associates it with being "out of bounds."

