 Often, only the newest temporary or traveling exhibits have a cost. Use museums to teach subjects like history, art history, and natural history.


You can easily break up a museum trip into several short trips based around certain subjects that you want your homeschooled child to focus on in their curriculum.
For instance, if your child is learning art history, you might schedule one field trip to the art museum to look at Renaissance art, another trip to examine Impressionist art, and another trip to look at modern art.
Find out if your museum offers tours, art classes, or other special events that could provide more material for your child’s curriculum.
 You could go to the park to learn about zoology, ecology, botany, evolution, and many other subjects. Before you go, decide what question or topic you want your child to learn about.


Keep your child focused on exploring the topic, but don’t squash their sense of exploration if they become interested in some other aspect of biology.
Take advantage of any nature center or learning space that the park offers. Many public parks have small exhibits
Contact the park to find out if they offer nature walks. Nature walks are organized by park officials to help the public learn more about

, They might include elementary astronomy lessons at your local planetarium or stargazing club. They might also include presentations about Shakespeare or another playwright at your local theatre. Libraries host many community events, as well. These events can help you educate your homeschooled child about religion, history, and science.


Look online for a community events calendar to find out what sorts of activities and programs you can enroll your child in.
Alternately, contact various community organizations directly to find out more about the programs they offer.
 These programs might consist of question-and-answer sessions with a trained biologist, dissections, or hands-on interaction with certain animals.


Even if your zoo doesn’t offer any special programs, you should still schedule time with your child at the zoo. Find ways to integrate a zoo trip into lessons about ecosystems, evolution, and biology.
Pack a lunch when you visit the zoo. The food on-site can be expensive.

