 Many people overspend on clothing as a result of poor planning. While we wouldn't head to the grocery without taking stock of our fridge, we often indulge in clothes shopping without considering our current wardrobe. Before you go on a shopping spree, look at what you already have.


It's helpful to make a list of your clothes, organizing them into categories. How many formal outfits do you have? How many work outfits? How many outfits for day-to-day activities?Figure out where you're lacking clothes and what purchases you need to make right away. If, for example, you're short on work appropriate attire you probably need to schedule a shopping spree soon. If you're lacking formal wear, however, you could reasonably put off making any purchases until a big event comes around.;
, Shopping without a list is a recipe for overspending. You're far more likely to buy things you don't need if you go into a store without a plan. Make a list beforehand.


After you've figured out what type of clothing you need, expand on that list. If you need work outfits, for example, do you need blouses, blazers, ties, and overcoats or do you need dress pants? Be as specific as possible. While you can't always predict what the store has to offer, you can have a game plan going in that can stop you from overspending.When you shop, stick to your list. Shopping can be overwhelming as the onslaught of options triggers temptation, but try to ignore the racks of clothing you do not need.
When making a list, try to snag items that can be used in multiple outfits. Cardigans in neutral shades, scarves, and tank tops are versatile and can be incorporated in a variety of clothing choices.When it comes to children's clothes, outfits are sometimes sold as collections towards the front of the store. Outfits are bunched together that include a variety of clothing pieces, including accessories like hats and scarves that you may not need. Forego the collections section and head to the back of the shop and check out the clearance items., It's easy to overspend when we don't have a set amount to spend. Get an idea of how much money you can afford to spend on clothing each month and stick to that amount.


Figure out all your monthly expenses in terms of necessities such as rent, bills, and food. Subtract that amount from your total monthly income. This is your disposable income for the month.
Decide, based on your lifestyle, how much of your disposable income you can reasonably spend on clothes. Take note of any sacrifices you're willing to make to spend more on clothing, such as eating out less or staying in more on the weekends.
Get a price range you can spend on clothes, such as $100-$150. Write down any clothing purchases you make so you can make sure you don't go over budget.
 Buying clothes before you need them is a great way to save, but it does require quite a bit of planning.


Try to shop for the future rather than the present moment. Coats sold in May will be cheaper than those sold in December. Outdoor wear and swimsuits are often priced down in January and February.If possible, shop directly after a season ends. Department stores often have clearance sales on sweaters and coats in early spring or have priced down shorts and sun dresses at the beginning of fall.
Plan ahead. When taking stock of your wardrobe, pay attention to what items you're lacking for the upcoming season. Add them to your shopping list and see if you can snag the items out of season., If you're trying to stay within a certain price range, going to second hand or discount stores in lieu of boutiques or shopping malls can translate to big savings.


Thrift stores sell used clothing at reduce prices. The items are of reasonably high quality as there are certain standards for what can be sold. Many thrift stores have regular sale cycles where items marked with a sticker are marked down. Find thrift stores in your area and keep track of sales.Watch out for vintage stores. People sometimes mistake vintage stores for thrift stores. While both sell second hand items, vintage stores collect trendy older items and generally keep prices high.There are a variety of discount stores that offer reduced rates on designer outfits. T.J. Maxx, Ross, and Marshall's are well known discount chains.However, the downside is that the clothing is offer of lesser quality than at actual designer stores. Check the quality of the fabric and seams to make sure you're getting the most for your money.
If you're shopping for children's clothes, the website Thredup is an online swap for clothing children have outgrown. Send in a box of clothes your child has outgrown and you receive either cash back or credit for a box of used clothes in your child's new size., While you might initially pay more for high quality brands, you'll end up saving in the long run as the clothes will last longer.


People often take a "fast food approach" when it comes to clothing purchases. That is, we opt for cheaper, low quality options rather than going for something substantial and long lasting. This leads to more spending overall, as low quality clothes do not last as long and need to be replaced more often.Instead of buying 3 low quality, cheap shirts, spend the same amount on one high-quality shirt. While you won't get as much for your money, chances are the slightly pricier option will last significantly longer than the cheap route.Spending more on high quality clothing is not an excuse to go crazy. Stick to your budget and only purchase items you truly need.
 Many stores cycle through sales, and if you keep up-to-date on local malls, outlet stores, and boutiques you can determine when to buy new clothes.


If you're particularly adept at organizing, you could keep a database of annual sales in your area and even write alerts into an electronic calendar.
Email sign ups that send you alerts on sales and discounts are a great way to stay up-to-date on cost-saving opportunities. Occasionally, stores will even send coupons through email. Check emails from your favorite stores often so you don't miss money-saving opportunities., You don't need pricey workout clothes or designer labels for day-to-day outfits. Cut down on costs when you can.


Puma running shorts cost $55 while generic shorts cost around $16. Workout gear is particularly cheap at retailers like Walmart and Shopko. Unless you're a professional trainer and need to dress professionally for work, it's probably necessary to indulge on pricey work out clothes.For casual events and day-to-day activities, don't bother going for a designer label. Generic brands of jeans, t-shirts, dresses, and button down shirts are probably a better option for weekend outfits or low-key get togethers with friends.
When it comes to shopping for children, buy play clothes for the summer months. When your kids aren't in school, they'll be outdoors playing and dirtying clothes. Opt for cheaper quality clothing for the summer and then invest in more expensive outfits when fall comes around., Clothing swaps are a great way to socialize while saving money. Network with friends who are also looking to save money and host a swap party.


Have your friends gather the clothing they no longer want and bring it over. Everyone has a chance to try on and trade clothing items with other party-goers. It's a great way to get rid of unwanted items while also expanding your wardrobe.Any leftover clothing can be sold at a thrift store or donated to Goodwill or the Salvation Army.
If you're looking for kid's clothes, you can have a clothing swap with other parents. Try to team up with parents who have kids of varying ages so you can exchange clothing your own children have outgrown., Clothing lasts longer if you care for it better. Small changes can result in outfits staying high quality for longer periods.


Wash clothing less. While this sounds like an unsavory option for many, sturdy clothes like jeans and sweaters can be aired out and re-worn multiple times before a smell is noticeable.As repeated washings result in clothing wearing down, you might want to leave heavier fabrics out of the wash cycle for a few weeks.
Hand washing delicate items, like bras and high quality shirts, is easier on them than a machine washer or dryer. Also, make sure to read labels. Many items are specifically marked as "hand wash only."Air drying lighter items reduces shrinking. You can also run a no heat dry cycle.
Vacuum storage bags and canvas storage containers keep clothes cleaner, safer, and less susceptible to damage., While a big wedding or charity event seems like a great excuse to go buy a new dress or suit, be honest with yourself. How likely are you to wear this outfit more than once? If you can find a friend who's a similar size, consider borrowing from them rather than spending money on an outfit you'll only wear for a particular occasion.
 Repurposing old clothing and using current items to create new and different outfits is a great way to cut back on clothing costs.


Websites like Pinterest and Tumblr are particularly helpful for fashion inspiration. Searching for a particular clothing items can yield tons of result offering different ways to incorporate that item into outfits for a variety of occasions.If you see an outfit on television or in a magazine, look through your own wardrobe and see if you have the means to mimic it with your existing clothes and accessories.Search YouTube for fashion vlogs where you can get advice on mixing and matching basic items, like cardigans, scarves, and tank tops, to create innovative outfit options.Kids clothing is particularly interchangeable. Even if you have kids of opposite genders, many toddler and baby outfits are unisex so you can mix and match across genders. You can also easily reuse old kid's clothes for new outfits. If your kid is getting too big for their footsie pajamas, cut off the feet and hem the edges to create a new set of PJ pants., If you can repair damages yourself, you can fix clothing wear and tear rather than replacing certain items. Basic sewing skills can go a long way towards saving money.


If pants, dresses, or shirts are too long, learning basic hemming skills can save money. If you can hem yourself, you won't have to buy new outfits or hire a tailor.You can learn how to operate a sewing machine via online tutorials. Not only can you replace damages, you can make alterations to existing outfits to update your wardrobe without making new purchases.If you're not the crafty type, you can offer to swap favors with a friend who is. You could, for example, often to clean a friend's kitchen in exchange for her doing some sewing for you.

