 Doing things in a repetitive manner can help you recall information.Writing things down not only helps you learn the material, but you can remember the things you write if you do so in an organized and effective manner.A common method of organized writing is by the use of note cards. For example, if you are being tested on the list of elements on the Periodic Table, you could write the element symbol on the front of the card, and its name on the back. After you’ve written each element down, go back and write them again. Once you feel like you have a good grasp of the list, start flipping through the cards as many times as you need to help you memorize the list.
 A fun and creative way to remember a long list is picturing the items in a familiar building. You can picture your house, school, office, or any other physical building with separate rooms. Depending on the number of items you want to remember, you can imagine a one-room apartment (with few rooms) or a castle (with multiple rooms).If you have a long list to remember, such as a shopping list, picturing your home would be fine. For example, imagine that you live in a house. You have five rooms. There are two bedrooms, one bathroom, a living room, and a kitchen.
You have a shopping list composed of: shoes, pants, socks, shirts, and a jacket. Picture your list of items in each of your rooms. Once you think of the rooms in your house, start visually placing all the items from your list in a different room.
You walk in the front door and stand in the entrance. To your left is the living room where you see dirty shoes on the couch.
You turn to your right and there is the dining room. Draped across the chandelier is your nice pair of pants.
You walk through the dining room and enter the kitchen. There lying on the toaster is a pair of socks.
You leave the kitchen and walk down the hallway to the first bedroom. As you peek into the bedroom, you notice your sweater hanging from the fan.
You decide to keep exploring. Next is the bathroom. You see a jacket taking a bath in the tub.
You keep walking and come to the second room. You see a jacket hanging out the window, as though trying to make an escape.
Try it out. After you’ve imagined going through the house a couple times, picturing the different items scattered about the house, check your memory and see if you can remember everything on your list.
 While some lists are fun, such as a shopping list for a party, some lists can be kind or boring or mundane. The more interested you are in your list, the better chance you have at recalling the information when you need to.For example, a list of chores can be pretty boring. Make it interesting by rewarding yourself at completion. You not only will remember the list of things you have to get done, but you will become interested in completing them as quickly as possible.

