 Anger can cause certain physical symptoms that may help you to determine when you need to use your calming strategies. Some of the physical symptoms of anger include:feeling like you stomach is in knots
clenching your fists or teeth
feeling short of breath
getting a headache
having a flushed face
feeling restless, like you need to move around
not being able to focus
feeling tense, such as in your shoulders and neck
having a racing pulse

, Certain thought patterns may also lead to anger or escalate your anger. Learning how to spot these patterns may help to defuse your anger. The next time you find yourself thinking a negative thought, try to challenge it. Some thought patterns that can lead to anger include:Overgeneralizing. For example, you might get angry when you find yourself thinking, “She was always dishonest with me!” To reframe this thought, you might change it to something like, “I have some issues with trust because of the instances where my ex-wife lied to me. However, I don’t have to keep feeling angry about these events.”

Jumping to conclusions. For example, you might get angry if you think to yourself, “He is trying to get full custody of the kids to avoid paying any child support!” Instead, try changing the thought to something like, “I feel upset that he wants full custody, but I do not know his reasons for wanting full custody.”

Blaming. For example, you might get angry when you think to yourself, “It’s all her fault that I am so unhappy!” Instead, you might change the thought to something like, “I have been depressed lately, but there may be lots of reasons for how I feel.”

, Putting yourself in a situation that you know is going to make you angry is a bad idea. Therefore, if it is at all possible, try to avoid these situations and places.For example, if you get angry when you see your ex-husband with his new girlfriend, then you should avoid going places that you know they like to go. Or, if you tend to argue with your ex-wife when you drop off your child at her house, then you might ask a friend or family member to drop off your child instead.
 If anger is a persistent problem in your life, then you may want to consider enrolling in an anger management class. Anger management classes can teach you how to identify the reasons for your anger and help you to develop healthy strategies for expressing and controlling your anger.