 Avoid towels that have patterns on them, such as damask or stripes. They will compete with your embroidered design and make it harder to see.


If your design is dark-colored, choose a light-colored towel.
If your design is light-colored, go for a dark-colored towel.;
, This is important, especially if the towel is brand new. Terrycloth towels are made out of cotton, which will shrink the first time you wash it. You want to get rid of any shrinking before you add the embroidery.
 You can use an existing design on your embroidery machine, purchase and download one online, or create your own using an embroidery-design program. Thicker, heavier designs work better than light, delicate ones. Great embroidery designs include:


Flowers and birds
Monograms
Damask and filigree
Celtic knots and Chinese knots

, This will be your template. If you can't print your design, get the length and width of it, and draw a rectangle onto a sheet of paper according to those measurements. Cut the rectangle out.
 A good way to find the center and axis on your template is to fold it into fourths, then to use the creases as your guides. Pin the template to your towel where you want the design to go, and make a small mark on the towel using a tailor's pen. Remove the template when you are done.
 Spray the back of a sheet of cutaway stabilizer with removable adhesive. Press the stabilizer against the back of your towel, right where the design is.
 Take the hoop from your embroidery machine. Set the inner hoop down first, then place the towel on top, stabilizer-side-down. Press the outer hoop down on top.


Machine hoops are a little different from the standard embroidery hoop.
 Make sure that the excess towel is out of the way so that it won't get caught in the needle.
 This will prevent the embroidery from sinking into the terrycloth. It will dissolve when you wash the towel. If you'd like to, you can run a basting stitch around the inside of the hoop to keep the topper in place., Use a size 11 or 75/11 sharp sewing needle. You could also use an embroidery needle instead.Make sure that all of your threads are in place.
 Even though embroidery machines are automatic, you still want to watch it from time to time to make sure that it is behaving properly. This is especially important if you are working with metallic threads.


Each machine is different. How you set things up will depend on the type of machine you have. Refer to your machine's manual.
 Once the machine is done embroidering, remove the hoop and snip off the excess thread. Pull apart the hoop and remove the towel. If you used basing stitches earlier, you will need to remove those first.
 Use a small pair of scissors to carefully trim the topper away from around your design. Again, don't worry if it's not perfect. It will dissolve when you wash it.
 Leave a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) boarder) all around the design.Alternatively, you can also tear it away, but be aware that this may snap some threads and ruin your embroidered design.
 Use a small pair of scissors to trim down any jump threads.Consider pressing the design with a hot iron. This will help set the stitches.If you'd like to, you can rinse away the water-soluble topper now, or wait until the next time you have to do laundry.

