 You’ll need a soft tape measure and enough faux-fur fabric for whatever size you’d like your costume to be. For a full-length costume, measure the length from your shoulder to your knee and your body’s circumference, or the measurement around your chest under your arms. You’ll also need fabric shears or scissors and, if you’ve got a knack for sewing, a sewing kit or machine.
Fortunately, making a primitive caveman costume doesn’t require any sewing! It is, however, one option if you like to sew.
Be careful handling shears, scissors, and other sharp objects and, if you need to, get a parent to help or supervise.
If you just want to go for a loincloth look, get enough fabric to wrap around your waistline (and bustline if you're a cavewoman) a several times, with the amount of coverage you’re comfortable with.;
, Once you’ve decided on the size of your costume, cut and tear the fabric. Since you’re going for a prehistoric look, you can just make a first cut with the shears, then tear the rest of the way following as straight a line as you can – no need to be too neat!A loincloth is easy: just cut a length of fabric three or four times the size of your waist (and, if necessary, bustline).
For a full length costume, cut two rectangles. They should be as long as your shoulder-to-knee measurement and as wide as half your circumference measurement. Cut a triangle shape off of the top of each rectangle for the arm hole.If you don’t know how to sew, you’ll need to make your rectangles about 3 or 4 inches longer and wider, so you’ll have more room to attach them by tying them together
Make sure the triangles line up so when you attach them they’re both on the same side and the outside fabric of both rectangles faces out.
 If you’re sewing, first stitch the seam that starts where the bottoms of the triangle arm hole line up. Stitch the opposite length next, and leave enough room from the top for your arm to fit through plus two or three inches. Finally, stitch the shoulder seam, or the top side from the triangle hole to the edge., Instead of sewing, you can cut strips a couple inches long and about an inch wide all the way down the sides and top of your rectangles. Imperfections are okay, so don’t worry about making all the strips uniform.


Make sure you don’t cut the bottom edge, the triangle arm hole, or the shoulder hole on the opposite side of the triangle into strips, these will of course be the holes for your arms and legs.
Tie your strips together on each side with simple, tight knots.
 If you don’t have time to make a full-size costume, the loincloth can be a quick fix. Hold the fabric with one hand against a hip, weave it between it your legs in one direction, bring it around your backside and through your legs again in the opposite direction. Pull it so it’s tight but still comfortable, and then wrap it around your waist once.


Hold it in place with fabric pins, safety pins, bobby pins, a secure clip, or give yourself enough slack with your fabric to tie it very tight.Remember, prehistoric people didn't have any footwear and mostly went barefoot everywhere, so don't bring any shoes or socks with your costume.
 You can use a similar technique to make the top for a more feminine costume. Take measurements of your chest and cut enough fabric to give you the coverage you'd like. Wrap the fabric around your torso and securely fasten it with pins, a clip, or leave yourself enough material to tie it.

