 Whether it is a loving family, friends or looks, learn to love what you've got. Take advantage of these things and be happy with what you have.;
, Just remember if you don't love yourself then no one will- in the exception of relatives. Pamper yourself look after yourself... Be hygienic, look at yourself in the mirror and repeat to yourself that there is no one like you and everyone wants to be you.
 Self-respect is an important skill that will guide you in life. Think to yourself i am a human being like everyone else, and if not better i am the same as everyone one else- why should i not love and respect and cherish what i have? A proverb- Be smart if you can, beautiful if you want to, but be respected now that is essential.
 For example, start music lessons individually if you want- e.g. school music room- piano..., read books believe me they are interesting. Take time to do things you want- like drawing, listening to music, making crafts- origami, put music on and start doing belly dancing or hip hop if you prefer?

, Socialize with them. Play simple games such as snakes&ladders, chess, cards... Or just watch films together, discuss books with each other, all sorts of things

, There are many things for you to do. Just because you don't have that many friends does not mean you can't enjoy yourself! You will indeed create self-confidence and self-esteem by being an independent person.
 No matter what, education is an important factor in life- read as many books as possible,even if you don't like try you never know. Maths is important to learn it well- if you are not so interested in the academic subjects choose to learn a language- you can get many jobs by knowing a few different languages. All of this will make you a stronger and more confident person.
 Don't just stick to one friend have many people you can socialize with and enjoy their company. Make then come to you by talking less but more interestingly. Talk about different things with different people- if someone is into sport- talk about sport, if someone else is into fashion and music then talk about these things to keep them interested and most importantly let them know you know about everything- this is when education helps- being clever.
 What happened, happened and that's that!! Forget it and enjoy yourself. Don't take things too seriously.
 Just think that there are people who are desperate for the things that you may have and appreciate them and cherish them. Love and respect yourself and then everything else will happen with a flow. With negative thoughts negative things will happen. Its karma. What you give you get back.

