 On-ear headphones are small pads or coverings that rest on top of the ears. Some people find these the most comfortable option, as they do not completely cover or go inside the ears.


Outside noise enters in with on-ear headphones, making them a good option for people who still need to hear what’s going on around them (like joggers).On-ear headphones offer a more “open” sound, which may sound more natural than closed, or over-ear headphones.
On-ear headphones are typically made from lighter (but still durable) materials, for increased portability compared to over-ear headphones.;
, Also known as full size headphones, this option completely surrounds your outer ear and fits snugly on the head. They may not sound as natural as on-ear headphones -- but you also won't have any pesky interferences drifting into your music. Some people find the fit of over-ear headphones to be uncomfortable. Find the measurements of the ear cups to determine whether they'll be good for you or not.
Over-ear headphones are made of sturdy material and are not as portable as other options., Also known as ear buds, in-ear headphones are more portable and less noticeable than other options. Be prepared to pay a higher price for quality sound.Given their size, the average pair of in-ear headphones are unlikely to provide high-quality sound. Beats X and Bose Quiet Control 30 are two exceptions. Because they are inserted directly into the ear, in-ear headphones have natural sound-rejection. That means you can listen at safer volumes, without interference., Headphone technology is advancing rapidly, and wireless headphones operated through bluetooth are gaining popularity.Wireless headphones are convenient for on-the-go use, but they do not (yet) deliver the best sound. , Headphones may advertise a lot of terms you don’t really know what they mean, which can leave you paying extra for a feature you don’t really need.


Manufacturers are often inconsistent with how they measure sensitivity, or how loud the sound sounds at a given volume. In general, anything that is between 80 to 125 dB SPL/mW will deliver high-quality sound.Don't go for anything that has a SNR (signal-to-noise ration) of less than 20:1, otherwise you run the risk of crackly, unclear audio. Headphone impedance isn't something to worry about unless you want a pair for professional audio work, or only plan to use them at home. For on-the-go use and for most consumers, low impedance (50 ohm and below) will deliver rich, quality sound. 