 Do not step in for a handshake, a hug, or even a friendly clap on the back. Instead, maintain a respectful distance of several feet. Japanese culture values space and privacy, so make sure your body language reflects these values.


Keeping two or three feet between you and someone else is a good rule of thumb. If you are further away, speaking and interacting may prove awkward or difficult.;
, Speak distinctly but quietly, stay off of your cell phone in public spaces, and allow your hosts to take the initiative. Doing these things will demonstrate to your friends, hosts, or business colleagues that you are adaptable and value their cultural norms.Boisterous and aggressive behavior are both considered disrespectful. Be kind to any vendors or service people you come across.
 Bold eye contact is considered quite rude, so keep your eyes averted whenever possible. Although you do not have to stare at your feet, try to watch someone’s mouth while they talk, or their chin. Avoid staring people down with heavy eye contact, as it will appear aggressive and inappropriate.Practice avoiding eye contact in the mirror by talking and watching your mouth, or in interactions with people from your home.
This rule may be lax in some areas of Japan, or among younger crowds.
 Hold your bow for between two and five seconds, keeping your hands near your hips or thighs. The more respect you wish to convey, the deeper your bow should be.You can also bow with your hands pressed together near your heart.
 Although you should never initiate a handshake, you can accept one. Touching in general is considered somewhat taboo in a formal situation, so a handshake should only be engaged in if the person to whom you are speaking begins the contact.
 In Japanese culture, exchanging business cards is an important aspect of communication. To properly offer your business card, extend your card with both hands, preferably with Japanese writing on the side of the card facing your colleague.To accept a card, take the card with both hands and bow to indicate your appreciation.
Business cards are exchanged from the most prestigious person to the least, so do not offer your business card before your superiors have.

