 This can be a store bought one or an old one from home. Certain brands will mix up better than others, but all kinds will work. MAC and Makeup Geek brands mix quite nicely.








You can try to save some eyeshadow, but it's really a lot easier if you just destroy the entire thing. Because of this, pick one that you're not super attached to!;
, If your eyeshadow is a loose powder it is not necessary to crush it, but the solid blocks need to be crushed before they can be used. Put the eyeshadow into a plastic food bag and crush with a rolling pin. Crush until it is a fine powder with no lumps remaining, as any lumps will show up in the final product and make it look messy.









Be diligent with this. If it's not smooth when you dump it into your polish, it won't come out smooth on your fingers. Put the work in now to save yourself some grief later.
 This is a super easy feat -- just snip off a corner of an envelope or curl up a note card. Or if you have a small funnel already, fantastic. Lucky you!









You won't need the funnel ever again. If it's not beautiful, that's fine. Staple, glue, or tape it until it'll do the job.
 Position the funnel over the top. It should be in the neck of the bottle, but not emerged in the polish.









To avoid having your cup overflow, if you will, make sure your clear nail polish isn't entirely full. Half a bottle does well here.
 And if you have some glitter, add that too for a sparkly look. The more eyeshadow you add, the richer the color.









Did you catch that glitter part? Makes for a great addition! A contrasting color to your polish will stick out even more.













Add a couple of small steel ball bearings (if you have them) to the bottle. These make it easier to mix the polish, in addition to increasing the longevity of your polish.
 Then start painting on your masterpiece with a color you can name after yourself. You may need a couple of coats depending on the shade you want.









Some shadows will come out very matte. If that's not your style, just add a clear top coat on your nails to make them shiny.














