 Many of these sites like Craigslist, for example, allow you to advertise for free. Make sure you place your ads in relevant categories. For instance, if you're a baker, you'll want to list your ad under services rather than "for sale.", If you are interested in how to advertise online in a way that does not require regular maintenance, then directories are a great option. Simply search the Internet for directories and listing sites like SICCODE.com, choose your category and submit your information.Make sure you're listed on Google with a Google My Business account., You can create and send press releases to local news outlets or websites to market your business for free. Examples of successful press release subjects include human interest stories, awards, meetings, and new products. However, to be effective, the press release will need to be interesting to potential customers and to the outlet you are sending it to.

You can also make use of online press release services like PRWeb, Business Wire, and PR Newswire., One really good way to get the word-of-mouth ball rolling is by exceeding your customers' expectations. Doing so is going make them talk about you, whether it's the new menu item that is incredibly delicious or an atmosphere that makes the customer feel comfortable.This is the primary way small businesses get new business.


To be most effective, you need to make sure you are kind to your customers or clients, and that you maintain good business relationships with partner and neighborhood businesses.
This is really important if you are new to a neighborhood with several established businesses.A single complaint on Yelp can lose you tons of customers.A two-for-one deal is a great way to get the word out about you, especially if it's something that will require an extra person to take advantage of, like a second beer or coffee.Avoid jargon in employee-customer relations. Customers see through and often hate jargon. They want to feel like they're having an authentic experience.Set up in-house promotions for your existing customers by offering exclusive discounts or free items through your email list.
Send out new product/service information and recommendations to existing customers through the mail or email.
You can also set up a system that rewards customers for referrals. To be most effective, the system should also reward the referred (new) customer, perhaps with a discount or a free item.

