 When planting any kind of plant try to prepare the soil well ahead of time. Incorporate some compost or well-rotted manure into the location.
 If you know the soil to be clay-heavy, or if you notice puddles form after rain and do not quickly drain away, it’s likely your soil drainage may be poor. Few shrubs will tolerate this. You can improve soil drainage by:


Incorporating plenty of horticultural grit into the soil.
You may also like to incorporate a slow-release fertilizer such as blood, fish and bone into the general area around the planting site.
 If you are planting ericaceous—acid-loving—plants such a rhododendron, acer, camellia or azalea in an area with alkaline or lime-heavy soils, it’s a good idea to plant in pots containing an ericaceous compost.Some gardeners try to incorporate ericaceous compost into the ground but this isn’t always successful and the plant may fail.
 Try to plant evergreens in the spring or fall. Avoid planting when the ground is frozen or waterlogged. If your shrub was supplied bare rooted, it’s especially important to get it planted quickly.
 However your shrub was supplied, soak it for up to an hour (not overnight) in a bucket of water ahead of planting. You’ll want to remove any string or wrappings supplied with bare rooted plants, but unwrap them as close as possible to planting to reduce moisture loss.


Some bare root shrubs will be supplied in wrapping materials described as biodegradable. The label may advise that you don’t need to remove this but try to remove it if you can do so without harming the plant.
 Dig a hole the depth of the shrub’s root mass. You can tell what this is by looking at the depth of the pot the shrub comes in, or in the case of plants supplied bare rooted, look at the line where the soil ends on the main stem.


The hole should be at least twice as wide as the roots.
 If the roots are bunched up, give bare rooted plants a gentle wiggle to try to loosen them a bit. If the shrub is potted, try to loosen any bunched roots as gently as possible. To do this:


Gently tease them with your fingers until they separate a bit and no longer exactly match the shape of the pot that constrained them.
Try to retain as much of the original soil as possible as this helps preserve the roots.
 Avoid treading down the soil surface as this can damage roots. A light firming with your hands will suffice. If you didn’t dig a slow release fertilizer into the soil earlier, consider doing it now.


For example you can lightly rake some fertilizer pellets into a shallow layer of the soil. However, don’t go too deep or you’ll damage the roots.
 Apply a mulch of about 2 or 3 inches (5.1 or 7.6 cm) of compost, leaf mold or well-rotted manure to the surface of the soil. Make sure the mulch covers all of the ground below your shrub. The mulch will help protect the roots, keep weeds from growing, and retain soil moisture.

