,, Try again.
 This is free, Microsoft-compatible software that may be able to work around the corruption.
 This will disable VBA and Add-ins.


Restart the computer in Safe Mode.
Click on Start then Run then enter the actual path to the executable file. Depending on your version of Windows, this may be C:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office\excel.exe, C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Office\Office11\excel.exe, or something similar. (For Excel 2002, Office XP, click cancel if the MS Office Installer starts; Excel in safe mode will still start)].
Try to open the file.
 Make sure your macro heuristics scanning option is turned on. Ask your IT administrator how to do this.
 (This option may not be available on newer systems.) Try to open it as Word document.
 Open the file in Explorer and try to copy it to another location.


If you can copy the file to another location, skip to step 9. If not, the actual sectors on the disk may be corrupted.
If the data is valuable enough to you, seek professional services as a damaged hard disk file recovery is not for the faint at heart.
 As the version numbers increase, their ability to recover corrupt files increases. If this doesn't work or such a version of Excel is not available, see if some other spreadsheet application is and try to open the file in that program.
 (This option may not be available on newer systems.) Try opening the file, and if Windows says it can't open it Notepad but will open it in WordPad, agree. Be sure to turn on word wrapping in either program; in Notepad it's under the Format menu, and in WordPad it's under the View menu (choose Options, choose the Text Tab, and choose Wrap to Window). Next, look for where the data stops, which should be followed by a bunch of spacer characters. These actually tell Excel where cells, columns, and rows are. When you find your last bit of data, delete the rest of the file. After this, rename it back to an .xls extension, try opening the file in the oldest version of a spreadsheet you can find. You may be able to recover your data in some semblance of a spreadsheet.

