 One of the most common symptoms of urinary tract disease is an inability to urinate. Signs of urinary tract disease also include straining to urinate, urinating frequently or only urinating in small amounts, as well as crying when urinating.If your dog does urinate, check their urinate for any blood. You should also note if their urine appears cloudy, as this could be a sign of an infection. If the urine has a foul smell, this may be another sign of a serious medical issue like urinary tract disease.
Another symptom of urinary tract disease is when your dog is unable to control their bladder. They may urinate in places they know they are not supposed to and urine may dribble out of their urinary opening without their control.
Some dogs with urinary tract issues also develop bladder stones or crystals which may be passed through their urine.;
, Your dog may start to lose weight due to urinary tract disease and have little to no appetite. They may not appear excited or eager to eat their food and lose weight as a result of their lack of appetite.You may also notice your dog drinks large amounts of water even though they are not eating. They may appear thirsty on a constant basis and continue to drink large amounts of water without urinating. Or they may drink lots of water and urinate too often.
 You may notice your dog appears lethargic and less energetic than they usually are. They may show no interest in going for walks or playing with you. They may also be very inactive and prefer laying down to getting up and walking around.Urinary tract disease can also lead to lower back pain for your pup. Your dog may be lethargic and disinterested in getting up on their feet due to lower back pain caused by urinary tract disease.
 Certain dog breeds are more prone to a birth defect that can cause urinary tract issues. Breeds such as the Siberian Husky, Miniature Poodle, Labrador Retriever, Collie, Welsh Corgi, Wire-haired Fox Terrier, and West Highland White Terrier can have a higher occurrence of this birth defect. If you have a dog that is any of these breeds and you notice they have urinary tract issues, you should bring them to your vet right away.Across most breeds, female dogs also tend to be more prone to urinary tract issues than male dogs.
 If your dog display the symptoms of urinary tract disease, you should bring them to the vet right away. Your vet will ask you questions about your dog’s medical history and their symptoms. Try to answer their questions with as much detail as possible so your vet can assess your dog’s condition.Your vet may ask you, “Has your dog had any urinary tract issues before? What are your dog’s symptoms and when did they begin? Has your dog experienced any recent trauma or injuries that could have affected their urinary tract or bladder?”
Your vet will also want to know about your dog’s vaccination history, specifically if your dog has been vaccinated against Lyme disease and leptospirosis.
 Your vet should then do a full physical exam of your dog. They will check your dog’s lower back area for any sensitivity and they will also look for any swelling of your dog’s limbs. These are all possible signs of a urinary tract issue., Your vet will also need to run several tests on your dog to get a clear diagnosis. They will request a urinalysis, where a sample of your dog’s urine is tested for any pus, blood, proteins, or crystal formation. They may also need a blood sample from your dog to determine their complete blood count and blood chemistry to check your dog’s kidney function.In some cases, your vet will also need x-rays or an ultrasound done on your dog’s kidney area. This will help them look for any obstructions in your dog’s urinary tract or bladder, such as kidney stones, bladder crystals, or any other issues in your dog’s kidneys.
 Depending on the severity of your dog’s condition, your vet may recommend giving your dog antibiotics for a bacterial infection, or medicine for pain relief, incontinence, or bladder crystals. Follow your vet’s instructions on dosage and do not give your dog more than the recommended dose.You may need to learn how to give your dog medication so they can consume them properly.
Your vet should also tell you if your dog will experience any side effects due to the antibiotics.
Urinary acidifiers, like Methionine, are sometimes used to treat your dog for urinary crystals.Medications such as Proin can be described for incontinence.Pain medications specific for dogs may be prescribed, such as carprofen, deracoxib, etodolac, and meloxicam., Changes in your dog’s diet, such as higher water intake, may help your dog feel better and keep their health up while they recover from urinary tract disease. As their condition improves, your dog may get their appetite back. Give them a high quality diet that is low in protein to help their urinary tract and kidneys recover.Depending your dog’s diagnosis, your vet may recommend specific dietary adjustments for your dog.
Possible changes include switching your pet to canned food, which has a higher water content; adding water or broth to food; reducing the fiber in your dog’s diet so fluids are not lost from the intestines; or feeding your dog fresh food rather than kibble., If your dog does not recover effectively with medication and dietary changes, or if your dog’s condition is severe, your vet may recommend surgery. Regular veterinarians can perform a procedure to remove stones or crystals. Your vet should outline the procedures, the recovery time, and the possible side effects of the surgery before they are performed on your dog.A specialty veterinarian can provide a surgical option for urinary incontinence: colposuspension and cystourethropexy.
Colposuspension repositions the bladder neck of female dogs to help reduce pressure on the bladder and the urethra.
Cystourethropexy is the same as colposuspension but for male dogs. This surgery can help to keep urine in your dog’s urethra and strengthen your dog’s urethral muscles.
These surgeries have a cure rate of 45-50%, and your dog may still need to take medication for the remainder of their life after the surgery.

