 When new neighbors are moving into their home, they likely have a lot on their plate. Instead of interrupting them as they’re carrying boxes and unpacking, wait a few days to let them settle in before stopping by to introduce yourself.Feel free to introduce yourself if you happen to bump into your neighbors as they’re moving in, but be considerate of their situation and keep it brief.
Try simply saying hello, giving your name and saying, “I’ll stop by another time to talk when you aren’t busy.”;
, When you go to introduce yourself to new neighbors, you may want to bring some other neighbors with you. This can reduce any possible awkwardness that may arise in conversation by incorporating more people into that conversation. You may want to open by saying something like, “welcome to the neighborhood, I’m (provide your name) and these are some of the people that live in the neighborhood.” Then introduce your fellow members of the community.Bringing a group of neighbors with you can limit the number of times different neighbors stop in to meet the new people in the neighborhood.
If you participate in a neighborhood organization like a neighborhood watch, your group may want to go introduce yourselves.
 Not everyone enjoys interacting with new people, and your new neighbors may be hesitant to have a lengthy conversation with you or a group of people. Keep your meeting brief, and if your new neighbor seems uncomfortable, politely introduce yourself and leave.If your new neighbor suggests that it isn’t a good time, respect their wishes and come back another time.
Don’t take offense if your neighbors aren’t welcoming. It is difficult for some people to meet strangers.
If your neighbor seems busy or uninterested in talking right now, you may want to ask when would be a better time. Try saying something like, “I can tell you’re busy. Is there a better time for me/us to stop by?”

, You may want to gather a group of your neighbors together to establish a committee that can aid in welcoming new members of your community. You can ask your neighbors if they would be willing to share in some of the responsibilities of assembling a welcome basket or care package and plan to introduce yourselves as a group.


Welcome committees can allow you to extend a positive gesture to new neighbors while sharing the work load and limiting how much each person has to do.
You may want to ask your new neighbor if they would be interested in joining the committee in order to get to know the other members better.
 You may also be a bit uncomfortable introducing yourself to new people, but still wish to let your new next door neighbor know that they’re welcome in the neighborhood. If this is the case, you may want to leave a polite note to introduce yourself.


Write a brief note that introduces yourself and identifies which house you live in.
Try writing something simple like, “Welcome to the neighborhood from your new friends next door! Let us know if you need anything!”

