 These are Styrofoam heads that your hat can sit on when you aren't wearing it. This is the best way to regain the hat’s shape because it’s literally a fake head.


These aren’t as tough to find as you might think. You actually can buy them from many beauty supply stores because they are often used for people to store wigs. Just ask for a Styrofoam wig head.
After you wet or steam the hat, put the hat on the Styrofoam head block. Position it so that it’s sitting firmly on the block. Or just regularly store your hat on such a head block when you aren't wearing it.
You could insert pins through the brim into the Styrofoam to maintain the shape. Shape the brim with your hands.
 You want the object to sit on top of the hat’s brim in order to keep it flat and from curling up.


For example, you could take a small wastepaper basket or an ice bucket and put it on top of the hat, leaving it to sit against the brim for a few hours. The item needs to fit on top of the entire crown of the hat.
The weight of the basket or bucket should press the brim back into flattened shape. You want to make sure the basket or bucket large enough not to squish the rest of the hat, though.
This method is designed to flatten out a squashed straw hat brim, not to fix the dents in the crown of the hat.
 It’s a good idea to make sure that your hat doesn’t get too squished in the first place. There are ways you can keep your hat’s shape protected.


When traveling, carry your hat in a hat box or simply wear it on your head. Jamming a straw hat into a suitcase is a recipe for disaster.Avoid flexing the hat repeatedly, or it could become misshapen and some of the straw could even crack. You don’t want to weaken the hat’s crown or brim too much.
To clean light straw hats, you could use ½ teaspoon of hydrogen peroxide mixed with ½ teaspoon or warm water. To clean dark straw hats, mix ½ teaspoon of ammonia with 1/3 cup of water. You could also rub the hat with a piece of velvet that you’ve held in steam for a little bit.

