 Start by looking for makeup artists who are based in your area, or in the location of the wedding. If you are doing a destination wedding in Mexico, for example, you may search online for makeup artists who work out of the resort you are staying at in Mexico. You can also look on wedding blogs to see what other people have done makeup wise for their weddings and to look for makeup artists who you like.Many popular wedding planning sites online will have links to recommended makeup artists. Check these links for artists based in your area who might be a good fit for your wedding.
When searching online for makeup artists, always look for referrals and reviews of the artist. Check if the makeup artist has an online portfolio or photo album of their past work for weddings. Flip through the images to see if the makeup artist is a right fit for you.;
, Speak to married family and friends about finding a good makeup artist. You can also reach out to coworkers for recommendations. Focus on any weddings you’ve attended where you’ve loved the makeup. Then, contact the married person and ask them for a referral for their makeup artist.You may ask married family and friends, “I’m looking for a good makeup artist for my wedding. Do you have any suggestions or recommendations?”

, As you start searching for a makeup artist for your wedding, make a list of one to three potential artists you like. Having a list of a few artists will allow you to have some options in the event one artist is unavailable on your wedding day or out of your price range.You may rank one to three makeup artists based on your top choice, then your second choice, and then your third choice.
 Before you hire the makeup artist, set up a brief, free consultation with them. Most makeup artist will invite you to their salon or meet you at a coffee shop to go over your desired look, your wedding budget, and your expectations for the big day. The consultation should be casual and relaxed. You should get a sense of what the makeup artist is like to work with and confirm you have good communication with them.You may book a consultation with more than one makeup artist so you can get a sense of what they are like to work with.
If a makeup artist refuses to agree to a free consultation or meet and greet, this may be a red flag. It is industry standard to offer prospective clients a free consultation before being hired.
 During your consultations with makeup artists, talk to them about their rates for weddings. Discuss the details of their rates as well as their price points for different makeup styles and services. A good makeup artist will be able to offer you several options at different price points. Compare several artists so you can find one who fits your budget.For example, some makeup artists will charge more for doing elaborate eye makeup or for applying fake eyelashes. You should get all the details of the artist’s services so you know what you are paying for before you hire them.
 Refer to your wedding budget and make sure the makeup artist is affordable for you. Ask the makeup artist about their services based on your budget to see if they can accommodate your needs. A good makeup artist will offer you a price point that fits your budget and makes you feel comfortable.A more experienced makeup artist may be more expensive, but they may offer services that you want for your wedding. You may then be able to budget for the more expensive artist. Or you may opt for a makeup artist who is less expensive and still offers services for your wedding look that you want.
 If you need the makeup artist to travel to the wedding, they may charge for mileage or add on a travel fee to their regular fee. Make sure you go over additional expenses for travel with the artist before you book them. Some makeup artist will not charge for travel and some will, especially if the distance is far for them., Once you have chosen a makeup artist you like, arrange for a paid trial where you get a hands on consultation with the artist. The paid trial will usually be at the salon or space the makeup artist works out of. The artist will do a trial run of your wedding makeup so you know what to expect on the big day.Bring any inspirational images that you like to the paid trial as well as any ideas you have for your wedding makeup.
Try to only set up a paid trial with the makeup artist you plan to use for your wedding. Often, the paid trial costs half of what the actual wedding-day makeup will cost.
 If the paid trial goes well, make sure you book the makeup artist right away. Try to book a makeup artist for your wedding at least five to six months before the big day. The makeup artist will require you to sign a contract hiring them for your wedding. The contract should outline all the costs associated with hiring the makeup artist.Keep in mind most makeup artists do not include a tip for their services in the contract. It is considered proper etiquette to tip the makeup artist 15-18% on the day of the wedding if you like their work.

