 Walk with her. Talk with her. The more time you spend with her, the more natural it will be to hug her.


Consider holding her hand. Don't ask her: just reach for her hand while you're walking together and twine your fingers into hers. This establishes physical intimacy, but it isn't as heavy as a hug.
If she is very shy or reserved, she may not be comfortable hugging in public, at least not at first. Be considerate.;
, This moment is the perfect opportunity to make a move.


Maybe you walked her to her next class at the end of lunch, and now it's time for you to head to your own class. Maybe you walked her home and you're leaving to walk to your own house. No matter the situation, you're probably going to tell her goodbye, and you can easily turn this into a hug.
If you are walking together, slow down until you are at a complete stop. If she keeps walking, she may not be ready for the hug.
Say, "Well, I'd better get to class." or "It's been great talking to you." This will establish that you're leaving without saying "goodbye" yet. Consider saying something romantic, like "I really like you." or "You have such a beautiful smile." If it's a new relationship, try not to come on too strong and say something like "I love you." This might scare her.
Look into her eyes. There will be a moment when you're both looking at each other. Open your arms, step toward her, and initiate the hug.
 Wrap your arms around her and hold her gently. Don't hug her too hard, at first, but don't be stiff about it. If she's into it, she will return the hug.


The important thing is that the hug feels natural, not forced. If you get the moment right, she won't even have to think about it. She'll just hug you back.
It doesn't matter too much whether your arms are on top, or her arms are on top. If you're much taller than her, it may feel more natural to hug her around the shoulders while she hugs you around the waist. When you're more intimate with her, you may want to hug her with your arms below hers--this brings your faces closer together.
Don't hug too tight. Be careful not to hurt her or make her uncomfortable. You should be holding her gently, but not squeezing her. If she squeezes you, by all means squeeze her back.
Bear in mind that if she shrinks back from the hug at first, she may just be surprised. It doesn't necessarily mean that she doesn't want you to hug her. In fact, there's a good chance that she's just as nervous as you are.
 You don't need to hug her only to say goodbye--you just need to make sure that the mood is right.


Hug her anytime you'd hug a female relative--your mother, your sister, your aunt. You'll hug your girlfriend differently than you would hug a female relative, but some of the emotions are the same.
Hug her when she's sad. Open your arms, hold her firmly, and let her cry into your shoulder.
Hug her when she's happy. If she's excited, open your arms and step toward her to offer a hug. Odds are, she'll take the hint and jump into your arms.
Hug her when you feel emotionally close to her. If you've just said romantic words to each other--something like "I like you a lot." or "I'm so glad you're my girlfriend."--try to hug her in the heat of the moment. Open your arms, step toward her, and offer a hug.
 If you reach to hug her and she seems into it, then keep hugging her. If she refuses, let her go.


If she seems uncomfortable or she pushes you away, give her space. She may not be ready to become physically intimate with you, even if it's just hugging. If she doesn't have much relationship experience, she may not know what to do in the situation.
Again, odds are that if she's calling herself your girlfriend, she wants you to hug her. Go hug her!

