 This is completely silly and an instant classic. Just bend your knees, bob up and down, while raising your fists in the air, one at a time, alternating as if you were milking an actual cow. Keep this up for thirty seconds or so with a serious and committed look on your face, and everyone around you will be laughing and joining in.
 This is another great move that will get you some laughs for at least a minute or two, or until it gets old. The running man is simple. Just lift one foot high in the air so your thigh is parallel to the floor, and then set it back and down while simultaneously lifting the other foot. Keep alternating lifting and putting down your feet while either swinging your arms in an exaggerated manner at your side, like you're prancing, or pushing your arms back and forth, like you're skiing or elbowing someone.


This works best paired with a Carlton Banks-esque grin on your face.
 Get inspired by the Jersey Shore cast and bounce up and down while pumping your fists at the ceiling, alternating with one fist up and one fist down. Just pick a song and stick to the beat. Don't be embarrassed if the occasional, "Yeah, baby!" escapes your lips.
 Bounce your knees and from side to side and alternate between using your right and left hands to wipe wax on your car in a circle, moving one hand in a circular motion for about three seconds before swaying to the other side and using the other hand to repeat the same motion. This move works great if you synchronize with a few friends.
 First, get a look on your face that says you're all that and you know it. Then, turn to your left side and fake run your right hand over your hair like you're combing it, making your perfect 'do look even more perfect. Bounce your feet up and down as you do this, and rinse and repeat on the other side. Keep it up until your hands look tired, or until you know you can't look any better.
 You can pull this move at least 2-3 times at your prom before people start rolling your eyes. Just be the fisherman: cast your line far and away, aiming toward your friend, the fish. Keep bouncing as you do this, so you're not just standing in place. Then, lean back and start reeling in your friend like he or she is a heavy, heavy fish. Your friend should puff up his or her cheeks and move his or her hands toward and away from his or her mouth, acting like a fish that has gotten caught on your line.
 When that song comes on, wait for the leader to dance around and take control. When you get your cue, do anything you want, as long as it's with enthusiasm: lean back, start swinging your arms wildly behind you with bent knees, punch the air, shake your head from side to side, and generally look like you're having a seizure. Don't worry: this dance tends to only last a little more than a minute, so you'll be done before you start seeing bright white spots in front of your eyes.
 Every prom will play a few songs that have designated dance patterns. These are a fun break from figuring out what the heck to do with yourself, and normally all you have to do is master a handful of dance moves and generally do what everyone else is doing. If you don't want to have to sit out like a wallflower when any of these songs come on, then become a pro at the following dances in advance:


"The Cupid Shuffle"
"Teach Me How to Dougie"
Soulja Boy's "Crank That"
"The Macarena"
"The Electric Slide"

