 This is the first step in learning how to do Qigong exercises. With diaphragmatic, or abdominal breathing, your chest is relaxed and your belly is relaxed. On the inhale for Taoist normal breathing, the diaphragm relaxes downward and the abdomen expands as a result. On the exhale, the diaphragm muscle contracts upward. The inhale and exhale should be of similar duration and the breath should also be smooth and quiet. There is no forcing of either the inhale or exhale. Practice this for at least two weeks for 15 to 20 minutes a day, sitting at first.;
, In the basic wu wei standing posture the feet are placed parallel at about shoulder's width apart, the hands are relaxed at the sides, the knees are bent slightly, the hips are relaxed, the tailbone is relaxed downward, the shoulders, chest and belly are relaxed, and the head is suspended as if by a string by the top and tilted slightly forward to create space at the top of the spine where it meets the occipital area. For the first 5 minutes of standing, practice muscular relaxation and for the next 5 to 10 minutes you can just follow your abdominal breathing. Over time, you will notice your strength improving and you can increase the duration of the standing time.
 One of the commonly used movements is the first movement of the Tai Chi, also called the commencement move. In this move, which starts with the wu wei standing posture, the arms naturally move forward and upward to shoulder's height and then go back down. The movement of the arms should trace a circle, going out as the arms go up and then towards the body after reaching shoulder's height. The hands need to be relaxed downward on the upward movement and they are slightly raised on the downward movement. The hands on the downward movement should be about 2 inches (5.1 cm) from the body. The whole body moves and moves centered on the dantian, or lower abdominal area, but the feet stay in place. You can shift your weight slightly forward on the foot on the up movement and slightly backward on the downward part. The inhale occurs on the upward movement and the exhale happen on the downward movement.
