 Once you have decided to get a hypoallergenic dog, you will need to narrow down your choice even further. Begin this narrowing by deciding what size of dog you would like.


This decision may be based on simple likes or dislikes, or it may be based on logistics, such as if you need a small breed due to space considerations.
Whatever sized dog you would like, there is probably a hypoallergenic dog that size.There are small breeds, such as the bichon frise and Maltese, that are hypoallergenic. There are large breeds that are hypoallergenic, such as the standard poodle and Afghan hound.;
, Different dog breeds have vastly different personalities and energy levels. In order to find the perfect dog breed for your family, you will need to need to figure out whether you want a dog with a lot of energy, a lap dog, a dog that can be easily trained, or a dog that is independent and spirited.


Make a list of the activities you would like to do with your dog and assess what kind of dog will be best for these activities. For example, if this list includes hiking and outdoor activities, then you will need a dog that is large enough to keep up with you on a trail and will be motivated to do energetic activities. If you want a dog to snuggle with and go for short daily walks with, then you may want a smaller lap dog.
Some hypoallergenic breeds that make good lap dogs include the Maltese and the coton de tulear. Some hypoallergenic breeds that are more active include the Irish water spaniel and the Portuguese water dog., Once you have a list of the attributes you would like in a dog, you can match that list to potential breeds. Go online and do some research into what breeds are most hypoallergenic and what their other attributes are.


Begin your research by looking at lists of hypoallergenic breeds. These are available on the websites of dog organizations, such as the American Kennel Club.Then, once you find a breed that might be right for you, do some more targeted research about that specific breed.
You may want to prioritize certain attributes over others. That way, if you can't find a dog that fits all of your desires, you can at least find one that fits the most important attributes you are looking for.
 Once you have narrowed down your choices, make the final decision. This decision should be made with your family, if you live with other people, and should take everyone's desires into consideration.


It may be a good idea to make a list of the two or three breeds that you would consider. This will allow you more options when searching for your specific dog.
When making your breed decision you can also choose to look for certain hybrid mixes that are known to be hypoallergenic. Some of the most popular of these mixes are poodle mixes, which take on the hypoallergenic nature of the poodle breed.