 This will open a new tab with the Settings menu.


Note: You can't set a homepage in the mobile versions of Chrome. The mobile versions simply open the last page you were viewing.;
, This will enable the Home button to the left of the Chrome address bar.
 This will open a new small window with the current homepage (Google by default).
 Select "Open this page" and then type or paste the address of the website you want to set as your homepage.


You can also choose to open the New Tab page, which contains a Google Search bar and links to your favorite sites.
 Click "OK" to save your changes and then click the Home button. The page you entered in the previous step should load.
 If your homepage resets to something else every time you start Chrome, you may have a malware infection on your computer. These malicious programs prevent you from being able to change your homepage or other browser settings. You can scan for and remove malware using free tools like AdwCleaner and Malwarebytes Antimalware. See How to Remove Malware for more detailed instructions.Note: If you're using a Chromebook that is managed by an IT department, such as for school or work, you may not be authorized to change the homepage for Chrome.
 This will open a new tab with the Settings menu. You can tell Chrome to load specific pages whenever it starts up. These are different than the page loaded by your Home button.
 Chrome offers three different options for loading tabs when you start it.



Open the New Tab page - This will set Chrome to launch with the New Tab page, which has a Google Search field and links to your most-viewed sites.

Continue where you left off - Any tabs that were left open when you closed Chrome will be reopened when you launch it. Avoid this option on a public computer, in case you leave sensitive information open by accident.

Open a specific page or set of pages - This will allow you to set sites that will be opened when Chrome launches. Use this option if you want Chrome to load a specific homepage every time it starts.
 This will open a small window with a list of all of your current homepages.
 You can type or paste a copied address into the field to add it to your startup. You can also click "Use current pages" to add all of the pages you currently have open.
 You can load multiple homepages every time Chrome starts. Each one will open in a new tab. Just add additional pages to the empty fields that appear at the bottom of the list.


If your computer is older, you may want to limit yourself to just two or three pages. Opening a lot of tabs at once can slow things down.
 Click "OK" and your homepage settings will be saved. Make sure you have "Open a specific page or set of pages" selected so that Chrome uses your homepage settings. Close all Chrome window and then open a new one. You should see your homepage(s) load when Chrome starts.

