 It's important to have clean hands before starting, as you don't want to bring your germs to the patient. You should also wear disposable latex gloves (or vinyl if you are allergic or if your patient is allergic to latex) to protect your hands against bodily fluids.;
, You'll need a new diaper in the correct size, a towel or disposable blue pad (also known as a chuck) to collect any waste and keep the sheets clean, and wipes. You'll also need a place to put the old diaper, as well as protective moisture barrier cream. The cream is used to protect the person from wetness after you change the diaper., Open the sides of the diaper. Roll the person gently towards you. Fold the side on the opposite side (backside) of the person as far under the person as it will go. You are folding it under to make it easier to pull out in a minute. Wipe up the front of the person with a wipe moving from front to back., Gently roll the person away from you. It's best to roll the person away from you by placing your hands at the hip and shoulder. Roll the person until she is all the way on her side, close to on her stomach.Then, place the towel or chuck under the person’s backside to protect the sheets.
 Go ahead, and wipe up what you can before moving the diaper, especially if the person had defecated. Try to get as much as you can out before removing the diaper completely.
 Pull out the diaper using a front to back motion. Pull it through the person’s legs towards their backside, and then fold it up to hide the mess. Dispose of the diaper. You can put it in a plastic grocery sack before sticking it in the trash to cut down on the smell.After you remove the diaper, pull off your gloves and put on a fresh pair.
 Use a clean wipe to finish wiping up the person. Make sure the person is thoroughly clean before moving on. You'll know the person is clean when a wipe comes up clean after you wipe the person.Be sure to wipe the person off gently, especially if they are elderly because their skin may be more fragile.
Make sure that the person is completely clean as well.
 Once the person is clean, let the area air-dry for a moment. You don't want to put a new diaper on while the person is still wet., Open a new diaper. Place the plastic side down on the bed. Push the far edge underneath the person's side if possible., Next, put on barrier cream.This will help keep the skin from breaking down from moisture. Apply a thin layer, especially over the buttocks.
 Gently pull the person back towards you, rolling him on the diaper. Pull the diaper up through the legs., The diaper should be snug but not so tight it would be uncomfortable. You should be able to slide at least a finger under the top.You may need to roll the person a bit the other way to get to the part of the diaper that is under him.
 Pull off the gloves so the outsides are facing inward. Throw the gloves away., If you prefer, you can place a bed under the person. Roll him one way to slide it under, and then roll him the other way to get it all the way under him. The liners will help keep the bed clean in case of accidents.