 They are usually pregnant between 28-31 days. If the pregnancy last longer than 33 days, take her to a vet, since there may be a problem with her pregnancy or the baby bunnies., Your doe will have mixed her own fur in with the material in the nest box. If you see some movement under the fur, your doe has likely given birth.
 They may begin rotting after a few days, so it’s important to get them out quickly. Additionally, your doe may cannibalize the stillborn babies if you do not remove them.
 Your doe will eat the placentas, since they supply your doe with hormones necessary to feed her babies.If placentas are left alone by your doe, then remove them. This means she will not eat them, especially if she has already started nursing.
 Rabbits can have anywhere from 1-15 babies. Not all of them will survive, especially some that have a harder time feeding. If some of them do, you can take them out of the cage and attempt to supplement their diet yourself.


Only touch any baby bunnies that you think are in danger of not getting enough to eat. Does may eat their young if they think baby bunnies are in danger from predators, including you.
 Does will nurse their baby bunnies about one or twice a day. Unless there is a problem, this should provide the baby bunnies with enough food., Baby bunnies that are getting fed have warm, plump bellies that are slightly distended. If your baby bunny looks malnourished, you may have to feed them yourself or bring them to the vet.


Malnourished baby bunnies have sunken stomachs, are wrinkled from dehydration, and are generally weak.
Baby bunnies need to be warm to process their food. Make sure they are protected in the nesting box and are warm enough.
 If many of the baby bunnies are malnourished, there may be a problem with the doe’s lactation. You can look at her nipples, which should be slightly swollen. Additionally, most of the fur will be removed near the teats to provide space for the babies to nurse. A small amount of pressure near the teats should produce milk from the doe.
 Your vet can give the doe oxytocin to help stimulate milk production. However, after 48 hours, the oxytocin will no longer be effective.Does will occasionally not feed their babies until late on the first day. If the problem extends into the second day, it may be time to bring them into the vet.

