 If you are serious and sincere about your study, then you can make sure  that half of your work is done. Get into the habit of studying regularly and prepare for the examination when you have time in hand. It will be better for you to start preparing for the examination as early as you can. Practice test papers to make sure that you know the pattern  of the questions that you are going to face in the examination. Moreover, regular practice will enable you to learn the tricks and techniques of test taking and at the same time, you will feel more confident about yourself.;
, If you do not know about your strengths and weaknesses, then how will  you be able to improve? It is important for you to know your loopholes, so that you can ameliorate them when you have time in your hand. Moreover, once you are able to improve yourself, you will gain confidence and then can control your anxiety.
 Anxiety and stress generally develops from low self-esteem. You need to  understand that no one is perfect in this world and everybody generally has certain drawbacks. You need to pamper yourself and boost your own self esteem. Do not let any problems bog you down. Face every challenge with confidence and make sure that you do not give up your positivity at any crisis situation. Honor your decisions and love yourself. Take your own responsibility and handle situations accordingly. In simple words, make every one of your steps count and prepare for the examination.
 Negative thoughts will always be there to disrupt your normal life. Learn to face your own fears and then take steps to instill positivity in you. You can try out meditation if you want to calm your disturbed mind. In simple words, you have to distract yourself from all the negativity and try to use your time to prepare for the examination.
 When you are preparing for any examination, it is likely that you will  not understand everything that you study. The same thing applies in the case of UMAT preparation as well. If you face any problems while solving a problem or reading a chapter, feel free to ask questions. You can take help from the elders, experts, or the pass out candidates of  previous years. You can take help from the online forums, books or even training institutes. Not everyone is born with a sharp mind. However, when you devote time to your study, make sure that you understand all that you are reading and at the same time, you are able to comprehend everything. This will surely enhance your confidence by leaps and bounds and boost your spirit as well.
 UMAT preparation is not a matter of a single day. You have to prepare  for the examination at your earliest, to make sure that you have ample time in your hand. An early preparation will take care of the fact that you have learned your lessons, practiced sample papers and at the same time, revised all that you have studied. When you will find that you have completed your project and still have some time in your hand, you will see that half of your anxiety is gone and you have become confident about your preparation.
 Owing to never ending pressure and tensions, we forget to give time to  ourselves. The tensions and frustrations in our lives make us blame ourselves and we end up getting distracted at the end of the day. Stop feeling guilty if you cannot handle any situation in life. Reward yourself when you perform well. At times, you need to stop worrying about everything else around you and start thinking about your own self. It is your duty to pamper yourself and take care of yourself. Once you start thinking about yourself, all your pressures and anxieties will be subsided a bit and you will feel better. At the same time, when you start celebrating your personal success and achievements, you will see that you are motivated to perform well in your UMAT exam.
 A friend in need is obviously a friend indeed. When you feel that you cannot handle the pressure of UMAT preparation, you can surely share your problems with your friends. Sorrow becomes half when shared. Tell your problem to your confidant and ask for solutions. You will see that you will be able to handle your problems and feel a bit confident as well.
 If you feel that you are too bogged down to concentrate in your study, then it is better that you take professional help. The professional experts will guide you to get rid of your anxiety and make sure that you can again concentrate on your UMAT preparation without any inhibitions.
 Studying at a long stretch of time will pressurize your brain. If you feel that you are tired and you need rest, do not hesitate to take breaks. Study breaks will give you a chance to break the monotony of exam preparation. If you feel that you are bogged down, you can relax for a while and then get back to your usual study. You can retain your enthusiasm and study with all your interest if you have a fresh mind, away from all anxiety and tension.
 Try to find out the brighter side of everything around you. Change the way you look at things by getting rid of your fears. Prioritize your goal and the work day in and out to achieve your goal. On the other hand, make sure that you remain focused and determined. No matter what comes in your way, you should try to handle things in the right spirit and not lose your hope. Learn to say "no" to people. Suppose you are studying something and your friend asks you to go out for a movie, decide your priority and deny.

