 Those who are tired of having their crops stolen or their land trampled by unwanted marauders can use tough, intimidating plant varieties to deter intruders once and for all. When situated in tight clusters, bamboo is as impenetrable as a brick wall, while plants like hawthorn, pyracantha and even cactus feature sharp thorns and spines that can be punishing for critters that try to slip between their branches. Best of all, these plants are usually quite resilient—they’re often capable of surviving long periods with little or no water and they’ll last for years.Be careful when selecting prolific species like bamboo to use as a living fence, as they can easily spread out of control if they’re not carefully maintained.Cactus and similar plants are good for dry, arid climates where other types of plants have difficulty thriving.
 Make an effort to learn about your chosen plant's preferred climate, nutritional needs and cycles of growth and development before planting haphazardly. Cactus plants, for instance, don't require much moisture to thrive, and overwatering can easily kill them. Similarly, bamboo must be planted carefully and strategically to prevent it from overtaking large areas due to its natural ability to proliferate with great speed. These are all worthwhile factors to consider before deciding on a species that will be sharing space with and protecting other plants on your property.Succulent plants like cactus should be watered heavily, then allowed to soak up the moisture until the surrounding soil is completely dry.For the purpose of growing a living fence, clumping bamboo is an excellent species, as you can plant it freely without worrying about it spreading out of control., Every couple weeks, walk the perimeter of your living fence. Be on the lookout for blights, withered buds or places where the plants have been broken by harsh weather or animal activity. Repair these areas by fertilizing, watering, pruning or reinforcing them with external supports. If left untreated, disease and structural defects could overtake your fence, rendering it ineffective.Pay particular attention to spots where animals appear to be getting in or out.
Vigilance and frequent attention will help keep your natural fenceline healthy and lush.

