 Shorter extensions usually look more natural, especially if your hair is very short. Aim for extensions that are between 16 and 18 inches (40 to 45 cm). You can look for even shorter extensions if your hair is shorter than chin length.You can cut the extensions on your own or have them cut by a stylist if they are longer than you’d like.;
, This is especially important if you have a blunt haircut. Thin extensions may not blend in if the ends of your hair don’t thin out. Thicker extensions will make the transition look smooth and natural.Compare the extensions to the thickness of your own hair to make sure they are thick enough.
 Wefts are basically the individual clip in sections. You can use several wefts if you are looking for extra volume and length, but one or two wefts should be enough. One 100g (3.5 oz) weft is ideal. This will make styling easier and the possibility of the clips showing less likely., It’s very important to match the extensions to your hair color, or the illusion of longer hair the extensions create won’t be successful. The best way to find extensions that match is to go to a beauty supply store to purchase the extensions rather than purchasing them online. This will give you a chance to put the extensions up against your own hair, check them out in a mirror, and ask for advice.It’s an option to color the hair to match your current hair color.
You can also dye your hair to match your extensions.
You can look for an ombre set of extensions if your ends are a different color than the rest of your hair.
 You can buy either type of hair and look great. Natural hair, however, is probably the way to go if you have the option. It is more expensive, but it will usually look more convincing than natural hair. This is because you can use heat to style natural hair and you can dye it as if it were your own hair., Wash and condition your hair right before you plan to apply the extensions. Oily hair won’t hold the clip in extensions as well as clean hair. This may not be a problem if you have naturally dry hair., Pull up the top half of your hair. It may not be possible to hold it with a hair tie if it is very short, but you can use clips to secure your hair if that’s the case. You will apply the clip in extensions to the divide between your top and bottom half of hair., You can use a backcombing brush or comb to do this. Use the brush or comb to gently tease the hair where you plan to clip in the extensions. This will create a shelf, which makes it easier for the extensions to stay securely clipped in.You will usually secure the extensions on the back of your head if you’re using one weft, but you may also use extensions on the sides of your head if you use multiple wefts.
Spray hairspray on the “shelf” for added grip.
 Grab your extensions and undo the clips. Hold the clips up to the shelf that you created. Make sure that you are satisfied with where they are being clipped in before snapping the clips shut. Look in the mirror once the extensions are clipped in to make sure they smoothly fit in with your natural hair.You can undo and redo the extensions until you are happy with the placement.
 You may find that the extensions are too blunt at the ends to look natural. Trim the ends of the extensions to solve this problem. Vertically hold a pair of scissors made for hair cutting to the ends of extensions. For a natural look, keep the scissors in that vertical position as you cut.It’s also an option to take the extensions to someone that knows how to cut hair if you don’t feel comfortable doing this on your own.
 The texture of the extensions will most likely look at least slightly different than your hair. Blend in the extensions by curling or straightening your hair while wearing the extensions. It does not matter if you decide to use a curling iron or flat iron. Either method will help the extensions look natural., This is an especially good option you have straight, synthetic extensions. Synthetic hair extensions are usually shinier than human hair. Use a shine serum to make your hair as shiny as the extensions. Simply spray it all over your hair and style as usual., You can use this for real or synthetic hair if you want a tousled and wavy look. Thickening spray is a great option for synthetic hair extensions since you usually can’t use heat styling tools. Spray the hair all over your hair and use your fingers to scrunch your hair, including the extensions, into waves.