 A rebound marriage might be the result of an impulsive decision. To avoid acting impulsively, it is important to take a look at the reasons why you want to get married.Take some time to identify your reasons for wanting to marry someone.


Positive reasons to marry someone include your emotional connection, satisfaction with the relationship, and shared goals.
Negative reasons to marry someone include money, convenience, revenge, and sex.;
, Looking back at past relationships can also help you to determine whether or not you are moving too quickly.Think back to the relationships you have had before this one, how they started, how they progressed, and how they ended.


For example, you might notice that you tend to go for the same type of man or woman, such as a bad boy/girl, even though relationships with this type of person have not worked out. This could prompt you to seek out a different type of person to date.
Or, you might notice that you often move quickly in relationships, such as having sex right away. This might prompt you to wait longer than you usually would to start a physical relationship with someone.
 Although you might be trying to ignore it, you probably have a sense of whether or not remarrying is the right move. Consider any doubts you have about the person as evidence that the marriage might not work. If you have doubts, then it is likely that you will have problems down the line.For example, you might have doubts about the person who you are considering marrying because he or she is not a good listener. Or, you might have doubts because the person does not want to have children, but you do want children. These things are unlikely to change after you get married and could lead to a divorce.
 Discussing your feelings with trusted friends can help you to determine if you are moving too quickly in a relationship.Try sitting down with a friend and telling him or her how you feel and why you are considering getting married. Ask your friend if he or she thinks you are moving too fast.


Make sure that the friend is someone who will be honest with you and who will not sugarcoat things. Deciding to remarry is a big deal, so you need honest feedback.

