 Telling your partner about your eating disorder may be stressful for you, so it is important to have a destressing activity planned for after. Try planning something that is not food related, such as going to see a movie with a friend, going for a massage or pedicure, or doing some yoga or meditation.
 Before you tell your partner, you may want to write down some thoughts. This can help you organize what you want to say and take some of the pressure off when you finally tell them. You may want to write out a speech, jot down bullet points of things you want to say, or make a list of keywords so you won’t forget.If you don’t think you can tell them in person, you may want to write them a letter.
Consider asking a friend or family member who knows about your condition for help coming up with what to say. You may also want to consult your therapist for help in how to tell your partner.
 When you tell your partner about your eating disorder, make sure to choose a good time and place to do it. Pick a time when both of you are not distracted and have time to have a long conversation. Do it in a quiet, private place instead of a public place.You want to make sure cell phones are put away, television is off, and any other distractions are not going to interrupt you.
Make sure you have plenty of time to talk because your partner may have a lot of questions.
Tell your partner, "I have something very important to discuss with you. When do you have time to talk?"
You may also want to prepare your partner for an empathetic, accepting response. Try saying something like, "I'm nervous about telling you this and I'm fearful of being judged. I trust you and want to share this with you."

, You should tell your partner about your triggers. If you are going to spending the majority of your time with them, they need to know how not to cause you to feel bad, get upset, or relapse. Be as detailed and honest about your triggers as you can, no matter how nervous, embarrassed, or guilty it makes you feel.For example, tell your partner not to discuss diets, calories, or losing weight around you. You can say, "Focusing on the calories in food is a trigger for me. Can we not talk about calories and instead work on eating?"
Point out any trigger foods or trigger situations. You may not be able to keep cookies in the house, or you may not be able to go to buffets or eat in social settings.
 When you tell your partner about your eating disorder, you should have information ready for them to look over. They may not know that there are different types of eating disorders or that it is a mental illness. They may only have seen eating disorders in the media. Gather books, websites, and materials from your doctor about your eating disorder so your partner can educate themselves.You may want to start with The National Eating Disorders Association, The National Eating Disorder Information Centre, and Eating Disorder Hope.
 When you tell your partner about your eating disorder, you should also tell them about your treatment and recovery. Tell them if you have been to rehab or if you are on medication. Explain any therapy that you are in and what your doctor, therapist, nutritionist, or other health professionals are doing to help you.If you are not in treatment yet, tell them what you plan on doing to start the recovery process.
Tell your partner, "I am undergoing treatment for my eating disorder. These are the steps I have taken to get to where I am, and this is how I manage it."

, One of the things you may want to communicate to your partner is that it is not their responsibility to fix you. You are not telling them so they can cure you or be responsible for your recovery. You only need their support and their understanding.For example, you may say, “I know you want to help me get better. You can’t cure me. The way you can help is to be there for me, understand my condition, and meet my needs.”

