 Locate the app’s icon either on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the white shopping bag with a colored triangle in the middle. Tap to launch.
 Tap the magnifying glass icon at the top and enter “Calorie Counter” into the field. Tap the magnifying glass again to begin the search.
 There will be many calorie counter apps in the results. Tap the one developed by FatSecret to access the app’s information page.
 Tap the “Install” button at the top, tap on “Accept” on the Permissions page that appears, and wait for the app to finish installing.
 Find the app’s icon in your app drawer or home screen. It’s the one with a lock in the middle of a circle. Tap to launch.


The first time you access the app you’ll be greeted by its Terms of Use. Just tap on “Agree” at the bottom to proceed.
 If you’re not a Calorie Counter by FatSecret user yet, you can create an account by entering the necessary information on the screen and then pressing “Next” until you reach the last setup page.


You will be required to enter your gender, preferred unit of measurement, current weight, goal weight, height, date of birth, daily activity level, diet goal, country, and account details.
If you’re already a registered user, just tap the “Sign me in” button at the bottom, and enter your username and password to log in.
Once registered and logged in, you will be taken to your account’s “My Summary” page. Now you can use the app to log in your daily food intake to help you count your calories.
 Tap the three-bar icon at the top left to open the app menu, and select “Food diary.” Here you can select which meal you would like to add food to—Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, and Snacks/Other—by tapping the plus sign next to the meal name.


Search for food using the search bar at the top. For example, if you had eggs for breakfast, search “Eggs.” From the list, select what kind of egg you had, like boiled egg, and tap the checkbox next to it.
When you’re done, tap the checkmark at the top, and the information will be logged into your Food Diary. The Food Diary will display all the food you’ve eaten for the day and its corresponding calories, as well as the number of calories needed in order to reach your diet goal.
 Open the app menu and select “Exercise diary.” You can add your exercise or activity by tapping the plus icon. On the next screen, tap the Search tab and search for the exercise activity you’re doing. For example, jogging.


Tap the exercise from the results and a duration pop-up window will appear. Enter the number of minutes or hours you took to do the activity, tap “Save,” and then tap the checkmark at the top.
You will be taken back to the Exercise Diary page. It will now list the exercise you just did and the calories burned by the activity.
 The Diet Calendar is a table displaying the date, your calorie intake, and the calories burned. So if you want to quickly check your progress, just open the app menu and select “Diet Calendar.”

, As you track your calorie intake and calories burned, the app will automatically calculate your weight gained or lost. Open the menu and select “Weight tracker” to check your progress through a line graph on the page. Your weight goals will also be shown at the bottom of the screen.


To enter accurate information, in case the app is wrong, you can weigh in by tapping the “Weigh in” button at the top. Enter your current weight and then goal weight into the fields and tap the checkmark at the top. The graph will adjust to show the new weight.
You can weigh in every week to accurately gauge your progress.

