 Backing up your iPad before replacing it allows you to restore your settings, pictures, contacts, apps, and suchlike onto your new device. You easily can back up your iPad to iCloud or iTunes.


For help in backing up your iPad using iCloud or iTunes, check this article out.;
, For your security and peace of mind, and as a courtesy to the buyer, clear your device of its contents after backing it up and before handing it over to him or her. Do so by going to your Settings app, and clicking on “General.” Next, select “Erase All Content and Settings” to reset your device to the state it was when you first purchased it.


The next user will have to use Setup Assistant to reactivate the device.
 If you’re using a 3G or 4G network on your iPad, contact your provider to find out how to transfer your iPad to a new user. This may be as simple as terminating your contract with them, but you should contact your carrier to find out what steps are required of you.
 If you want to part ways with your iPad so you can exchange or upgrade it for another electronic device, a trade-in program may be in sync with your plan. A number of companies allow you to trade in your iPad for credit, cash, or a new gadget.


When deciding which trade-in program is best for you, go to the websites of companies offering the trade-in program to find out how they assess devices, how they offer compensation, and if it will meet your specific requirements.
Compare similar used models sold online for a ballpark figure of how much you can expect to get from these companies.
If your goal is to have extra cash on hand, a trade-in program wherein you receive a gift certificate for a retailer is not ideal. However, if you simply want to get rid of your device without much ado and still get something in exchange, go for the trade-in.
 Apple also allows you to trade in your iPad for a gift card. Recycling can either be done online or at an Apple store. To find out more, check out this portion of Apple's website.
 Unless you already have a customer lined up, determine first how much a same-year iPad would sell for and which selling platforms would be most advantageous to use. Browse for information over at Craigslist, Amazon, and Ebay.


It is also helpful to search for online forums that discuss the topic of selling used gadgets over the Internet. Read about previous sellers’ experiences and their best practices to give you a background of what to expect.
 If you’re going the online route to sell your iPad, take the time to showcase your device and its features as best as you can. Doing so will increase your chances of selling it at a good price.


For example, clean your iPad and take high-resolution photos of it and the accessories you’re throwing in with it. You can go for a higher asking price if your iPad is in great shape and if its original packaging is still intact.
 If you know of other selling platforms, set up an account there as well. Websites that allow customers to bid on items for sale are the best places to make a profit, especially if your device is in great condition and includes accessories.


After your research, set or start with a fair asking price and let the bids begin.
 After receiving bids and agreeing on a price with a particular buyer, conclude the sale of the iPad, and ship it off promptly after making sure all of the agreed-upon accessories are in to fulfill your end of the agreement.

