 You don't want to be unprepared for sudden note-taking or a pop quiz by discovering you forgot your pencils/pens/erasers and if that happens you will waste time and might miss some important information.;
, Being organized helps you work better, relax and be ready to find and hand in stuff on time. There are plenty of ways to self-organize and it is best that you find the method that works best for you. The key is to be able to find what you need with ease, including the retrieval of information and your notes. Set up a system as soon as possible, including things like a good computer filing system, a good paper filing system, a desk-clearing policy (at least weekly) and a neat arrangement for your textbooks, writing books and associated reference manuals and books.


Make use of highlighters, bright Post-It tags, and other items to label and highlight your organized items. Color coding works extremely well for lots of people, especially busy people and those who can't abide reading labels!

, Choose one that can fit in your folder or binder so that you can easily turn to it and find it when you need to use it. In this calendar, write down all your tests and assessments, and if your school has different academic classes on different days, write those down too. Also, make notes of study sessions or time you plan to spend doing homework. This keeps you aware of upcoming tests and other events, so you can study and prepare for them properly.
 Even if you don't know what you want to do when you grow up or what college you want to go to, your goal can be just to give yourself as many opportunities as possible.
 Your attendance is important at school. If you don't go to school, your grades will obviously drop fast because you will have gaps in your learning that are difficult to back fill. If you have a genuine illness or other issue preventing you from attending school, have a parent, guardian or friend talk to your teachers about doing catch-up work from home.
 Notes will help solidify material in your head and will also serve as important study tools before a test. Be sure to write down everything important that the teacher goes over. If it helps, ask for a printout of the material beforehand so you can focus on taking notes on what the teacher is saying, not just copying down what is on the board. If the teachers write something on the board and they underline it chances are it's important or it will be on future tests.
 This will show your teacher that you're actively participating in class. But more than that, it also forces you to pay enough attention to be able to ask/answer questions. As a result, you'll do much better on tests and quizzes. The ability to ask questions is a skill that you'll need throughout life, and ensures that you can keep a check on the motivations and ideas that you come across in various walks of life.


When you pick a question to answer, make sure you know the answer and the questions are not too easy. Don't worry about asking too many questions; it's the teacher's job to help you.
Participation in class is often an important factor of your grade. Raising your hand once or twice in class doesn't do any harm, especially if you remember that "there is no such thing as a stupid question" when it comes to learning in class. Many times people will be wondering the same thing but lacked the courage to ask it!

, Don't just ask questions or talk. Learn to listen too. Eighty percent of the questions you find on any test were explained in class. The key to many understandings of the materials presented is often through listening to the teacher's explanations.
 Do this in a quiet place with no distractions. If the computer is in your room, take it out or go to another room. Don't study with the radio on! It might help you write more but on the day of the exam, the only thing you'll remember will be the lyrics.


Make a schedule. Making a self-schedule could help you save time for self-study/revision as well as keeping you on track on what you're doing and what to do next.
Rewrite your notes. Yes, this may sound boring and time-consuming, but it's been proven to help you remember more of what you wrote down. It also helps you to figure out problems you might have had in the class.
 Though it seems like a torture device, homework is a way of controlling and making progress outside of the classroom. This isn't very comforting the night you have two essays and algebra to do, though, so remember to do the actual homework and keep up with the workload. If you're having serious difficulties, talk to your teachers and parents to come up with a schedule for your homework.
 Instead of multitasking, set aside a certain amount of time to do homework. When that set amount of time is over, take a 20-30 minute break to keep your mind from getting tired. When that time is up, go back to doing 100% homework.
 If you have two weeks to do a project, rather than putting it off till the last three days before it's due, start working early. This way you can spend enough time planning, researching, and asking any questions you have about the project. The whole experience will be much less stressful since you won't have to rush through it. You'll also have plenty of time to make the project as good as it can be, which means that you'll get a better grade.
 Be careful, though, taking dozens of practice tests is a much less effective way to study than combining one or two with other forms of study.
 If after the holidays you have a test and have not reviewed over the holiday period, your mind will have switched off and you will have forgotten a lot of things that you have learned before the holidays. Therefore you are likely to fail the test or do badly in it.


Get a book at your grade level for any new class subject you will be taking next term such as chemistry, and read or scan it closely. Look at all the illustrations, charts, definitions, and learn things like the chemical symbols (C is carbon, H is Hydrogen, Zn is zinc, Au is gold, Ag is silver.). Read chapter summaries.
Treat the holidays like any weekends: Yes, you can relax and have fun, but study at least 3 times a week so you don't forget everything you have learned.
Ask your parents or friends to sit with you and review over what you have difficulty with, or that you need to memorize and recite.
 Reviewing with your friends during free time can help keep you focused.


Make sure that you work with people who you can focus around. Any time you spend chatting instead of studying is wasted time as far as the study group is concerned.
For some people, working in a group may be hard to do because friends can distract you from your studies. Or, you may be someone who actually works better without other people around; do not view this as anything wrong, it is simply about your personal makeup––for example, you may be a deep thinker who needs time and space to digest issues fully. Be aware that this does not mean you're not capable of working in teams; quite the opposite, you are more likely to be a good team player if you understand the issues properly.
 Asking for help if you don't "get" what the question is asking is the only way you're going to find out what to do. Pretending you know and making it up as you go will only prolong the agony and can reduce your marks.
 Don't see mistakes as personal flaws; failures are a guidance in how to do better. Pay attention in class when something is being corrected. Mark your work clearly and carefully so that it is useful in preventing other errors in the future. You will learn a lot more if you use your mistakes and failures to guide you to the correct approaches and results.
 If you do not understand a concept during class time, meeting with your teacher outside of class will help you understand it better and will also build a strong relationship with you and your teacher.
 Looking over guidebooks may help you in classes with which you are struggling. Alternatively, you could go to the teacher for extra help, have a friend coach you, or ask your parents to hire a tutor.


Never be afraid to ask your tutor for help. They can help you with any subject, and there is no need to feel dumb or ashamed that you need help.
 Don't only start well and let it fall apart. Keep your study plans active and working for your success. Reward yourself when you do well.
 Don't freak out over tests. Start studying more than one day before the exam so that you have plenty of time to ask questions when you don't understand.
 Sleep will improve your memory and concentration skills, which in turn will lead to you doing better in school.
 Food is energy for your brain and having food in you before school starts can help you concentrate and focus. If you can't get breakfast for some reason, speak to your teacher about school programs or assistance for breakfast.
 This will allow you to make more friends, do something fun, and have something to add on a college or even job resume to show people that you are a well rounded-individual.


Find something that you enjoy doing to balance out the work. But don't spend too much time on it that you don't get to your homework.
 There is no need for hours on end of studying, but see how much time you have until the exam and divide the amount into equal amounts of studying each day. Remember to balance it out. Go out with friends at the weekend and maybe on one weekday, but make sure you don't forget about the work.

