 Homemade cosmetics are often gentle on your precious skin, inexpensive and free from toxic chemicals. Pantry-style products that have scientific tests behind them for suitability of use in homemade beauty care include: Honey, olive oil, yogurt and aloe vera., Of course, if the step advises otherwise, follow its preference.
 This is known as a skin patch test and more details can be found at How to patch test your skin.
 Oatmeal contains saponins, which have good cleansing ability as it creates foam which forms a good lather.This makes it a good face mask or scrub for all types of skin, including sensitive skin types.To use, grab a handful of oats and squeeze them tightly. Run a little warm water over your tight fist of oats, getting the ball of oats just slightly damp. Scrub your face with the damp oats. This can be used as regularly as your face wash. You should see an almost immediate difference.


Another version is to mix whole oatmeal into a paste using one teaspoon of honey and warm water. This cleanser can be rubbed in a circular motion across to face, to cleanse it.The honey has antibacterial properties and will alleviate dryness and inflammation.Make a paste of oats and milk/coconut water/rose water. Apply for 20 minutes to help soften deep lines.
 Leave on for ten minutes, then rinse off.


Milk can be used to quickly wipe off makeup or gunk from the face.Pour onto a cotton ball and simply wipe, then moisturize.
Note that not everyone agrees with using milk on the skin, as it can spoil once added to skin, it nay not have sufficient lactic acid to help the skin and it's expensive to use this way., Yogurt contains probiotics and lactic acid.These properties can cleanse skin and nourish it too.Spread whole-milk yogurt onto your face and let sit for 15 minutes. Rinse off and moisturize.


Add a little honey for some antibacterial properties., This can be mixed in larger quantities for full body exfoliation. This is also healthy to use on your lips, as it will make them soft and smooth.


Don't get olive oil in your eyes; while it can safely be used under the eyes, it will irritate the eyes if it gets into them., Mash 1 banana with 3 tablespoons of honey and apply to your face. Leave for five to ten minutes, then rinse off.


If you would like to add 10 drops of lemon juice as well, this will help to exfoliate the skin and may even assist with slightly fading scar or acne marks (results will vary)., Both contain antioxidants and pectin, which nourish and cleanse your skin.Make a quick mask by grating a large apple or pear and mixing it with 1 tablespoon of honey. Leave the mask on for 10 to 15 minutes.
 Grapes contain antioxidants and are good for aging skin.Mash a handful of grapes. Strain them to separate the pulp from the juice. Remove the skins and mash the pulp and juice with 1 tablespoon of almond flour.
 Papaya contains antioxidants. which help to nourish the skin.Cut open, then mash up one papaya. Spread on the face to use as a relaxing mask. Rinse off after 15 minutes. You should find that it really cleanses and moisturizes your skin.
 Green tea helps to cleanse the skin and remove impurities from skin pores.It works as a topical application (applied to the skin) just as much as it works when used as a drink.Spread the wet green tea leaves across your face and let them rest there for 15 minutes or longer. Rinse off, then apply moisturizer to your face.


Steeped black or white tea teabags or strongly brewed white or black tea can also be used.Use in combination with cucumber slices to add plenty of antioxidants to the skin.Dab liquid tea on the facial or neck skin with cotton balls. Or, lay cooled teabags on the under-eye area for a de-puffing action., Baking soda is a useful fine-grained exfoliant that can have cleansing, antiseptic and brightening properties when used on skin.Combine equal parts baking soda and water and rub the mixture into your skin, let sit until dry, then rinse. How much of each depends on how much you think you need.
 Scoop out enough honey to cover your entire face as well as your upper neck. Leave the honey on your skin for 15 minutes, then rinse it off.
 They should not be used on the fragile under-eye skin without proper, in-depth research. Homemade eye products should contain simple bases that won't harm the eyes or eye skin, such as beeswax, vegetable glycerin, water or plant-derived emollients., Cucumber is good for the skin and adds antioxidants.Place two on the skin to hydrate and freshen the eyes - eat the rest, as cucumber is fantastic for your skin!


You can put cucumbers on your eyes to help remove dark circles.
 Add 1/4 of a cup of honey and 1 cup of milk to toasty warm bathwater. Hop in and bathe as usual.
 Mix it with glitter for a softening body gel.
 Pour the cucumber juice into a dark bottle along with 30ml (1 fl oz) almond oil and 50ml (2 fl oz) carrot juice and the juice of 1/2 a lemon.Shake before use, applying with a cotton wool sheet/pad. Store in the refrigerator and use within a week or two.


Label the container clearly.
 Lather it up, then use as you'd normally do for shampoo.This little baking soda boost helps to remove hair-product buildup.
 Wrap hair in plastic and leave on overnight. In the morning, make sure to wash it out very well, or else you'll smell like eggs for the rest of the day!


The juice of one lemon can also be added to the mixture for shine and cleansing., Mix 1 tablespoon of honey into 2 liters (0.5 US gal) of warm water and pour over your hair. Don't rinse out- style as usual.
 For shiny, silky hair, rinse your hair in apple cider vinegar after you shampoo. For extra shine, do your final rinse in cold water.


Not everyone agrees with using vinegar on your hair because it smells and coconut oil works better., This treatment can be used on the hair once a week, to nourish it and improve shine.Pour 30ml (1 fl oz) of olive oil and 30ml (1 fl oz) of lemon juice into a saucepan.Warm gently and stir together. Dampen your hair and massage the warm (not hot) mixture into your scalp. Wrap the hair in a towel and leave in place for one hour to work on your hair. Remove the towel, shampoo the hair and rinse your hair. Dry as usual.
 Massage it into your scalp, then leave it for 15 minutes before rinsing. For more details on using aloe vera on hair, see How to condition your hair with aloe vera.

