 A taxi in NYC has three basic light signs on the roof of the car:


If only the numbers in the middle are lit, then that cab is waiting for you to flag it down.
If only the outer lights are lit, then that cab is off-duty and headed back to the depot for a shift change, but it may still be possible to get a short ride.
If there are no lights lit on top, then the driver already has a fare inside, but you won't need to wait long for another to come by.;
, Do as the natives and simply step out onto the road. In most NYC streets, and every avenue you get a car's width of space between the curb and the flow of traffic, so don't worry about being splattered all over.


Step out as far as you can, so that you can be clearly seen but not so far that you put yourself at risk from oncoming traffic.
Put out your arm with your hand out flat (sort of like a horizontal high-five). That's all you need to do, the driver will pull into the nearest open space among the parked cars beside you or even slow long enough for you to jump in if the traffic is not too heavy.
 If the outer lights are lit then the cab is off duty as mentioned earlier, but if you are only going a short distance (roughly within 10 blocks, which equals half a mile) and the driver is going in that direction he or she may pick you up for the chance of a few extra bucks at the end of his or her shift. To signal this:


Simply repeat the process of hailing a cab but bend your elbow slightly and give a 'thumbs-up' rather than an outstretched palm. This signals what the natives term a 'short stop' and the driver will decide whether to stop or not.
If they drive past you, don't start yelling and flipping them off like they do on T.V., it's not going to make them stop and if by chance they do, well it's not to take you as a fare.
 When there are no lights, this means no cab for you. This one is already taken. But don't fret, there are thousands driving around at any given time and most likely you'll only have to wait mere seconds for another one to come by.
 Once you've taken your first cab ride in the big city, it will stay with you for a while, and make sure to brag to everyone you know back home!

