 Evolving your new Doublade into its final form, Aegislash, can't be done through normal training. Instead, you must use a special evolutionary item called a "Dusk Stone" to get it to evolve. There are a few places in the game to get this stone. The most straightforward is to simply find it in Terminus Cave (accessible from Route 18).Note that you can't get to Route 18 until you defeat Team Flare and Lysandre at their HQ in Geosenge town, so you'll need to do this before you can get to the cave and find the Dusk Stone.
Inside the cave, the Dusk Stone can be found on the second basement level to the far left of the map. It is to the left of an Iron item on a stalactite., Another straightforward way to get a Dusk Stone is through the Secret Super Training minigame. The level you must beat is level six, "Watch Out! That's One Tricky Second Half!" Defeating the Aegislash balloon bot wins you an item as a prize — the Dusk Stone is one of five possible prizes for this level.You can access the training minigames at any time via the bottom screen of the 3DS.It is to the left of the Player Search System and to the right of Pokémon-Amie.
Keep in mind that only fully-trained Pokémon are eligible for Secret Super Training.
Beating the target time as quickly as possible gives you a better chance for a rare item like a Dusk Stone.
 There are a few other ways to get a Dusk Stone in Pokémon X and Y. These aren't typically as convenient as the options above, but they are worth mentioning:


You can get a Dusk Stone from beating Balloon Popping level three in the PokéMileage Club.
You can get a Dusk Stone by beating the Psychic "Inver" trainer on Route 18 with a score of 7-9. In these battles, Pokémon type strengths and weaknesses are reversed. Your score is the number of "It's super effective" hits you make minus the number of "it's not very effective" hits. The Dusk Stone is one of ten possible prizes for scores of 7-9 (all are evolutionary stones).
You can get a Dusk Stone by beating a Team Flare Grunt in Laverre City. However, this is only after beating the Elite Four.
 Once you have a Dusk Stone, evolving Doublade is easy. Just use the item on Doublade and the evolution sequence will begin. Congratulations — you now have an Aegislash!


This will consume the Dusk Stone, so think carefully before you use this rare item.
There is no level requirement to evolve Doublade this way, but you may want to hold off on evolving yours until it's learned all of the moves you want, as Douslash can learn moves through leveling up that Aegislash can't. Click here for a link to a page with all of Doublade's move possibilities.

