 You need to get the idea, or else you won't have a book at all. So when you've got the idea, look at it and think, "Could that make the book I have been dreaming about?". Look at it very closely so that you can get more ideas about the book. Turn it around, see what it's like at the back and the front and see the blurb and the pictures if any are in the book.
 You also need to write down your goal for it and a few things about what you want it to do. How long do you want it to be? How long is each chapter? What names for characters will you be using? Who will be reading it? Will you have chapters? What genre is it? Will it be told from a character's point of view, or from the view of the author? There are lots of things that factor into your final story.
 Get out a pen and some paper, or type on the computer. Writing the first chapter is very important. Write it carefully, as it could be the most important piece of the book; people often find a new idea around the second chapter. You should put this down in another document named 'ideas'. Try to think of ideas throughout your day. Make sure that you write.
 Keep writing but keep record of how many pages you've got in a chapter. The usual fantasy story would have about seven computerised pages a chapter and 250 pages in the book, with roughly 5/6/7 chapters. That should stretch your story out nicely.
 What do you think. Whatever you do, don't compare it to professional authors books, because those authors have a lot of experience. If you show friends or family, they'll probably tell you it's great. A good idea is to email your story to a friend and say that an author named Teddy Fitzgerald, who lives in Bulgaria, wrote it. It's just so mad it just might work.
 It's optional, but most people find that it helps. He'll give you tips, help you, and look for a publisher. And you'll both share an interest : your books.
 It has to have some significance in your book. Scary sounding names are good. (Harry Potter and Sorcerer's Stone? Wow. A global warming book named 'No More Coats' sounds good!

, This isn't compulsory as publishers can sort this out with a pro, but it would give an idea of how you think it should look.
,


For example: You want to explain how to draw paws of, say, a tiger.
