 There is no point in fretting about the fact that you aren't three inches taller, or that your eyes are green and not blue, like you might wish. You need to work with what you have.

Washing once a day is essential. Your face needs to be washed and moisturized once in the morning, and then again in the evening before you go to sleep. Shower often, and remember to shave your legs and under your arms. Be sure to keep a washcloth, body towel, and a floor towel. Make sure you keep your floor towel straight on the floor, and body towel near by, and absolutely keep your washcloth in the shower, then take all 3 out when you are done.



 


Your nails must be well kept. You must not bite them or let nail polish chip. You can't allow them to grow too long and must keep the tops even. To keep them to these standards, file your nails and use nail polish remover whenever any nail polish starts to chip.






Your hair must be well maintained and kept healthy; you should not dye it an unnatural color. If you do decide to dye your hair, never let your roots show. Whatever hairstyle you wear must be neat, clean, and appropriate for the occasion (i.e. hair in an elastic band for gym is more comfortable, but an updo would be more appropriate for a formal.) You do not need to curl or straighten your hair, although you can if you want to. Its important to wash your hair regularly or it can get greasy which is not a good look!






Make-up should be natural during day time events; tinted moisturizer is fantastic, if you have clear skin. A light mineral powder foundation is recommended, if your complexion is blotchy and full of blemishes. A concealer that suits your skin tone is helpful in hiding nasty blemishes, but do not let yourself fall into the 'more is better' trap, because it really isn't; looking like a cake is not getting you any closer to being a proper young lady. Heavy eye make-up should only be worn at night events, as is the case with red or other dark shades of lipstick. However, one should not wear red lipstick with heavy make up; it needs to be one or the other.






Perfume should be carefully chosen; a classic lighter scent should be worn every day; something heavier for going out, but remember to never wear anything that you feel you don't have the confidence to pull off.






Eyebrows are a very expressive feature of your face, and should be well maintained. However, over-plucking is not necessary or advised. Your teeth are also very important and often neglected; be sure to brush and floss them at least twice a day. Using mouthwash is also quite effective.






If you have fair skin, you might want to use sunscreen and preserve your own kind of beauty. Tanning is not only unhealthy, but it can look bad when it starts to peel.






For those who are olive skinned and can achieve a tan after some time in sun, be cautious, unsightly tan lines are almost as bad as a sunburn, and should be avoided.;
, This can be anything from colors to textures of fabric that look stunning on you. Wear clothing appropriate for the occasion. Don't wear anything that isn't clean or neat, that doesn't go well with another piece of clothing you are wearing, or that is excessively embellished. When buying clothes, look for quality. You should also have your own personal style. Understand that 'girly' and 'feminine' are not the same thing. You will look - and feel - much better in a skirt than in pants. Nothing says 'lady' quite like a girl wearing a smart skirt when all her friends are in jeans.
 You never scratch, just rub. And if you're going to burp then either try to hold it in or do it quietly because a lot of people think it's disgusting. Carry a handkerchief, no lady walks around all day sniffing like a child; give your nose a quick blow and move on. As for sweating? People sweat. It's human nature, it can't be controlled. But you might want to carry some body spray, deodorant or perfume so you can get rid of unpleasant odors after exercising. Nobody wants to be close to someone who smells like sweat, no matter if they're a boy or a girl!

If soup is served, it's impolite to slurp. If you have soup don't slurp or sip. Just stick the spoon in your mouth and drink.
 A proper young lady needs to be well read. Jane Austen, George Orwell, Shakespeare, Bronte, Dickens, Oscar Wilde, Henry James, and Virginia Woolf are all good examples of people you should read. Some of the classics can be a trying read, but you must get through them. There are websites with abundant notes on all of these books, so, even if you do not understand them, in time you will.

Try to read at least two different newspapers every other day; knowing what is going on in the world around you from multiple points of view is vital.






Having a wide knowledge of music and art is great; do not limit yourself to what the local radio station blurts out. Be adventurous and go discovering. Listen to classical and renaissance music, as it is very rich in history and culture.






Don't spend too much time online and be careful. If you don't have parental control software installed, ask your parents to do it for you (on both smartphones and PC). That way you are protected.
If you are still in school, keeping up your studies is very important. As much as possible, study things that you like and are good at. But do make sure to do your best at all subjects, and try to be interested in them. Above all, do not pretend to know a great deal about something that you don’t. The truth will come out in the most embarrassing way.
 You should have a code of conduct that you adhere to at all times because being a lady is about what you are and what you believe, as well as how you look. Trust and respect your parents and never complain about them to your friends. Being a ladylike girl means changing your lifestyle and they will be so pleased to help you.


Don't stay out late; you need your sleep and will feel better in the morning. Agree a suitable bedtime with your parents and ask them to make you stick to it, even if you would rather not.
Enjoy dating - but be very clear that you won't be having sex until you get married; a lady doesn't sleep around willy-nilly.
Don't go crazy, take drugs, smoke or drink alcohol

, This will help to make you a more interesting and talented person. Having a passion is very attractive to others. It shows that you are not lazy; you strive to improve yourself, and you are diligent.
 Apart from it being a good thing, your develop your sense of compassion for all kinds of people, and are a role-model for others. Volunteer work and charity are eye-opening ways to understand people, gain skills, and help make a difference.
 Try to enunciate your vowels and consonants; do not use slang or swear. Try to avoid shortening words, and using words that you clearly do not know the meaning of. Pause and think for a split second before opening your mouth, and do not speak too fast or too slowly.


Your diction should be crisp and clear. You have to speak slow, steady, and clearly. You don't want anyone to think you're speaking gibberish. Your speaking voice should be mellifluous and pleasing to the ear. You want to speak with a soft delightful voice. Try to sound as lovely as a beautiful flower.
 Your social skills are of vital importance towards becoming a charming proper young lady. Greet people with a smile, firm (confident) handshake, or kiss depending on what is appropriate for the situation. If you are in the wrong, apologize, and if someone has wronged you, accept their apology. Keep up the correspondence you have with people, RSVP to events on time, reply to letters or emails you receive if it called for it. Do not date for the sake of it, and do not flaunt your exploits for the world to see. Do not lower your moral standards for others. Be strong in who you are. Ask people how they are, and give them the chance to talk about themselves. People love talking about themselves. Listen to what others say, even if you aren't remotely interested. You are going to have to learn how to pay attention. Learning to manipulate a conversation is very important, but once you've learned the skill, you will be saved from many boring/awkward conversations. Please and thank you are incredibly important, and are being more and more forgotten in this world.
 Being healthy will give you a glow that beauty products can't achieve. You should try to get at least eight hours of sleep every night, or more if possible. Exercise, eat healthily, and make sure you get enough fruit and vegetables everyday. Drink plenty of water, as it will do amazing things for your skin. Do not smoke, because it is not sexy, it is not beautiful, but it is a sickening, ugly habit. Do not drink alcohol and have regular check-ups at the doctor to make sure that you are as healthy as can be.
, You never know what they will say back.

