 Frozen crab legs — doesn't that compromise their flavor? Actually, frozen crab legs usually taste better than thawed crab legs, as the thawed legs do not retain the familiar taste and freshness found in frozen ones. Why is this?









Most crab legs available at the supermarket were cooked on the fishing boat immediately after they were caught, and then flash frozen. Because crabbing vessels are often at sea for a long time, and because cooking helps ward off unwanted bacteria and germs, this flash freezing helps lock in the flavor.
Want to tell for sure whether your crab legs have been pre-cooked before being frozen? Look at their color and the package. Crab legs, usually a pale color uncooked, turn bright orange or red when cooked. If you're not sure either way, look at the package. It should state pretty clearly whether the crab was previously cooked or not.;
, How much crab should you buy? The general idea is that if you're planning on serving the legs with a side or two, 2 to 4 legs per person is ideal as a main course.Because crab can get pretty expensive, it's also possible to serve crab legs as an appetizer. One crab leg per person is more than sufficient as an appetizer.
 You don't need to defrost them before cooking, and you certainly shouldn't microwave them. Because they are already pre-cooked, they keep quite well.









If you do wish to cut down on your cooking time a bit, of course you can defrost your crab legs. To safely defrost frozen crab legs, put them in the refrigerator for approximately 8 hours. Thawed crab legs can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 2 days without spoiling.
 Add salt or seasoning, if desired. Turn the stove on high, and allow the water to come to a boil. If you want to get fancy with your boiling medium or added ingredients, try out these suggestions:









Add a bit of lemon juice (or vinegar) to the water. This helps give the crab legs an extra fresh flavor and helps neutralize some of the most pungent seafood odors. Squeeze the juice of one whole lemon to the pot right after it comes to a boil, or add one tablespoon of vinegar.
Boil with beer and Old Bay seasoning. Try adding two cans of flavorful beer and four cans of water as your boiling medium. Add one heaping tablespoon of Old Bay seasoning for a little bit of kick.
 Reduce the heat to medium-high, and let the crab legs boil for 4 to 5 minutesfor smaller varieties of crab, 7 to 8 for larger varieties, and up to 15 minutes for colossal. Remove from heat immediately. Remember, you're most likely not cooking them so much as reheating them.









If the crab legs are already thawed, cook them for 2 to 5 minutes, depending on their size.
 Serve immediately. In order to make clarified butter, do the following:









Chop good-quality butter into cubes. Over low heat, melt butter until completely melted and foam starts rising to the surface. Let simmer for a little while.
With a small slotted spoon or similar implement, begin skimming off the foam from the top of the butter. You don't have to get every last piece of foam, but try to get most of it. What you're doing is removing the mild solids and moisture from the fats.Line a fine mesh strainer with cheesecloth or muslin and strain the remaining liquid through it. Discard any solids caught in the cheesecloth. You've just made clarified butter!

