 The essence of a date doesn't change depending on your sexual orientation. Dating is about getting to know someone one-on-one, flirting, and having fun no matter who you are with. If you remember to be polite, learn to listen instead of talk, and try and have fun, you're already a dating professional.


Don't feel like you need to change who you are or what you do once you've identified as a lesbian. You should still be yourself on any date.
Dating is always a little awkward, nervous, and weird at first -- no matter what your sexual orientation.
 Unfortunately, there is no way to know if someone is also gay without asking upfront. But the signals of attraction are mutual across all sexualities. If, during your conversation, you see the following signs and feel attraction, you should go for gold and ask her out on a date:


Strong eye contact.
Touching you, especially on the arms and shoulders.
Laughter, nervousness, and frequent smiling your way., Again, sex between two women may be physically different, but need for open communication is something all relationships share. You know your body, and you know what feels good, so you should communicate those needs to your partner as well. Find what works for you, learning how to best please each other over time.


Let her know when something feels good, or when she should try something else.
Gently ask her if she likes something you're trying. Don't be afraid to laugh, smile, or make a quick joke if something doesn't quite work out. Sex is intimate, but that doesn't mean it's all serious.
Porn is not a great place to look for advice. Porn is designed around what looks good on camera, not what necessarily feels the best in bed.
 You mainly hear about safe sex between men and women and between men and men, and it is easy to forget that lesbians need to practice safe sex too. Lesbians can spread STIs and STDs between each other. You need to take the necessary precautions to stay safe and happy.


Use condoms or dental dams when using sex toys to prevent sharing fluid.
Know that certain STIs, like herpes, can be transmitted through skin to skin contact.Be sure to get tested for STDs at your local health clinic if you see multiple partners or don't know a past partner's sexual history.

