 If you are living in a high-density populated area it may be causing you undue stress. A change of scenery to a calm and peaceful location will enhance your efforts to live a simple life. Your home is your sanctuary.


If you must stay close to where you currently live, then research prospective properties to rent or buy. Using a property manager can be very helpful.
If you are interested in making a big leap, then research areas farther away that offer what you desire. You might feel better and more positive about living near the ocean, in the mountains, or on the top floor of a beautiful skyscraper.
 This small scale version of a house has everything you could want. Designed for the minimalist who enjoys all the comforts of home in an extremely small space. The house can be placed on a piece of property, hooked up to water and sewer and you call it home.


You can forego a large mortgage in exchange for a creatively designed little, peaceful, environmentally conscious home., There are plenty of people who own a high-line car with a payment that is equivalent to a house payment. This is another instance where the extra income it requires to pay for this item could be re-purposed to free yourself from financial obligations.


Small eco-friendly cars will get you where you want to go and decrease your carbon footprint. Less pollution means a simpler, cleaner existence.
Get a bike and ride it to work. It is great exercise and you will always have a great parking spot.
 There is nothing worse than going to a job every day that you hate. If all your attempts to make it more enjoyable have been unsuccessful, you would benefit from changing jobs and/or careers. If you are spending 80 hours a week cranking out sales quotas that leave you depleted and stressed, it is time for a change toward the simpler life.


As you follow your plan you may find that you don’t have to make as much money to support your new lifestyle. This will allow you the freedom to explore options that may be more in line with your goals, values and interests.
Contact a career counselor at the local college, or in private practice to explore your options and discover what you would really like to do for work.
 Making yourself and your health a priority is essential to living a simple and peaceful life. Develop a lifestyle for yourself to follow. Use schedules and routines to maintain a healthy balance of work, play and rejuvenation.


This includes a healthy eating plan that will fuel your body and provide you with energy to maintain an exercise regime. You may need to change perspectives about exercise, but you will benefit immensely.Meditate and rejuvenate and you will enjoy life that much more., Be self-reliant. Happiness is an inside job and you are responsible to create it. You know what makes you happy, so participate in activities that will build a reservoir of positive feelings. It is easier to face difficult situations if you are filled with good vibes. A happier you will always make any situation and relationship better.

