 Some aesthetic changes will clash against each other. Even worse, you can run out of space to fit all of the pieces on your car. Run all of the ideas past a car expert before making any financial commitments to them.;
, If all you're looking for is a better look, you might find a paint job does everything you want it to. Cars can be painted with specialized spray paint in your garage. Due to the value of your vehicle, it's very important to be slow and consistent with your paint.


If you're painting the car from home, don't forget to give your car a primer coat beforehand.Car modification garages can offer more intense paint jobs with graphics like flames. These are very stylized, but make sure your car model is worthy of the flair before you commit to something so flashy. Graphic flames on a Toyota Camry won't get you the sort of attention you're looking for.
 Tinted windows add fast class to a vehicle. The mystery factor and privacy of tinted windows can make even an average car look posh by comparison.


By replacing factory parts, you may void your vehicle's warranty. Check with the manufacturer before proceeding.
 Changing them for a snazzier design is relatively inexpensive by car mod standards. The subtle difference it makes to your vehicle's appearance won't go unnoticed by those who know where to look.


Make sure your taillight modifications are road-friendly. Although you can change your car's look by replacing the lights on it, you still want to make sure they comply with road regulations.
 While a lot of car modification focuses on the outside presentation, you can revamp your experience on the vehicle by changing the seating. Most stock car seating is cloth-upholstered. For a fashionable touch, replacing this with leather seats is very luxurious.


If you go with leather seating, make sure you take care to maintain it as leather demands.
 This is because car modders tend to have preferences for certain models over others, and more popular models will have a greater number of readymade options. Even a broken down beater can be souped up into something special if you have the money for it. If it's your first time pimping out a car however, you can make it easier on yourself by picking a mod-friendly vehicle to start with.


Look online for some examples of your car model being modded. Some car models will come up with lots of results, while others will draw a blank. The number of results will probably give you an idea whether your car is seen as mod-friendly or not.
 This can be done at a car modification garage. Even a slight drop can have a big effect on the look of your vehicle.


On the other hand, you can boost your suspension up for a more rugged look. This option is popular on trucks and SUVs.
There is a safety concern involved in lowering your car's suspension. Although it may look cool, you'll be sacrificing some of your car's handling in the process. Keep this in mind if you are considering lowering suspension. A faster-looking car doesn't necessarily mean a better one.
 Spoilers are meant to give your car the visual impression that it's fast enough to need some aerodynamic support. Of course, for all except the fastest race cars, spoilers are just for show.Even so, many gearheads find the look of a spoiler very appealing on a car. Depending on how common the add-on is to your model, your mechanic specialist may be able to direct you to a spoiler specially suited to the car you want modded.
 A stereo system doesn't change your car's appearance in any significant way, but a new subwoofer will be felt. If you have the money to spend upgrading your car, giving your stereo a facelift will give your vehicle the soundtrack to boot. Best of all, you can be as cheap or expensive as you'd like with reinventing your sound system. A new pair of front speakers might only set you back $50, while a full-blown stereo system can cost you thousands of dollars.


Bass isn't everything to a stereo system. A rich sound will give you more listening enjoyment than a rig with all its power on the bass end of the spectrum.
Don't be inconsiderate by blasting your subwoofer in crowded areas.
 Hydraulics are a theatrical twist on your car. With hydraulics, you can boost your car's suspension and make it "dance". Hydraulics are a big part of car modder culture, and are preferred on vehicles with low suspension, called low-riders. If you want a playful trick to your car, take it to a garage and get this specialized suspension control installed.


Hydraulic suspension is pricey, and many outside the car modding community associate it with gang culture.
If you're in with a car modding community, you might try joining a car hydraulics "dance competition".
 If you are interested in increasing the functionality of your vehicle, getting a higher-quality brand of tire for your vehicle can change your experience of driving it. This is an important trick whether you're a car modding or a "casual" car owner.


Keep your area's weather in mind when you pick out tires. Some tires are specially designed to function in rain or snow.
Generally speaking, the bigger your wheels are, the less responsive they'll be when you're driving.Try to strike a balance between form and function with your tires.
 These computers determine how much fuel is injected into the engine at different RPMs. If you want to get an added boost (and fuel economy) from your car, you can buy an input panel for your ECU and have it installed in your car. Although it's only recommended you change an ECU's default settings if you know what you're doing, you can squeeze some extra power out of your car just by improving the efficiency of parts you already have.


By cutting out fuel at precise times, you can make your car "backfire", shooting a burst of flame out the exhaust when you rev it. This is not recommended for street vehicles however, and should only be approached if you know what you're doing.
 Having you exhaust and muffler replaced with something more sleek can help improve the vehicle's efficiency. Some car modders also enjoy playing around with the sound a car makes. Removing a muffler will make your car sound considerably louder. While this might make the car sound faster, it's also inconsiderate to other people using the road.
 However, these erode with time. Replacing them with durable polyurethane may be a largely invisible improvement to your vehicle, but it can do wonders for a vehicle's handling if you've been driving it a while.
 Car modifications can affect your insurance premiums. It's best to look into the ways each modification may affect your insurance before committing to them. Talk to your insurance company if you're unclear., All the same you'll want to keep legality in mind while modding your car to make sure it's not taken away from you once you're on the road.


Legality will depend on the specific country you're living in. As a general rule, if your car looks more like it's designed for a racetrack, there's probably something about it that conflicts with regulation.
 At the end of the day, you should make sure you're keeping your car safe and useable. Even if something may look cool, nothing is worth putting your life and others in danger.
 Most tasteful mods will be received positively, while more bombastic changes might be seen as a joke by other street users. Make a point of avoiding inconsiderate mods. Removing your car's muffler vastly increases the noise pollution your car will create, and anything that creates excess smoke should be rightly avoided.

