 Unfortunately, unless you meet certain requirements, you cannot drive for Uber. Before trying to drive for Uber, make sure you satisfy the following requirements:Be at least 21
Have one year of driving experience in the United States
Have a valid U.S driver's license
Own a car that can seat four passengers;
, You will have to scan and email certain documents to Uber to verify things like your age. Scan and email Uber a valid driver's license and proof of insurance., Uber will ask you to let them do a screening online. This checks your driving history to make sure you're a safe enough driver to work for Uber. This should only take a few minutes after you consent to the screening., Uber drivers are paid via direct deposit. Using your Uber username and password, sign into vault.uber.com and hit "modify" to add payment information. For your security, Uber will then send a four digit pin to your phone. Enter this pin to get into the website and enter your banking information.If you don't receive your pin, sign into to the Uber app through your phone. Tap "Profile" and reenter or update your phone number.
 Once you've accessed the Uber site, you can enter your banking information for direct deposit. You will need information like your bank account and routing number, which you can find through an online banking system or by looking at a check. When you're done, simply tap "Save.", Uber pays every Monday, so you should get a notification about your earnings then. However, payments are usually not reflected in your bank statements until Thursday. On Thursday, check your bank account balance to make sure the payment was processed.Contact Uber via phone or e-mail if your payment did not go through. Sometimes, payments may be delayed due to holidays.
 Your Uber account should provide you a statement each week explaining your earnings. This explains the amount of money you made through trips and tips, as well as any reimbursement you received from Uber for things like tolls.Uber provides an estimate of weekly payments through their app, but the estimate is rarely 100% accurate. Depending on things like tips and promotions, you may make slightly more or less than expected. Your rolling payment statements can help explain any discrepancies., If you want a more flexible payment option, sign up for Instant Pay via your Uber account. This allows you to cash out whenever you earn money via Uber. To set up Instant Pay, simply tap "Earnings" through your Uber account. Tap "Instant Pay" and then enter your debit card number.Not every Uber driver can sign up for Instant Pay. If you're paying for features like vehicle financing, you cannot sign up for Instant Pay. If your account has any security issues, you cannot sign up for Instant Pay until they're resolved.
 As long as you have at least $1 in earnings, you can cash out of Instant Pay whenever you want. All you have to do is go to your "Earnings" tab in the Uber app and click "Cash Out." You can cash out up to five times a day.Any money you don't cash out by Uber's weekly paydays will be direct deposited into your bank account on Mondays.
 In general, chasing surges throughout the day is unlikely to make you a lot of money. Many cars will enter surge zones, driving up competition. When driving for Uber, try to drive around a central location in the city. This way, you'll be pinged to get rides from people in surrounding areas and can pick up steady work.You should also avoid driving around areas like the suburbs of large cities. People often call Ubers to be taken into the cities, but the cost of driving miles and miles often outweighs the money you make.
 While chasing random surge prices is not recommended, do not ignore surges altogether either. Some surge prices are predictable. When areas are packed with customers looking for a ride, the demand is high enough that you should get rides even with competition.Bars closing and major events ending are generally the most predictable surge times. During these times, hovering around these areas increases your likelihood of getting a high paying ride.
 While driving, occasionally sign into the passenger app. If a lot of drivers are clustered in one area, it'll be harder for you to pick up rides. Go to areas where there are less drivers on the road.However, avoid completely secluded areas. Stick to central locations rather than driving to the middle of nowhere, where there may not be a high demand for rides.
 If an area is busy, but surge prices have not gone into effect yet, you can hack the system. When going to a surge area, log into the passenger's app until you reach the area. This shows Uber more people are heading to a particular area, which may lead to surge prices., Figure out the cost of owning and operating your car, the gas you use per mile, and IRS deductions from your final paycheck. Each week, add up the extra costs and subtract them from your paycheck. This will show you how much you really made.By driving in far away areas or simply not working enough hours, you can actually lose money driving for Uber. If your number comes out negative, strive to get more rides and tweak the locations where you're driving.
 Uber ratings actually matter a lot. Customers may not want to take rides from drivers with low ratings, so always be courteous to customers. Getting frustrated or crabby could knock your ratings.Customers who are angry, emotional, or intoxicated are typical for Uber drivers. Deal with such customers with patience, even when they become unruly. While it can be frustrating, remember how much your ratings matter to power through unpleasant interactions.

