 You might be able to avoid bankruptcy by coming up with a budget and handling your finances better. Accordingly, you should visit the Free Money Service website. It provides a wealth of information on the following topics:how to plan and stick with a budget
how to pay bills
how to save money when you shop

, The Money Advice Service provides links to agencies that provide free debt advice. You should contact an agency and discuss alternatives to bankruptcy. Check here for a listing: https://www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk/en/tools/debt-advice-locator


You can get counseling online, in person, or over the telephone.
Find a money advisor nearest you and ask what financial documents the advisor will need to see. Schedule a meeting as soon as possible.
 You have many options for avoiding bankruptcy. You should discuss them with your money advisor. For example, you may be able to pursue any of the following, depending on your circumstances:



Informal agreements with your creditors. Call them up and discuss a timetable for making repayments. They might be willing to change the terms of your repayment for a limited amount of time.

Debt management plans. You can work with a licensed debt management company, which will charge a fee. The company sets up a repayment plan with your creditors. You make a monthly payment to your debt management company. A debt management plan only works with unsecured debt.Individual voluntary arrangement. An insolvency practitioner helps you negotiate repayment terms with your creditors. You make one payment to the practitioner, who then sends the payment to each creditor. Your creditors must agree to plan. However, if the creditors holding at least 75% of your debt agree, then all creditors are bound., In Scotland, you can set up a debt payment program based on your disposable income. Once you submit your program, all interest and fees are frozen. The program lasts for a reasonable amount of time.There are many restrictions, such as not being able to get new credit.Furthermore, using a DPP will affect your credit for six years, and your information will be made public., In England and Wales, you can get a DRO, which is like a bankruptcy. You must have less than £20,000 in debt, no spare income, and not own your own home. It lasts for 12 months, during which time you don’t make payments but must abide by certain restrictions.


After 12 months, you are relieved of any debts listed in the DRO.A DRO gives you a chance to freeze your debt situation and see if you can financially turn yourself around.
DROs negatively affect your credit score and are made public.