 If you can, visit a couple of different pet stores before you decide on a frog. Stores have different quality standards of care, so some stores will have healthier frogs than others. Buy the healthiest, most robust specimen you can find – it will be easier to care for, and is likely to live longer.Only buy a frog if its tank is clean, with no feces floating in the water. Poor sanitary conditions lead to sick frogs.;
, Skin that appears clouded may be a sign of illness. A milky or cloudy looking skin might simply be a sign of recent shedding, as these frogs shed and eat their skin periodically. But to be on the safe side, start with a clear-skinned frog.Ornate Horned Frogs are usually medium to dark green or yellow in color, with patches of red and black.
Cranwell's Horned Frogs – a specialized variety bred in captivity – can also be brown, beige, orange, yellow, and even albino.
 Approach the frogs, and pass your hand near them in front or on top of the tank. A healthy frog will react by rapidly moving the sac under its mouth, and may make a “mooing” sound. If you don't get a reaction, the frog is probably unhealthy.Look for frogs that seem alert and have clear, bright eyes.
 A frog's skin is a delicate membrane that acts as a secondary breathing organ. The oils on human skin can be harmful or even toxic to a frog's skin.


Pet frogs are for looking at – they don't want human love or affection.
Frogs don't like to be held, and will sometimes make loud distress calls to let you know they are upset.
Ornate Horned Frogs will try to eat anything that comes near their mouth, and they will bite your finger.
 Wild caught (WC) frogs are unsuited to captivity, and suffer from stress. Therefore, it is considered cruel to keep them.


Wild caught frogs often carry parasites or diseases, which will infect your other frogs.
Wild caught frogs are often old, so you won't have as much time to enjoy your frog.
 Most frogs are cannibalistic; large frogs often eat smaller frogs. It's dangerous to put more than one Ornate Horned Frog in the same tank. One is very likely to eat the other, especially if they are different sizes.Never mix different types of frogs in one tank, as each species of frog has its own particular care needs.

