 You might not spend the time checking yourself out each month because cancer doesn't run in your family, you are young, you feel healthy, or maybe you tend to put things off. However, you may want to familiarize yourself with how healthy breasts normally feel.Do this right after a period because this is when natural breast lumps will be at their smallest.


The upper breast tissue either feels long and thick or uneven and rounded.
The lower breast feels smoother.
Some random spots feel slightly bumpy normally; just be aware of changes each month.;
, Different symptoms will alert you to a possible problem. Being familiar with each of them is something that you should add to your to-do-list! Educating ourselves is the best defense when it comes our health.Be aware that some tenderness or lumpiness can occur around the time of your period. If it doesn't go away by your next cycle, be concerned.If your breasts get red, become irritated, or the skin is flaky, you might want to see a doctor.If your nipple looks like it is flipped inside out (unless it usually looks this way), make an appointment.If your nipples produce any red, brown, yellow, or clear fluids, it's time for a check-up., It is integral that you do not delay seeking a physician's advice if you notice a change in or around your breasts. It is always better to be informed. Avoid thinking about the worse case scenario at this point, though.Make your appointment as soon as possible. The longer that you wait, the worse off you will be if the tumor or other symptom is a sign of cancer.
Talk to friends and co-workers. Ask other women if they've ever had a similar experience and ask about the outcome. Hearing some positive stories will stop you from completely losing it.
Panicking just gets your cortisol levels going. An uptake in cortisol is going to make you crave sugary, fatty, no-good-for-you foods. Drink some chamomile tea and calm down, as you need to stay healthy.
 It might be scary when you find a lump or other abnormality. Don't freak out, though! It is more than likely that your lump is not cancerous, but you must receive confirmation of that from a doctor.Some lumps are just cysts. Cysts, which are filled with fluid, occur due to hormonal changes and it is common for women to experience them at some point in their lives.Other lumps might just be benign tumors. These are the result of tissue that has simply formed too quickly and is a bit abnormal as a result.You might be experiencing mastitis. This is an infection and the primary cause is breastfeeding. It can easily be treated with antibiotics.