 Even if you had a “supermom” as a parent, she didn’t do it all alone, all the time. (The same holds true for the “super dad's ” out there, of course.) Every parent needs some help, and there is no shame in accepting it when offered, or requesting it when needed.If your parents or in-laws, sibling, or reliable cousin or friend wants to watch the kids for an afternoon, accept graciously. You’re not abdicating your responsibility; you’re being a smart parent — and probably making them happy.
Alternatively, if someone close to you offers to help with tasks around the house, shopping, etc. while you focus on the kids, say “yes” as well. People like helping others, and people who know what it’s like to raise kids are likely to be particularly willing to lend a hand.
 But was she working sixty hours a week in a cubicle? Whatever work you do, in or out of the home, you shouldn’t feel inadequate about selectively paying others to help out with certain tasks.Pay someone to come and clean the house every other week, or take care of the yard, so you can focus on other tasks. Or pay for a babysitter or extended daycare once or twice a week, if your budget allows., In the best case scenario, you’ll take care of household chores and other work bit by bit — for instance, doing smaller amounts of laundry multiple times per week — so you can stay “ahead of the game.” However, there will inevitably come times when the dirty clothes or dishes will pile up, the grass will grow a bit long, or the toys will remain strewn across the living room. It’s OK; it happens. Leave it for tomorrow when you just need a little break.Yes, giant messes left for days cost more time (and sanity) to take care of than smaller messes you keep up with daily. At the same time, though, remember that your home doesn’t need to look like it’s ready for a magazine shoot every morning.
 Becoming a parent changes who you are, but it doesn’t negate your individual identity or needs. If you consistently ignore your own needs and interests, you’ll become more stressed, more unhappy, and less effective as a parent. Pencil in some time to engage in hobbies or activities that interest you, or just to relax and clear your head.If you’re in a relationship, schedule regular date nights with your partner.And, while it may not seem so romantic to schedule late-night physical encounters, don’t let the hustle and bustle of having kids completely dry up your sex life. Just take the proper precautions if you want to avoid having any more kids!

