 If you want to learn to do this, it is possible but it requires a lot of effort and learning. On the other hand, if you're happy letting your hair grow as nature intended and keeping it in a simple style, it is easy enough to do.;
, This requires a bit of trial and error rather than trusting marketing claims. While a shampoo or conditioner may claim to be ideal for certain types of hair, you won't know until you've tried a variety and felt the results for yourself. Moreover, as you age, it is highly likely that the hair care products that once suited your hair will no longer be fit for purpose and you'll need to change to another one suited for the changes your hair has experienced.


Try a range of shampoos and conditioners. Don't spend too much though, there is no rule that says only expensive hair care products bring good results.
Another alternative is to make your own shampoo and conditioner. This can be a way of only using ingredients that you feel are safe and that are targeted to your hair type. There are good herbal and beauty books with recipes for shampoos available for you to read and experiment from.
Check out How to wash your hair without shampoo for shampoo-free care options.
 This takes practice and it's very helpful to have an experienced person teach you how to do it first. In time, you will get better at doing this, at least the basics of cutting off split ends and keeping bangs or front hair in good shape.


Use a mirror when cutting your own hair, to allow you to watch the progress and cut accurately.
Use a sharp pair of scissors that is only used for this purpose.
Get hold of a good book on hair cutting, one that has diagrams of the cutting process. Online videos and tutorials will also be very useful to follow, especially if you want to watch a video at the same time as cutting your hair.
 Use a hair moisturizing product in extremes of cold and heat. Wear a hat to keep your hair from drying out too much when pursuing outdoor activities during the warmer months of the year.


Excessive heat can ruin hair. Keep blow dryer, hair straightener, hot curler and curling wand use to a minimum.
If possible, avoid using at-home hair dyes, hair straighteners or self-done permanent waves. The chemicals in these items will dry out your hair, strip it of its color and original oils and leave your hair weaker. If you are not going to have a hair salon look after your hair when using such products, you are likely to find it much easier to do without them at all. However, that said, some people do learn to handle using such products at home and matching their hair's depleted needs with good quality hair care products, again usually by trial and error. It is up to you how much effort you're willing to put in.
 This will give you the opportunity to fix any problems you were unable to do yourself. It could be by way of a treat or a yearly touch-up.


This provides an opportunity to get things done that you find difficult, such as adding layering that grows nicely for the following year, etc.

