 These spots often result from high amounts of skin-darkening melanin in certain areas of your skin. This melanin can be set off by triggers from inside and outside your body. This melanin condition is called hyperpigmentation. The triggers might include sun exposure, melasma, and skin inflammation.


Sun spots: These dark brown clusters can take months, or even years, to show up in sun-exposed areas. Once they show up, they usually don't fade unless you treat them. This pigment shift stays near the surface of the skin, so you can treat it with creams and scrubs. Use sunscreen often to prevent sun spots or to keep them from getting worse.
Melasma (Chloasma): These dusky, symmetrical spots stem from hormone changes during birth-control use or pregnancy. When these hormones combine with sun exposure, dark spots can appear on the cheeks, forehead, and upper lip. This form of hyperpigmentation tends to return easily, even if you treat it.
Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation: If you have a darker skin tone, you may get dark spots that linger after a burn, pimple, or other skin abrasion. In this case, the melanin is deep within your skin, and the dark spots may take three to six months to fade.;
, The skin around your mouth is drier during cold season. Some people tend to wet that area with their saliva, which can darken the skin. If you haven't been out in the sun much, you may be over-wetting the area around your mouth., This can lead to discoloration, dry skin, and mouth wrinkles. These problems do not go deep into the skin, so you will probably not need an invasive treatment. You may be able to easily get rid of your discoloration by treating or exfoliating the skin.
 If you aren't sure what's causing the dark area around your mouth, a dermatologist may be able to diagnose the problem and suggest a treatment. Changes in the skin can be early warning signs of skin cancer and other serious disorders, so it might be wise to have a doctor check out your symptoms just in case.

