 While you are only legally required to obtain a corrected license if you have a CDL license, some people may prefer to have their new address appear on their driver’s license. This may make it more convenient when a person uses their license as identification and proof of residence. If you choose or are required to obtain a corrected license reflecting your new address, you must do so in person at a local Secretary of State office that processes drivers’ licenses.


You can locate a local office by submitting your new zip code at: http://www.ilsos.gov/facilityfinder/facility.
 In order to obtain a corrected license, you must bring a document that verifies your signature and two documents that verify your residency. The Secretary of State’s office has established four categories of document requirements that may be needed when obtaining a driver’s license.


For a corrected license, you must bring one document from Group A and two documents from Group D. You could also bring one document from Group A, one document from Group D and one document from either Group B or C, so long as the document from Group B or C also displays your full address.
Group A documents display your written signature, and include, but are not limited to: credit card/debit card (major brand); Driver Education Certificate; Illinois driver’s license (current); or an Illinois ID card (current).
Group D documents establish your residency by providing your full address, and include but are not limited to: utility bills (electric, water, refuse, telephone land/cell, cable or gas, issued within 90 days of application); bank statement (dated within 90 days prior to application); or deed/title, mortgage, rental/lease agreement.
Group B documents verify your date of birth and Group C documents set forth your social security number. These documents include, but are not limited to: adoption records; birth certificate; court order (change of birth date); passport (valid with complete date of birth); U.S. Visa; Illinois driver’s license record; U.S. military driver’s license/ID card; or Military Service Record (DD214).For a complete list of all acceptable documents visit: http://www.cyberdriveillinois.com/publications/pdf_publications/dsd_x173.pdf.
 You are required to pay a small fee in order to obtain a corrected driver’s license (CDL or regular). The fee for a corrected license is $5.00 and you must pay the fee when you pick up your corrected licenses.You can use the following payment methods:


Cash, check, credit cards and debit cards are accepted for Secretary of State transactions.
American Express, Discover, MasterCard and Visa credit and debit cards are accepted.