 Many schools have rules dictating when and what sites are acceptable for school use. You will want to base your classroom rules on school-wide rules.;
, With students, it is always a good idea to give them some guidelines and tell them what discipline will be dealt if they ignore them. As well as creating a safe classroom environment, a school-approved Internet code of conduct can help children to learn how to navigate the Internet carefully.
 This general educational aid is like a bulletin board of important information for students and parents. You can post homework assignments, calendars, upcoming events, suggested resources and more.


If your school does not provide you the capabilities to create a class website, you can create an account at SchoolNotes.com. Students and parents can search for your website using the school's zip code.
 Although students may have the ability to use a search engine, they may not be aware of how to find reliable sources. You may consider teaching a lesson on Internet research.


Begin this class in the computer lab, if possible. Students who learn from experience as well as through handouts and lectures are more likely to adopt new skills.
Suggest search engines other than Google or Bing. Post search engines like Internet Public Library and Think Quest on your classroom website. Suggest that they conduct a search on these sites first, and move to Google if they cannot find information.
Teach children to analyze a URL. Students should give priority to .edu, .gov and .mil websites, because they are highly regulated. Next, they should choose .org websites over .com, because a .com website is more likely to post information that sells products and they have a lower burden of accuracy.
Tell students to find the author, sources and the date when the information was published. These are clues into the accuracy and reliability of the website. Ask them to look for red flags, such as misspellings, sponsorships by companies and personal bias.
Ask students to create a bibliography of all the sites they used for projects. EasyBib can help students to site information correctly, while asking them to input the necessary information.
 At google.com/cse/ you can specify the websites that you want the students to search and remove those that are forbidden. Give the search engine code to your students and refine it throughout the year.

