 For desensitization to be successful, you must be able to relax yourself when you feel afraid. You will need to learn a relaxation technique that works reliably for you every time before beginning a desensitization regimen. Practice these when you are not feeling stressed or anxious so you can focus on the process and which one works best for you.


Breathing is an important part of any relaxation technique, so it is helpful to learn basic breathing exercises, regardless of which technique you decide to use. Breathe in through your nose and into your belly — you should feel your tummy rise as it fills with air. Then exhale through your mouth. It may help you to count to five with each inhale/exhale.;
, This technique uses both your imagination and an awareness of your body to help you feel calm.


Think of a word, phrase, or image that makes you feel peaceful.
Repeatedly imagine this word, phrase, or image.
Focus on slow, controlled breathing while you think of the word, phrase, or image., Using this method, you work on tensing and relaxing muscles and developing an awareness of your muscle tension.


Start by flexing the muscles in your toes. Hold for five seconds. (Some people find it best to start at their toes and work toward their head, but others find that the reverse works better. Pick whichever works best for you.)
Consciously relax your toe muscles for 30 seconds.
Work your way upward until you reach your head.
 Visualization helps you create very vivid mental pictures that you can call up later. Remember to do your deep breathing as you visualize.


Think of a peaceful place.
Observe everything about the place. What does it look like? What colors do you see?
Imagine how all of your senses feel in this place. What can you smell? Are there any noises?

, Practice it often so that you can do it without thinking hard about it. It’s okay to choose more than one, but be sure that you can consistently use the techniques to make yourself feel calm and relaxed.


Keep in mind that if you have a history of serious psychological issues, it may take you a long time to learn a relaxation technique.
If practicing a relaxation technique causes you distress, stop and seek assistance from a mental health professional.
 You will want to be able to use it at a moment’s notice when you start desensitization. , Begin by numbering a piece of paper in reverse order, from 10 to one. Imagine the scariest circumstance you could (in the real world) find yourself in, and write that scenario as number 10. From 10 down to one, write decreasingly disturbing scenarios. For example, if you have a phobia of spiders, your list may look like this:
10) Spider on my bare arm
9) Spider on my clothing
8) Spider on my shoe
7) Spider walking towards me
6) Seeing a spider sitting in the corner
5) Knowing a spider is in the house
4) Knowing a spider is in the yard
3) Seeing a big squished spider
2) Seeing a small squished spider
1) Seeing a drawing of a friendly spider, At a scheduled time each week, you will imagine progressively frightening scenarios while practicing relaxation techniques. Be sure to give yourself enough time to mentally recuperate before moving on to the next step.


Some people find that it’s better to work on desensitization every other day, rather than wait a week in between. Experiment with either method and decide which one works best for you. It will depend on how anxious you feel after each session. If you feel very anxious, you may want to give yourself longer in between sessions.
 You should not undertake a desensitization regimen alone. Tell someone you trust (a friend, parent, sibling, spouse, or therapist, perhaps) that you are planning to try to overcome your phobia. Make sure they know when you are planning to work on desensitization techniques and ensure that they will be available if you feel start to feel overwhelmed., On the first day that you and your helper decided on, begin with number one, the item on your list that causes you the least amount of anxiety, such as a drawing of a friendly-looking spider.
 Desensitization works because you choose to stop your feelings of anxiety by purposefully relaxing. Pick whichever one works best for you, and use it for several minutes until you feel thoroughly relaxed.,


If you feel overly anxious, stop and return to your relaxation techniques. Stop if you feel panicky or overwhelmed.
If you make it through about 30 seconds thinking about number one, return to your relaxation techniques for a few minutes until you feel calm. , If you’re feeling up for it, you can cycle through this routine several times (alternating thinking about the first item on your list and practicing relaxation techniques). Don’t go longer than twenty minutes., Beginning with number one, practice thinking about your least disturbing scenario and relaxing., Go to the second item on your list as soon as you feel comfortable doing so. Just as you did with number one, practice relaxation techniques alternately with imagining the scenario on your list. , Always begin a new session with the last item that you successfully worked on the previous session. If you feel overly anxious, return to an item on the list that allows you to feel calm and relaxed. You may need to stick with this item on the list for several sessions. Do not move too quickly through the list and overwhelm yourself., If you ever feel overwhelmed, always be sure to move back to an item on the list that allows you to feel calm.