 The seeds of a particular tomato will lend fruit that are nearly identical to the parent. If you have an extra delicious or juicy fruit that you want to preserve, cut it up and save its seeds.


Make sure that the fruit you select is healthy; an unhealthy tomato will produce fruit that are similarly unhealthy. It is okay fi the fruit is bruised or has insects in it, just be sure that the plant the tomato came from is healthy.
Wait until the fruit is at its very ripest before cutting for preservation.
 Use a sharp knife to cut your tomato in half down the equator (running through the stem). Do this over a cutting board or bowl so that you can easily gather the seeds and juicy innards from the fruit for preservation.
 Use a spoon to scoop out all the little seeds, juice, and soft, fleshy goop inside the tomato. Place all of this in a small bowl or cup.
 The seeds need to go through a fermentation process before being dried, and do this by sitting in their own liquids. Cover the container with your seeds and flesh in it with a bit of plastic wrap. Poke a few holes in the plastic wrap for the air to circulate.


Do not add water to the seeds and pulp., Now the seeds need some time to ferment. Place the covered dish someplace that is below 70 degrees Fahrenheit. Leave the seeds in this location for two or three days and make sure to open the contain and stir them with a stick twice per day., After several days, you will notice that the juice and flesh from the fruit has created a scum at the top of the water, while the seeds have sunk to the bottom of the dish. When this has happened, scoop off the stuff floating near the top and then pour the seeds and water into a sieve. Rinse with lukewarm water, making sure that the seeds are completely clean.
 Sterilizing your seeds will help to kill off any diseases and bacteria that might be growing, and help your plant to be stronger and produce more fruit when placed outdoors. Soak the seeds in a mixture of 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of apple cider vinegar or bleach and 1 US-quart (950 ml) of water for 15 minutes.


You can do this with pre-packaged store bought seeds to make sure that they are bacteria and disease free as well.
 Post-rinse, shake the seeds in the sieve a bit to remove as much excess water as possible. Then, lay them out on a tray covered in coffee filters or wax paper. Place these somewhere they will not be bumped or exposed, with temperatures in the 70’s. Use your fingers to move the seeds around once a day to keep them from sticking to each other or the paper.
 When the seeds are completely dry to the touch and do not stick to each other, they are ready to use. Be careful not to pull seeds too early though, because if they are slightly damp they will grow mold, mildew, and bacteria that will spoil them., After they have finished drying, store your seeds in a paper envelope until they are ready to use. Avoid storing the seeds in a plastic bag or container, as these don’t allow as much air ventilation and are more likely to produce bacteria and mold in your seeds.Make sure to label your seeds with the plant variety and year as soon as they are dry.

