 Crack each egg in half over a bowl and gently transfer the yolk from shell to shell, letting the white drop into the bowl. Transfer the remaining yolks to a separate medium mixing bowl.


It's a good idea to separate the whites from one egg into a small bowl and, if the separation is a success (no yolk gets in), pour the whites from that egg into the large bowl. Repeat this process for each egg to minimize the risk of adding unseparated yolks or shell fragments to the main mixing bowl.
If you get yolk in the whites, save that egg for breakfast: whites will not whip when contaminated with egg yolk.
 Using an electric beater set on medium speed, beat the egg whites until they turn white and frothy. Add half the sugar and beat just until soft peaks begin to form.


You can technically use a whisk instead of an electric beater, but the process will take more time and energy.
"Soft peaks" should just begin to hold their form when you remove the mixer, but they'll melt back into the whites after a second or two., Mix the remaining half of the sugar into the egg yolks in a separate bowl. Beat the mixture with a whisk until it is well blended.
 Gently fold the egg yolks into the beaten egg whites using a spatula, pouring slowly. The goal is to keep the fluffiness of the whites, which means you can stir too quickly or press too hard.
 Slowly pour the rum into the egg mixture, gently folding it in with your spatula. If you're serving the eggnog to children, you can leave out the alcohol. Next, add the milk and cream slowly to the bowl, gently stirring them in.


Start with 4 cups (1 L) of milk, then add more later to adjust the consistency. If you're adding alcohol, you may not need any more milk.
Some cooks recommend heating the milk and cream before adding to the egg mixture to help thicken and slightly cook the eggs. If you're worried about eating raw eggs, follow this step.
Taste the eggnog and decide whether to add more alcohol.
For thicker eggnog, reduce the amount of milk by half.
 Beat the reserved half of the cream in another medium bowl until nearly stiff, then gently fold the whipped cream into the mixture. Transfer the finished eggnog to a large punch bowl for serving.


Stiff peaks should be firm and should not collapse into themselves when you pull away the mixer., Grate or sprinkle some nutmeg on top for a pretty touch.


You can safely save leftovers in a sealed dish in the refrigerator for a few days or up to one week.

