 Being independent means being in charge of your own life and making your own decisions. In order to do that successfully, you need to understand who you really are. Knowing and loving yourself is the first step towards being capable of independence.Pay attention to your moods. Your emotions are important factors in how you make decisions, so monitor them. Be aware of what makes you happy and what is unsatisfying.Know how your environment affects you. Notice how you react in different settings or situations.;
, Making important decisions on your own is a key component of being an independent woman. In order to feel confident doing this, use careful consideration when making big choices. Remember, the best way to make a big decision is to balance what your heart wants with what your mind thinks is best.Make a list of the risks and rewards involved.When examining the list of all potential rewards against the risks, decide if the odds are in your favor or against you.
Don't be afraid to ask for advice. You're still the one making the decision, even if you listen to input from someone you trust.
Consider how you would feel if your decision were broadcast on the nightly news. Is this a decision you would be proud of?Does the decision compromise your values, character, or integrity? You may have to make an unpopular decision, but do what you feel is right an in line with these things., Being an independent woman means being able to care for yourself emotionally. Learn to acknowledge your emotions. Be kind to yourself during times of stress or unhappiness. You deserve your own patience.This will be different for everyone, so find something small that you can do to calm yourself if you need to. If you're at work, try stepping back and taking a minute for yourself. Go to the restroom and splash some cool water on your face. Or log out of your e-mail for a minute and text a friend.
Pets are great for helping you soothe yourself. If you have a cat, pet him. This will help you deal with your stress.
 Learning to enjoy your own company is a big part of being independent. You don't always have to depend on others in order to enjoy an activity. To get used to your own company, practice spending time by yourself – on purpose.Go to a movie by yourself. You won't have to worry about anyone talking during the previews or hogging the popcorn.
Dine alone. Going to a restaurant by yourself can be intimidating. But you might find that it is very enjoyable. You get to choose the time and place, without having to worry about another person's appetite. If you fear you might be bored, take a book or magazine with you.
 Being in a codependent relationship can greatly detract from your ability to be independent. Evaluate all of your relationships (personal, romantic, professional) and make sure that there is a give and take in each relationship. Make sure your needs are being met in each of your relationships.Try being more assertive in your relationships. Speak up if you feel that you are not being valued.

