 Different bat compositions and materials have different uses and advantages. It’s important to know what kind of bat is appropriate for the game the girl will be playing., Wood bats are generally heavier than other types on the market. They may be most appropriate for slowpitch softball and for professional games and tournaments.Some leagues mandate the use of wood bats for safety reasons, since balls hit with wood bats are less likely to attain speeds that can result in serious injury to defensive players and pitchers., Alloy bats (made from aluminum or other types of metal) are light and relatively inexpensive. They also have the advantage of being ready to use right away – i.e., they do not have to be broken in. They also tend to last longer than other types of bats. However, they have a smaller “sweet spot” than other types of bats, meaning that there is a more restricted area of the barrel for creating a good hit., Composite bats are made out of a synthetic, fibrous material. These bats tend to be more well-balanced than other types, and are better at absorbing vibrations from hits. However, they tend to be more expensive than alloy bats, and have to be broken in.Hybrid bats combine features of alloy and composite bats. A hybrid bat offers the comfort of a shock-absorbing composite handle along with the lower cost of an alloy barrel.
Be aware of the potential safety risks to other team members posed by composite bats. The higher ball speeds achieved by composite bats have the potential to cause serious injury to pitchers and defensive players.
 As the names suggest, one-piece bats are made of a single piece of material, while two-piece bats consist of a separate barrel and handle, sometimes made from two different materials, that have been assembled together. Once piece bats tend to be stiffer and better balanced, while two-piece bats are more flexible and better at absorbing shocks and vibrations. You should choose based on the girl’s playing style and personal preference.Have the girl test out both types of bat on the field before making a purchase. She may be able to borrow bats from other team members in order to test them out and see which type she likes best.
 The price of bats varies depending on materials, method of composition, and a variety of other factors. While you may be able to get a high-quality composite bat for around $100, softball bats may cost as much as $400. Have an idea of how much you are able to spend before you decide to purchase a bat, and speak to store employees about your price expectations.