 Take a regular deck and fan out the cards for a spectator, asking her to pick a card. As your spectator picks the card and memorizes it, cut the deck. Have your spectator place the card on top of the cut and then stack the rest cards into a pinky break.


Have the spectator place the card on the bottom half of the deck, keeping a pinky break between her card and the cards you're laying on top. This way, you'll know where the card is.
A pinky break is performed by using the padding of your pinky finger to keep a slight cut in the back of the deck that your audience can’t see., Use your pinky break to separate the cards you stacked on top of the spectator's card and cut the deck so your spectator’s card is on the top. This might be an obvious re-cut, so to distract your audience, ask your spectator to concentrate super hard on the card which was drawn, explaining that you’re going to attempt to make the card show up in your spectator’s hands.


If you plan to shuffle any more, make sure that the top card stays there.
 A double lift involves taking the top two cards off the top as if you only took one. It is an essential sleight-of-hand skill to learn if you want to perform magic card tricks. Show your spectator the face of the card you just took off the deck in the double lift. State that you want your spectator to sandwich this card in between her hands, and that you’re going to magically change it with the one she picked. As you say this, place both cards back on top of the deck.You may need to practice taking the two cards off the top, and showing the face of the second one, as if it were one card before attempting this trick.
 Place the top card which is the one your spectator originally picked on top of her hand, and have her then place her other hand over it.


Once you've got the double lift down, put the two cards back on the deck, taking the top card (the spectator’s original card) and putting it into their hands, face-down, sandwiched there. Tell your spectator to hold onto the card tightly, applying a good amount of pressure.
At this point, the card your spectator picked is sandwiched between her hands, but she will think it is the card you just showed her. This card is on top of the deck.
 Tell your spectator that you're going to switch the card she’s holding right now magically with the card they selected initially.


Go hunting around the deck as if you were looking for their card, all the while knowing your spectator already has it.
Settle on the card that's already on top of the deck which your spectator thinks is in between her hands.
 Finally, reveal that you have the card your spectator believed was in her hands. Ask your spectator to look at the card she has, revealing that it is her original card.

