 Whether you choose chocolate, vanilla, strawberry or red velvet, any flavor can be used in a Batman cake. If you're unsure, browse the baking aisle at your local grocery store for ideas.


You will need three boxes of cake mix and triple ingredients for this cake.;
, While you're still at the store, look at the instructions on the back of the cake mix box. The mix probably calls for ingredients such as eggs and vegetable oil. You will also need to purchase black fondant, yellow sugar paper and three cans of frosting.
 You will need five round cake pans for this recipe: three large, one medium and one small. Grease your pans to avoid cake sticking to them. You'll want to use about a half of tablespoon of butter or vegetable shortening on a paper towel to rub the inside of each pan. You can also sprinkle about a tablespoon or two of flour on top of the oil. By flouring the pans on the sides, the cake will better adhere to the sides as it bakes.


The best sized cake pans for this recipe are one 6-inch, one 8-inch and three 9-inch round pans.
 Once you have all the ingredients, you'll want to mix and bake the cake. The instructions are right on the back of the box. Make sure you preheat your oven to the suggested temperature.
Mix the ingredients and pour the batter into the greased cake pans.
Bake for the instructed time. The cakes are done when a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Be sure to let them cool completely, preferably on a wire baking rack for 15 to 30 minutes.
 Run a butter knife around the pan edges to loosen the sides. Place the wire rack over the top of each pan, invert it, and tap it lightly to remove the cake.


For best results, stick the cooled cakes in the refrigerator or freezer until they are nice and cold.
 Spread frosting in between the layers. You can either use the same flavor of icing you choose for the outside of the cake or a different kind, whatever is your preference. , A crumb coat is a thin layer of frosting that prevents crumbs from getting into the final frosting decorations. , While it's not absolutely necessary, chilling the crumb coat makes it easier to apply your final frosting decorations.
 Cut an oval circle out of black fondant. Top it with a smaller oval circle of yellow sugar paper. Then just top the sugar paper with a fondant cut-out of the Batman logo.


Apply a little bit of frosting in between the logo layers so they stick together.
 Cut out various-sized rectangular shapes from the black fondant, no taller than the bottom cake layer. Then cut small squares of the yellow sugar paper to use as windows. You can space the windows around the "buildings" as you see fit.


Apply a dab of white icing to secure the windows to the buildings.
 If you cannot find the right color icing at the store, just buy two cans of white icing and dye it with blue or black food coloring. If possible, use a frosting knife to spread the icing as smooth as possible.
 While the icing is still sticky, attach the black fondant buildings around the perimeter of the bottom cake layer, ensuring they reach all the way around. Lightly press the fondant into the frosting until it sticks.
 Cut a long strip of black fondant equal to the circumference of the top layer, probably about 20 inches. Wrap the strip around the bottom edge of the top cake layer.
 Press the logo into the frosting on the front of the cake right above the black fondant ribbon.
 You can use any Batman action figure. Even better, place a toy Batmobile or a Robin action figure on top with Batman.

