 The way to get out of class with the most likely consequences but the least amount of effort and planning on your part is simply to skip. During passing period, just leave school, if you want to skip the rest of the day, or head to the bathroom to hide out, or just wander the hallways for the rest of the class period until that class is over, then go to your next like nothing happened. Hide from prowling teachers!


If you're in elementary school and never have passing period, you'll need to do a bit more planning, since you'll probably need a parent to come get you and won't be able to just skip. Go on to the next step for other tips.;
, Tried and true, but probably the most reliable way of getting out of class is with an illness. A good actor can pull off a convincing sickness that no teacher or administrator will try to question. It's usually in their best interest to just go with it and let you leave, as long as you do it right.


When you walk into class, really start laying it on thick. Have a deeply frowning face, and move slowly, your head down as if you had a headache. Hold your head in your hands and wait a few minutes to approach the teacher.
Ask to go to the nurse. You can either actually go to the nurse and just nap for the rest of the hour, try to get sent home, or just skip going to the nurse and wander until class is over.
It's important to be a good actor. If you come into class grinning and joking with your buddies, the teacher won't believe you if thirty seconds later you're suffering from the black plague.
 While this might be more common or effective in something like gym class, if you can fake a sprain or another type of non-serious injury, you could potentially even get a friend out of class to help walk you down to the nurse's station. It's a pretty decent way to get out of class, again, if you're a good actor.


Usually the best way of doing this is to not try to fake an injury by falling or doing something else ridiculous in class, but come in selling the injury already. Walk with a limp, or hold your head in your hands to fake a head injury.
Tell the teacher you hurt yourself at recess, or during gym class, or that you fell outside in the hallway and you want to go see the nurse. Again, you can usually get out of class for long enough at the nurse's station by "resting" or you could just wander and go to class later.
 Another way to get in trouble that has quite a bit of potential for getting in trouble, but requires little planning on your part is to go to the bathroom, then disappear, or leave school completely.


This can only work if you're not a consistent trouble-maker, and if you've been behaving relatively well during the rest of class. If you've been getting in trouble all day, or giving the teacher a hard time, then want to go to the bathroom, you're likely to get shut-down.
Pull the "emergency" card and make a concerned look with your face. No teacher wants to have a mess on their hands in class, and they'll be likely to just let you go.
Get a friend in class to collect your things for you, so you won't have to return to the scene of the crime later.
 If you elect to wander the halls for the rest of the class period, it's important to avoid getting caught, or asked for a hall pass by someone who expects you to be in class. Whatever you choose to do with your freedom, you've got to lay low and stay out of sight.


Hide in the bathroom. Maybe the easiest way to lay low is to hide out in the bathroom. It may also be smelliest way of hanging out, so you might as well get back to class, but it's also usually safe. If you can, try to finish the assignment you're skipping out on while you hide.
Wander the quietest wings of the school. Avoid the gym area, the band and choir wings, and other high traffic areas. Maybe go somewhere the teachers don't know you at all, like another grade's floor.
If you're older and have transportation, you could always just leave and go do something more fun with your time.
 If you skip class completely, you'll be marked absent, for sure. But if you leave class and never come back, it's half-likely that your teacher, who is busy and probably overworked, will forget to go back and mark you absent after the fact. It's easy for stuff like that to slip the mind, and you might be able to get away with it, even if your teacher does notice, so it's good to wait a few minutes before you try to escape.
 If you miss one or more classes in a day, most schools will make calls home, usually at the end of the day. The best way around this is to be a hawk by the telephone when you get home, or to come clean to your parents ahead of time and come up with a good excuse to get away with it.


"Mr. Jones messed up attendance today, he told us to tell you that everyone would be getting those automated calls, but that I was in class."
At some schools, they may actually email or contact your parent in other ways, so try to find out the procedure before you do this.

