 Frequent bathing is especially important in hot weather when boils are more likely to form. Bathe or shower at least once a day, and after sweating. This will help prevent the Staphylococcus aureus (staph) bacteria that may be on your skin from getting into your pores or under your skin and starting a boil.Pay special attention to areas where boils are most likely to form, including the face, neck, armpits, shoulders, and buttocks.;
, Look for a soap, body wash, or facial cleanser that says "antibacterial" on the label. There are many varieties available at your local grocery store or pharmacy.If you find your antibacterial soap too drying, look for a gentle formulation like Cetaphil.
Most antibacterial soaps use the active ingredient triclosan. For a natural alternative, look for a soap containing tea tree oil, a natural antibacterial agent.In some cases, a prescription strength antibacterial soap may be needed. If you have ongoing problems with boils or other skin infections, ask your doctor about one of these.
You can also try an acne body cleanser with benzoyl peroxide.
 This will help prevent clogged pores that can lead to boils. Be careful not to scrub so hard that you damage your skin.
 Bacteria thrive in warm, damp environments so careful drying is important. You might also use baby powder, or a medicated powder like Gold Bond to help keep moisture-prone areas drier throughout the day.
 Doctors often recommend bleach baths for people with skin problems such as eczema, but they may also help kill the bacteria on your skin that causes boils.Use ½ cup household bleach in a bathtub full of warm water. Soak for 10-15 minutes.Do not take more than 3 bleach baths per week.Do not submerge your head or get the bathwater in your eyes, nose, or mouth.
Although bleach baths are usually safe for children, talk to your doctor or pediatrician before giving your child a bleach bath., Avoid re-wearing clothes that you have sweated in. Wear loose-fitting clothes that will not rub against your skin and irritate it. Tight clothing will not allow your skin to breathe, which can cause irritation and leave you prone to boils.