 Before you touch your face or injured lip, place your hands under warm water for at least 20 seconds and lather them up with soap. If you are outside and without water access, run an alcohol wipe over your hands before proceeding. This minimizes the germs that could transfer from your fingertips to the cut., Place your lip under the faucet and let the water run into the split area, cleansing it of dirt or debris. Apply a bit of microbial soap to a cotton swab or ball and gently dab the injured area. Wash the soap away with water. Avoid scrubbing the split spot or you may cause it to break open further.Be aware that lip wounds that are not properly cleaned are more likely to scar or require further treatment., If your mouth or lips feel swollen or bruised, put a small ice back on the area for a few minutes until the swelling begins to subside. If you can’t find an ice pack, a clean hand towel run under cold water has the same effect. Give children a popsicle to suck on to numb the pain and minimize bleeding.The cold should also minimize bleeding, so that you can take a closer look at your injury. If the wound does not stop bleeding after a few rounds of cold compresses and mild pressure, then reach out to your doctor.
Avoid putting an ice cube directly on your lip, as it can damage the surrounding skin. Likewise, don’t hold a cold compress onto your lips for more than a few minutes at a time., Now that you can see clearly into the split area, get in front of a mirror and try to assess the depth and extent of the injury. If the cut is very deep and you are worried about it not closing fully or properly, then contact your doctor for advice. If the cut impacts your ability to speak or involves a dental injury, then a visit to the dentist may be in order. If you decide to treat the injury yourself, then reassess it every day., Once you are satisfied that the split is clean, protect the area from infection by applying a small amount of analgesic or antibiotic ointment. Place a pea-sized amount of the ointment on a cotton swab and then apply it to the split. Reapply as directed on the package.The salicylic acid in analgesic ointments will reduce the itching if your lip is split due to an insect bite. Look for ointments with aloe vera or eucalyptus for even more healing help.
 If the cut is shallow enough for you to treat, then purchase a plastic skin bandage kit. Shake the bottle and swipe on a thin layer of liquid bandaging. Aim for a thin coating of the injured area. Apply a second coat after the first one dries. The liquid bandage will be flexible enough to accommodate your split healing and should last for a week.Keep the applied layers thin or they will peel off.
 If the split is deep enough so that the two sides cannot easily come together, then you may need stitches. If the split is located in the corner of your mouth and continues to bleed without stopping after ten minutes of pressure, then a doctor should assess the injury. The same goes if you are concerned that an object or debris may be located in the wound.Be aware that if the split was caused by an object injury, then you might need to receive a tetanus shot. Check with medical professionals ASAP if this is the case.