 If you have an old mitten, you can use this to make a seasonal penguin doorstop. You will need an old black mitten, a needle and thread, a sewing machine, felt in orange, red, and white, Ziplock bags, two cups of sand, as well as a pair of sewing scissors.Turn the mitten inside out. Sew closed the thumb opening and then turn the mitten right side out.






Take your white felt and cut an oval shape out of it, about half the length of the mitten. Sew it onto the mitten, a few inches below the top of the mitten. Cut a triangle shape out of the orange and sew it just above the top of the oval. Cut out two small circles, position them towards the top of the mitten as the penguin's eyes, and then sew on the top.






Fill your Ziploc bag with sand and close it. Place this inside the mitten with the bag pointing upward. Then, sew closed the opening of the mitten.






Cut a long strip of red felt and cut frays into the edges. Tie this around your penguin's neck as a scarf.
 Pick out an old shirt you no longer use, as well as a pillow that's in need of a cover. You can make a beautiful pillow out of this old, discarded shirt.


Trace out the shape you want. You aren’t limited to a square shape, and in fact a small circular throw pillow may work best. You can use a pen or pencil to draw around the edge of the pillow on either side of the shirt.






Cut out your shape using sewing scissors.Then, pin the pieces together. You want the sides that will be the outside to be facing toward each other. This way, the seams will be invisible.






Sew seams along three edges and three-fourths of the fourth edge. When you're done, turn the fabric right side out.






Stuff polyfill stuffing, which you can buy at the craft store, through the hole that you left in the one edge. Make sure to stuff the pillow until you can’t really fit anything else.When your pillow is completely stuffed, sew the open edge shut.
 Sturdy boot shafts work best for this project, but they aren’t essential. You can also use old rain boots. If there are holes in the soles or cracks in the rubber, that’s actually perfect, because you want them to drain a bit.


Drill a few holes in the sole. This is only necessary if the boots are still watertight. Make small holes and just enough to provide some drainage.Put something heavy in the bottom. You can use gravel, pebbles, or anything else that will anchor the boot while still allowing it to drain.






Fill each boot about halfway with potting soil.






Place one flower or plant in each boot. You can use practically anything that doesn’t require a lot of room for its roots.






Top up the potting soil. Don’t bury the roots too deep, especially if they tend to be shallow for that particular plant. You want enough to protect them.







