 We all reach a point in life when we are coasting. We have all but mastered our jobs. We sail through projects. We are satisfied, but we are no longer being challenged. We are running on autopilot. Making a year great means stepping outside of your typical, predictable routine and pushing boundaries. What can you do to step outside your comfort zone today?Going beyond your comfort zone doesn't have to equate to shaking up your entire life. You can make a small change that challenges and engages you.
Possible ways to break out of a box can be taking on a leadership role, learning a new language, picking up a new hobby, or volunteering with a group of people whom you have stereotyped.
Aim to do one thing that scares you daily, whether that is speaking up in a company meeting or starting up a conversation with a stranger while standing in line for coffee.
 One quote nicely sums up the downside of being a people-pleaser: "The only thing wrong with trying to please everyone is that there is always at least one person who will remain unhappy: you." It's often second nature to want to satisfy our spouses, parents, and bosses, but you should avoid doing so if the cost is dissatisfying yourself.One aspect of being a people-pleaser is worrying about what others think. This tendency can leave you immobilized and cause you to miss out on great opportunities because you fear disapproval from those around you. When you make decisions, think long and hard about how they serve your goals. If you feel confident in your choices, embrace them without being overly concerned whether everyone else does, too.
Learn how to say "no". People-pleasers frequently agree to projects and tasks that leave them overwhelmed. Try not to spread yourself too thin. Helping others is essential to feeling positive about yourself, but you must also recognize when saying "yes" to someone else is stressing you out or keeping you from reaching your own goals.
 You trip and fall while walking on stage to receive an award. You accidentally offend your girlfriend's parents. Remember, that everyone makes mistakes. Try not to be too hard on yourself when you do.Taking life too seriously can cause you to miss out on true learning experiences about what it means to be human. When you come off as perfect or never making mistakes, you disconnect yourself from others. When you embrace mistakes and use them as teaching moments, you help others to relate to you better and everyone gets an opportunity to grow.

