 The fear and agitation associated with pyrophobia can be overwhelming. It may even seem impossible for you to control. Having others nearby who understand your issues are a valuable resource, and will make coping with your fear much easier.Don't be ashamed to admit to a fear of fire. Your phobia is not your fault. You deserve the help and support of those around you in dealing with it.
 Educating yourself on how fires are started, how they function, and when and how they are dangerous is important. It can help you battle your irrational fears with facts. Remind yourself often that fires are simple reactions between oxygen, fuel, and a source of heat. If these three factors are closely monitored and controlled, a fire is of little danger.Many resources are available to help you understand fire. Try starting with a simple internet search for "fire science". You can also try searching "fire triangle", which is a useful model for understanding the key components of fire.
 Being prepared to safely deal with or escape a dangerous fire will help you feel less anxious. Find a book or internet resource on effective fire safety practices, and spend some time familiarizing yourself with some techniques. You can even practice them, if it is safe to do so.Some examples of good practices to research and master include:


Storing, maintaining and using a fire extinguisher effectively.
Placing and testing smoke detectors.
Making a plan to safely exit your home or place of work in the event of a fire.
Basic first aid for burns.
 If you find yourself panicking in the presence of fire, try to focus inward and control your breathing. Don't focus on the fearful thoughts themselves, which can be very difficult to control. Instead, focus on maintaining a slow, deep pattern of breathing. This will slow your body's physiological response to fear. Counting slowly from 1-10 is another useful technique to help calm anxiety.
 You are probably already aware that the fearful thoughts that you experience in the presence of fire are not based in fact. Part of the process of correcting your fear involves recognizing these irrational thoughts when they appear, and using facts and reason to challenge them. When you experience an irrational, disproportionately fearful thought about fire, ask yourself these questions:


Is my fearful thought based on facts or evidence?
Am I applying my knowledge of fire safety to my present situation, or is my response purely emotional?
What could I do to help promote fire safety in this situation?
What steps could I take should the fire actually get out of control?
How would you explain to another pyrophobe that they are not in danger from the fire?
Have you felt this way before while near a fire and, if so, were your fears warranted?

, The key to treating your phobia in the long term is to carefully acclimate yourself to the presence of fire. This will increase your confidence, and reduce your fear response over time.Start by looking at pictures of fire. Look at different fires, and different types of fires (campfires, stove fires, etc.). Monitor your responses. If you feel panicky or overwhelmed, simply put the picture out of sight and focus on controlling your breath.
Once you are comfortable looking at pictures of fire, you can move on to videos of fire, preferably featuring sound. From there, you can start exposing yourself to small, controlled flames, such as candle flames. Start from a comfortable distance, then work your way closer. Move on to larger fires, and closer proximities.
Take a step up in intensity only when you feel calm and stable.
Only attempt this exposure with the help of someone you can trust. A therapist or counselor is the best option, as they are trained to deliver exposure therapy.
 If your phobia is interfering with your life, and you are finding it challenging to deal with on your own, seek out a mental health professional to guide you through the process. For more extreme cases your doctor may even recommend cognitive behavioral therapy or medication to assist you in dealing with your condition. 