 The only way to truly stop passing judgment is to know when you are doing it in the first place. If you are disconnected from your self-talk, you’ll have trouble reframing it. Spend some time tuning it to your judgments of yourself and others.


Listen to your thoughts for a full week. Notice the situations when you are most likely to judge. Question why you decided to do this. Keep a log so that you can identify patterns in your judging behavior., Sometimes, what bothers you about others is something that bothers you about yourself. When you are unhappy with some aspect yourself, you are more likely to project this dissatisfaction onto others.As you start keeping a log of judgments and criticisms, try to find the underlying connections. For instance, you judge a coworker for being late, but you do so because you secretly envy how carefree this person is. You often wish you had the nerve to break a rule.
 When you spot connections between your judgments of others and your own flaws, be willing to acknowledge these shortcomings and forgive. Self-forgiveness is often just as important as granting forgiveness to others. Show compassion to yourself when you judge and stop being so hard on yourself for engaging in an entirely “human” behavior.You might give yourself a hug and say, “I know that I must be hurting to judge my friend so harshly. I forgive myself for judging. I also forgive myself for ignoring my own pain. I am paying attention now.”

, One of the primary ways people verbally judge others is through gossip. Often gossiping appears harmless, a way to forge a bond with others. But do you really want to get closer to one person by driving a wedge between you and another? Probably not. Stop gossiping and keep your distance from those who tend to do it., The internet can bring out the judgmental attitude in anyone. You may find yourself judging "friends" on your social media feed or criticizing celebrities and politicians. If this brings out your judgmental side, bring awareness to the problem and reduce your exposure.When you are exposed to critical media, remind yourself "I don't actually know these people. I am in no place to judge them."

