 Online communities exist for nearly every type of support group for any issue; including health issues, family issues, phobias, addictions, and more.;
, Most groups and major organizations can make recommendations on online communities you can join to receive support, or have an online community of their own.


Ask your doctor or health care provider for names of organizations that support your personal issue. For example, if you need support to overcome an addiction to gambling, you may be able to find online support from Gamblers Anonymous.
Visit the "NMHA" website listed in the Sources section of this article to review a full list of links to organizations with specialized support groups.
 Online support groups may exist in the form of chat rooms, blogs, forums, email lists, or may have their own profiles on social networking sites such as Facebook or Twitter.


Perform an Internet search for online communities using keywords that include the name of your specialized support group. For example, if you are seeking divorce support, enter keywords into your search engine such as "divorce support forum," "online divorce support group," or "divorce chat room."
Visit the websites of organizations that support your issue to find links to forums and similar online communities. For example, if you need support for your mental illness, visit the website for the National Alliance on Mental Illness, then link to and join their Facebook discussion group.
 In addition to common social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, there are numerous social networking websites dedicated solely to support groups.


Visit the "Read Write Web" website provided to you in the Sources section of this article to review a full list of large-scale social networking communities you can join to receive support for a particular personal issue.
 An online community that truly offers support will demonstrate compassion and understanding about issues and topics posted by members.
 A strong online support community will contain updated news and information about your issue, and be comprised of numerous members that engage in discussion on a daily basis.


Examine the dates and frequency of posts and discussions to verify that the community is active.
 Depending on your support needs and personality, joining several online support communities can help you find the support group that is most helpful to you.

