 UV rays from the sun are extremely damaging to the skin, and regular or excessive exposure can make you appear older than you are. The sun's rays cause age spots, wrinkles, and a blotchy, uneven complexion.Too much exposure to sunlight can cause skin cancer, so you should have a dermatologist check your skin periodically for anything that might be a problem.
The dark tan look has largely gone out of fashion among younger generations, so there is really no need to chase that “summer tan” look anymore. Embrace your natural skin tone instead.;
, Staying hydrated throughout the day will help your skin retain moisture and slow the aging process. In general, a minimum of 10 eight-ounce glasses of water per day (for a total of about 2.5 liters).Drinking one glass of water before bedtime may help reduce the look of existing fine lines around your eyes.
 Use a good quality moisturizer every day, which will trap moisture in the skin and create a protective barrier. Regular use of moisturizer can help reduce the look of fine lines and give the skin a more youthful glow.Clean your face with warm water and mild soap or facial cleanser, then apply moisturizer evenly to your face, throat, and chest.
Avoid getting moisturizer in your eyes, nose, or mouth.
Apply makeup over your moisturizer, if you wear makeup.
 Tretinoin (Retin-A) is a potent retinoid that has been proven to promote the production of collagen in the skin. It is the only topical cream that is approved by the FDA as a medication for the treatment of fine lines and wrinkles. Tretinoin cannot be legally purchased in the US without a doctor's prescription.Retin-A is also prescribed to treat acne in teens and adults, and is FDA-approved for this purpose.
Retin-A should be applied to clean skin once per day.
Retin-A should be applied in the evening, to minimize risk of sun exposure.
When using Retin-A, always use a 40 SPF or higher sunscreen, and avoid incidental (unprotected) exposure to the sun as much as possible. UV rays are very damaging to skin that is being treated with tretinoin.
Retin-A can cause extreme skin redness, irritation, dryness, and flaking, especially during the first few weeks of treatment.
 Retinoids are a form of vitamin A that are reportedly effective in minimizing the look of fine lines, wrinkles, and dark spots. Retinol and other related retinoids are a form of vitamin A that is related to, but less potent than, Retin-A (tretinoin).


Retinoids found in non-prescription creams include: isotretinoin, retinol, adapalene, and retinaldehyde.Products containing a combination of retinol and glycolic acid have been shown to be effective in reversing some of the aging effects of sun damage.
Retinol products are less likely to cause the side effects that often accompany Retin-A usage, such as redness, irritation, dry and flaking skin.
 Using a lot of different skin care products can actually backfire, and amplify the appearance of aging skin. Multiple skin products can react with each other in unpredictable ways, and can irritate the skin. Find a few products that work well for you, and stick to those.Choose one mild facial cleanser. For example, one all-natural foaming cleanser you could try is Origins' A Perfect World, which contains white tea to remove toxins from your skin.
Choose one daytime moisturizer with sunblock. For example, Aveeno Positively Radiant Daily Moisturizer has skin protection of SPF 30, along with light-reflecting minerals that are designed to make your skin tone look more even.
Choose one overnight moisturizer and/or eye serum.
 To thoroughly cleanse your skin at night and remove the last traces of your makeup, buy a battery powered skin brush like the Olay Pro X or the Clarisonic. These little machines have soft bristles on a rotating or vibrating head, which scrub the impurities out of your pores.Wet your face with warm water and apply a cleansing cream.
Run the face brush over your skin for two minutes, then rinse your face with warm water and blot dry with a clean cloth.
 Aviator style sunglasses with metal frames are not the best choice to wear in the sun – they tend to reflect sunlight, increasing the likelihood of sun damage on your cheeks and nose.
Choose sunglasses with plastic frames, instead.
Mirrored lenses block more of the sun's damaging UV rays than ordinary tinted lenses.

