 Lay on your side on a mat, with your knees bent slightly and one leg stacked evenly on top of the other. Your hips should be at a 90 degree angle to the ground, not angled towards the front or the back. Bend your lower leg a little more to give yourself balance and support, and straighten your top leg with your foot flexed. Raise your top leg upward (while keeping your foot flexed) and slightly backwards, then lower it again.Lift and lower your upper leg in sets of 5 or 10, depending on how advanced you are in your workout, then switch and repeat the same exercises on your other side.;
, This exercise is similar to the side-lying hip abduction, but your knees will be bent. Lie on your side as you did with the side-lying hip abduction. Instead of keeping your legs straight, bend them and stack one on top of the other. Then, slide your knees forward so you are lying in a loose fetal position. Your feet should be aligned with your hips and your knees should be out in front of your body.

When you are in position, slowly begin to lift up your top knee, as if it is the top of a clamshell. As you do this, keep your top foot on top of your lower foot as if they are connected.Then, slowly lower the top leg back down until it is resting on the bottom leg.
Do this exercise for about one minute.
Repeat this exercise on the opposite side after you finish the first side.
Do up to three sets on each side.
 Stand up straight, put your hands on your hips, and keep your abdomen tight. Raise your right knee upwards and move your right foot sideways until your left leg is stretched nicely. Place your right foot on the ground, bend you right knee a little more, and keep your left leg straight. Your left foot should still be flat on the ground. Then push yourself off the ground with your right foot and propel yourself back to a standing position. Repeat the same action on your left side.You can do all of one side, then move to the other side, or you can alter sides for each lunge.
Perform 10 to 20 repetitions of this exercise on each side, depending on how advanced you are in your workout.
An alternative to this side lunge is to NOT place your foot on the ground when you return to a standing position. But rather to keep your knee bent, and your foot raised up off the ground. This adds a little more complexity and resistance to the exercise.
 This exercise is still a side lunge, except that you’re not moving your feet when you move your body. Instead, start by standing up straight with your feet 2 to 3 feet (0.61 to 0.91 m) apart. Then lunge to the right side by bending your right knee and straightening your left leg. Then straighten yourself back upwards, without moving your feet. Keep your back straight and as upright as possible, keep your head up, and make sure that you knees never extend past your toes on the bent leg. Do the same type of lunge on your left side. This version can put less stress on your knees and adds more resistance to the muscles you’re trying to build.Perform 10 to 20 repetitions of this exercise on each side, depending on how advanced you are in your workout.
 A curtsy lunge is also a great way to work your outer hip muscles. To do a curtsy lunge, stand with your feet shoulder width apart and take a big step back and across the opposite leg. As you do this, bend your knees and hold your balance in the position for a moment. Then, slowly begin to stand up and return your back foot to its starting position.Repeat this exercise 10 to 15 times on both sides. Do three sets.
You can also hold weights in your hands to make this exercise a little harder.
 Stand up straight and place your feet so they are about shoulder width apart. Keep your abdomen tight and your back straight. Lower your bum towards the floor like you’re going to sit down, but stop when your knees are bent at a 90 degree angle and your thighs are parallel to the floor. Then raise yourself back up to the standing position (don’t move your feet). Repeat this movement 5 to 10 times, depending on how advanced you are in your workout.To add more resistance to this exercise, you can hold dumbbells in both your hands while you squat. The weight of the dumbbells is up to you - whatever you’re most comfortable with at the time.

