 It's a good idea to buy one online, as you'll may find a greater assortment of notebooks; however, if you want to hold and touch the notebook first, visit a few stores that stock good quality stationery. If you can't find a design you like, it's a fun idea to find any kind of durable but flexible paper, such as wrapping paper, in a color you like, which you can use to cover a plain notebook with.


Write your name on the first page and any relevant details.;
,, You could add a picture of yourself if you like. It's a also a neat place to write about your likes, your dislikes, your family, your friends, your enemies, your crush etc. This will personalize your journal.
 Include items about people, places, things or activities. Spruce it up depending on the item you are talking about., You can color code your writing. Use red for really mad days, blue for sad days, sun-bleached yellow for happy days and green for sick days, or however you feel., There are a few websites online that can provide them, but most bigger bookstores (like Barnes and Noble and similar) have writing prompts journals that you can use to create prompts and answers yourself., Write about your thoughts on a particular topic you'd like to write about. It could be politics, popularity in school, a story, or anything you feel like writing.
, It can be useful to write down your feelings whenever you feel confused, upset, worried or distressed. It can be just as useful to write down your thoughts whenever you're feeling happy, excited or inspired. Recording thoughts can help you to learn that you're a balance of both negative and positive thoughts and that you might be tilting a little too far either way and need to readjust to see life more realistically or less pessimistically. It's also great to have some positive entries to read on days when you feel everything but happy or settled., It can be a great place to make lists, do pro and con columns and to work through consequences. You can also read back to other times you've made decisions, to remind yourself of the outcome and what worked best for you each time (or what didn't work)., Use mind maps, lists, diagrams and other visual aids to work through the goals you want to set yourself and the hopes and desires for things to turn out the way you'd like them to. Be sure to include possible roadblocks and speed bumps––thinking ahead about possible negatives is a way of planning for the worst and having alternative scenarios to help you move on., Of course, you could also use photographs if you have any.
 By that time, a lot has probably happened that day, and you might want to write about it.


It's really up to you if you want to write in your thoughts journal daily or less often. The benefit of getting into a habit of writing daily is that it can help you to see patterns of thinking and can be a great way to start rearranging your thoughts to be more constructive and helpful to you. You don't need to write a lot each day––just a few lines is as fine as several pages.
 You do not want your journal to be found, especially if you write about private thoughts or secrets. So make sure you keep it safe. Some ideas for hiding places include:


Keep it tucked between books in a bookshelf that only you ever use.
Put it in pile of folded clothing that only you ever access.
Place it inside a shoebox of many papers.
Hide it in plain site. Make it as boring as your school or college books and keep it among them. Just take care not to carry it to school or college with you though!
Keep inside a secret hollow book.
And boldest of all, don't worry about others reading it. Be bold and don't care what others snoop around and learn. That's their karma and you'll stand by the person you are.

