 If your lens is fitting you properly, it should rest on a thin film of fluid, which is refreshed each time you blink. A poor-fitting contact will interrupt this process, causing discomfort and potentially leading to a damaged cornea.If your optometrist does not check the fit of your contact lenses, ask her to do so.
Your eye doctor should check the fit of both lenses each time you visit.
A poorly-fitting lens can be easily fixed by adjusting your recommended lens curvature and/or diameter.
 While soft contact lenses are generally considered disposable, some people find that opening a new pair of lenses each day can significantly reduce discomfort. This is particularly helpful for people who suffer from allergies and are exposed to pollen, dander, and other airborne allergens on a daily basis.Some newer daily contact lenses are produced with a "water gradient" that improves comfort even more than traditional daily contact lenses.Be aware of the cost. If you dispose of contact lenses after each day's use, you'll need to buy 720 lenses each year (and possibly more if any of your lenses get lost or damaged).Daily disposal of your contacts can quickly add up, though the exact price will depend on where you purchase your contacts and what kind of coverage you have. Most manufacturers are aware of this and will offer rebates to help offset the cost. You may also save money because you won't need contact lens solution or a case.
 Soft lenses made with silicone hydrogel are more "breathable" than regular soft contact lenses. That's because the material allows oxygen to flow through the lens, which can help prevent dry eyes. Silicone hydrogel contacts also absorb moisture faster and more effectively than regular contact lenses, further reducing the risk of dry eyes.Silicone hydrogel lenses improve eye comfort, especially while wearing lenses over prolonged periods of time.
Some users report allergy-like reactions that include redness, itchiness, and discomfort while wearing silicone hydrogel contacts; however, there is currently no formal evidence of allergic reactions found by researchers.
If you believe you have a silicone allergy, talk to your doctor before you try wearing silicone hydrogel contact lenses.
 If you experience severe dry eyes, you may find comfort in a contact lens that was specifically designed for your concern. Some soft, disposable contact lenses are acknowledged by the Food and Drug Administration as being able to improve discomfort caused by dryness.If you suffer from severe dry eyes, talk to your optometrist about which lenses might be best for your condition.
 If contacts are causing you discomfort or irritation, your eyes may be more sensitive than other people's eyes. This is okay, and you should consider reducing your use of contacts or avoiding wearing contacts altogether if you believe this may be the case.


Take out your glasses and wear glasses instead any time your eyes are uncomfortable or irritated.

