 Make sure you always look clean and sanitary. It is best to have a clear face, and nice skin. Remember to wash, tone and moisturize your face! Always run a comb through your hair and make sure your teeth are sparkly clean.;
, These girls and boys have flawless and fair skin, a small nose with a high nose bridge, and small lips. Including a small face and narrow chin. Use foundation if you need it, however most ulzzangs use bb-cream. ALWAYS use foundation or bb-cream that contain spf because ulzzang are generally pale. Remember it's not only the females that wear make-up, the males do too!!

, Most ulzzangs use Photoshop, and/or wear circle lenses to have the effect of larger pupils. Photoshop your images to make your eyes bigger (not to an extreme) and/or change your eye color. This is one of the fundamentals of being a ulzzang. But if you don't need Photoshop, don't use it.
 Some Ulzzang's buy from online shopping stores. Try yesstyle.com, and asianfashion.com for some ideas on what they wear. Or you can look at the online stores most of them run to get a better idea of what they are wearing.
 Usually the females have straight or side swept bangs with curly or straight hair. Use a curler to curl your hair loosely or straighten it if you want to. The males usually have a layered short (not too short) hair style, with side swept bangs. A popular new style is to have wavy hair. Many of them use Gatsby. Always remember to wash your hair regularly and to comb it.
 Ulzzang's get famous for having popular Cyworld accounts. So make a Cyworld, and take pictures and upload them there. Be aware, people might steal the pictures and claim then as their own, try putting maybe a watermark of some sort, if you want, of course. You might also want to join ulzzang contest that take place online from time to time to build your popularity.
 Of course Ulzzangs need pictures! Try taking pictures in different poses and backgrounds. If you're stuck, try getting inspiration by looking at picture of Ulzzang girls/boys and see how they pose.

