 Studies on people have shown that beans and other legumes can prevent heart disease, diabetes, and cancer, so eat legumes such as:


Black beans
Lentils-- red and yellow
Chickpeas
Mung beans;
, Complex carbohydrates found in whole grains, starchy vegetables and legumes are the best sources of complex carbohydrates. Top healthy choices include:


Steel-cut oats
Wheat-- whole or cracked
Bulgar
Barley
Quinoa
Rice-- brown and wild
Popcorn
Squash and pumpkin
Sweet potatoes
Potato wedges-- grilled or baked
Soybeans
Split peas
Beans-- white, kidney and chili

, Yes, fats. The healthy fats are typically found in plants and are classified chemically as monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fats. Bad fats are made by chemical reactions that create products with long shelf lives. The food industry benefits when their products last a long time. The problem is that if bacteria, oxygen and micro-organisms can't break the so-called foods down, our enzymes cannot either. These fats become a poison to our bodies, work our bodies excessively and clog up our internal systems. These fats, which have no analogs in nature, are classified as saturated or trans-fats.


Good fats are found in:






Avocados
Nuts-- almonds, macadamia nuts, hazelnuts, pecans, cashews
Natural monounsaturated oils-- olive, canola, sunflower, peanut, sesame
Natural polyunsaturated oils-- soybean, corn, safflower
Olives
Almond butter
Seeds-- sunflower, sesame, pumpkin, flax
Fatty fish-- wild salmon, tuna, mackerel, herring, trout, sardines
Soy milk
Tofu



The sources of bad fats are:






Tropical plants and oils
Synthetic saturated or trans-fats
Fats found in animals


Limit intake of fats from the bad sources.


Milk, often thought to be a good source of calcium, is actually a very bad source of calcium. The "hype" that milk is good for you is a product of lobbying by the dairy producers. The reality is that people who drink milk often don't get enough calcium. So, as it turns out, it is good to stay away from dairy.






Protein is necessary for proper metabolism and optimal health. The thing is, protein is good for you, if you don't consume to much of it. Also, people often eat lots of animal protein, which is the worst source of protein. Protein from beans and nuts are a much, much better. The verdict is still out on how much protein is enough, so, for now, just eat some beans four or more times a week, and include nuts as well.
 You know this already. It's not so bad, though, once you've learned how to eat them. And you don't have to be a gourmet chef to prepare them, either. Search online for quick and easy ways to prepare vegetables.
 If you love your desserts, you're not alone. But, your body cannot handle sugary cakes, pies and cookies every day, so opt for the healthy fruit alternative when it is available and in season.


Fruit is important because it is packed with vitamins and minerals. Again, search online to find quick and easy ideas for turning fresh fruit into a favorite dessert!

, If you're working a lot, you probably don't have time for exercise. If you're constantly on your feet at work, your muscles might not need much additional exercise. But, for a healthy heart, make time for a walk in the morning before you go to work or in the evening after dinner. If you get breaks in your work schedule use that time to benefit your body.
 Or do them all. The more, the better-- up to a point. Make sure not to overdo and to rest your muscles one or two days each week. For serious targeted exercise, rotate the muscle groups so that each has a chance to recover.
 Most people have a problem with acne. To prevent an acne flare up or improve an acne problem, wash your face regularly.
 Staying hydrated will enable your body to function optimally.
, These can increase acne problems.

