 If you have never worked with someone from a different culture before, it can be an adjustment. While you might encounter some challenges, you will likely find it a rewarding experience. Your first step is to put yourself in the right frame of mind.Work on becoming more aware of your words and actions. What seems appropriate to you may not be a cultural norm to another person.
Before you give someone at work a high five or a pat on the back, take a moment to consider your actions. Based on what you know about that culture, is touching in the workplace appropriate?
A good rule of thumb is to take a moment to consider your words before you speak. Is what you're about to say possibly offensive? If so, figure out a way to rephrase.;
, It may take awhile for you to get used to working with people from different cultures. Don't worry, that's normal. It probably took you awhile to acclimate to your current co-workers, too.Try not to get irritated if communication takes a little extra effort at first. For example, maybe you are now working with someone whose first language is not English.
Instead of getting impatient if they don't understand your point, try to treat it as a learning experience. Try saying, "Ok, I can see I'm not making myself clear. How can I help us get on the same page?"
Be patient with yourself, too. It may take you some time to adjust to working with your new co-workers or clients, and that is ok.
 Remember that working in a new environment might be intimidating for someone from a different culture. Whether you are on a conference call, or traveling to meet someone face to face, the initial meeting can feel stilted or awkward. Don't be afraid to lighten the mood.Humor is an excellent way to ease tension in the workplace. It can serve as a way to make people feel comfortable and even more connected to each other.
Remember that different people have different senses of humor. Before making a joke, try to make sure that it won't be construed as offensive.
You can try making a lighthearted joke about something situational. For example, if it's a nasty, rainy day, you can jokingly say, "Lovely day, isn't it?" It may not be the most original comment, but things like that can lighten the mood.
 Remember that not everyone will come at a discussion from the same angle. Difference in perspective are coming when working with people from different cultures. Don't assume that you are all looking at the issue from the same perspective.Clarify what important terms mean to each individual. For example, in a meeting you could ask, "What does efficiency mean to you?"
It's possible that you might think you're working with the same goals in mind, but that you have a different understanding of the process or outcomes. A simple question can help resolve any issues.
Once someone explains their perspective, take some time to reflect. Looking at an issue from an alternate perspective can help you find solutions that you might not have considered.
 Part of choosing the right frame of mind means that you are open to differences. If you go into a new situation aware that people might have different customs than you, you will find it easier to be accepting. Go to work knowing that people from different cultures might work differently than you, and that's to be expected.Be aware that there will likely be differences in communication styles. For example, in some cultures the word "yes" means, "Certainly, I'm in agreement." To others, the word "yes" can mean, "I heard you."
Accept that there might be differences in addressing conflict. In some cultures, a face to face conversation might be the norm. For other people, written communication might be more appropriate.
When you encounter differences, be willing to be adaptable. You might need to alter some of your habits in order to make the work relationship more constructive.

