









Starting with a clean face is an absolute necessity.
Contouring is a makeup application technique that plays with the natural shadows of your face. Depending on how you apply contours, certain areas of your face can look smaller or larger. By applying contours using the steps listed here, you can make your nose appear smaller.;
, If you do not already have a regular foundation, pick one that matches your natural skin tone as closely as possibly. Apply that all over your face, including your nose.
 Pick a foundation one or two shades darker than your natural shade. Apply this foundation to the sides of your nose, blending well.









If you have a long nose as well as a large one, you should also apply this foundation to the tip of your nose.
The most important part of the entire contouring process is the blending process. Use a makeup brush or sponge to thoroughly blend this darker shade into the natural foundation beneath. When finished, this dark foundation should look like a natural shadow instead of looking like makeup.
 Pick out a third foundation one shade lighter than your natural tone. Apply this foundation to the top bridge of your nose, starting in between your eyes and ending just before the tip and nostrils.









This foundation highlights the center line of your nose, making the "shadows" you created with your dark foundation more effective.
As before, you need to blend this foundation into both your natural and dark shades as thoroughly as possible. The transition between shades should be seamless and must appear natural.
 Select a loose matte powder and dust it all over the sides of your nose.









This loose powder can help mask any lines or imperfections in your foundation, allowing your makeup to seem more natural.
Make sure that you use a matte powder. Shimmer powders draw more attention to anything they touch, so if you apply a shimmer powder to your nose, you will only accentuate it further.
 One of the best ways to hide your nose is to make another facial feature stand out more. Wearing bold eye makeup or daring lip color will cause onlookers to notice your eyes or lips more than any other part of your face, including your nose.


If you choose to accentuate your eyes, make them pop by applying dark eyeliner and mascara. Bright or bold eye shadows are also great to wear for evening looks but should still be avoided for daytime wear.
If you choose to accentuate your lips, use bright or bold lipstick colors. Lip color with a little shine or sparkle can also work great.
Only accentuate one feature at a time. Applying heavy makeup on both your eyes and lips can easily overwhelm your face.
 In addition to accentuating your lips or eyes, you can balance out your nose by making your cheekbones more prominent.Choose a blush one or two shades darker than your natural skin tone and apply it to the apples of your cheeks. Shimmer blushes can actually work well here since they highlight skin more than matte blushes do.
Similarly, you can also apply a light bronzer along the cheekbones to make them glow and stand out more.
 In particular, you need to keep shine off your nose. Shine catches the eye and draws more attention to a feature, so shine on your nose will make your nose look even larger.


The most important thing to do is to keep as much oil off your nose as possible. Use a gentle facial cleanser on your nose each morning and evening. Harsh cleansers can actually irritate the skin and cause it to produce more oil. Throughout the day, dab off some of the excess oil that gathers on your nose with tissue or cosmetic oil blotting paper.
When applying any makeup to your nose, use a matte formula instead of a shimmery formula.
 Medium and long hairstyles are typically better than short cuts. Short hairstyles frame the face and highlight the nose, which can make it look even larger. Medium and long cuts balance out your facial features, making them appear smaller., Straight, blunt styles create more straight vertical lines and emphasize the largest straight line on your face—your nose. Put layers in your hair, instead, to create a softer and more rounded look.


While all layer styles are better than blunt styles, feathery layers are the best of the best. This texture is especially soft and wavy, so it provides the greatest amount of balance against the straight line of your nose.
 In general, adding waves and curves to your hair will break up and balance out any harsh lines on your face. The bridge of your nose is the longest, most visible straight line on your face.


Use a diffuser, hair rollers, or a curling iron to add a wavy texture to your hair.
 Sleek, tight ponytails can make your facial features appear sharper and more severe. As a result, the angles and size of your nose will stand out more.


When you tie your hair back in a ponytail or sweep it into an up-do, choose a somewhat messy style. Create body at the crown and allow a few stray strands to swoop down, framing your face in a subtle curve.



In contrast, a side part offsets the lines of your face, breaking them up and making your nose stand out less.
 Bangs can help hide a large nose, but you should generally avoid bangs that hand down at blunt, sharp angles. Straight lines will only draw more attention to the straight line of your nose.


When getting bangs, consider side swept bangs that break up the angles of your face or wispy bangs that that soften the lines of your face.



The idea here is to balance out your facial features with one another. When hair covers your forehead or the sides of your face, these features get lost while your nose remains very visible. As a result, your nose appears to take up more space on your face. Keeping hair off your face can prevent this from happening.
For this reason, men who want to hide a big nose should avoid mustaches and beards. Covering too much skin on your face can actually make your nose stand out more.
 A wide bridge creates a stronger, more visible divide.


Larger frames are generally a better option than smaller ones. The large frames can compete with the size of your nose and help balance it out, but smaller frames can draw more attention to the size of your nose.
The other option is to go for contacts. Since glasses sit at the top of your nose, they do draw some attention to that area of your face. Getting contacts avoids this issue completely.
 Short, dainty earrings can draw attention to this horizontal space, which could also draw attention to your nose. Larger earrings that extend below the ear enlarge the sides of this horizontal space, making the nose at the center of this space appear smaller by comparison.


If you do not want to wear long earrings, at least choose short earrings that cover the earlobes completely. This will draw more attention to the sides of this horizontal space, which can help draw attention off your nose.
Rounded earrings that occupy both horizontal and vertical space are better than earrings that only add a vertical dimension. Earrings that emphasize straight, vertical lines will also emphasize the straight, vertical line of the nose.
 Both men and women should look for hat styles that have a rounded or down-turned brim at the front of the face. A brim that hangs down over the front of the face can visually build out the forehead. As a result, the nose appears shorter and more proportionate.Avoid "tricorne" styles, which meet at a point above the forehead.
Hats that have a larger brim in the front than in the back may build out the forehead better than those with an even brim all around.
Make sure that the crown does not pinch in too tightly toward the front of the face. Ideally, this crown should also be of medium height to maintain better visual balance, and it should not taper in much toward the top.
Consider choosing a hat with a wide, colorful band above the brim. This band can draw the eye up and away from the nose.