 Prepare a springform pan by surrounding it in aluminum foil.


Surrounding the pan with aluminum foil will prevent water from leaking into the pan if you end up preparing a baked cheesecake, but this step is not necessary if you plan on using the crust for a no-bake cheesecake.






Place an 18- by 18-inch (46- by 46-cm) square of aluminum foil beneath the springform pan. Fold the sides of the foil around the pan, doing so gently to prevent yourself from ripping the foil.






Repeat this procedure using a second sheet of aluminum foil with equal dimensions.






Crimp the foil around the edge of the pan.






Note that a springform pan is necessary. This pan is designed so that the sides can be separated from the bottom, making it easier to remove your cheesecake after it is done.;
, Place the graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag and use a rolling pin to crush them into fine crumbs.


Alternatively, you could crush the graham crackers by pulsing them in a food processor or blender. This may actually allow you to achieve finer crumbs in a shorter period of time.
Transfer the crumbs to a large bowl when done.
 Mix the crumbs with the sugar and a pinch of salt first. Then, stir in the melted butter.


You could stir the butter into the crumbs using a wooden spoon, but your hands will do a more thorough job. Just make sure the wash them, first.






If using salted butter, skip the salt.
 Put all but 1/4 cup (60 ml) of the crust mixture into the pan. Pack the crumbs in gently, leaving a slight rise along the inside edge.


Leave roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of crust along the edge of the pan.
The remaining cup can be used to fill in any holes in the crust that form as you pack the crust or after you remove the finished cheesecake from the pan.






Use your hands to pack down the crust. Alternatively, you could use a metal measuring cup to get a smooth, even crust by packing the crumbs down with the bottom of the cup., Bake the crust in the preheated oven for 10 minutes. It may look slightly darker or glossier, but otherwise, there should be no visible change.
 If you plan on using the crust for a no-bake cheesecake, you must cool it first before filling it. Cool the crust for at least 1 to 2 hours. It should be no warmer than room temperature.


Note that you do not need to cool the crust if you plan on using it for a baked cheesecake.
 If you had baked your crust just prior to this, you will need to reduce the temperature of the oven.
 Cut room temperature cream cheese into chunks and beat with an electric mixer for 4 minutes on medium speed.

If possible, use a stand mixer with a paddle attachment.






The cream cheese should become smooth and creamy when done.
Let the cream cheese sit out at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes prior to use to soften it up. Softening the cream cheese will allow it to become fluffier once you beat it.
 Add the sugar to the cream cheese and continue beating for another 4 minutes.
 Add each ingredient separately, beating for one minute after each addition. Each egg should also be added separately.


For best results, allow the eggs to sit out at room temperature for 10 to 30 minutes prior to use.
 Add one after the other, beat well until incorporated thoroughly.


Give the sides of the bowl a final scrape and beat the filling once more to incorporate anything scraped from the sides.
 Slowly pour the cream cheese filling into the springform pan over the graham crust.


Smooth the top of the filling using a rubber or silicone spatula.
 Fill the roasting pan with enough boiling water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.

Prepare 2 quarts (2 liters) of boiling water. You may not need all of it, though.






The water should not be high enough to leak over the top of the springform pan and into the batter.






Sitting the cheesecake in a hot water bath will reduce cracking. Without the hot water bath, the cheesecake filling is likely to form deep, unsightly cracks in the top as it solidifies.
 Place the cheesecake and water bath in the preheated oven and cook for a full 1 1/2 hours. The filling should seem fairly solid once done.
 Turn the oven off and crack the door open by about 1 inch (2.5 cm). Let the cheesecake cool for the first hour in the oven.


This is a gentle cooling cycle that also helps prevent the cheesecake from cracking.
 Cover the top of the cheesecake with aluminum foil and chill for at least 4 hours before serving.


You could also chill the cheesecake overnight.
 Cube the softened cream cheese and place it in a large mixing bowl. Beat with an electric mixer at medium speed for 3 to 4 minutes or until smooth.


The cream cheese must be at room temperature when you use it; otherwise it will not be fluffy enough after you beat it. Let the cream cheese sit out at room temperature for 30 minutes before use.
 Pour the condensed milk into the cream cheese a little at a time, beating well to incorporate it. Continue until all of the condensed milk is fully mixed in.


Scrape the sides of the bowl with a rubber or silicone spatula in between additions to make sure that all of the cream cheese and condensed milk gets mixed.
 Add the lemon juice and vanilla to the filling and beat well to fully incorporate. You may need to beat for another 1 minute or so.


Give the sides of the bowl a final scrape.
 Smooth the top surface of the filling with a rubber or silicone spatula.


Make sure that the crust is completely cool before adding the filling. Otherwise, you may have trouble cooling the filling properly.
 Cover the cheesecake and chill for 2 1/2 to 3 hours before serving.
 Combine standard cheesecake ingredients and bake in muffin tins, silicone liners, or ramekins.


Similarly, you could bake mini black-bottom cheesecakes by replacing the graham crackers with chocolate wafer cookies and baking the desserts in muffin tins.
 Replace the graham crackers with chocolate cookies and add semi-sweet chocolate to the filling.


For an even richer variation, make a brownie cheesecake by replacing the bottom crust with a layer of baked brownie. You can use this altered crust with a standard filling or a chocolate filling.
You could also bake a white chocolate cheesecake, instead. Just like chocolate cheesecake uses semi-sweet chocolate in the filling, white chocolate cheesecake uses white chocolate in the filling.
 Scatter chunks of caramel over the crust before adding the cream cheese filling. Once you finish baking the cheesecake, drizzle melted caramel over it for an even stronger caramel flavor.


Make your treat even more elaborate by turning it into a turtle cheesecake. The addition of pecans and chocolate chips can completely transform a caramel cheesecake into something even sweeter.
 Raspberry jam is swirled into the cream cheese filling before the cheesecake is baked, resulting in elegant swirls.
 Line your crust with chopped candy bars before pouring the filling in and baking the cheesecake as normal. Garnish with additional chocolate or candy pieces.


Try a Toblerone cheesecake as a variation on the candy bar cheesecake. Use melted Toblerone milk chocolate to create a rich chocolate filling and top the cheesecake with shavings or chunks of Toblerone chocolate bars.

Make a Butterfinger cheesecake, instead. Crushed Butterfinger candy bars are mixed into the filling and sprinkled on top of the finished cheesecake.
 Believe it or not, cheesecake can be turned into a vegan dish by using vegan cream cheese, silken tofu, vegan sour cream, and soy creamer. This cheesecake should be baked in the oven., You can prepare cheesecake using creamy goat cheese, cream cheese, and sour cream. This cheesecake will be slightly firmer and slightly tangier than a standard cheesecake.
 Certain seasonal flavors can be incorporated into you cheesecake with relative ease.


Finish Christmas dinner with a Christmas cheesecake. You can either prepare an eggnog and fruit cake cheesecake or a gingerbread cheesecake.
Polish off Thanksgiving dinner with a pumpkin spice cheesecake or cranberry cheesecake.
Finish any holiday meal with a chilled banana pudding cheesecake or a baked Bailey's cheesecake.

