 Stand with your feet 1 and half times that of your shoulder width apart. Keeping your back straight, slowly bend your knees and slowly lower your body down as if you were going to sit down on a chair. Make sure that you do not allow your knees to extend over your toes while squatting. Hold the position for a moment, and then slowly return to the original position. Repeat this 10 times to make up one set, and do 3-4 sets with 1-2 minutes rest.









You should add resistance to this exercise by having a (weighted) bar across and behind your shoulders or holding a dumbbell in each hand. Bar is preferable as it transfers the weight to your legs while wit h dumbbells the amount of weight is limited by how much you can hold with your arms.
You should have a wide stance because this emphasizes the focus on the glutes and hips.
Using a leg press is easier, but it is not as effective in focusing on the glutes as squats are.;
, Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand and have your arms hang loosely at your sides. Take a big step forward with your right foot, and then slowly lower your hips until both knees are bent at about a 90-degree angle. Make sure that your right knee does not extend past your right foot. Slowly return to standing position, and then do the exercise again, this time stepping forward with your left foot. Take 20 steps, or lunges, to make one set, and do 3-4 sets with 1-2 minutes rest in between.









Be sure to keep your back straight and shoulders back.
 Lay down on your back with your legs bent at a 90-degree angle with your feet flat on the floor and your hands at your sides. Place a weight plate over your lower abdominal area. Slowly lift your hips into the air so that your torso is now aligned with your legs. Slowly lower your hips back to starting position, and then repeat. Repeat this exercise 8 times for one set, and do 3-4 sets with 1-2 minutes rest in between.









Alternatively, you can do a hip extension if you have a platform or bed by lying facedown with your hips on the edge of platform. Your legs should be held straight in the air with your toes resting lightly on the floor. Lift one leg high above your head. Then, squeeze your butt and hamstrings while you straighten your leg and let it down slowly back to the floor. Do the same with the other leg.
 Deadlifts are great for your hamstrings, butt, and lower back. However, you need to be careful to lift with the correct form or you risk seriously injuring yourself. Your feet should always be hip-width apart, and your bar in front of your shins before lifting, and you should always start with the weight on the floor. Your back should be kept flat, your abs in, and your shoulder blades back as you lift your back up, thrust with your legs and squeeze your butt to pull the weight up, pausing at the top for a moment, then bend forward from your hips and push your butt out keeping your back straight a shoulder blades back and lower your torso until your weights reaches the ground.









Your weights should always be close to your legs throughout the entire range of motion. Do this 8 times to form one set, and do 3-4 sets with 1 and a half to 2 minutes rest in between.
 You will maximize muscle gain in the glutes if you stick to resistance training. A lot of your buttocks are fat, so if you are too skinny you won't have as big of a butt.

Squeeze your leg and butt muscles as you work to keep your butt firm and round.
If you are using exercise equipment in a gym, then turn up the resistance in order to build more muscle, even if that means moving slower.
 Eat a full diet to ensure your muscles repair and build.