 When your child does something bad, don't reward them by giving in or paying a lot of attention to them (even if that attention means yelling at them). They are trying to get your attention, so "reward" their behavior by completely ignoring them. If you can, put them where they can't see you, and at a minimum don't make eye contact with them and avoid touching them., When your child does anything right, tell them how happy you are. Children naturally want to please you, so let it show when they do that so that they are more inclined to do that good behavior in the future.
 Or at least, be specific about what you’re praising. Telling your child "good job" for everything they do tends to devalue good behavior. Save really serious praise for when they've really earned it. Plus, "good girl" or "good job" mean little to children. Say it specifically, describing exactly what you love about what the child did. it.Notice that telling them "Wow, you did a great job!" is very different from saying "Oh, Mommy loves it when you do that. That makes Mommy so happy."

, Sometimes rewards or other positive reinforcement may be in order. It should be used sparingly, saved mainly for occasions where it is easy or especially warranted. For example, sharing toys is worth a reward, such as a piece of candy (because this is something that is very hard for them). The same can be said of potty training.


Toddlers don't need much. An M&M or Smartie should do the trick.
 Absolutely under no circumstances should you bribe a child into appropriate behavior. Negotiations are frowned upon, as this just teaches your child to ignore you until they get what they want, or that if they hold out long enough they can get their way. Once you let it start, it's a very difficult behavior to stop, for both of you. Stay vigilant!

, If you're struggling to get your child's attention, don't resort to spanking. This is a very ineffective technique. Instead, firmly grab an arm or take their face in your hands and make them look at you. The second is especially uncomfortable for toddlers and is much more effective than spanking (without teaching them negative lessons, like "solve problems with violence").

