 As with any career, you want to make sure becoming a funeral director is right for you. Working with the deceased and grieving families can be rewarding as you'll be helping others through difficult times. However, the job can be very demanding at, at times, stressful.You will coordinate funerals as a funeral director. You will work with families to settle on funeral arraignments. You will take care of logistical concerns, like transporting bodies and preparing obituary notices.
You will also prepare bodies for burial. You will clean and embalm bodies. If the funeral is open casket, you will prepare the bodies for viewing.
A good deal of emotional and physical energy is required in becoming a funeral director. A lot of work goes into preparing a funeral, so your hours will be long. You also have to work on comforting grieving families, which can take an emotional toll with time. Many people find the work rewarding, however, as you're able to help people gain closure after a loved one passes.
 Certain skills are necessary to become a funeral director. Before you even begin formal training, there are certain life skills you need to become a funeral director.Interpersonal skills are a must for a funeral director. Try to take psychology courses in high school, and look for opportunities to work with people. Volunteer work, in which you work directly with others, can help hone interpersonal skills.
Compassion is also key. Try to work on being understanding of those around you. Try to put yourself in other people's shoes on a regular basis. You will have empathize with what another person is going through to become a funeral director.
 Being a funeral director can be hard. You will have to deal with emotional people day in and day out. Dealing with death on a daily basis can also feel depressing. If you feel burnt out, make sure to turn to family and friends for emotional support.Have a strong support group. Make sure you always have other people around to talk to.
If necessary, you may have to seek out a therapist at some point to manage the stress of this demanding career.
If you're high stress by nature, or feel uncomfortable dealing with death and dying, this may not be a good career path for you.

