 Ask a trusted friend, family member, or neighbor to keep an eye out on your home while you’re away. It is absolutely essential that you trust this person and know that they will follow through with checking in.A next door neighbor is a convenient person to monitor your home since they are the most likely person to notice any unusual situations.
Do not sacrifice convenience for trust. If you do not feel completely comfortable asking your next door neighbor to check on your home, ask a close friend or family member.
Remember to return the favor and offer to do the same for them when they are on vacation.
 Overgrown lawns or driveways full of snow are surefire giveaways that the homeowner isn’t at home.


Be mindful of your friend’s time and offer compensation for these chores. For example, if the neighbor that you’ve asked to keep an eye on things has a teenage son or daughter, offer to pay their child to complete these tasks.
Always return the favor and offer to do the same when they go away on vacation.
 Interior lights signal that someone is at home but leaving your lights on all the time while you are away is not cost effective. A programmable light switch will turn on select lights at a certain time and then turn them off. This saves money, is energy efficient, and is a useful deterrent.


An intruder who is watching your home closely may notice that the lights go on and off at certain times every day. Set a schedule for your timers that varies day by day., Never post on social media that you are leaving for a vacation. Avoid posting pictures from your vacation while you are still away, checking in at the airport or your vacation destination, or updating your friends about your vacation.


Internet safety is extremely important. Many burglars learn about their potential victims through social media when they post that they will be away, how long they’ll be away, and where they’re going., Notify the post office that you will be away so they do not leave mail and packages at your door. You can also ask your neighbor to collect your mail for you if you prefer not to stop your mail altogether.


Avoid scheduling deliveries, like those for online shopping, for times when you are away. Packages that are left outside your front door are easily stolen and alert others that you are out of town.
 This applies to your curtains, your blinds, or shutters that cover your windows. If you typically leave your blinds open during the day, consider leaving them open when you are away. Noticeable changes can alert others that you aren’t home, like if your curtains are pulled shut for two weeks straight when they are normally open.