 If you do not have your DUI-checkpoint-Ziploc prepared in advance, there are still some ways to get through a DUI checkpoint without getting tested. The most important principle to keep in mind is the principle of silence. While you must provide the officers with your driver’s license, registration, and proof of insurance, that is the extent of the types of communication you are compelled to engage in. If you are not free to go, then you are under arrest. If you are under arrest, then you have the right to remain silent. If you are free to go, then you can leave instead of communicating.Nearly all DUI arrests begin when the officer notices or claims to notice slurred speech or the smell of alcohol on your breath—which is why you should say nothing. Don’t be the person who says something. Be the person who says nothing.
If you have been drinking and for some reason you must say something—although you shouldn’t—don’t speak directly into the officer’s face and do what you can to discretely shield your mouth.
Even if you haven't even drinking, you should still say next to nothing. Regardless of whether you have or haven't been drinking, the first piece of evidence police will typically use to justify a further search is the smell of alcohol on your breath. If you haven't opened your mouth, they can't smell your breath, and if the officer is equipped with a body camera, they won't be able to claim that you opened your mouth and that your breath smelled of alcohol.
 If an officer asks you to take a field sobriety test, you should refuse as a matter of course. Police don’t ask people they believe to be sober to take sobriety tests. If they ask you to take one, they already think you are drunk. They are only trying to amass evidence to support your arrest and subsequent conviction.Refusing a breathalyzer and refusing a field sobriety test are not the same thing. The former usually carries with it the loss of a license. The latter provides evidence to support administering the former.Police are trained to ask questions in a manner that implies you are required to answer or act without explicitly stating so. Remember you have the right to remain silent.
For example, they might say: "I'm going to need you to step over here and perform a field sobriety test." While it isn't a question, it isn't exactly a demand. A simple refusal is fine--"no thank you, officer," "no," "I can't do it"--as long as your statement is short, firm, and to the point, it will work.
 In almost every state, if you refuse a Preliminary Alcohol Screening (PAS) test, also known as a Breathalyzer, you will lose your driver’s license automatically. In many jurisdictions, this still may be preferential to a DUI, but in others, it can be just as bad or worse. It is highly jurisdiction and fact specific, so it’s a good idea to research your state’s DUI laws beforehand.You can get some idea about the laws in your state at: https://wallethub.com/edu/dui-penalties-by-state/13549/#key-findings.
Another thing to consider: roadside PAS tests are inaccurate. In most states, the results aren’t admissible in court, they only establish probable cause to make an arrest. Once you are arrested, the police give you a more accurate version of the test at the station. If you feel like you are a borderline case, you may actually be sober enough to pass the test at the station by the time it is administered.
 Unless an officer has probable cause to arrest you, they have to allow you to leave when you want to leave. Once the officer has examined your license, ask if you are free to go. If they pretend not to hear you, keep asking until they answer., If the police do not let you leave, and instead persist in asking you questions, do not answer their questions. Instead, ask to speak with an attorney. If you are arrested, demand to speak with an attorney before you submit to a breathalyzer test at the station.