 Loved ones can prevent teen suicide by taking any threats seriously. True, some teens may threaten suicide as a way to act out, but you’re better off responding to these threats than finding out later that they were earnest. Many people who go forward with suicide gave some indicator to loved ones of their intentions. Don’t ignore these threats.

If you hear your teen threaten suicide or if you find a suicide letter, talk openly with them about it. Although they may not expressly ask you for help, you should offer it. You might ask, “You said that you would take your life. What caused you to feel this way? How can I help? Talk to me.”Some people worry that talking about suicide will lead to suicide, but talking about suicide saves lives. Be willing to have a conversation with your teen about your concerns.
 If you suspect that a teen may be contemplating suicide, you need to reduce their odds of completing the act. Immediately get rid of any prescription pills they may have access to. Similarly, lock up any weapons like guns or knives safely or remove them from the household entirely., Your teen needs to see a doctor or therapist for suicidal behavior. You might get a referral from your family doctor or research a mental health therapist online. If your teen seems to be in need of immediate help, call a suicide hotline or get them to an emergency department right away.In the meantime, do not leave your teen alone. Surround them with support and let them know that you will help them get the help they need.
Be sure to spend some time alone with this therapist as well. This will give you an opportunity to work through your feelings on the situation and get guidance about how to address the situation in a healthy way. Be sure to make time to take care of yourself as well.
 Many teens who have suicidal thoughts and feelings can prevent an attempt by creating a suicide safety plan. This serves as a contract that they develop with their families and mental health providers. The plan might include a list of actions a teen can take when feeling suicidal like calling a hotline, seeking support from a parent or friend, practicing stress management techniques. They sign the contract saying that they will try these steps if they think about harming themselves., Teens who are at risk of suicide may pull away, but that doesn’t mean they don’t need or want support. Share your concern for their well-being and point out various individuals they can go to in a crisis. Talk in a gentle, non-accusing way, letting your teen know that you do not blame them for these feelings.

For example, you might say, “I’m so sorry that you are feeling this way, but I’m glad we are talking about it. Your father and I are here for you. We are ready to talk anytime you need. Plus, if you don’t want to talk to us you can call your counselor or a hotline. We want to make sure you know you are not alone in this.”Ask your teen to specifically identify who they are comfortable talking with about this.
 Since many teens who consider suicide have an underlying mental illness, they can benefit from positive lifestyle behaviors. In addition to strong social support, eating nutritious foods, getting plenty of exercise, and sleeping about 8 to 9 hours each night are healthy choices that can counteract stress and depression.Everyone can benefit from a better diet, exercise and sleep habits, so make it a family commitment.
Also, make sure to encourage your teen to engage in activities that they enjoy and are passionate about, such as a hobby, sport, or other special interest.

