 To get started carving a pumpkin, you need to remove the "lid" and hollow it out. For this job, you can usually use any number of basic kitchen knives. A serrated bread knife, a small chef's knife, or any knife with a definite point.


Sharp knives are easier to work with and safer than dull knives. Use caution, move slowly, and stabilize the pumpkin before you get started. While carving can be done by kids, this first part should usually be done by adults.
To carve a pumpkin, you'll need a variety of other tools, which can usually be purchased at Halloween stores. Secret tip: Use a clean serrated dry-wall knife for the detail work.
 Spread out some paper towels or newspaper on the kitchen table, or another sturdy flat surface on which you can work at carving your pumpkin. Opening up the top of the pumpkin can be somewhat dangerous, if the knife slips, so make sure that you've got it stabilized.


Lay out a hand towel and double it over, then put the pumpkin on top of that. This should help to keep the pumpkin from rolling as you cut into it.
 Pick a point about 2-3 inches to one side of the stem, and insert your knife at about a 45 degree angle. Push your knife through until you've penetrated through the flesh of the pumpkin. You'll only need to push it in an inch or two.


In some pumpkins, you may be able to cut straight in from the top, instead of at an angle. Pay attention to the curve of the particular pumpkin that you're cutting into. Remember that you want the lid to sit comfortably on the top of the pumpkin, and not fall in.
 Pull the knife back out, shift it to one side and push it back through, continuing to slowly and carefully cut around the stem in a circle. You can cut several straight lines, cutting a kind of six-sided shape around the outside, or you can try to cut a smooth circle. Both ways work fine.


Sometimes, cutting straight lines will help the lid sit a little better. If you cut a smooth circle, try to carve a notch somewhere, in the back if you like, so that you can fit the lid back on easily.
 Once you've gone around the stem and gotten back to your starting place, grab the lid firmly by the stem and pull upward. With a little elbow-grease it should come loose.


If there's not enough stem to grab onto, use a butter knife or a regular table knife (something that's dull) to pry under the lid and pull it up.
There should be some strands of pumpkin fiber that might tug on the lid, but it should come up pretty easy. Run the knife around again a couple times if it's not coming off.
 Once you've gotten the lid off the pumpkin, you're ready to get your hands dirty. Use a metal serving spoon to scrape out the interior, saving the seeds for roasting pumpkin seeds, if you want. Then design your pumpkin and start carving.


Dab a little petroleum jelly on the inside edge of the pumpkin lid to help keep it from rotting more quickly.Read How to Carve a Pumpkin for some fun templates and more information about carving pumpkins.

