 Forcing a change in a custody order isn’t easy. That doesn’t mean it can’t happen, but it requires the plaintiff or petitioner (you) to prove custodial circumstances have substantially changed.If you just want more expansive visitation rights, that’s much easier to obtain. The standard for modifying visitation is the “best interest of the child.” Since it’s almost always in the best interest of the child to see their parents, it’s usually fairly easy to get an order for increased visitation.
 The “substantial change in circumstance” standard doesn’t have the same meaning as the dictionary definition of the words might lead you to believe. The meaning is very specific. It mandates that custody stay unchanged unless circumstances are so different now the court would have ruled differently in the original order had circumstances been what they are today.Usually, mere improvement in your own circumstances won’t be enough the force a change in the original order.
 In would be inaccurate to say that all changes in circumstance have to fit into rigidly defined categories. However, the majority of changes in circumstance that cause a court to modify a custody order fall into one of the following categories:Impersonal factors, like changes in economic or geographic circumstance. Distant relocation (such as relocation out of the country) or a slide into destitution would both qualify.
Factors which would indicate difficulty in fulfilling parental responsibilities. These could be factors like drug use or criminal activity which call into question your ex’s fitness as a parent, but it could also be something milder, like a serious illness.The wishes of the child. In most states, courts will take the child’s wishes into account between ages 10-12. By ages 14-16, the child’s wishes are dispositive.Defying the court’s order. Very few things will make a judge more angry than treating their orders with contempt. A parent who is chronically thwarting visitation arrangements is a parent who is inviting a forced change in custodial arrangements., Some changes in circumstance are easier to prove than others. For example, it probably won’t be hard to prove the other parent has cancer or is living on the street. On the other hand, evidence of drug use, child abuse, or other criminal activity can be much more difficult to obtain.Witnesses and records are the best types of evidence. Angry voice mails, texts, and emails might all be used to prove interference in visitation arrangements or perhaps even abuse. Speak with neighbors, teachers, coaches, and church leaders if you suspect drug use, child abuse, or other criminal activity.
 Carefully consider the consequences before you try to force a modification of the custody agreement. Make sure it’s absolutely necessary. You could be making an enemy for life, opening up a Pandora’s Box of recrimination and retaliation. It’s probably best to avoid forcing a modification unless the welfare of your child is at stake.

