;
, This action will make their emotions turn more confident, and it gives them minty breath! You can also choose for them to wash their hands as well.
 This will be easy since they're already in front of the mirror. This will make them feel more confident and flirty.
 There are quite a few different types of showers you can take, such as a thoughtful shower that will make your sim's emotion change to inspired. Make sure to choose what type of shower you want according to what the day planned ahead for your sim will be like.
 Keep in mind that tea is more expensive then coffee. The coffee will make your sim energized, while the tea flavour that you choose will make your sim feel a particular emotion. You can drink your desired beverage with your breakfast.
 You may consider making them drink it while eating breakfast, as it allows them to multi-task and finish it quicker. Try choosing a healthy, quick breakfast option if your sim is going to school/work; if your sim is in no rush, then go ahead and make them cook a yummier, more expensive option.
 If your sim has any children, or even any family or friends that are awake and hungry, then make your sim cook a group-sized breakfast. This will allow everyone to eat together, and it's the quicker option. They can also even drink some of the tea/coffee left in the machine.
 It's a great way to become closer to them and to make your sim happier, while still doing the task that needs to be done.
 Also remember to clean the mugs and any kitchen surfaces that need to be cleaned, such as the counter top or the stove.
 You don't want them in their pajamas for too long! You can get them to try on outfits in the mirror as this raises your mood, or you can just select them to change into everyday wear by clicking on them. You can also get them to change their everyday wear by clicking on a dresser.
 If you are happy with the way they look then just leave it, but if you want them to change something then just click on a mirror and choose "change appearance". The outfit will change their makeup and hair.
 Make sure that your sim's needs are well looked after, make sure the house is clean, and make sure that your children are at school. After you're sure everything is fine, get your sim to leave the house and have some fun. All that matters is that your sim is in a good mood when they leave, especially if they are going to school/ work.

