 Before you begin brushing their coat, you’ll need to remove their collar and any other accessories they may have on. You can groom your dog with them in your lap, on a grooming table, or with them on the floor. You may need someone to hold your dog while you’re brushing them if they won’t cooperate.;
, Your Tibbie's coat is smooth on their face and the fronts of their legs and is longer on the rest of their body. The ears, tail, and backs of their front legs have longer hair, which can become more easily tangled. They have a mane of longer hair surrounding their necks.You can use either a wire pin brush or a soft slicker brush. Start brushing at your Tibbie's head and move down their body.
 Matting is more likely to occur in the longer areas of their coat, like around their legs and neck. Slicker brushes are good to untangle any knots that you find in their coat. Mats occur when tangles become so knotted that they form one large knot. You may have to cut out mats with scissors if you are unable to untangle them.Be gentle while untangling knots, since this can pull on your dog’s skin and be painful.


Be very careful when removing any mats in your Tibbie's hair at home. Use small scissors to cut the mat as close to your Tibbie's skin as possible.
For severe mats, take your dog to the veterinarian or a professional groomer to have them removed.
 Tibetan Spaniels shed small amounts of fur year-round. Weekly brushing keeps their coat healthy.Brushing can be a great way to bond with your Tibbie.


You can brush them indoors or outdoors. Brushing them outdoors may make cleaning up after the brushing easier.
 Tibetan Spaniels have a double coat and shed twice a year. A double coat means they have two layers of hair. They typically go through shedding season during the fall and spring, but the time of year might vary. During this time, they need to be brushed daily to remove their undercoat and to encourage new hair to grow. You can use a slicker brush or a pin brush to remove the dead undercoat.Weather permitting, brush your Tibbie outside during shedding season since they’ll lose quite a bit of hair. If you have to brush them indoors, make sure the floor is easy to sweep.
You can also use an undercoat rake during shedding season.
 Tibetan Spaniels are usually less than 15 pounds in weight, so you can either bathe them in a deep sink or in a bathtub. You can also bathe them outdoors if the weather permits. Remove their collar and any other accessories.
 Wet their entire coat with warm, but not hot, water. The water should not fill the tub any higher than their necks. Do not get water in their eyes or ears.Water that gets trapped in their ears can cause ear infections, which Tibetan Spaniels are prone to. To protect their ears, put a cotton ball in both ears while you bathe them.
 You can use a shampoo that is specifically made for dogs for your Tibbie. These shampoos have the right pH-balance to keep their skin and coats healthy, without drying them out. Put a small amount of shampoo into your hands and then work the shampoo into their coats. The shampoo should lather up and remove any dirt or debris that has gotten caught in their coats since their last bath.


Be very careful with shampoo around their eyes, nose, and ears. You can use a soft washcloth to wipe these areas as well.
 Once their entire coat has been shampooed, rinse out the product. Use warm water to rinse out all of the shampoo. This may take two or three rinses, depending on how thick their coats are.While you’re rinsing out their coats, look for any skin irritation, redness, or lumps. These can be signs of a developing skin condition or infection, so if you see anything unusual you should consult your veterinarian.
 You can use a cotton towel to dry their coats after the bath or you can use a blow dryer. Only use a blow dryer on a low or no heat setting. Some owners like to use a spray conditioner or a finishing spray to protect the coat from drying out after a bath, but this is a personal preference., Tibetan Spaniels are relatively clean dogs and their coats do not have much of an odor. You can bathe them every six to eight weeks. They may need to be bathed more frequently if they’ve rolled around in something muddy or smelly. Bathing them too often can strip the skin and hair of its natural oils., Tibetan Spaniels are prone to dental problems, so brushing their teeth is a very important part of their grooming routine. Use a soft toothbrush and a toothpaste that is specifically designed for dogs.Daily brushing is the best way to prevent tooth decay and periodontal disease. At the very least, brush their teeth two to three times a week., Tibetan Spaniels have fast growing nails so you’ll need to trim them frequently.Exercising your dog on concrete or pavement can help wear their nails down naturally, but you should still check to see if they need trimmed every week. When nails are not trimmed regularly, they can crack and chip, which can be painful for your dog.


You can use either a nail clipper or a grinder to keep their nails at a manageable length.
The quick is a vein that runs through the center of the nail. It can be harder to identify on darker colored nails, but when cut it can bleed profusely. Keep some cotton balls and styptic powder handy to stop the bleeding.
 Tibbies have floppy ears that hang down from their head. You should check their ears once a week for any signs of infection. Look for any redness, irritation, swelling, or fluid in the ear.When their ears aren’t checked, there may be a buildup of wax that you’ll need to wipe away. Use a cotton ball and a pH-balanced ear cleaning solution to wipe their inner ears.You can buy ear cleaning solution formulated for dogs at your local pet store or online through pet supply stores.

