

The FDA requires that food labels include a statement of identity, a net quantity of contents, the name and address of the manufacturer, an ingredients list, and nutrition information.
There are two ways to display this information on a food package or container. The first option is to place all of the required information on the front of the package (the principal display panel). The second option is to place the statement of identity and the net quantity of contents on the principle display panel, and place the name and address of the manufacturer, list of ingredients, and nutrition information on a separate information panel.;
,


The PDP is the part of the package label that is most likely to be seen by the consumer at the time of purchase (i.e. the front of the package).
The IP is the panel that is immediately to the right of the PDP. If the container is a can, the IP is the portion of the label area immediately to the right of the PDP. If the package is designed so this panel is unsuitable to display information, the information panel is the next panel immediately to the right.
 This is the name of the food. The statement of identity should be the common or usual name of the food if the food has one (e.g. peanut butter). If no common or usual name exists, a phrase that accurately describes the food or its characteristic ingredients, and is not misleading, may be used. A brand name (e.g. Coca-Cola) or a fanciful name (e.g. Nilla Wafers) may be used if it is common and generally understood by the public.

The statement of identity must include the form of the food if it is sold in more than one form, for example sliced, whole, diced, etc.
The word imitation must be included in the statement of identity. A product is considered imitation if it is a substitute for another food and is less nutritious. For example, imitation crab.


Use prominent, easy to read print or type for the statement of identity.
The statement of identity should be in bold type and at least one half the size of the largest text on the label.
The statement of identity should be generally parallel to the base of the package.
 This is the amount of food contained in a package, and does not include weight of the packaging, wrappers, etc. This should be displayed in both U.S. Customary Units and in metric units. Volumetric measurements (milliliters, fluid ounces, etc.) should be used for liquid foods, and weight measurements (grams, ounces, etc.) for solid or mixed solid/liquid food. For foods where liquid is commonly drained (e.g. pickles, canned beets), the drained weight of the food should be displayed.



To calculate the area of the PDP of rectangular/square package, multiply the height by the width. #*To calculate the area of the PDP for a cylindrical container, multiply 40% of the label’s height by the circumference.
Use the table below to determine minimum type size. These measurements are based on the size of a lowercase letter “o,” unless only uppercase letters are used, the size is based on the height of an uppercase “O.”







,

Use an easy to read font and do not crowd the net quantity statement with other information or artwork.
The net quantity statement must be parallel to the base of the package.
The letters must be less than three times as high as they are wide.
The letters must be in an appropriate color to contrast with the background of the package.
 This information is most often placed on the information panel.


According to the FDA, “unless the name given is the actual manufacturer, it must be accompanied by a qualifying phrase, which states the firm's relation to the product, e.g., ‘manufactured for’ or ‘distributed by.’"
The street address must appear if the company name and address are not listed in a current city telephone book.
The city or town, state, and zip code must be included on the label.
 All packaged foods that have two or more ingredients are required to have an ingredients list.

Ingredients must be listed in descending order of predominance by weight.
Ingredients must be listed by their common/usual names.
Chemical preservatives and their function (e.g. to preserve freshness) must be listed in the ingredients list.
Spices, natural flavors, and artificial flavors may be listed by their common names or be listed as “spices,” “natural flavor,” or “artificial flavor.”
Major food allergens must be identified. The major food allergens are milk, eggs, fish, crustacean shellfish, tree nuts, wheat, peanuts, and soybeans. These allergens may be listed within the ingredients list or in a separate list immediately following the ingredients list.
 This may be either the PDP or the information panel, but is most often the information panel.


Choose an easy to read font.
Use a type size that is at least one sixteenth of an inch in height based on the lowercase letter “o.”

, Format the nutrition facts panel according to the FDA’s guidelines. Depending on the size of the package, there are a variety of format options for nutrition facts. These guidelines can be found at this FDA - Nutrition Labeling page
, These three elements may be either on the PDP or the information panel. Do not place any artwork or other intervening material between them.

