 After you finish each chapter (or sub-chapter), it is a great idea to stop and summarize the chapter in your own words. Don’t compose an essay. Instead, shoot for a few concise sentences. This will make it easy for you to locate specific ideas within the book when you return to it., If you have borrowed this book from a friend or from the library, it is best not to make marks inside. However, you can use sticky notes to follow many of these same strategies. Sticky notes come in many different sizes, so you can use them to mark specific quotations or main ideas. You can also stick them in the margins and use them to jot down themes, questions, symbols, or other notes.Sticky notes also come in a variety of colors.
You can use these colors to your advantage and create a color-coding system for your notes.
 Similar to sticky notes, colored tabs are placed near the edges of your book’s pages, and stick out when the book is closed. These tabs serve as little page markers, enabling you to flip to a specific page with ease. You can use colored tabs to indicate significant pages to yourself. Once again, you can use a variety of colors to indicate the location of specific themes or questions., If you don't wish to write in the book, instead of circling new vocabulary words, you can keep a separate list. It may be useful to provide the page number on which you found the word and to look up the definition in a dictionary. If you're reading a novel, you might want to wait to look up a word after you've finished a chapter so that you don't interrupt the flow of your reading.
 As you go through and identify key themes, you can save yourself a lot of time in the future by using that data to create your own index. On the inside of the front cover (or on a separate page or index card), you can list significant themes and their corresponding page numbers. This way, when you are looking for information on a specific topic, you’ll know right where to turn., In order to get the most out of your notations, it is important to go back and look them over. This will help solidify your comprehension of the material and provide you with the opportunity to quiz yourself or deepen your knowledge. You have taken the time to generate excellent notations, don't forget to use them.

