 When purchasing an aloe vera product, check the label to ensure that it is at least 95% whole leave aloe vera. Watch out for added sweeteners and thickening agents, such as xanthan gum.

Pure aloe vera is available commercially at grocery stores, pharmacies, and online retailers.;
, Aloe gel is great to have on hand for a variety of home remedies. It can be harvested easily from the cut stem of an aloe plant, if you have one at home.


To harvest aloe vera gel, begin by cutting off one of the leaves at its base. Then cut open the leaf along its length. Once you pull back the outer layer of the leaf, the gel inside will be exposed and it can be scraped out.
 To use the aloe vera gel on your throat you can combine it with another ingredient to make the gargling easier. Consider combining it with tea or water in order to create a product you can gargle with.


Since it is recommended not to exceed ingesting one tablespoon of aloe vera gel three times a day, consider making yourself a cup of tea and then adding a tablespoon of aloe vera gel to that. If you use this for gargling, and you only ingest a little during the act of gargling, then you know you are not exceeding the recommended daily dose., If you have a sore throat, you should use an aloe vera gargle as often as desired. Take a small mouthful of the liquid, move it to the back of your throat without swallowing it, and then move it around the back of your throat by slowly exhaling.Once you have exhaled all of your air, either inhale again through your nose or spit out the gargle and then take in a new breath.
Just be sure that you don't ingest more than one tablespoon three times a day.
 If you have a severe sore throat, you can apply pure aloe vera gel to your throat without dilution or with minimal dilution simply to make it effective for gargling. A product like aloe vera juice can be very helpful for this type of full strength application.If you use small amounts, it should relieve some of your discomfort while not exceeding the recommended daily dosage.
 While aloe vera is safe to ingest in recommended amounts, it can cause some side effects. In particular, it is known to be a laxative. This means that if you swallow the aloe as you gargle with it, it may cause you to have loose stools or increased bowel movements.There needs to be more research done on the medical effects of aloe vera. Along with constipation, there is some evidence that it could have carcinogenic properties as well when ingested in large amounts.