 The U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division has different sections to deal with different types of civil rights complaints.


You can call the Civil Rights Division at (888) 736-5551 if you are unsure which section you should contact with your complaint.The criminal section deals with criminal complaints you would also file with the FBI. These complaints include hate crimes and force or threats of force to interfere with the exercise of your civil rights.The housing and civil enforcement section handles complaints from people who believe they have been victims of housing discrimination in public accommodations or in religious land use.If you plan to allege disability discrimination against a state or local government agency, or a public accommodation such as a restaurant or retail store, you can file the ADA complaint with the disability section of the DOJ's civil rights division. The section also accepts complaints via email.The DOJ's office of special counsel for immigration-related unfair employment practices enforces federal laws that prohibit employment-related discrimination based on someone's national origin or citizenship status. The section has complaint forms available which can be filled out online or printed and filled out by hand.The educational opportunities section accepts complaints of potential civil rights violations in education, protecting students against discrimination and harassment in violation of federal law. You can submit a complaint by email, telephone, fax, or by mailing a written letter.The voting section protects the right to vote. If you were discriminated against while attempting to vote or register to vote, you can submit a complaint to the voting section using email, telephone, fax, or written letter. The section also has an online form you can fill out and submit using the web form., Each federal civil rights law has its own standards regarding whose rights are protected and deadlines for filing complaints.


For example, most federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination protect you if your employer has 15 or more employees.The Immigration Reform and Control Act, however, which prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of national origin or citizenship status, protects you if your employer has just four employees or more., Write down a detailed description of the incident that gave rise to your complaint including any supporting documentation.


Each section may have its own rules regarding what sort of information and documentation should be included with your complaint. Check with the section where you're filing your complaint to make sure you've included all the necessary information before you file your complaint., Once you've finished drafting your complaint, make copies and file the complaint with the appropriate section.


Most sections of the DOJ's civil rights division accept complaints through the mail. Some also accept complaints online or over the phone., If you are contacted by an attorney or other representative of the civil rights division about your complaint, be prepared to provide additional documentation or answer questions.

