 While changing your habits is necessary to achieve most of your financial goals, it can still be helpful to set goals in the first place. In fact, setting goals does make it more likely that you’ll be able to establish better financial habits. However, it’s important to focus on one goal at a time.In order to set a goal that will help you develop good habits, think about something that is particularly important to you.
For instance, you may want to begin saving for a child’s college expenses, develop a personal emergency fund, or save up $2,000 dollars for a vacation.
Avoid letting up on practicing positive financial habits when they achieve a financial goal. Set a new goal whenever your present goal is insufficient to motivate positive changes in your behavior.
 After determining a goal that you think will motivate you to develop better habits, write it down as specifically as possible. Then write down an actionable, short-term step that will contribute to the broader goal you’ve envisioned.For instance, you may want to save up for a vacation in a couple of months. Figure out how much the vacation will cost. Then determine how much you'll need to reduce your spending each week to have that amount saved, and adjust your spending habits accordingly.
Breaking down your goals into realistic, achievable, and measurable steps makes you more likely to develop better habits.
 This is a great example of a way to achieve long-term financial goals by establishing positive financial habits. For example, your financial goal might be, “Save $30,000 dollars for Jeffrey’s college fund." Your shorter, more actionable step might be, “Contribute $150 a month to Jeffrey’s college fund.” As soon as you begin to meet your shorter steps, you've established a clear financial habit., In order to do this, you may need to re-conceptualize saving. More to the point, many people pay their bills, spend some of their income, and save whatever’s left each month. However, effective saving is much more likely if you make a habit of treating monthly savings as a high-priority.For instance, set up an automated deposit into your savings account from your checking account at the start of every month. Instead of making a deposit when you feel able to do so, you'll find yourself adapting to the habit of saving first, then spending when you feel able to do so instead.
 One of the best long term savings goals you can start working towards right now is your retirement. Especially if your employer offers a 401K or an IRA plan, contribute money to the plan from your paycheck every month. Not only will you start to build the nest egg that will cover your costs later in life, this practice will increase your familiarity with long-term savings and may motivate you to save in other ways as well.Keep in mind that the latter you start to save, the more you’ll need to contribute to a long-term plan like retirement. This is because money you contribute now will have time to compound and grow - making small savings now worth as much as larger contributions later on.

