 Do not try to clean the glass immediately after you have used the fireplace. Turn off your gas fireplace and ensure that the glass is cool when you try to clean it as this leads to the best results., Since gas fireplaces don’t require wood, many of them have glass doors that are locked in place rather than easily swinging open. You may have to refer to the owner’s manual or an online guide for your specific fireplace model to learn how to open the glass door.


Many models require you to release door latches placed behind upper and/or lower louvre panels in order to open the glass door., Your local home improvement store, fireplace retailer, or online fireplace retailer will all have special fireplace glass cleaners available.You should not use Windex or any other ammonia based glass cleaner as it could have adverse effects.This is because carbon is the primary source of buildup on the fireplace glass, and ammonia-based cleaners are not formulated to clean carbon deposits., Use a soft, dry cloth and pour some of the cleaner directly onto it before using the cloth to apply the cleaner to the glass.Your specific cleaner will provide instructions for the exact amount to use based on the size of your fireplace doors. However, it will probably be a dollop approximately the size of a fifty-cent piece., With the cleaner on the cloth, begin at one corner of the glass and rub in small circular motions to get an even application of the cleaner across the glass.Continue rubbing until the cloth easily glides across the glass. This is the indication that you have sufficiently cleaned off any buildup on the glass., Your specific cleaner will provide instructions on how long to allow the cleaner to dry. Ensure that you leave the cleaner on the glass for this full period, so it can continue penetrating any buildup., Use a separate soft, dry cloth to buff the remainder of the cleaner off the glass after it has dried.As you buff, any cloudy spots from the cleaner will disappear to reveal the sparkling glass beneath.
 If you have definitely buffed the cleaner away but some carbon buildup remains on the glass, repeat the process with another application of the fireplace glass cleaner.
 Once the glass is clean, you’re all set. Make sure you properly reattach the door or clip it back into place for gas fireplace models.

