 The larger the surface, the more baking soda you’ll need. Then, add some vinegar to the pan. Again, the amount of vinegar you add should be proportional to the surface area of the stainless steel bakeware. Start with ¼ cup of vinegar. If that isn’t enough to evenly coat the bottom of the tray, add more in one-tablespoon increments.


When you mix the vinegar and baking soda, you’ll notice them fizzing. This is normal and not cause for concern.
Wait two to three minutes for the mixture to work its way into the stain.
 While it’s boiling, dump the vinegar and baking soda mix out of the bakeware and rinse the tray off. Place the tray in the sink face-up and slowly pour the boiling water over it.


Don’t pour the boiling water too rapidly or you risk splashing it onto your skin.
Wait a few minutes for the hot water to cool, then start scrubbing with soap and water to loosen up as much of the stain as you can. Use vigorous circular motions with the sponge or scrubbing pad to loosen the grime.
If you can remove the stain completely at this point, great! If not, continue on to the next step.
 For instance, you could mix one cup of vinegar and three cups of water. Or, for more shallow trays, you might mix half a cup of vinegar with 1½ cups of water. Bring the mixture to a boil in your bakeware.


If you have a deep pot, this is easy to do on the stovetop. However, if you’re cleaning a shallow bakeware item like a tray or cookie sheet, you’ll need to add a thin layer of this mixture and heat it in the oven to about 212 degrees Fahrenheit (100 degrees Celsius) inside your oven.
Once the mixture is boiling, turn off the heat. Let it cool for 10-15 minutes. Then dump the mixture down your sink and give the stainless steel bakeware a good scrubbing with soap and water. Any stains should come right out.
 For instance, you could mix ½ a cup of water and ½ a cup of baking soda. The mixture should resemble a thick paste. Coat the stains on your stainless steel bakeware with this paste and let it sit for about 15 minutes. Then, rub the paste away with a sponge and give the bakeware a good washing with hot, soapy water.


Some people find that scrubbing the baking soda paste away with aluminum foil helps remove the stain.You could also soak a sponge in vinegar to help you remove stains treated with the baking soda paste. Use this vinegar-soaked sponge to scrub away the paste or after you’ve washed the pan with soapy water.
This method is also effective when cleaning cast iron bakeware. However, it is recommended that you let the paste coat the stain on cast iron for closer to eight hours rather than just 15 minutes.