 Begin with Wikipedia's entry on Martin Luther King at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Luther_King,_Jr. However, don't limit yourself to that small entry. Borrow some biographies from the library or purchase some. In addition, watch documentaries online or borrow DVDs.


Watch King or other documentary about the civil rights leader. King is available on DVD from the History Channel. It originally aired 01/18/2009.
Cable channels will carry a lot of content on King at the time of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day.;
, Segregation was intensely demoralizing and the lower wages for African Americans made life's essentials more difficult and less accessible, including housing, clothing, food, education, etc.


Read the Jim Crow Laws and commentary related to them.See narratives of what it was like.
Read about the history of segregation in your local library.
 This was the year of the Montgomery Bus Boycott.In a nutshell, the boycott began when Rosa Parks was arrested for refusing to give her seat on the bus to a white passenger. Martin Luther King was elected to lead the boycott primarily because he was new in town and had not been corrupted. This was his first work as a civil rights activist, and he was incredibly successful.


The bus in which Rosa Parks was sitting when she was arrested is on display at the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Michigan. Plan a visit to see the museum display.
 An incredible orator, King has written some of the finest words in history, which continue to be quoted to this day.


Read a Letter from a Birmingham Jail,an open letter of approximately 7,000 words from Martin Luther King to his fellow clergymen of Alabama who criticized his participation in the civil rights movement in 1963. The letter contains many of King's most quotable quotes such as: "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere".
Listen to his most famous speech, "I Have A Dream", at http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/mlkihaveadream.htm (less than 1700 words). This speech is regarded as one of America's finest examples of oration, delivered on the occasion of the 1964 March on Washington on August 24th. Try to memorize it if you can; its power is something you can draw on in times of need.
Read King's acceptance speech on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo, December 10, 1964. It is at: http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/peace/laureates/1964/king-acceptance.html. Martin Luther King, Jr. is the youngest man ever to be awarded the Nobel peace prize, at the age of 35.
See also the "List of Works" below under "Tips" for more reading suggestions.
 Read about the March on Washington,the largest protest demonstration in U.S. history. Trace its political effects, such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964,and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, legislation which successfully ended segregation in America.
 Also read the citations accompanying the Congressional Gold Medal,bestowed in 2003 to both King and his wife for "their countless contributions to the nation as leaders of the civil rights movement."

, When you get the opportunity, plan a trip to the various places of significance, including:


Georgia: The Martin Luther King, Jr., National Historic Site in Atlanta, Georgia.The historic site is part of the National Parks Service and was established in 1980 to commemorate the life and work of Martin Luther King. Places to visit here include the Visitor Center, Ebenezer Baptist Church, The King Center (Freedom Hall), Fire Station No. 6, Dr. King's Birth Home and the restored Birth Home Block.
Dallas, TX: The Juanita Craft House where King went to discuss the civil rights movement.
Alabama: Sixteenth Street Baptist Church, Montgomery (King spoke at the funeral of girls killed by the Ku Klux Clan), the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church and Parsonage where King lived for 6 years and Selma, the beginning of the Selma to Montgomery march in 1965.
Washington, DC: The Lincoln Memorial, the site of the famous "I have a dream" speech. If you live in Washington DC, or can travel there for King's birthday, there are many events held at this time, including Martin Luther King, Jr Day of Service, Smithsonian festival, plays or musicals, etc., and laying of a wreath at the Lincoln Memorial.
Memphis, TN: The Mason Temple Church of God in Christ, the location of King's "Mountaintop" speech, April 3, 1968 and The Lorraine Hotel in Memphis, where King was assassinated on April 4, 1968. This is now the site of an extensive National Civil Rights Museum.
 There are lots of ways to celebrate the day but it's great to get together with others to celebrate. Here are some suggestions:


March on the night of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day holding candles. Join a march organized in your city, town or area.
Attend a local church service or memorial held in honor of King.
Go and see locally organized displays, film festivals, plays and other performance events being put on in honor of this day.
March in a peace parade.
Turn car headlights on at noon.
Have children write, draw, photograph, scrapbook, digitalize, etc. what the day means to them. Display their results online (share with others through social media) or somewhere else public such as at school, in your yard or windows, etc.

