 But, put this as respectfully as possible. Don’t say it in a rude or irritated way.


You might say something like, “I really think that if you asked me a bit more nicely about my schoolwork, I would be able to talk to you about it more.”;
, If your parents are nagging you about your work or grades, you probably aren’t doing so great with these things. Agree that you will work harder to do better.


You might start a conversation by saying something like, “I’m sorry I haven’t done as well as I could have lately. I promise to start working harder and trying my best to get better grades.”
There are many reasons to work hard in school, and making your parents happy is just one of them. Working hard in school will get you ready for the future and for college, make you proud of yourself, when you get better grades and learn new things, and it could lead to more options for jobs and careers in the future., Use a computer to create and print one out, or write it down by hand. Post it in a place where you and your parents can both see it, and they can see as you mark off your progress.


A schedule can serve as a record of all the work you have already finished. Not only will it feel good as you check off things on the list, but it can help you feel more organized and not lose track of things you still need to do.Make sure you keep to your schedule after you have made and posted it. It won’t help you if you don’t actually use it!, Rather than having your parents always coming to you with nagging concerns, go to them first. Make time throughout the week to let them know how you’re doing and what’s going on with your schoolwork.


This check-in might sound something like, “Hey Mom and Dad, I just wanted to let you know that I have a test this week, and I’m a little nervous about how I might do.” Or, “I’m feeling a little overwhelmed with my assignments in math, so I’m going to ask my teacher for some extra help.”
This check-in could be something you put on your schedule to do every few days. Don’t make it too formal or just about grades; let them know what’s going on in your day-to-day life, too., If you keep that line of communication open between you and your parents, they will have less reason to nag you about schoolwork. Let them know about things in school as they happen.


You might try creating a board where you keep track of your grades on major projects, tests, and assignments. Write the grade down when you receive it, and this way you parents can be involved and see how you’re doing., You might feel angry or irritated when they nag you about your schoolwork or your grades, but resist the urge to lash out or argue. Instead, react calmly and respond thoughtfully.


Avoid using irritated or whiny tones. Try to be friendly and positive, rather than argumentative. This will help them be more receptive to your point of view.Try starting with something like, “I know you’re upset with me and you think I can do better, and I know you are right, and that I should try harder.”

, Look for a local tutoring center, or use an online service to locate a tutor in your area. Some tutors may even be offered through your school.


If you take the first steps to look for a tutor on your own, your parents might see this as a mature and positive thing.
If you need money for the tutor, discuss it with your parents before booking one. Ask at your school first to see if there are any free tutoring services they can offer.
 You might not be the best test taker, and that’s okay. There are study strategies you can try that might help you score higher on tests.


Take effective notes in class and spend time each day looking them over, rather than only looking at them before a test. This will help you remember the material better over time.
Consider forming a study group with friends from school. Sometimes working in a group can be helpful and encouraging. Plus, your parents will see you taking this step to do better in school and might be less inclined to nag you., This might seem like a no-brainer, but every little assignment counts. Missing even one homework assignment could negatively impact your grade. Make sure you are turning all assignments in on time.


Use your schedule to write down all upcoming assignments and keep track of them as you complete them and turn them in. Then, use your grade board to record your scores on these assignments.
If your parents see you doing your homework, they will have less of a reason to nag you about it. Show them you are capable of doing your work without being told to.
 Some teachers might be more open to this than others. Also, some teachers may not be allowed to offer extra credit to only one student.


Your teacher might be more willing to offer you extra credit if they can see you are genuinely working hard and doing your best through the entire school year or semester. Don’t do poorly the entire year and hope to rely on extra credit points to boost your grade at the end., It’s very easy to put other things in front of your schoolwork, like your social life or extracurricular activities. But, make sure you prioritize your academics ahead of everything else.


Think about each assignment separately. If you have a long paper due, for example, don’t wait to start it until the last minute. Make it a priority to begin working on it well ahead of the due date.If you put school first, you will likely start to do better, and your parents will have even less reason to nag you about your work or your grades.
 After school routines are important to establish so that you get in the habit of doing and completing your work. Spend time each day working on your assignments.


Routines can help build healthy and strong study habits. Once you spend a few weeks in the routine you create, it will become second nature, and you won’t even have to think about it.
If your parents see you getting into the habit of doing your work and working hard, they won’t have to spend time nagging you to get to work.
 Working to make your relationship with them most positive can really help when it comes to their nagging about school. Talk and spend time with them more often than only when they want to nag you.


Show your parents you appreciate and value them. Spend time doing things with them and having fun. It will help improve your overall relationship.Use your words to let them know you care, and that you are grateful that they care about you: “Guys, I’m really grateful that I have you here to help me. I appreciate everything you do for me.”

, If you are having real struggles in school, tell them the truth. Don’t immediately get upset and defensive when they bring it up. Let them know what’s going on.


If you are consistently honest with your parents, they will begin to trust you more. This trust is an important part of your relationship, and it might allow them to give you a little more space.If you tell your parents you are struggling and why, they might be able to help you. It might seem like all they want to do is nag you, but they could potentially help you succeed if you let them know what’s going on.
 Don’t wait for them to come to you and ask questions. Go to them and let them know what’s going on, both in school and in your daily life.


Your posted schedule can also help keep them in the loop. Let them know when you make a new one, and ask them if they have anything to add to it, like appointments or events.
Dinnertime is a great opportunity to talk about your day, what you’re working on, and how things are going.
 Your parents are only trying to make sure you are successful, healthy, and happy. Understand that they might have different ideas for how you should achieve these things.


Respect is a key aspect of any healthy relationship. Respect your parents, show them that you do, and they will be more likely to show you the same., It might seem like all they want to do is nag you, but their concern is coming from a good place. Before you cut them off or get mad, hear them out.


It might be tempting to jump in and interrupt your parents with your own ideas and arguments, but try to let them finish before you do so.
Actually listen to your parents, rather than simply waiting for your turn to talk. Listen actively, and respond. Try restating what they have said to let them know you are listening: “Mom, I understand that you think I have not been doing as well as I could…”

, Every person looks at things in a different way. Because your parents are older, they will have different perspectives on issues than you do.They are looking at your schoolwork as an important aspect of your life, one that might determine things about your future. Consider their perspective, and if you aren’t sure where they’re coming from, ask them.
Put yourself in their shoes. If you had a child who was doing poorly in school, wouldn’t you be concerned? You might want to know what was causing your child to struggle, and want to help them.
 It’s important that you be self-reflective in situations like this. This means you must look at your own efforts and decide if you really could be doing better in school.


It might seem difficult, but becoming more self-aware is fairly easy. Try to be more aware of your thought process, and how you react to different situations. Try not to act out of a strong emotion, and take more time to think things through. It’s easy to blame your problems and flaws on outside factors. You might blame your bad grades in school on distractions like your job, sports you play, or any other number of things. But before you do that, take a moment to think about what is really holding you back from doing well in school, and consider that it might only be yourself.
Ask yourself: “Am I doing the best I can? Am I really trying? Have I asked for help?”

, You might be quick to assume that all your parents want to do is nag you, but they’re most likely nagging you because they care, and want you to succeed.


Instead of getting mad or irritated, understand that they are your parents, and their first priority is you. They want you to succeed, and they want what is best for you. They have your best interests in mind, even if it is difficult to see that in their actions.

