 You'll need to either lift the bike into a bike stand or flip the bike over so that it rests on the seat and handlebars. To adjust a derailleur, you'll need to pedal the bike while working.;
, This is smallest gear sprocket on the rear cassette. It is furthest away from the bike. A derailleur works through cable tension, and the highest gear is actually the point of lowest tension, meaning the derailleur is doing the least work and is thus easiest to adjust.









While pedaling the bike, locate the cable leading to your rear derailleur and pull on it gently. Note how it shifts the bike for you! All a derailleur does is adjust this cable tension.
 The barrel adjuster is the small cylinder connecting the cable to the derailleur. Follow your cable from the rear derailleur up to the handlebars. The tension on this cable is what actually causes gears to shift. Make sure it is seated in its housing and isn't bent, loose, or caught in anything. This isn't a common issue, but it happens.
 Keep pedaling the bike, shifting gears one at a time. Make a mental note when of times the chain skips a gear or needs to be clicked twice to jump a gear. Does the bike have problems going up the bike, or down? Is there any noise or grinding?








, For example, if the bike struggles to get from fourth to fifth gear, stop shifting on the fourth gear. While still pedaling, turn the barrel adjuster in the direction you need the cable to fall which, in this case, would be counter-clockwise. Tightening the barrel changes the tension of the cable which, in turn, dictates the gear you're in.








Note that if the bike is upside-down, you need to turn the barrel away from the direction you want the chain to move. , Loosening the barrel adjuster tightens the cable, making it easier to pull up towards the larger gears. If you shift down and nothing happens, leave it in the shifted gear and keep turning the pedals. Turn the barrel counter-clockwise until the chain jumps up and shifts on its own -- your bike is adjusted.
 If your chain struggles to move away from the bike, you can tighten the barrel. If it won't shift when you click it, keep pedaling the bike and rotate the barrel. This decreases the tension on the derailleur, allowing the chain to "fall" smoothly to the smaller gears. Keep turning slowly until the chain shifts on its own, matching the gear you just tried to shift to.








Loosening the barrel also helps if your chain is jumping two gears at once when heading to the larger gears., Once you've adjusted one gear to shift smoothly, the rest of the derailleur usually falls right into place. Check all of the gears to ensure you're adjusted, then move on. If you still have issues:









Turn the barrel 2-3 turns to the right to full loosen it, then start over. If the cable was too tense when you started, it could need to be re-adjusted from scratch.
Check for bent gears or derailleur arms. If this didn't work, there is likely a larger issue with the bike., Keep the chain lubricated with special chain lube to ensure that stiff chain links do not affect the shifting, and to make sure that the drive train will last a long time.








