 Avoid getting stuck in the rut of complaining about things you take for granted. Take time each day to point out a few things that you are happy about in your life.It may seem like everyone naturally complains about returning to work on Monday morning. Instead, learn to value having a job to go to each week. Not everyone is able to work or, if they are, they may be unable to find work that meets their financial needs. Complaining about work just makes the job seem even worse than it really is and more of a burden than it needs to be.
Complaining about family often again seems like something everyone does. It may seem natural to complain about your teenager, but be grateful you are able to meet your family’s basic needs so your biggest worry is how busy they keep you running from event to event.
 Complaining not only judges others harshly but it also often sets you up to be your own worst critic. Sometimes, people judge others merely because their way is different.Learn the difference between someone doing something different than your preferred way and doing something “wrong.” Someone may take a different route to get things done. But, if the outcome still meets the goal, that’s all that matters.
Appreciate the value of diversity instead of focusing on differences. You may find yourself actually growing and learning from those who are different from you, if you open yourself up to different views of things around you.
 Focus on the here and now, and forgive so you can learn from what has happened instead of getting stuck in the fallout from the bad event.

Give yourself time to vent, get angry or feel however you need to in the moment. Then let those feelings go and free yourself to move forward. It is a mistake to feel the need to hide feelings because you never get to deal with them and then move on.
Know that each mistake is a chance to change how you act in the future, and this is a huge part of learning. Think of all the things you have learned in the past just by encountering and gaining knowledge after a mistake.
 Allow yourself to be imperfect and recognize the fact that those around you also will be imperfect at times. No matter how well-prepared you are for any life event, things may not go the way you expect or plan. Being prepared for this may lead you to become more flexible to find solutions in the moment instead of being overwhelmed by something going wrong.With major events like a wedding, birthday or even school activities you can often put undue pressure on yourself and others to make everything perfect. Learn to focus on the most important things and recognize many small details would go unnoticed by the average person.

