 How tall are you? The standard recommendations are as follows (your height first, then the ball's):


4'11" to 5'4": 55 centimeter (21.7 in) ball
5'4" to 5'11": 65 centimeter (25.6 in) ball
5'11" to 6' 7": 75 centimeter (29.5 in) ball
If you happen to be on the border between two height-ranges, you may want to try out both sizes before you decide on which to buy.;
, Not all exercise balls are designed for every type of exercise. Some are made for light use, while others are more durable for higher-intensity exercise. Look for the following qualities if you want to ensure that it doesn't break beneath you during a workout:

Burst resistant - This protects you from dropping to the ground unexpectedly if the ball gets pierced. Instead of popping, it will slowly start deflating, which gives you time to get off of it before you get hurt.






Able to handle higher weight - Remember that you may want to use free-weights while on the ball, so look for a ball that can hold more than just the amount that you weight on your own.






Holds up well to sustained use - You may think that you won't use it a lot over time, but you could find that even though you initially wanted to use it for an occasional workout, you end up having it as a chair-replacement at your office.
 Most sporting goods stores (e.g. Sports Authority, Big 5) carry exercise balls, and you can usually find them in the sports section of department stores like Walmart and Target.
 Exercise balls are typically sold without air inside them, but that doesn't mean there won't be any inflated ones around for customers to try out. If you do get the chance to sit on a few different exercise balls before selecting which ball to buy, make sure to pick a ball that positions your hips at approximately the same level as your knees.


For each exercise, you should have a particular area of the body that you're targeting--for instance, check out Do Sit Ups With an Exercise Ball if you want to focus on your abdominals.






If you ever start to experience discomfort using your exercise ball, return it to the store where you purchased it. You may be in need of a new exercise ball or to re-inflate the one you currently have.







