 If you are not celebrating Halloween, there is no point in purchasing candy. Don’t buy any candy before Halloween. The day after Halloween you might want to go to the store and buy some candy when it is on sale for yourself or for your family.;
, If you don’t want anything to do with Halloween, don’t decorate your house. Don’t put out pumpkins or fake cobwebs or any Halloween décor. Leave your house plain so trick-or-treaters know you don’t celebrate Halloween.
 It is a well-known sign that you don’t have any candy if you turn off your porch lights. Make sure all your lights are off outside of your house. Close all your blinds and only keep a few necessary lights on inside so trick-or-treaters get the message not to ring your door bell., Halloween often leads to childish pranks. Just to be safe, put your cars in your garage so they don’t get vandalized. Make sure all your valuables are safe and that your house is locked.Bring your pets inside so they don’t try to run after trick-or-treaters.
 Some people might not know or understand that you are not passing out candy just from your lights being off. Hang a sign on your front door that politely explains that you are not passing out candy.


For example, have the sign say, “Sorry, we have no candy! Have a good night and be safe!”
Don’t put your beliefs or reasons why you are not celebrating Halloween on the sign because that might make your home a target for trouble., Halloween activities include dressing up, watching scary movies, going to scary corn mazes or haunted houses, and trick-or-treating.


Pumpkin patches are related to Halloween but also are about autumn in general. You can avoid pumpkin patches too if you feel they are too related to Halloween.
 Explain to your kids and any other family members why you don’t celebrate Halloween. Tell your friends your situation so they know to respect your choices and to not pester you to participate in Halloween activities. You might want to tell your neighbors that you don’t celebrate Halloween so they know not to try to trick-or-treat at your house.
 Instead of Halloween you can have a party that celebrates fall. You can decorate your house with leaves, acorns, pumpkins, and other autumn themed items. Cook your favorite Autumn foods and invite friends or family over., During the day, go outside and enjoy nature. You can still have fun on Halloween but as a celebration of the season, not of the holiday. Play in the leaves or go on a hike. This is a great way to have fun on Halloween and it gets your kids outside and active., You can do crafts during Halloween instead of trick-or-treating. You can do autumn themed crafts such as making paper leaves and hand turkeys. Go to the craft store and buy autumn themed craft supplies and look online for inspiration., Make your favorite cookies for autumn. Make sugar or pumpkin cookies shaped like leaves or other fall items. You can spend Halloween making and decorating the cookies and then in the evening you can eat the cookies as a fun treat., Have a fun family game night on Halloween instead of going trick-or-treating. Get all your favorite board games and play them together as a family or invite friends over too.
 Instead of trick-or-treating, you can spend the evening watching movies. Choose family-friendly movies that are unrelated to Halloween. You can make it a tradition to watch the same movie every year or you can watch whatever movie you are in the mood for.

