


Put the box on it's side and cut one side off.






Then cut the sides into a ship shape.






Use the flaps from the top of the box to make a pointed bow, and draw planks on the side to make look like wood.






Make a helm by cutting the wheel shape out of cardboard (two pieces glued together to make it sturdy) and bolting that to another piece of cardboard which is bent in half so it stands up.






Use pvc pipes (very cheap at the hardware store) stuck into flower pots filled with rocks to be the masts and make sails out of poster boards with a jolly roger drawn on them.





;
,






Cut a few holes in the top for light and fill the boxes with balloons.






Hide pirate garb inside (hooks or other).
, Popcorn, goldfish, Swedish fish and gummy worms make good "fish bait."






Cake and ice cream.






Ice cream cone cupcakes decorated like pirates.
Sheet cake, frost with chocolate frosting. Use frosting tube or other to make a skull and crossbones on front. Put a frosting eye patch and bandana on the skull. Edge the cake with a design. Use fish on sides. Colorful small candies as jewels around. Could also find rectangular snack cakes, cut tops to hinge like a chest and fill with candies. Set these at corners of cake.
Rectangular cake decorated with wavy blue butter cream frosting. Make an island out of an upside down muffin cake, decorate green to make an island. Decorate with Playmobile pirate toys.


Red punch for "crocodile blood punch."






Scary fish made out of a watermelon.






Cut small v's at one end of the watermelon to resemble a mouth with teeth and scoop out the insides into little melon balls.
Then fill the fishes mouth back up with the melon balls, grapes, etc.


Blue jello with gummy octopuses suspended in the middle to look like the ocean.



Need one paper lunch sack per child.

Cut off top 2 inches (5.1 cm). Use black marker to give bag a wood design. Outline edges of bag.
Make one line 2 inches (5.1 cm) from top (side to side) and keyhole.
Fill with goodies and fold and tape.
Spray paint paper bags gold.
Have the kids or kids at heart (adults) decorate them with markers, sequins and stickers.
make sure they put their name on the bag



,






Make a simple pattern so all you need to do is sew to side seams. Cut out with the pinking shears. Draw a skull and crossbones on the white fabric to make a patch with the Wonder Under on the vest. Outline with the fabric paint to make it more secure.






Telescopes: Need-paper towel tubes. Spray paint black, cover one end with plastic wrap and tape on with wide, colored masking tape (hardware store).






Pirate Hats: Need-slick, vinyl like fabric. Again a two piece design, sewn together on the sides.
