 The foster care process is usually administered by the state, which means it changes based on where you live. Contact a local foster care agency to learn more about what it takes to adopt a foster child, and what it's like. There should be an orientation which you can attend which provides you with an overview of the process.;
, There is no single prototype for the "perfect" foster parents. In fact, they come in many shapes and sizes. But there are several things that set outstanding foster parents apart from the pack:


Family stability and personal maturity
Being a steady advocate for children
Being a "team player" with your family and your welfare worker, There are several misconceptions about who you need to be or what you need to have in order to become a foster parent.


You do not need to be married in order to become a foster parent
You do not need to own or live in your own home
You do not need to be wealthy
You do not need to already be a parent or have kids of your own
You do not need to be young
You do not need to be a stay-at-home parent

, Before you officially begin the application process, states usually make you complete a pre-service training class designed to teach you about the sorts of challenges foster youth routinely face.These are free through your state agency and are usually scheduled at times that will work for people who work 9 to 5 jobs. These classes usually run 4 - 10 weeks, but states will vary.
 After you've completed your pre-service training, you'll be asked to start the (sometimes labor-intensive) process of filling out paperwork and due-diligence. During this phase, you may be asked to provide:


Income verification through your employer. (Again, you do not need to be wealthy to become a foster parent, and many expenses associated with the raising of foster youth are reimbursable.)
Criminal record screening at all three levels — local, state, federal
Letters of reference from your employer as well as from personal acquaintances
Age verification by birth certificate or other legal means

, After the pre-screening and pre-service training have been completed, you get to meet your caseworker. It's very important to get off on a good footing with your caseworker; be honest, open, and thoughtful about your experiences and your motivation behind becoming a foster parent. After you meet your caseworker and complete an interview with her, you'll be expected to do the following:


Be responsive to the caseworker's requests in a responsible, timely, and open manner. Honor your caseworker's requests for documents and information.
Pledge to maintain confidentiality about children in foster care as well as the details surrounding their family.
Accommodate your caseworker on required home inspections and criminal background checks.
 In some states, a home study is required. A home study is a document your caseworker compiles intended to learn more about you, your family history, and your personal relationships. A home study is conducted through a series of questions and interviews, and can last anywhere from three to six months. Generally, a home study includes:


Family background and any relevant parenting experiences
Education and employment
Personal relationships and social life
Information about your home and the neighborhood you live in
Your reasons for wanting to foster parent and your readiness to do so

, It can take upwards of a year from when you first contact the foster parent agency until you are given a foster placement.During the waiting period, while your caseworker is making their determination, it's a good idea to stay busy and receptive to any questions your case worker might have.


During this time, do as much research as you can about the types of issues foster children will have. Some come into the system abused — sexually, mentally and physically — and this presents serious issues for the both the foster youth and parents.
Contact your state foster parent association and talk to other foster parents for insights and advice. Network with them and find out firsthand what's it's like to be a foster or adoptive parent.
If a caseworker comes to you with questions which you think may put your eligibility in doubt, never lie. If your caseworker believes you to be deceptive or dishonest, your eligibility will suffer. Most issues that come up can be worked around. The best policy is openness with your caseworker.
 Your local agency will require a number of safety features in your home, such as smoke detectors, fire extinguishers, and the like. Don't let a simple oversight derail your plans so late in the game! Follow the safety recommendation for the child's sake and for yours.
 Your placement coordinator should give you information about how other children in your home could be affected by the placement, and what the chances of the child returning to its birth family are. It's important to remember that upwards of 50% of foster youth are reunited with their birth families after being placed in foster care — being a foster parent often doesn't last long!


If you are feeling weary, unsure, or unwilling to accept the placement, know that you have the right to back out of the placement request before it's finalized., While there are no requirements to be a foster parent concerning age, race, preference, gender, or religion, you must be able to financially support yourself and any members of your current household. Make sure you understand the financial responsibilities of being a foster parent.


In most states, foster children are covered with Medicaid cards, which includes medical, dental and counseling services.
If the child needs daycare, this is a cost you'll probably be responsible for. Again, this differs from state to state; some states include a monthly stipend for childcare.
 A few sets of clothes for the age group you are willing to care for, age appropriate toys, food, hygiene items, etc.
 Understand that the initial transition can be quite rough for the foster youth; not everything is going to be rosy right from the get-go. But with a little bit of gumption and a lot of patience and love, your foster youth should ultimately understand that your intentions are pure and that your love is real.


Form emotional bonds with your foster youth, but don't expect them to stay for very long. Foster care can last a matter of weeks or months, but it rarely drags on forever. More than half of foster youth are eventually reunited with their natural parents.
If reunification with their birth parents is no longer possible, you may be able to adopt your foster youth. This may only happen after the legal rights of the parents have been officially severed.Continue to work with your caseworker to help meet the day to day needs of the foster youth. Stay in touch with your caseworker. They will help you better provide for your foster youth, if only with moral support.
 Give yourself some TLC. In order to physically, emotionally, and psychologically provide for your foster youth, you need to provide for yourself. To help avoid burning out, enlist the help of babysitters and respite care.


In most states, babysitters 18 or older can legally sit foster youth, although your particular state may have a provision against it. Ask your caseworker for more details if you are unsure.
Respite care is a temporary handing over of the foster youth to another caregiver in order to give the foster parent(s) a break. Again, check with your caseworker for more information about respite care.

