 Having the right tools for the job can put the awesome style of your dreams within your reach.
 Before putting any heating tool to your hair, you should use a heat protectant. These products help you avoid unnecessary damage by shielding your hair from some of the negative effects of heat. Heat protecting spray, creams, or serums are available at most beauty supply stores and boutiques. Apply your protectant to your hair before touching the hair with the styling tool., Curling irons and flat irons with only one setting can be too hot and lead to frizz and damage. Look on the package for the temperature settings. Most adjustable tools go from around 175 degrees to 400. 400 degrees is too hot for non-professional use, so avoid using that setting.If your hair is fine or thin, use a much lower temperature setting. If your hair is thick or coarse, you can use a higher temperature setting. Just remember not to go over approximately 350 degrees.Choose flat irons and curling irons that have the proper plates. Plates made of ceramic and tourmaline are better for your hair. Stay away from chrome and gold because these can lead to hair damage.
 Professional blow dryers that have stronger air flow and more power will be more efficient for your styling purposes. These will also help reduce the chances of heat damage while drying.But even with a high-end blow dryer, you should avoid doing this too frequently, as it will eventually damage your hair., If you want straight hair, use a flat iron. You can make use of this tool even if your hair is already straight, if it's only wavy, and can have a marked effect on curly hair. To flat iron your hair, separate it into layers. From the bottom layer, take your hair in segments, working your way from root to tip and from the inside to the outside of your head. Place a small amount of hair into the straightener, press down, and drag your hair through the plates.


Wait until your hair is completely dry to flat iron your hair. Otherwise, you could severely damage it., Soft, romantic curls, big beach waves, or tightly coiled curls look great with just about anything. Use a curling iron for more uniform curls. Larger, loose curls, can be attained through the use of a 1-inch barrel curler. For tighter curls, barrels under 1-inch are preferred.For loose, soft curls, divide your hair into sections. The number of sections will depend on your hair type, with thinner hair having fewer sections than thicker hair. Curl each section with the curling iron, then lightly run your fingers through to loosen them up.
Try curling your hair with a straightener. This gives a slightly different look to your curls, and will add variety to your hairstyles. Separate your hair into sections. Place one section of hair into the straightener, then turn the straightener 180 degrees. Tighter curls can be achieved with a full, 360 degree twist of your straightener. Pull the straightener along the strand to finish the look.