 To co-own real property as joint tenants, all owners generally must have unified rights in the property in terms of time, title, interest, and possession. Additionally, the language in ownership documents must be very specific to convey this interest.

Unity in time means all co-owners take their shares of the property at the same time.
Unity of title means all co-owners acquire title to the property by the same interest. This means you all must sign the same deed at the same time.
Unity of interest means all co-owners have equal or identical ownership interests in the property. Unlike tenants-in-common, you can't proportion this out. If there are two co-owners, they each have a one-half interest in the property.
This third unity is where language comes into play. The ownership documents must convey the interest to each co-owner in exactly the same way or the joint tenancy will fail and the co-owners will instead be considered tenants-in-common.
The fourth unity, unity of possession, means that all owners have the right to possess the entire property. Unlike tenants-in-common, this cannot be parceled out – all owners must have the right to possess the entire property at all times.
The key difference between a joint tenancy and a tenancy-in-common, however, is the right of survivorship. If one of the co-owners die, the remaining co-owners have a right to ownership in the property they left behind that is superior to all others, even creditors of the deceased.
There is another type of joint tenancy referred to as a "tenancy by the entirety," which is only available to married couples. In addition to the four unities, you also must be married to the co-owner. This form of real property ownership is still recognized in some states, but many states have abolished it.
 If you need to finance your joint purchase of the property, typically joint tenants also must jointly apply for a mortgage and both meet approval for financing, so that both of their names are included on all documents.While it is technically possible to have multiple fractional mortgages, you must take care to ensure they each cover equal portions of the property.
Additionally, you must maintain the four unities. The unities of time and title are at issue here. If you have multiple mortgages, it may mean that one owner takes title to the property at a different time than the others do.
For these reasons, getting a joint mortgage on the property as a whole typically is your best option if you want to co-own real property as a joint tenancy.
 Once financing is in place, both tenants must sign all ownership documents at the same time to preserve their unified rights and ensure that a joint tenancy is created in the property.Make sure you are following the signature and witness requirements in your state to properly transfer title in the property from the previous owners to you and your co-owner.
Keep in mind that joint tenancy also requires all co-owners to take title on the same document. This means you can't add a new co-owner later, because you will destroy the unity of time.
If you wanted to add a new co-owner later, your ownership interest would be converted to a tenancy-in-common, and you would lose the right to survivorship.

