 For the best and easiest connectivity, ensure that iTunes has been updated to the latest version. See this guide for details on updating iTunes.
 You will need to be signed in with your Apple ID in order to make purchases or download free apps from the iTunes App Store. This will need to be the same Apple ID that is assigned to your iPad.


To sign in with your Apple ID, click Store → Sign In.
 Your iPad comes with a USB cord; use it to connect your device to the computer. iTunes should automatically open when you plug your iPad to the computer; if not, run the iTunes program from your PC or Mac.
 Click the "iTunes Store" button in the upper-right corner, or select Store → Home. Click the Apps tab at the top of the store to open the App Store.


You can search the store for specific apps, or browse the top app categories.
To get an app, click the "Free" or "Price" button on the app details page. If the app costs money, you will need to purchase it with the credit card associated with your Apple ID, or your gift card balance. Gift cards are not available in all countries.
Once you've purchased the app or clicked the "Free" button, you can download the app to your computer. Your new app will be automatically set to sync with your iPad.
 You can manage which apps will be synced with your iPad. Your iPad will be listed in the "Devices" section of the sidebar. Select it to open your iPad settings. If you cannot see the sidebar, click View → Hide Sidebar.
 This will open the App Manager for your iPad. Ensure that the "Sync Apps" box at the top of the screen is checked.
 Check each app that you want to sync to your iPad. Uncheck apps that you want to remove from your iPad. You can also drag and drop apps onto the simulated iPad screen, and rearrange the apps that are on it.
 Once you are satisfied with your app selection, click Apply at the bottom of the window. The apps will begin syncing with your iPad. You can monitor the sync process from the display at the top of the screen., Once the sync process is complete, right-click on your iPad in the "Devices" section of the sidebar. Select Eject. This will allow you to safely disconnect your iPad from your computer.

