 Try to find a difficult situation in your life that you may have recently encountered. You will use this example to better learn how you approach stressful situations, how you think of them, and then change your approach to improve self-esteem.Pay careful attention to your thoughts about the situation.
Take note of any negative thoughts as you do this exercise.
 Once you have identified negative thoughts in regards to any chosen stressful situation, you can start to detach from them. The main goal is to realize that they are ultimately just words and that you can step back and simply watch them without identifying with them.Try writing your negative thoughts down, with you opposite hand or imagine them written on another object. This is to help you realize them as being something you can watch, removed from yourself.
View your negative thoughts as something you can detach from.
One way to stop negative thoughts' power over you when you recognize they are running through your head is to simply say, "STOP!" until they do stop. Remind yourself that you have learned ways of thinking in the past that are harmful, and you're learning new ways of thinking. Then replace with positive thoughts., After you are able to detach from your negative thoughts, you can step beck and let them happen without being swept up with them. Realize that you are able to control how you think and approach these negative thoughts, without them needing to be controlled or fought against.By letting negative thoughts pass by without engaging them, they will lose power over you.
Recognizing negative thoughts will allow you to let them go and replace them with positive ones.
You may still have negative thoughts, but they needn't have you.
 While you can practice the basic techniques of acceptance and commitment therapy on your own, working with a therapist can ensure you get the most out of your efforts. Your therapist will work directly with you, customizing the process of acceptance and commitment therapy to your own needs.A therapist can help you correctly utilize acceptance and commitment therapy to boost your self-esteem.

