 Girls begin growing hair on their arms, legs, and around their pubic areas during puberty. You don't have to shave if you don't want to, but most girls choose to begin shaving shortly after body hair begins to appear. It is always a good idea to talk to your mom or another trusted female adult about shaving before you try it for the first time.A manual razor is the easier way to shave. There are many different types available, but all of them should be used with some kind of lubricant, such as shaving gel or soap. You will need to be careful while shaving to avoid nicking your skin. You can also use an electric razor if you prefer.
Waxing your legs, underarms , and bikini area is also an option. This may be painful, but it will last for longer than shaving.
There are also chemicals that you can buy at drug stores to remove hair at home without the use of a razor.
 When your breasts start to grow, you may find that you want to start wearing a bra. Ask your mom or another trusted female adult to take you shopping for one.You may need a different kind of bra that offers more support for sports.
It's very important that your bra fit correctly. If you need help with this, most department stores have bra-fitting experts on staff, so just ask.
Don't be concerned if one breast starts growing faster than the other. They will eventually even out, although most women's breasts are not exactly identical to one another., Getting your first period can be very scary, but it's a lot easier if you are ready for it. When you have your period, you will need to use either a pad, which sticks to the inside of your underwear, or a tampon, which you insert in the vagina. You will find instructions for how to use these on the packaging, but it helps to ask an older woman (like your mom) for advice.It's a good idea to keep a clean pair of underwear and a sanitary napkin in your backpack in case you get your first period at school.
Most girls get their first periods around the age of 12, but it is perfectly normal for it to happen anywhere between the ages of 8 and 16.
Getting your first period means that you will be able to have a baby. If your egg does not meet up with sperm from a man, then you get your period each month. About one cup of blood will come out of your vagina over the course of about three to seven days.
Don't be alarmed if your first few periods are a brown color instead of red. This is perfectly normal. It is also normal for your periods to be irregular at first, but they will become more regular as you get older.Be sure to change your pad or tampon regularly (at least once every four hours). Tampons can cause a serious medical condition called toxic shock syndrome if they are not changed regularly.
In addition to your period, you may also notice that you occasionally have a clear or white discharge in your underwear. This can happen before your first period and will continue after you have your period as well. Vaginal discharge is caused by changing hormones in your body, and actually helps keep the vagina healthy., In addition to breast development, girls will experience other physical changes to the shape of their bodies. It is normal and healthy for girls to gain some weight and become curvier during puberty, so do not try to prevent it.Dieting during puberty to prevent normal weight gain is very unhealthy! Even though you may feel uncomfortable with the changes that are happening to your body, it is important to let them happen. A woman's body looks different than a girl's body, and there is nothing wrong with that.

