 Poor nutrition is one of the leading causes of immune deficiencies that lead to infection.Make sure that you are getting not just adequate food, but healthy food that is rich in vitamins and minerals.


Avoid foods that contain excess sugar, salt, and preservatives.
Consider a vitamin supplement, especially one that contains Vitamin C., Drinking plenty of water helps to keep pores clean and unclogged, which may help prevent boils. A good guideline for how much water you should drink every day is 1/2 to 1 ounce for every pound you weigh, so a person who weighs 150 pounds should aim to drink between 75 to 150 ounces (2.2 to 4.4 liters) per day.If the weather is hot, or if you are doing strenuous work or exercise, aim for the upper end of the range.
 The spice turmeric is a natural anti-inflammatory and antibacterial agent that may alleviate and prevent boils. A lotion or cream that contains turmeric may help your body heal wounds such as boils.Although studies have not shown that consuming turmeric has any effect on boils, it is an antioxidant and may help prevent conditions such as heart attack and stroke, so feel free to cook with as much as you’d like., A moderate amount of exercise has been shown to boost people's immune system considerably. Aim for at least 20 to 30 minutes of exercise a day to keep your skin healthy and prevent infection.If you are new to exercise, start small. A 20 minute walk, or even two 10-minute walks a day are enough to see some improvement in immune function.
Exercise doesn't have to be a chore, look for fun ways to be active, such as dancing or going to the park with your kids.
 People who are under a great deal of stress are far more likely to develop boils and other physical ailments. Take some time every day to relax, if possible, and look for ways to reduce stress in your life. Exercise is great for stress, and many people find activities such as yoga, meditation, and tai chi to be beneficial.Laughter is another great stress-fighter. Ask a friend to tell you a joke, or wind down by watching a funny comedy routine or TV show at the end of the day., In some cases, boils are caused by exposure to irritating chemicals at home or on the job. Chemicals that are especially likely to cause skin problems include coal tar and cutting oils.Use protective gear when working with these chemicals, and wash your skin thoroughly after exposure to remove them as soon as possible.

