 Play the same note (you can start with all finger holes open) as another fife player or an electronic or online tuner to get the right pitch. Roll the instrument in toward your mouth if your note is too sharp. Roll it out if it is too flat. Experiment rolling slowly in and out on the same note to hear how it changes in pitch. The pitch doesn’t matter so much if you’re just playing by yourself, but you’ll need to tune anytime you start playing with another fife or instrument.
 Make a C sharp note by simply keeping all of the finger holes open and applying steady breath into the instrument. Roll the fife slightly in or out to see if it sounds sharp or flat compared to another player or a tuner.


Try a middle C# by using the same fingering but blowing harder. Tighten your lips to push a harder stream of air from your mouth. This is generally how to achieve a note in a higher octave.
Remember that these notes are for a standard fife, which has 6 holes and is in a Bb key. Look up notes and tuning for your specific instrument if it is in a different key or style.
 Use this note to tune with another player or a tuner by rolling the fife further in or out from your mouth to change the pitch.


Try to hold your fingers firmly over each hole, closing it completely to prevent air from getting through. Keep this in mind for every note you learn how to play.
Remember that these notes are for a standard fife, which has 6 holes and is in a Bb key. Look up notes and tuning for your specific instrument if it is in a different key or style.
 Learn the proper fingering for nearly any note on the fife with a simple fingering chart. You may want to learn the basics of understanding musical notes, but you don’t have to.


The typical complete fingering chart for a standard fife ranges from a low F (all but the second to last hole covered) to a high B (the first, third, and fifth hole covered).Experiment with playing every note you can. Focus first on playing notes in a low or middle octave because they are easier to achieve when you’re just learning to blow and make a consistent sound.
Some of the more difficult notes require half-closing a hole. You can either tilt your finger slightly so it doesn’t completely cover the hole, or you can “float” your finger above the hole so it doesn’t cover it so closely.