 Molasses can be made by starting with pomegranate fruit, or by starting with pomegranate juice. It is easier to start with pomegranate juice because you will need to take apart and juice the fruit anyway. Either way, you will end up with the same result.Any type of pomegranate juice will do. Just make sure it is actually made from pomegranates, instead of artificial flavoring.
 You will need 6-7 pomegranates. If you are starting with the actual fruit, you will need to take it apart in order to juice it. First, find the crown of the pomegranate. Then, take a paring knife and make a circular incision into the crown. Score the pomegranate. Next, tear the pomegranate into sections. Remove the arils (seed pods) by prying them loose. Once you have opened it, you should be removing the arils over a medium-sized bowl filled with water. Repeat this step for each of the 6-7 pomegranates.Put a newspaper or paper towels underneath the pomegranate while you are opening it.
 You do not need to worry about this step if you are starting with pomegranate juice. At this point, most of the seeds should be floating in water in your bowl. Remove membrane from the bowl and drain the water. Then, pour the arils into a high-speed blender and blend it until it looks like a smoothie. Next, strain the juice through a fine-mesh strainer. Pour the juice in a container.You should have enough for 4 cups of juice.
 Add lemon and sugar to the juice to create a mixture. You will need ½ cup, or 100 grams (3.5 oz), of sugar and ¼ cup (50ml) of lemon juice, which is equal to about one medium-sized lemon. Stir the mixture thoroughly.Adding sugar and lemon keeps the molasses fresher for longer, as well as making the molasses have a sweet and tart flavor., Put the saucepan onto stove on medium-high heat. Bring it to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium-low when the juice begins to boil. The mixture should be bubbling slightly at this point. Allow it to simmer for one hour.Stir the mixture occasionally during the hour it is simmering. Stirring it prevents the sugar from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan.
 Most of the liquids should have burned off at this point. It’s okay if the mixture is still slightly runny because it will thicken once it cools down. Remove the saucepan from the heat. Allow it to cool.Allow the mixture at least 30 minutes to cool. Check on it every so often to see if it has cooled down.
 Pour the molasses into a jar. Make sure it is a jar that can be sealed tightly. Store the jar in the refrigerator. The molasses should last for up to fix months.Pomegranate molasses is great as salad dresses, in sauces, as a meat marinade, and as a topping on desserts.