 Almost all US states and many countries require a certain level of education or experience to earn a private investigator license.The information below will help you qualify in most cases, but it's best to check the law in the area where you plan to work.


A criminal record disqualifies you in almost every region. Even in area without licensing, your potential employers may run a background check on you.
The United Kingdom currently has no requirements, but this is expected to change soon.;
, Many regions do not require a four-year degree, but it is still highly recommended for anyone without relevant work experience. Complete a two- or four-year degree in criminal law, criminal justice, or police science.Alternatively, study accounting or a related field to qualify for a position as a corporate investigator. These investigators mostly investigate allegations of fraud and embezzlement.Even in areas where a degree is optional, this may count toward work experience requirements. In California, for example, a law degree or four-year police science degree eliminates 2,000 hours., Your idea of PI work is probably a lot more glamorous than the real thing. Most of your work will involve online research, surveillance, and preparing records for court presentations. This takes someone with particular skills and temperament:Excellent observation skills
Good spoken and written communication skills, to help you work with clients and present to juries
Quick decision-making skills and resourcefulness
Moderate technological skills, particularly online research and surveillance technology
Ability to handle occasional high-stress situations, physical and mental demands, and long, unusual work hours

, You may think of being a PI as working in a smoky, dark office in a sketchy area of town while damsels in distress line up at your door. In reality, you'll be spending hours in your parked car in the middle of suburbia unable to make a run to Taco Bell even though you're starving because Joe Schmo could come out at any minute. You'll get bored.


You'll also get super tired. If staying awake isn't your thing, this isn't the job for you. Your best friends will be late night coffee stops, energy drinks, and the front seat of your car. Hope it's comfy!
This is not a job that allows for multitasking. Even if you are hiding behind a tree trying to snap that photo for hours on end, you can't exactly read a book or play Bejeweled while you wait. It requires focus for extended periods of time -- sometimes extended periods of time doing absolutely nothing but waiting. If you're good at waiting without going crazy, you'll make a great PI.
 While it depends on the specific line of work you get into, odds are you'll get a case at least here and there where you have to be sneaky. Wherever you go, you need to blend in. Being loud and proud won't get you anywhere on your case.


For some cases, you need to be so stealthy even dogs won't sniff you out. In others, you need to be as "normal" as possible to obtain information and appear trustworthy. A large part of the battle will be in recognizing just what you need to do and how you need to come off. But whatever it is, you need to hide your intentions. Practice your lying skills to get started.
 As valuable as a criminal justice degree can be, it may not cover the practical side of surveillance and database access. Experienced PIs say that hands-on training is the most important step for someone entering the field.Many courses are relatively cheap and only last a few days.


Choose a course accredited by a national accrediting organization, or by a professional organization of investigators.
Alternatively, contact local, independent private eye agencies and ask to shadow an investigator. A second car can come in handy on surveillance, so it's not too hard to convince them., Existing detective agencies often have open entry-level positions, although this might not involve a steady paycheck. The agency should provide on-the-job training until you gain enough experience to become a proper private investigator. This typically takes a few years.


You can also qualify for your license through other routes, such as law enforcement, military police work, claims adjustment, or debt collection.In some states, your activities will be limited until you qualify for a license.
 If a license is required in your area, take the exam as soon as you qualify. Your license will permit you to work as a private investigator, with the right to access certain databases and perform surveillance. You may continue to work for a private agency, or apply to PI jobs at corporations, government agencies, and law firms.


In most US States, the Department of Public Safety handles these licenses.

