 There are two types of canaries, those with yellow or white bases or those with a red base. Red birds can also be shades of orange. Yellow is the most common color, and the most prized have no other colors at all.White birds have shades of yellow on some of their feathers and tails. One type of white has no yellow at all.
Some canaries have brown and black pigments on yellow, white, or red bases.
 Most canaries have a lifespan of ten years. You may want to buy a younger bird so you can enjoy them for most of their life. However, you may want to buy or adopt an older bird who needs a good home, even if it is seven or eight years. Ask how old the bird is so you can decide if the age is right for you.Make sure the bird is old enough to determine gender. All young birds sing, so it’s easy to mix up a male and a female.
 One of the things you should consider when buying a canary is whether you want a male or female. Males are the only canaries that can sing, but they need to be the only bird in the cage. They will fight with other males, and may even fight the females.Females are very social and can be put together with other females.
 Sometimes, people will buy a male canary and find out later it is actually a female. Male canaries cost more than females, so you don’t want to get the wrong animal. If you are buying from a store, ask for a written guarantee that your bird is male.Ask about any return policies.
Your bird should start singing within two weeks. If it doesn’t, return it or ask for a refund for the difference.
 There are a lot of breeds of canaries. You are more than likely limited to which breeds are available in your area. Find a breeder if possible to figure out what breeds are available. You can find breeders through veterinarians, local bird clubs, or online.If you have to buy from a pet shop, look the canary over closely before purchasing.
 If you are choosing a canary because of their singing, you should hear it sing before choosing it. You can ask a pet store if you can take the canaries into a room without other birds so you can listen to them. If you contact a breeder, request to see only the birds you can buy.Separating the canaries from other birds gives you a chance to hear their singing voices without interference.

