 Light is an awesome director of your body’s natural clock. Light naturally makes you wake up and dark naturally makes you tired. Because not all areas of the globe will actually have the sun at the times you want to get up and go to bed, using a natural light lamp can work just as well.Some of these lights also have built-in sounds that can be played while your kids are falling asleep.
If you live in an area where the sun itself can do this job, leave the blinds open in your kids’ bedroom so it wakes them up naturally (and gradually) in the morning.;
, If your kids won’t get out of bed when they're supposed to, have your dog or cat help! Allow your dog or cat into your kids’ rooms when the alarm goes off. They will want to play and jump and will most likely drive your kids crazy!Obviously this doesn’t work as well if you have a bird or a hamster. Cats and dogs work best for this trick.
 There are so many fancy new alarm clocks on the market specifically designed to help people get out of bed in the morning. The easiest (and cheapest) one would simply be to put the alarm clock somewhere in the room that can’t be reached from bed.You can also use the most annoying sound for the alarm to ensure they won’t want to sleep through the noise. Music is great but really easy to sleep through!

, Pick out the band or song you love, but your kids hate, and play it nice and loud in the morning! Annoy your kids out of bed if necessary. Don’t turn the music off until your kids are up AND dressed.Depending on the time of day, and how close your neighbours are, this may not work.
 The smell of bacon or coffee in the morning can help almost anyone get out of bed when they don’t want to, including your kids. Make their favourite smelling foods as part of breakfast to entice them to get up and come downstairs for breakfast.Coffee, of course, will only work if your kids are old enough to drink it.
Other options might be cinnamon buns, fresh baked bread, warm muffins, etc.
 It’s an oldie, but a goodie! If your kids won’t get out of bed, make it really uncomfortable for them to stay in bed. Pour a glass of cold water over their heads and watch how quickly they move.This will only work for kids who have a sense of humour. Don’t use this option just to be mean.
 If you have more than one kid around the same age, turn the morning routine into a contest. Whoever is able to get up and get ready to go first wins. The prize could be anything from being able to sit in the front seat of the car to picking what’s for dinner, to choosing what to watch on TV that night., For younger kids, pick a good morning song that everyone sings when it’s time to get up. You can pick any song, or just make one up on the fly. Make it positive and fun and your kids will wake up smiling.