 Since Aerial Yoga can be difficult to learn and even dangerous, it may be good to start at a studio and take a learn with a professional before trying it on your own. If you enjoy the class and find that aerial yoga is a good exercise for you,u can now begin doing it on your own.
 Unlike some other sports and workout regimens, aerial yoga requires only one piece of equipment: a strong strip of silk fabric—usually called a swing or hammock—that hangs from the ceiling. When selecting a yoga swing, check out online retailers and sporting good stores to compare prices and brands—a couple to look for are OmGym and Gorilla Gym—before investing. In general, you can get a quality swing for 50 to 150 dollars.Among other things to consider, you should check out handle options on different swings. Some swings are just bare-bones drapes of fabric, but others include one or several sets of plastic or hard handles to use for your hand grips.
Also check the weight capacity of the swings you’re considering buying. Most swings claim a capacity of 300 pounds, but some specialty swings will bear more weight.
 In order to practice aerial yoga effectively and safely, you’ll need to hang your swing from a 4x4 or 2x6 ceiling beam. You’ll also need to place it in an open area of your house or yard—many people prefer using a garage or home gym area—so that you have room to move around. That being said, every swing is different, so be sure to follow the manufacturer’s directions included with your swing.If you aren’t too handy around the house, hire a contractor to assist with swing set-up., Due to the high-friction nature of aerial yoga, you should wear long sleeves and pants when practicing it. After all, armpit and inner thigh skin can be particularly delicate, and you don’t want sharp pinches to keep you from working out.Also be sure to take off any jewelry! Even small earring hoops can get snagged in the swing fabric and cause damage to you and the swing.
 Like regular yoga, aerial yoga can put a lot of pressure on unaccustomed body parts and cause your body to release gas. In order to avoid an upset stomach or uncomfortable gassiness, stay away fizzy drinks for at least two hours before your session.For similar reasons, you’ll probably want to wait at least two hours after mealtime before beginning your session.
 Once you’re a seasoned yoga flyer, you can do your workouts alone. In the meantime, though, you should always practice aerial yoga with someone else. At the very least, have someone in the room so that they can assist if you fall or find yourself in a precarious position.That being said, don’t be afraid of the yoga swing! For most moves, you’ll actually only be about three inches from the ground, so even if you fall off, you won’t have far to go.
 If you’re uncomfortable with trying out aerial yoga at home or you don’t’ have a place where you could hang your hammock, sign up for a class in a local gym or studio. In recent years, several schools of aerial yoga have emerged, including Air Yoga, AntiGravity Aerial Yoga, and Unnata Aerial Yoga.When you find a studio offering aerial yoga, ask about their class offering so that you can find one catering to your level of yoga expertise and general fitness.
 Since your body isn’t used to the motions and pressures entailed in aerial yoga, it’s particularly important that you warm up your muscles before beginning your workout. Get limber and ready by stretching out all the main muscle groups—that is, legs, arms, and core—for at least 15 to 20 minutes.Pay special attention to your shoulders, hands, and arms, as these are put under particular strain during an aerial yoga workout.
 From this position, you can begin to do some of the most basic aerial yoga moves, such as the aerial lunge. You should be standing close enough to the swing that your face touches or almost touches the fabric, and the bottom of the swing’s “U” should hit at pubic bone level.If the swing hits higher or lower than your pubic bone, you should adjust it before mounting the swing.
The aerial lunge improves quad strength and stretches out your hip flexors.
 In order to complete an aerial lunge, you need merely set your right leg into the hammock’s U and bend it so that the swing sits on the lower surface of your leg above the knee. The swing should support your right leg while your left one remains firmly planted on the mat.
 With your arms akimbo, you should lunge forward when inhaling. Keep your left leg planted as before and feel your left quad and hip stretch out.Take care to lunge straight forward rather than leaning to either side. It might be difficult at first, but your balance will improve as you practice.
 Once you’ve leaned forward into lunge position, you should exhale and apply pressure to the hammock with your right leg. This will push you back into the starting position so that you can repeat the aerial lunge again.


Once you’ve repeated this move several times, switch legs and do lunges with the left leg in the hammock.
 Once you’ve got the basic aerial lunge down, you can move on to other fundamental and generally accessible poses. The half boat pose, for example, requires you to rest your lower back in the hammock, lean back, and lift your legs. Holding the pose for five seconds, you'll engage your core and eventually develop core strength and awareness.Other basic aerial poses to try are the child’s pose and downward facing dog. For further guidance, check out a plethora of online video tutorials.
 Like regular yoga, you should strive to improve and perfect all the positions you’ve learned. Seemingly small details, such as foot or hand direction, leg extension, or pointed toes can make a huge difference to the benefit and sustainability of a position. So take care to be mindful of the execution of every pose, even if you feel like it’s getting to be old hat.If you’re having a hard time spotting problems in your technique, consider putting up a big mirror so that you can keep an eye on your workout.
 Aerial yoga is one of the most low-impact, therapeutic workouts you can do, but chances are it won’t be smooth sailing at the start. Since you’re working muscles in ways you haven’t before and putting pressure on unaccustomed joints and skin, you’ll experience some mild to mid-level discomfort during and after your initial workouts.Most people find that aerial yoga workouts get easier and less painful after about two weeks of practicing.

