 Prior to castration, it is important to starve the cat overnight so that his stomach is empty for the anesthetic. This is because a cat may vomit while under anesthesia. If he brings up food and then breathes in the vomit, he may suffocate or inhale food down into the lungs where it could cause pneumonia.Your veterinarian will likely instruct you to remove your cat’s food the night before surgery, but it is fine to leave water out for your cat overnight. Make sure that you remove the water at around 7 am on the day of surgery.
 Cat carriers are essential to keeping your cat safe when you travel with him. A carrier will also to keep your cat safe and away from other animals at the clinic.


It is a good idea to arrive around 10-15 minutes early. You will have to complete some paperwork, such as signing a consent form for the anesthetic and the surgical procedure.
 The veterinarian will check your cat to make sure there are no health issues such as a heart murmur, which may require your veterinarian to choose a different kind of anesthesia. The vet will select the safest most appropriate anesthetic for your cat.After your cat has been anesthetized, the vet or vet tech will administer lubricant drops into your cat’s eyes to stop the surface from drying out. This is because not all cats close their eyelids while under anesthesia.
 A vet tech will clip the fur away from your cat’s scrotum before the surgery. The vet tech will then scrub the skin of the scrotum to make it as clean as possible. This step helps to prevent infections.The veterinarian will scrub up to ensure that his or her skin is as clean as possible.
 After the area is prepped, the veterinarian will make a small incision using a surgical scalpel. The incision will be less than 1 cm long over one-half of the scrotum. Then, the veterinarian will apply gentle pressure to the testicle and the testicle will pop out through the incision.Next, the veterinarian will tie the spermatic ducts and blood vessels to each other to prevent bleeding and to eliminate the need for sutures.
After the spermatic ducts and blood vessels have been tied off, the veterinarian will sever the vas deferens and remove the testicle.
Then, the veterinarian will repeat the procedure on the other side.
 Your cat should be able to go home the same day. Healing takes 7 - 14 days, so during this time it is best to keep the cat indoors and avoid strenuous play. After he has healed, he may return to his normal activities.Check your cat’s wound daily to ensure that it is healing well. If you notice any signs of redness or swelling, call your vet.
Prevent your cat from licking his wound. Licking may cause an infection, so stop your cat from licking his wound if you notice him doing so.
Monitor your cat’s behavior. If you notice any unusual symptoms in the days following the surgery, such as lethargy, loss of appetite, constipation, black tarry stools, not urinating, or vomiting, call your veterinarian right away.

