 Which means that you cannot have anything small, sharp, or pieces of plastic laying around on the floor that could choke your puppy. Also, cords, wires, or any other harmful electrical appliances cannot be present on the floor - your puppy can get electric shocked if he/she chews the wires/cords.;
, You will need to buy the materials you need. Below is a list to get you started:


Two metal bowls. These are better than glass because they do not chip and stay cleaner. One for food and one for water.






A tag and a harness. Microchips are a good idea, especially if your puppy gets lost. Also, you will need to buy an ID tag, microchips, and a collar and harness. Get a nylon harness, and metal tag. Do not use a collar while walking puppies. It hurts their neck. Start using a collar at 6 months of age at the least. Remember when sizing the harness that puppies will grow.






A puppy bed. Some options are: crate with a crate pillow, a snuggle nest, or a wicker basket with a lot of towels. Whatever you choose, make sure it is always soft, comfy, and dry. Also keep in hand for a blanket in case of cool weather.






Toys. Your puppy will be a ball of boundless energy, so make sure you get plenty of toys. You should have chew toys and soft toys . Make sure the toys are indestructible, if not your pup can choke and die. Also remember that you should not give rawhide to pups as a toy. It's only for treats.






Puppy treats. Make sure you get a variety: Crunchy and soft. The soft will be good for training, and the crunchy will help clean teeth.




Puppy food: Do some research on dog food. Kibble, canned, home cooked, and feeding a raw diet are all options for a puppy. Make sure to get HIGH - Quality dog food. Avoid commercial brands, because commercial dog and puppy food can contain meat - by products, poultry by products, cornmeal, and other unhealthy ingredients for your dog.






Basic grooming tools. Get a bristle brush, comb, rubber gloves, nail clippers, dog shampoo, dog conditioner, dog toothpaste, toothbrush, and towels.






A dog crate. You will use this as a safe and secure sleeping place for your puppy, and also you can use it as a travel carrier.
 Are you sure a puppy is right for you? Are you willing to pay vet bills and sacrifice your money for your dog? Will you be patient enough to train your dog? Before bringing your dog home, think about if a dog is the right pet for you.

