 First floor windows will be easiest and safest, but these are also the most likely to be locked. You’ll have better chances of finding a second floor window left open, but exercise caution - you don't want to fall!If a ladder isn’t available, you may have to get creative to reach a second storey window. Is there a fire escape you could climb? A trellis? A tree? Whatever you use, make sure it’s stable before climbing.Casement windows (side-hinged windows) may be easy to pry open with your fingers or a thin tool if they aren't locked.;
, You don’t have to feel shy or embarrassed. Most everyone has an “I locked myself out” story, so they’ll likely understand your predicament.


A flathead screwdriver will work best, but if you’re handed a Phillips head (cross slot) screwdriver, give it a shot anyway.
This technique can be effective for removing or partially prying open door windows. Even a small gap may allow you to reach inside and open the lock.
 The beading is the plastic or metal strip around the window frame. Insert your screwdriver into the beading channel at one corner and pry it out a little bit at a time. Work your way to the opposite corner. When the beading has been completely loosened, pull it free with your hands.

Check the corner of the window to see whether the vertical (up and down) beading overlaps the horizontal (left and right). Remove the overlapping beading first.
Removing the beading may deform it. In some cases, beading can be quite expensive. Keep this in mind before attempting entry in this way.
Depending your situation, you may be able to leave the beading in place and still lever the window free. Some windows may not even have beading., Insert your screwdriver between the glass and frame. When prying, use light force while working your tool in between the mounting and glass to lever the glass out of its mounting. The window should come out relatively easily., Support the glass with your free hand so it doesn’t fall and shatter when it comes free. Slide the glass free of its mounting, place it off to the side, and enter your house through the empty window.If your window has only partially popped free of the mounting, try to reach either a set of keys, the lock, or the door handle.
If there's any broken glass, be incredibly careful. Jagged glass may be sharper than you think.
In the event of a deep cut, treat the wound as best you can and see a doctor, if necessary.

