 It’s important to pursue what makes you happy, both in your work and in your leisure time. Most people have hobbies or activities that they enjoy doing in their down time, but what about work? If you’re turning over a new leaf in your life, you may want to focus on finding work that makes you happy and fulfilled.


Instead of seeking status and money (which can be important, of course), focus on finding a job that challenges you and gives you some degree of responsibility. This will help you grow and better yourself with long-term results.Do something you enjoy, or spend time with people you care about, every day. This will help you remember that you can create the future you want for yourself., Part of turning over a new leaf means letting go of what you once wanted for your life. You don’t have to abandon general life goals (like having a stable job or finding a supportive partner), but you may have to let go of the particulars of your old goals and adjust to your new circumstances. Learning to see this as a good thing, and as the beginning of a wonderful time in your life, will help you feel better about the transition.Work on developing S.M.A.R.T. goals, or goals that are specific, measurable, achievable, results-focused, and time-bound.Specific — Your goal should have a concrete outline, motivation, and plan.Measurable — Each goal should have a clearly-stated result and a way of measuring success along the way.Achievable — Working towards your goal should be challenging, but ultimately realistic and achievable.Results-focused — Your goal should measure specific outcomes and results, rather than just measuring actions. Focus on goals that allow you to see concrete results, and work hard until you see those results.Time-bound — The timeline for achieving your goals should be compact enough to create a sense of urgency and motivation, but realistic enough to allow for inevitable complications or slip-ups., Research has shown that writing down your goals on a tangible piece of paper and looking at that reminder everyday can help strengthen your resolve. No matter what your goals are, write them down and hang the paper in a prominent place that you'll see everyday.Having a concrete goal to work towards and being reminded of that goal on a regular basis tends to make people happier, regardless of their current circumstances.Look at your written goals as often as you need to. This is an important step in working towards your goals, and can help keep you motivated along the way., The path to success is invariably filled with plenty of ups and downs. It can be easy to lose sight of your goals when things aren’t going particularly well, which makes it all the more important to take stock in the little victories.See little victories in everything you do. Even if you suffer a loss, like losing your business, see it as a victory in its own right: you’re no longer shackled to the business, and you’re free to start over however you want., Inevitably there will be someone who tells you that you will not succeed, or who tells you that your efforts are pointless. Many people do not understand the importance of pushing yourself and trying to better yourself. Motivation and work ethic are obviously important, but it’s equally important to seek support and validation from the people you care about. Your friends and loved ones should be there to offer encouragement and also challenge you to help you grow.If your friends or colleagues do not support your efforts to better yourself, you may want to seek out like-minded people who will support you.
You can turn to individual people for support, or a larger community. Don’t be afraid to seek support from colleagues, people in your church (if you’re religious), or even people in your community.