,, The method of setting parental control will be different depending on which add-on you choose.
The built-in parental control feature of Windows operating system or browsers is very convenient and easy to use, while its disadvantage is also conspicuous. For example, many parents want to know what children are talking about with strangers on social networks, and who they are talking to, in this case the built-in parental control can’t help to record the contents.

In order to have comprehensive protection and control of children’s online activities, you’d better install the third party software that has computer monitoring feature as well as parental control function.
,,,,,,


Set parental control function here:
Website Blocking:

Check “Enable Website Filter”,
Choose “blocked keyword”, and then
Input words in the following box to add it to the blocked list; or you can choose “Allowed Websites”,


Here enter the website address in the box to add it to the allowed items.
Application Blocking

Check “block application”,
Click the right or left arrow to move the applications to the two boxes to decide which application should be blocked.
Time Control: here you can set time control on your children’s Internet use,

Check the box you need and you can set time limits in everyday in the following table by pressing the relevant sub-boxes into gray.

Click on “View Log” in main window
Choose data and contents you want to view.

Click “Delivery” to set email address if you need this program to send logs to you periodically.
More details you can refer to this article:http://www.anykeylogger.com/how-to-monitor-computer-activities.html




, If you just need to block websites or control children’s Internet use time, you can choose to use built-in parental control feature of windows operating system or browsers; if you want to master all your children’s online activities, you can choose to use the third party software with computer monitoring and parental control functions, such as Anykeylogger, Net Nanny, etc.
