 Find out which size you need to purchase by checking the tag on your mattress. Queen and King are the easiest bedding sheet sets to find in stores, while Full and Californian King are a bit more rare. Twin bedding sets are usually made for single-person beds.Be sure to look for fitted sheets that are deep enough to fit over the mattress, and take mattress thickness into consideration. Sheet sizes are typically as follows: Twin, 39 x 75"; Full, 54 x 75"; Queen, 60 x 80"; King, 76 x 80".;
, The type and quality of fabric you choose will affect how comfortable you are as you sleep, so choose wisely; cotton or cotton blends are the most recommended choice. Flannel sheets can keep you warm in the winter, but on warmer evenings you could be too hot in flannel sheets., Do you want a stripe, polka dot, or a floral design? The bedding is the first thing that people will notice when they walk into your bedroom, so select bedding that matches your tastes. If you want to make an impression, choose bold colors; if you would rather display understated bedding, choose muted, cool colors such as dark blue or grey., Thread count refers to the density of the weave in threads per square inch. The higher the thread count is, then the more expensive the sheets are because more material, spun more finely, is needed to make them. Higher thread count indicates better quality. At minimum, your thread count should be 175-200, but for quality sheets, aim for a thread count of 350., Pick a comforter that matches the theme and style that your bedroom expresses. If you live in a warm climate, consider a lightweight comforter. Thick, heavy comforters are ideal for cold climates., A duvet is a removable cover typically made of down feathers. It should be spread over your sheets. If you choose to use a duvet, you most likely will not need a comforter as well., Most bedding sets come with a fitted sheet, a top sheet, a comforter, and one or two pillowcases. This packaged deal can be an easy way to save money. You may need to buy a blanket or additional bedding separately., Remember to supply yourself with pillows and pillowcases, since no bed is complete without a place to rest your head. If possible, buy pillowcases that match your sheets and comforter. Small throw pillows can be a colorful and fun accent to your bedding., A patterned quilt can add a splash of color to your bedding. It can also give your bed a more comfortable and unique feel. Spread the quilt over the bedding, or fold it and place it at the foot of the bed., Check that your machine can handle the load of bedding. Some comforters may require that you to take them to be professionally dry cleaned, or you can bring them to a Laundromat, which tend to have a few larger machines for this purpose. Be patient and follow the care directions (found on the product's tag).If washing at home or at the Laundromat, avoid using harsh detergents. Use the extra rinse cycle. Allow the comforter about 3-4 hours to dry completely.