, This is the Google Play Music Manager download site., You'll need to be signed in with a Google account in order to download the music manager program., Make sure you sign in with the same Google account you use on your Android device., This will activate the free Google Play Music service for your Google account.,,, Make sure to sign in with the same Google account you use on your Android., The Google Play Music Manager requires that you be signed into the Google Play Music website with the same Google account. Visit music.google.com and log in with your Google account., You can choose to upload your iTunes music collection, your Windows Media Player library, or select a specific folder. You can change this location later, but only one can be selected at a time.

Google Play Music Manager will automatically detect the location of your iTunes or Windows Media Player library.
 The upload process can take a long time if you are uploading a lot of tracks. You can monitor the progress by holding your mouse cursor over the Google Play Music Manager icon in your System Tray in the lower-right corner of the desktop., Any music files that you add to the location that the Music Manager is tracking will automatically be uploaded to your Google Play Music account. For example, if you're tracking the Music folder on your computer, any music files that you add to the folder will be added to your upload queue., If you are updating from folders instead of syncing your iTunes or Windows Media Player library, you can add additional folders to the list:

Click the Music Manager icon in your System tray or menu bar.
Click Preferences.
Click the Upload tab.
Click Add folder.
Browse for the folder you want to add.
 It may be in a folder labeled "Play" or "Google."

Many devices come with Google Play Music installed, but if you don't have it you can download it for free from the Google Play Store.
 You'll see this in the upper-left corner of the screen, This displays music that you've added and uploaded to your Google Play Music account., You can use the tabs at the top of the app to switch between views like Artist and Album. Tapping an album or artist will open more details, and tapping a song will begin playing.You'll need to have an internet connection in order to stream your music.
 You'll normally need an internet connection on your Android device to stream your music. You can set specific music to be available offline so that you don't need to be connected to listen:

Tap the ⋮ button next to a playlist, album, or song.
Tap Download.
Wait for the songs to download. The Download meter appears in the item's card on your screen and in your device's notification bar.
Tap the ☰ button and toggle "Downloaded only" on. This will set Play Music to only play music that has been downloaded to your device.

