 In most cases, you can visit your council's website and apply for the 2-year DWA licence online, or print a copy you can mail or fax to the council.


Enter your name, contact information, and other pertinent applicant details.
Provide contact information for any other people involved with keeping, feeding, or handling the animals.
Submit the details about each animal within the DWA category on the application. Typically this will be the number of animals, the species, and where the animals will be held.;
, Your council may have specific inspection requirements before approval and payment take place. Not only may your premises be inspected, but the animal itself may need a final wellness check.Typical payment is somewhere in the neighborhood of £200-£350.
Renewal fees are often discounted. In some cases, they run roughly £100 less than the original application.Some licences require either a Veterinary Surgeon or Secretary of State approval.The fees for services are discretionary, and may be a reason someone chooses one vet over another. Ask for an estimated cost before having anything done or receiving an invoice., After the local council has reviewed and processed your application, they will provide you with a DWA licence. It may take several weeks for you to receive your DWA licence depending on where you reside in the UK.
 The 1976 Act is the authority on whether or not your animal requires a DWA. The list is extensive and covers a wide variety of marsupials, primates, carnivores, and elephants.The modification made in 2007 added a few types of snakes, dingoes, and the Middle eastern thin-tailed scorpion to the dangerous animals list.
Animals previously considered dangerous, but now reclassified, include, but are not limited to, a few smaller primates like squirrel monkeys, porcupines, various coatis, and hybridized cats.
 The rules, requirements, and regulations for obtaining and maintaining a DWA licence vary depending on where you reside in the UK. Your local council will provide information about the DWA licensing requirements in your area. They will provide you with the information such as:


Details about the application process
Licence conditions
Associated laws and regulations

, If the animal is not for personal use, there is a chance the DWA is non-applicable. If you plan to use the animal for scientific purposes covered by the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986, or if the animal is to be used in any of the following capacities, the DWA is not required:Displaying the animal in a zoo
Training the animal to work in a circus
Animals sold in a pet shop, Although the criteria will vary for each council, you must meet specific age requirements, typically 18 years old. Additionally, you must own insurance, have the ability to pay for various vet bills, and have the commitment to being the legal owner of all animals to be included on your licence.
 Based upon your location, there may be public interest grounds for disapproval. If owning the animal would be a nuisance or safety concern, or if you are deemed an unfitting owner, you may be denied. Similarly, if you have already been disqualified for any of the following Acts, a DWA licence will not be issued.Dangerous Wild Animals Act 1976
Protection of Animals Act 1911
Protection of Animals (Scotland) Act 1912
Pet Animals Act 1951
Animal Boarding Establishment Act 1963
Riding Establishment Act 1974
Breeding of Dogs Act 1973

, At the time you request a DWA licence application, you will be asked to determine whether or not you can truly maintain these types of animals based on a series of considerations.


Verify whether you will have the proper amount of space and facilities needed to house the animals, including exercise space and ability to accommodate adult-sized animals.
Consider whether you can financially support your animals during their lifetime. You will need to pay for food expenses and possible veterinarian bills on a routine basis.
Depending on the animals you plan on housing, you may need to practice certain disposal methods to meet standards enforced by your local environment agency.
Ensure the ability to store any feed in a manner that will not attract, and is protected from, vermin of all kind.

