 There are some medications that have been associated with high creatinine levels. Medications that can damage the kidneys pose a possible threat, but some medications used to treat kidney disease can also cause a problem.


If you already have kidney problems, be cautious about medications, like ibuprofen, that can cause further kidney damage when used regularly.
ACE inhibitors and cyclosporine are both used to treat kidney disease but may cause creatinine levels to rise.Some nutritional supplements, like vanadium, can also cause an increase in creatinine levels and should be avoided.
Always talk to your doctor before stopping any medication. While some of these medications may cause creatinine to rise, the good could still outweigh the bad depending on why those medications were prescribed to begin with.
 Depending on the underlying cause of your elevated creatinine levels and on your overall health, your doctor may advise you to include certain medications or supplements to bring those levels down.


Most medications that treat creatinine levels also treat an underlying problem causing an increase in those levels, so your doctor will have to diagnose the underlying condition before you can determine which medication is right for you.
 One common cause of kidney damage, and thus elevated creatinine levels, is diabetes. If you have diabetes, it is very important to keep your insulin levels normal to prevent further kidney damage. There are certain medications that you can take to do this.


Repaglinide is a commonly prescribed hypoglycemic drug. The starting dose is normally 0.5 milligrams, administered before each meal. The maximum dose is 4 milligrams, also administered before a meal. Even if you happen to skip a meal, it is important to administer the drugs.
 Aside from diabetes, hypertension is another factor that can contribute to kidney damage. Keeping your blood pressure under control will also help to prevent further damage to your kidneys, thus helping to lower your creatinine levels.


Your doctor may prescribe benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide. Normal benazepril dosages are generally between 10 and 80 milligrams a day. The usual dosage of hydrochlorothiazide is between 12.5 and 50 milligrams a day., People with kidney disease need to take smaller amounts of antibiotics than people with healthy kidneys.
 Ketosteril is often prescribed to reduce levels of creatinine found in the bloodstream. Talk to your doctor about this medication and if it may be right for you. The regular dose is generally 4 to 8 tablets taken three time a day, at each meal.Other creatinine lowering drugs include:


Alpha lipoic acid (antioxidants) supplements can be used to help energize the kidneys and neutralize toxins, including creatinine. You can usually take around 300 mg each day.Chitosan is a weight management supplement that can also reduce the amount of creatinine in the blood. Benefits are usually reached when you take between 1000 and 4000 mg per day.

