 You will be stitching or gluing this top, so make sure it's a top you don't want anymore.;
, Vary each button's color, so that it looks very bright and colorful.


If preferred, glue the buttons or pompoms in place.
 Measure an equal distance on each side of the top for placement of the ribbon, then stitch in place. These ribbons represent the suspenders for the pants that clowns would wear to hold up their pants.


If preferred, glue in place; just be sure to smooth out the ribbon to prevent wrinkling.
 Center this under the chin area of the top, then stitch or glue in place. You can use a real bow tie or a more simple bow made from ribbon.


Old bow ties can be sourced from thrift stores, grandpa's closet, etc.
 Either is acceptable.
 These could be large sized pajama pants with spots on them, baggy pants with polka dots painted on them, or similar large-sized pants.
 It is best bright and even better if multi-colored. Wear striped or colorful tights under the tutu.






Wear a skirt made from a range of ties. This type of skirt looks zany, fun and is ideal for a clown design.
 Clown shoes are usually over-sized and large. Finding real clown shoes might be difficult, so you can improvise in one of the following ways:

Use a normal pair of shoes but add some cardboard ends. Draw large shoe-shaped ends from cardboard, paint them the same color as the shoes, then attach them to the end of the shoes with tape. This will only last one wear and if it's raining, they need to be covered in contact paper first, but they should suffice for a single wear.






Use shoes that are a size or two larger than your normal shoes, preferring sandshoes, sneakers or other soft sports/beach style shoes. Tie them up tightly so that they don't come off your feet. Walk with care and do not run in them.






Check online for clown shoe sales. There might be an affordable pair.






Wear ankle boots. Boots look bigger than shoes naturally, so they are ideal in place of the standard clown shoes.
 Although optional, this is a good addition, as it adds to the exaggerate effect. Wear white gloves, or rainbow colored gloves, for the best clown appearance.
 Use face-painting white paint for this purpose.


Paint a really large red mouth. It can either be smiling or frowning; the main thing is that it be larger than your actual lips. Be sure to really exaggerate the smile or frown, by making the ends of your mouth turn right up or right down.






Paint red rosy cheek circles, with red face paint.






Use black face paint to make your eyes much larger or more obvious. You could paint black circles around them, paint really long eyelashes, darken your eyebrows to make them stand out, etc.






Add other features as wished. For example, you might add a tear or cross sections through each of your eyes. Love hearts make a cute and more upbeat look.
 Purchase a red nose from a costume store or online. Simply attach it in place with the elastic just before you finish dressing.
 Synthetic, colored and multi-colored wigs are easy to source from the dollar store and costume stores. Look for ones with short lengths but lots of bounce and curls. Tie your hair back and up, if needed, then put the wig in place.


Medium to long hair is best kept in place by a wig cap.

