 If you’re hosting this party for your own child, get their input and ask them who they’d like to attend the party. If you’re hosting this for a group of children you know, you probably already have the particular individuals in mind. However, it’s still helpful to create a guest list to solidify everything.


Include their parents' name and contact phone number, as well.
If you are considering asking another adult to the party to help you supervise the children, write their name down on the list, too.;
, Choose a room in your home that can accommodate the number of children attending the party and their crafting supplies. There needs to be plenty of flat work space for the kids. Several tables and chairs will be needed. Make sure there is plenty of light, natural or otherwise, in the party room. The atmosphere should be comfortable and well-ventilated.


If your garage is comfortable, you might want to consider holding the party there, or perhaps in your basement. These locations will likely be large enough to fit everyone.
Avoid using a room with nice carpeting and furniture, since the crafts party will probably get pretty messy. Choose a place where you don’t have to worry about accidental spills or messes.
 With a venue and guest list solidified, you can now nail down the date and time for the party. Since it’s for children, you’ll need to choose a day when they don’t have school and will have the entire afternoon free. If it’s during the school year, choose a Saturday or Sunday. If it’s summer or during a holiday break, you have a little more freedom.


Speak to the parents of the children you’re inviting to find out their schedules and availability.
 If your child is part of the party, you could enlist their help creating crafty-looking hand drawn invitations. If you’re making the invitations yourself, consider printing something cute up on card stock and handing those out. Be sure to announce that it’s a crafting party and that you will be providing all of the necessary supplies. You could even give the party a fun name, like “Craft-stravaganza!” or something else silly like that.Make sure you include the date, location, start time and end time. Ask for an RSVP so that you can properly prepare for the party.
You may want to ask the children to bring an old t-shirt or garbage bag to use as a smock during the party, depending on how messy the crafts are. You could provide these yourself, if you prefer.
 While a theme isn’t required for the party, it might be fun for the kids and it will also help you choose the activities and crafts for them. If there’s a holiday coming up, consider using that as a theme. If the party is being held for someone’s birthday, you can tailor everything around that. You can also come up with something more specific for a theme.


For example, you could choose a theme like “outer space” or “dinosaurs” and the activities you select can reflect those concepts. Other simple themes to consider: vehicles, inventions, princesses, fantasy creatures, circus, aliens, robots and trains.You can always forego having a theme and simply provide the children with supplies and space and let them create what they want.
 This will depend a lot on the ages of the children. Very young children shouldn’t be making any crafts that require using sharp scissors or small pieces that can be swallowed. Finger-painting activities and using glue sticks are good places to start with them. If the children are a little older, age eight and up, your options are a little wider.


For instance, if Halloween is coming up, the kids could work on making treat bags and masks.You could have them make theme-inspired collages with the supplies you provide for them. Simpler ideas could be coloring activities and drawing activities. Get creative!

, Make sure you have plenty of everything to go around to avoid fighting. For example, if the kids are working on coloring or drawing activities, multiple washable marker and crayon sets should be set out for them, as well as a variety of colored pencils and regular pencils. If the kids are working on something very particular, like making Halloween masks, make sure you provide a wide variety of colored paper, markers, stencils, glitter and so on.Some typical craft party supplies are colorful cardstocks in an array of sizes, construction paper, washable markers, crayons, pencils, glue sticks, colored pencils, tape, scissors, glitter, stickers, rubber stamps and ink, finger paint, paint brushes and paper plates.
For collage crafts, provide a random assortment of items like egg cartons, feathers, faux gems, lids, jars, containers, beads, packing peanuts, buttons, yarn, craft pom-poms, foil, clay and anything else you can think of.
 Ideally, each child should have a mini station set up for them, with all of the needed supplies laid out. If you can’t create individual workspaces, make sure the work surface you’re using is very large and spread the supplies out evenly from one end to the other.The children can pick their supplies from the “community” pile on the table. Make sure they have room to spread out and move around easily.
 Regardless of the age range, a crafting party with children is going to get messy! Cover all the surfaces with newspaper and keep a large trash can and plenty of paper towels nearby. Anything in the area that you want to protect should be wrapped with plastic and moved out of the way. You could also cover the work surfaces with old sheets, table cloths or shower curtains (as long as they aren’t dirty).You could also cover the tables with white craft paper and encourage the children to draw and color on them at the party.
 Welcome the children to the party as they arrive. Let them explore the room for a minute, and then bring them to their work stations. You could even create individual name cards for work stations, if you like. Once everyone has arrived, go over all of the supplies you’ve laid out and remind them that, if necessary, to share the items.


If you’re providing them, go ahead and hand out the old t-shirts or garbage bags to protect their clothing.
 If there’s a theme, announce it. Explain the planned activities and make sure everyone understands. You may want to do a simple demonstration yourself, just to provide the children with a visual of what they’ll be doing at their work stations. Encourage them to have fun and let them begin!


If you can set up music in the room, definitely put on some fun tunes for the kids to listen to as they work. If the party has a theme, try to find music that reinforces it. Otherwise, just put on something fun and high energy.
 You could serve treats that match the party’s theme – for example, for a zoo theme you could serve them animal crackers, fudge striped cookies, fish crackers, etc.You could also simply provide them with some finger sandwiches, pizza, veggies and fruit, or cookies and other treats. Have a few different options available for beverages, including water.


Talk to each child’s parent before the party and find out if any of them have food allergies, dietary restrictions, etc.
 At the end of the party, go around the room and praise everyone’s creations. Hold the completed crafts up for everyone to see and commend the children on jobs well-done. As the children leave, allow them to take their crafts with them and, if you get the opportunity to speak to the parents when they pick up their kids, openly praise their children's work to them.


If you like, send the children home with any leftover treats you may have, like cookies or candies.
You could also send them home with extra activities as party favors, like coloring activities and a small set of crayons or markers.