 Place your hands under clean, running water to get them wet. Squeeze soap into the palm of your hand. Rub your hands together until a lather forms. Scrub your palms, the back of your hands, between your fingers, and under your fingernails for at least 20 seconds. Rinse your hands with clean water and let them air dry, or dry them with a clean paper towel.Use the paper towel to turn the faucet off as well.;
, Do not leave your bandage on for more than eight hours. You will need to clean your tattoo immediately after removing the bandage., Use a paper towel to do this so you can avoid contaminating your hands. Let the faucet run until the water is lukewarm (about 87 to 89 degrees Fahrenheit or 30 to 32 degrees Celsius).Make sure the water is not hot. Hot water can be painful. It can also cause your pores to open up, which can cause the ink to drain from your tattoo.
 Pour the water over your tattoo. Using a circular motion, gently rub your finger over your tattoo to wet the entire area.Do not place your tattoo directly under the running water.
Since too much water can cause the ink to drain from your tattoo, only pour water over it once.
 Make sure to use an alcohol and fragrance-free soap. Using your finger, gently rub the soap onto your tattoo in a circular motion. Lightly massage the soap into your tattoo until the majority of blood, ointment and plasma are removed.Do not force off pieces of blood and ink, as well as scabs that cannot be removed with gentle rubbing.
Do not use a towel or washcloth to rub the soap into your tattoo. These are too abrasive and may contain bacteria that can infect it.
 Do this once your tattoo looks and feels clean. Use your hands to cup the water again. Pour the water over your tattoo. Make sure to rinse the area thoroughly until all soap and residue are removed., Gently blot your tattoo with a clean paper towel. If the paper towel sticks to your tattoo, wet the area to remove it. Do not use a cloth or bath towel to do this. These may contain bacteria that can infect your tattoo.Alternatively, you can let your tattoo air dry for 30 to 45 minutes.
 Do this once your tattoo is thoroughly dry. Using a small amount of cream, gently rub it over your tattoo with your fingers in a circular motion. Only apply a thin layer of cream so that your tattoo shines. Try to avoid applying cream over any scabs.If you applied too much cream, use a clean paper towel to blot and remove the excess cream.
Plain, unscented creams are generally used to treat tattoos. Your tattoo artist can recommend you a cream. Try to avoid antibiotic creams like Neosporin; these may cause the ink to drain from your tattoo.
 Do this for the first three to five days. After the fifth day, you can gradually reduce the cleaning to once or twice per day, or when you shower., Do this if you suspect an infection. Your tattoo artist will advise you to contact your doctor if they think you have an infection. Your doctor will most likely prescribe a steroid or an antibiotic to treat the infection. Signs of an infection are:A very painful or hot to the touch tattoo after seven to ten days.
A pimply or bumpy rash surrounding your tattoo.
An extremely red, itchy and/or swollen tattoo after seven to ten days.
Blistering or unusual scabbing.
Pimples or boils that exude pus.
Continued bleeding after three nights, or red streaking.
A fever and/or swollen lymph nodes.

