 Everyone gets bored eventually during lecture-style learning moments. And elementary school children have a much shorter attention span than most older students, so this is not an effective teaching method to employ with 4th graders. Try employing games in your classroom to boost students' energy levels and to improve their active involvement in the learning process.


There are many examples of educational games that you can find on the internet. Find some that you think your students will be interested in and adapt them to your particular topic/subject if necessary. As you use the games in class, you'll figure out what works and what doesn't. Then you can adjust the activities for the next time so that they are better suited for your specific teaching style and subject matter. Here are some helpful websites that have in-class games appropriate for 4th grade students:

www.learninggamesforkids.comwww.funbrain.comwww.abcya.comwww.knowledgeadventure.comwww.education.comwww.vocabulary.co.ilwww.jumpstart.com, Unfortunately, many 4th grade students have yet to discover the joy of learning for learning's sake. Try implementing a system of rewards that will motivate your students to stay on task and to complete projects satisfactorily.


Note: Try to provide incentives for input activities (things that students put time into like reading and homework) rather than on output results (like grades and scores).This will be more effective because students can control how much time they spend on activities, but they may struggle more with achieving certain grade levels. So if you assign incentives based on something students feel is largely out of their control, like what grade they get on a project or assignment, they may become flustered with the incentive program and give up trying to achieve the incentives altogether.
 Most 4th grade students learn best by having hands on experience within the learning process. Ask your students to bring in an object they have in their house that relates to the topic you are currently studying. This will make them think about the subject matter and apply it to their own life in order to find a suitable item to bring to class.


For example, if you're discussing Native American history, try to find an authentic arrowhead and show it to your class. Then ask your students to bring something from their own house that is related to Native American history in some way. They could bring a leather vest, a beaded purse, a toy horse, a picture of a hunting bow, or any other object related to the topic.

