 If she is the new girl, wait a while before you decide to flirt with her or ask her out.;
, This will give you the courage to flirt with her and ask her out. Also, most girls are much more attracted to a confident guy than an un-confident one.
 If you become more outgoing, and overcome some of your shyness, it will build your confidence and make it easier to flirt with or ask out the girl you like.
 Use cologne or deodorant if you have to. Nothing is a bigger turn-off to a girl than a smelly guy who doesn't wear half decent clothing.
 This is a great way to get the ball rolling as a shy person. Just make sure that you are talking loud enough for her to hear, but not so loud that it's obvious that you want her to hear you.
 Make an effort to do this once or twice each day. Don't do it anymore than this, and usually only do it once a day. Also try half smiling a bit, but be careful to not make it look like a smirk because smirking is offensive and rude, but half smiling can be cute and endearing.
 Just brush by her hand, and when you bump into her, don't bump her so hard that she falls over.
 If you're too scared to just go up to her awkwardly and say something, see if you can get in her group for group work or be her partner for partner work, and then use it as an excuse to talk to her. Ask questions, but make it subtle and don't make her feel like she's being interviewed. try these questions for starters:


"How are you doing?"
"Do you have any hobbies?"
(if she is a new girl) "How do you like this school so far?"
(if she is not a new girl)"How long have you been at this school?
"Do you have any siblings?"
(if she happens to have a broken bone)"How's your(insert name of broken bone here) doing?"
"Do you like any sports?"

,, Smile at her lots and talk to her whenever you can, just don't make it seem too obsessive and make sure that it isn't obvious that you like her. (see step 6 for more help.) Do little things for her to let her know that you care. Do some activities that she does and be open-minded.
 This is assuming that you've done the last step. Anyway, do subtle little things to flirt with her. Try doing things like teasing her just the slightest bit, compliment her personality and eventually her appearance, and toss a tennis ball to your right hand, and then your left hand and so on (this can be kind of cute and show that you are sporty. If you aren't sporty, since you want to be yourself, you might not want to do this, but it's your choice). When you see her flirting back, increase the amount you flirt, and also make the flirts a tiny bit less subtle. For example, you could try winking at her when she flirts back.
 Try to avoid going to the movies with her and your friends, especially a romantic movie, because this might seem a bit suspicious and it will probably make everyone a bit uncomfortable. A few suggestions of places where you could go are a bowling alley, a fair, and possibly a theatre(not a movie theatre, but a play theatre, and if you choose this one, make sure that the play is appropriate and not at all romantic. Make sure you are actually into theatre if you do this one, and be aware that this choice is a little bit iffy.) You could also go get ice cream, go to a fast food restaurant (not a fancy restaurant), or go to a sports event.
 Ask her in a somewhat subtle way, just don't make it too subtle. Dress extra nice that day (not in a tuxedo, but maybe something plaid), and ask her out to the zoo or to a sports event, maybe out for ice cream. If she rejects you don't cry and get upset, just say, "Alright, let's just continue to be friends then." Don't keep asking; if she changes her mind she will probably let you know.

