 Before spraying any glass cleaner, ensure that the area beneath them gets cleaned as well. Leave them in the “up” position for the duration of the cleaning process.;
, You could choose to spray either the left or right side first. Spray in such a way that you cover the broadest possible area of that portion of the windshield which you intend to wipe first. Two or three squirts of cleaner is usually enough. If your windshield is very large, use four or five squirts of glass cleaner, as needed.
 With your microfiber rag in hand, extend your arm to the upper center of the windshield and bring it straight down along the central vertical line of your windshield. Return your hand to the top of the windshield but slightly towards the side of the windshield you’re standing on. Wipe another vertical line down parallel to the first. Continue to wipe the windshield in this way, moving progressively closer to the side of the windshield you’re located on, until it has been completely wiped.


If you have a hard time leaning over the front of your vehicle to access the central areas of your windshield, use a step-stool to gain some height.
 When you’ve completed a vertically-oriented wipe-down, begin a horizontally-oriented wipe-down. Starting again at the upper center of the windshield, drag the microfiber towel straight out toward the edge of the windshield you’re standing on. Then, wipe another, parallel row toward the same edge, beginning just below the first row. Continue in this manner until the half of the windshield you chose to start on is completely cleaned.
 Once finished with one side of the windshield, repeat the process to clean the other half. For instance, if you began by wiping horizontal and vertical lines on the right side of the vehicle, move to the left side in order to complete the cleaning process. This ensures the entire windshield gets clean.


If you need to go over a certain spot more than once, wipe over it with a straight back-and-forth motion.Do not clean using circular motions as if you’re buffing the surface. This could leaves streaks behind.
 While the first wipe-down was intended to clean the glass cleaner off the windshield and remove excess grime, buffing the windshield involves moving your hand in a circular motion. Exchange the towel you used to wipe off the glass cleaner with a clean one.Depending on the size of your windshield, you might need several clean microfiber towels. Move your hand in a tight circular motion around the surface of the windshield. Start on one side of the vehicle, then move to the other side to ensure the entire surface of the windshield gets buffed.


Your windshield should sparkle like a fresh-cut diamond.

