 This will allow you to edit and assign signatures. It is accessed in different ways depending on the version of Outlook you use:


Outlook 2010 – Click the File menu. Select Options from the File menu. Open the Mail menu. Scroll down until you find the “Signatures…” button. Click it to open the Signatures and Stationery window.Outlook 2007 – Click the Tools menu and select Options. Click the Mail Format tab, and then click the “Signatures…” button to open the Signatures and Stationery window.Outlook 2003 – Click the Tools menu and select Options. Click the Mail Format tab and then click the “Signatures…” button. This will open the Create Signature window.;
, Before you create a new signature, make sure that the correct email account is selected in the right side of the window.


In Outlook 2003, you select your email account in the Mail Format tab of the Options menu.
 Give it a name that will help you recognize it. You can create multiple signatures, so having unique names for them will help you choose the appropriate one when you are sending a message.
 You can format your text with different fonts, colors, and sizes, as well as add images or virtual business cards. You can include links to a webpage too. This signature will be attached to the end of your emails., Once you’ve created your signature, you can choose to enable it for new messages and/or replies and forwards. If you create multiple signatures, you can assign different ones for different tasks.
 If you’d rather not automatically apply the signature to every message you send, you can insert it at your discretion. When you have an email open, click the Message tab, and then click the Signature button. A list will appear of available signature, allowing you to pick the one you want.


In Office 2003, click Insert, select Signature, and then select the signature that you want to use.
 If you decide you don’t want to use the signature in your message, select it at the bottom of the message and press the Delete key.

