 Private accounts barely ever gain followers because only people you are friends with can find you. People will be unable to view your photos before becoming your follower, making your profile look dull and empty. To make an account public:


Click on the Profile button in the bottom right corner of the Instagram App.
Click "Edit My Profile."
Uncheck "Posts are Private." If you see the green button, then your post is private. Click this to set your account to public.;
, Hashtags allow you to search particular themes and view all the photos that have used a common hashtag. If you use the popular ones, other hashtag fans will end up seeing your photo linked to that hashtag and check out what you posted, especially if your photo is good. This will garner quick attention and help you gain followers quickly. Some of the most popular hashtags are:


love
instagood
me
cute
swag
nofilter
tbt (throwback Thursday)
photooftheday
amazing
follow
eyes
smile
nice
beautiful
girl
happy
girl
style
l4l
instacollage
picoftheday
christmas
instadaily
like

, Geotag the uploaded photo with a location. Others in your location might be browsing for photos of nearby places, and as a result, your photo is more likely to be seen by those people.


On Instagram, every defined location has its own page. All photos taken at that location are accessible from that page, so anyone taking a photo of that same location will see yours on the location page as well as their own.Make sure to geotag the correct locations to maximize the chances of your photo being liked. Incorrectly geotagged photos can result in negative comments.
Do not geotag photos taken at your own home as the location will be visible to everyone.
 You might be tempted to think that rapidly filling your Instagram page with a bunch of photos will attract more followers, but quite the opposite is true. If you post too many photos at once, you will end up flooding the home pages of your followers. Non-followers will not want to follow you, and people who do currently follow you may change their mind and stop.


On average, post no more than one to three photos each day.
 Instagram offers a variety of filters, and as a general rule, you should apply them as they fit. There are a few popular filters in particular that may draw new followers to your page quickly. Make sure that the filter actually improves the photo before using it, and use popular filters. The ten most popular filters are:Normal
Earlybird
X-Proll
Hefe
Rise
Valencia
Amaro
Brannan
Lomo-fi
Hudson

, Create a better story by combining several photos into one. There are special programs that allow you to do this, and when done right, the end result produces a more engaging photo that can help you gain more followers.


You can use a photo-editing app to do this, or you can use an app (like Apple's Pic Stitch) that is specifically designed to stitch your photos together: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/pic-stitch/id454768104?mt=8

It's not merely enough to stitch a few photos together. You need to use photos that are all connected to each other so that they tell a short, intriguing story.
 An Instagram photo has a lifespan of three to four hours before it disappears into the Instagram community. If you post while the largest number of people are on, you are more likely to get random viewers and potential followers than you would at other times of the day.


The two most popular times of the day are in the morning and after work lets out.
The most popular time of the week is Wednesday between 5 PM and 6 PM.2:00pm-3:00pm, central time, is another active rush period on Instagram.
Every Instagram account has a different audience. Work out what times get you the most amount of interactions and post regularly at those times.
 The key to Instagram success is both quality and quantity. The photos you post should only be of the best quality, and they should come often enough to be entertaining, but not too often, so you're an annoying presence. If you post low-quality photos, people are less likely to be impressed and may not take you seriously.


If someone stumbles upon your profile, he or she will likely make a first impression on the first photo that appears, which will be your most recently added one. If that most recent photo is impressive, it can entice your new viewer to stay and maybe even follow your Instagram account. If the most recent photo is shaky and blurry, and of a bootleg sandwich you ate, the rest of your profile will probably be ignored.
 Follow random users in the "suggestions for you" section.

Approximately one-third of those you randomly follow (give or take) will likely follow you back.
Due to the maximum of 7,500 followers, it is recommended that you continue to follow those who follow you as a courtesy, then unfollow those who don't follow you. Don't follow too many random users at once because you will lose track.
Give others a fair chance to follow you. No one is online all the time.
To make more room to follow others, unfollow those who have posted nothing in a long time who seem to have stopped posting altogether. They won't miss you as a follower.

