 This will show you've lost weight rather than weighing every day. If you are still growing, then your weight should not change at all. You will think that you have gained weight in fat but you really just have grown a bit or gained muscle. Measure around your waist instead. That way you see if you have lost fat.


Weighing yourself daily can lead to what some people call "scale obsession," or an unhealthy fixation on daily results. Water retention in the body can be as much as five pounds per day, so the scale can also be somewhat misleading.
Remember to think of weight loss as an ongoing process. Your hard work and determination will pay off, however, so long as you keep your spirits high and your outlook optimistic. Very few people are completely satisfied with their bodies, but try to love your body as much as possible. It will definitely love you back.
 This way you can notice any major changes. Keep a log of everything you eat, every exercise you do, and how many inches your waist is (or whatever kind of body part that needs weight loss). Add up your total calorie intake of that day (try to keep it at a maximum of 2000) and how many calories you burned (most exercise machines will give you an estimate of how many calories you burned). If your diet or exercise changed you can see what plan worked best for you.


Also, if you record the calories you have eaten, you can input them in websites that will then calculate whether you should have eaten more, or fewer calories that day, and you can plan from that.
Download an app. There are some great apps that are free to download that can help you track your progress, such as MyFitnessPal and MapMyFitness. Check out your apps store and see what's on offer to help you.
 If you are confident about losing weight you will be more likely to have some great progress! It actually works!

, If you spend a day in your pajamas and watch a few movies for the day, don't sweat it. If you have a big feed of junk food one day, don't worry! Just get back on track the next day!

