 When you praise your children for independently nurturing their relationship, you help ensure they will continue to show kindness toward and understanding of each other. For instance, if one child shares a toy with the other, say, “Wow, I really liked how you shared your toy truck with your sister.”You could also use moments of positive behavior to encourage even more good behavior by encouraging the child on the receiving end of the original positive action to thank their sibling.
Expressing thanks helps people of all ages feel happier, and your siblings will learn to associate that feeling of joy with their sibling.
Of course, it is okay to offer vague or general praise once in a while, too.
 After a conflict, mention to your kids how surprised you are that they were fighting, when just a short time ago they were getting on swimmingly. Reference a specific, recent occasion when their relationship was good. You might say, for example, “You two were getting along so well when we were at the park! What happened?” They will then remember the good time they had with each other at the park and cool down., Since siblings often like to needle each other, it’s important to empower your kids to recognize and reflect on their own feelings. They will then be better equipped to communicate in a healthy way with their siblings (and with others) about how they’re being treated and why they don’t appreciate their treatment.When your kids are frustrated by you, their sibling, or a friend, help them identify their emotions. For instance, if your child is angry they can’t go out to play, ask directly, “How do you feel?”
Offer suggestions as to what they might be feeling. For example, you could ask, “I see that you’re angry, but are you also disappointed or sad?”
Let your kids know that all emotions are okay, and that it is normal to feel angry when faced with a frustrating situation or person.Expressing or recognizing emotions in others is the first step toward empathy. Getting your child to engage in these emotion-sharing exercises, therefore, is useful for defusing frustrating situations they have with their siblings, too.
Encourage your child to always pose the question, “Would you like it if I did that to you?” to a sibling they are in conflict with. When one sibling sees that they are making the other feel bad, they’ll be less likely to engage in negative behavior.
 Teach both your kids the importance of the Golden Rule – treat others as you would like to be treated. Begin by sitting down with both of them and helping them write a list of “friend qualities.” For instance, you might verbally provide your kids with a list of words and ask them to identify and write each word that they want to see in a friend.Your word list might include kind, funny, mean, sharing, generous, and selfish. Your children should understand that friendship and positive relationships require being kind, generous, and sharing with others.
Ask your children to remember the Golden Rule and to enact the “friend words” when dealing with each other.
 Roleplaying is especially effective with younger children who need guidance on how to act towards others. Through roleplaying your children can discover what it’s like to be on the receiving end of abuse. Roleplaying can equip your kids to identify alternatives to deepening a feud with their sibling.Bring your children together for a roleplaying scenario in which someone is, for instance, name-calling. Ask your child what they would do.
Explain that the first step in dealing with a conflict is to slow down and take a deep breath. Help them understand that if they respond with aggression and anger, the conflict will only get worse.
Encourage them to instead locate an adult to help them resolve the situation.
Roleplaying is especially effective after a conflict ensues. Once the dispute is settled, you can bring your children back together, go over the roleplaying scenario, and end with a review of the roleplaying exercise to confirm your children understand the process.
Ask them simple questions like, “Next time your sibling is bothering you or treating you badly, what should you do?”

, As a parent, of course, it’s natural to do everything you can to swiftly bring any conflict to an end and maintain peace in the house. But if you allow your kids to manage their own relationship and take responsibility for their own actions, they will become more active in building and managing their sibling relationship. Even if your kids are fighting, fight the urge to jump (unless they’re engaged in really hateful speech or physical violence). This approach works best with older children (adolescents and teens) who should have conflict resolution skills that a younger child probably will not.
Allowing your kids to work things out on their own also keeps you neutral and out of the conflict altogether. You won’t, therefore, get blamed later for taking one child’s side over the other.
 Learning social skills takes time. Some kids don’t get along for years while they’re growing up. Have faith that they will blossom into young people who appreciate and value each other’s company. Continue doing all you can to support and improve their relationship.If you’re doing all you can to encourage a healthy relationship between your kids and they still don’t get along very well, don’t blame yourself. Some people just rub each other the wrong way.
Get help from a therapist if behavior problems between your siblings persist beyond normal levels of sibling rivalry and conflict. Serious, ongoing conflict issues may suggest that one or both children have underlying issues that need to be dealt with before the sibling relationship can improve.

