 “MLS” is broker terminology for a multiple listing service. These are services which provide a wide variety of information and professional connections which can be very valuable in terms of marketing your properties. An MLS is a local organization, run by a local collection of brokers. It will require some research to find the MLS in your target area(s).


Many sites online offer information on local multiple listing services, but they often not all-comprehensive. Try more than one to find out which is most suitable.
These services are not normally available to non-agents, as in FSBO (For Sale By Owner) real estate.
There is typically a fee to list with an MLS.
 Using direct mail is a way to mail items to a large number of potential clients. As snail mail becomes less frequent, each letter stands out a little more. It also puts your message directly into your potential client's hand.


Use high-gloss paper.
Spend time developing your mailer's look. Use full color images, and include pictures of the locations you want your clients to be interested in.
Try to provide something useful, such as information on an open house, or the best time of year to move; Don't just self-promote.
If you're casting a wide net, consider getting a bulk mailing permit from the Post Office. This will allow you to send a lot of mailers out at once at a lower individual cost than just putting a stamp on each one. In general, the minimum is between 300-500 pieces for a bulk mail order discount.
 Marketing by telephone has been a successful means with which to spread a company's message. This can be as simple as giving past clients a call, or using a call center to make a large volume of cold calls. Be careful to Cold Call Effectively, as this can be seen as a very aggressive way to market.Check in with past clients to survey their satisfaction after they move in.
Call current clients with new listings.
Contact houses listed as for sale by owner.
Robocalling, or sending out pre-recorded calls, is prohibited in most circumstances by the FTC in the United States. If the consumer has given you prior written authorization to robocall them, you may, but in general you should always go for the personal touch of a "live" phone call., For many real estate agents, placing ads in a newspaper or magazine can be an effective means to market their services. Many offer full-color ads in addition to black and white, providing different pricing options for realtors.


Put an ad in a newspaper or magazine. Placing advertisements in newspapers or magazines frequently read by your target market can be a cost effective marketing strategy.
A national newspaper, such as the Wall Street Journal, has the advantage of many readers, but it's a very scattered approach. There may not be many potential clients in your area.
Try running ads in local or regional papers and magazines. These target a specific region and are more likely to produce clients in your area.
Write a column for a local newspaper or magazine on homes and real estate in the area to build recognition in your community.
Write press releases regarding high-profile properties or innovative marketing campaigns of yours.
 You can Promote Your Business Through Newsletters provided to clients through the mail, email, or on your website.A newsletter with specific information for new homeowners or other recent clients can help you keep in touch, and may result in referrals.
Be sure to include interesting content and tips about real estate that will encourage your clients to read your newsletter long after they have done business with you.
 Listings and advertisements in the commercial section of telephone directories in your target areas are still a valuable way to market in some industries. However, phone books are increasingly less common, as some places no longer require telephone companies to distribute directories.
 Advertising space on signs and billboards can be very cost effective if properly designed and placed. The key is to place your ads in a high-traffic location where many people will see them, and to rotate the ads regularly to keep consumer interest.Some high-tech billboards even offer the possibility of advertising videos on large billboards, though this high-tech advertising space is more expensive.
Get a professional head shot if you're including your image.
Hire a professional photographer to take pictures of the properties.
Invest in a graphic designer to strengthen your ad.
 Television or radio broadcasts can be a way to reach a large audience. If funding is a problem, look into marketing through public television or public radio stations.


Get client testimonials on their experience with you as an agent.
Show clients in their new properties.
Develop a good elevator speech. These short sales pitches, or elevator speeches, are perfect for radio and television broadcasting. The idea is that you can say all you need to in the time it takes to ride an elevator, or less. Take care to develop and practice delivering a good sales pitch. This is also useful when networking in person.
 If you have existing clients who are happy with you, enlist them to help you attain more clients. This is known as acquiring clients by referral.Most happy clients will gladly tell others about you, but most of the time they will not think about it unless you give them a reason or incentive.


A large majority of real estate business comes from referrals and word of mouth.If you find ways to reward or recognize your clients for sending you new clients, they will do so more frequently, with greater zeal. Examples include cash rewards, gift cards, or gift baskets.
Don't forget to market this referral program. In order for this type of marketing to be successful, existing clients must know about it. This can be done through direct communication, signs at the business, or online.
 Send cards or small gifts to valued clients at appropriate times. You could also use this opportunity to remind them of your referral program.Birthdays and holidays are excellent times to make contact with your current and past clients.
Gift cards, even if just for coffee or other small pleasures, can go a long way in helping to build relationships.
Housewarming gifts are a great way to complete a residential transaction.
 Chambers of commerce, service organizations, and other groups are a great way to network with other business owners and potential customers. Join as many groups as appropriate for your goals.It is important to be an active member of the organizations you join. Just being a member will not be as effective as being a participating member. Attend meetings and events of these organizations, and speak with as many people as possible.
Be sure to seek out mutually beneficial relationships. People are more likely to send clients your way, if you are returning the favor.
Make sure you are not blatantly advertising for your real estate business. You should contribute value to these organizations while sharing information about your business and your expertise when appropriate.
Sponsor an event. A great way to get in good standing with an organization such as these is to sponsor them in some way. Events, such as festivals, dinners, competitions, and auctions provide opportunities to build a strong connection to organizations.
 If you're in commercial real estate, attending broker meetings can be an excellent way to market the properties you have up for sale or lease. These meetings are often sponsored by local businesses or associations. They're also a great place to network.