 Volt Tackle is a special move for the Pikachu family, but it can only be obtained by breeding a Pichu. You can then evolve that Pichu into a Pikachu or Raichu.Volt Tackle is only available in Pokémon Emerald and later. It is not available in Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, Gold, Silver, Red, Blue, or Yellow.;
, You'll need this special item in order to breed a Pichu that knows Volt Tackle. It is a fairly rare item, and the process for getting one varies depending on which game you're playing:In Emerald, Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, HeartGold, SoulSilver, X, and Y, you can find Light Balls held by wild Pikachus. There is a 5% chance that the wild Pikachu you encounter will be holding this ball. This means you will likely need to capture many Pikachus before you find one. You can also use skills like Thief and Covet to try to steal the Light Ball without capturing the Pikachu.
In Black, White, Black 2, and White 2, the Light Ball is only available from certain event Pikachus. If you need a Light Ball in these games, you'll either have to cheat for one or get one in a previous game and transfer it.
In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, you can find a Light Ball at the south end of Route 120, at the top of the large grass patch near the exit to Route 121.
 There are two main ways you can breed a Pichu: You can use a female Pikachu/Raichu and a male Pokémon from the Fairy or Ground egg groups (including another Pikachu/Raichu), or you can breed a male or female Pikachu/Raichu with a Ditto.The Fairy egg group includes Clefairy, Jigglypuff, Togetic, Marill, Roselia, Shroomish, and many others. See pokemondb.net/mechanics/egg-groups/fairy for a complete list.
The Ground/Field egg group includes Rattata, Ekans, Vulpix, Psyduck, Eevee, and many more. See pokemondb.net/mechanics/egg-groups/field for a full list.
 The Light Ball will need to be held by one of the two Pokémon you are breeding. It doesn't matter which of the two is holding it.
 While the two Pokémon are here, they will eventually create an Egg.
 The time it takes will vary because the process is slightly random. Every 256 steps, the game calculates whether or not an egg is laid based on the types of Pokémon you are breeding. You'll likely get an egg the fastest by breeding a Pikachu with a Pikachu.


The egg-laying process will go even quicker if one of the two Pikachus is from a different trainer (traded).
You won't be notified that an egg has been laid, so you'll need to check back periodically. The Day Care attendant will be in a slightly different location if an egg has been laid.
 Walk around with the egg in your party for a little while, and it will soon hatch into a Pichu. You can speed this up by riding around on your bike.
 Your new Pichu will have the Volt Tackle move available to it since you used the Light Ball during breeding. You can evolve this Pichu into a Pikachu and then a Raichu, and it will continue to have this move.


If you evolve Pichu into a Pikachu, and then breed that Pikachu, it won't pass on Volt Tackle. You must always use a Light Ball to give Volt Tackle to a new Pichu.

