 Because dishwashing soaps are designed to deal with the fatty, greasy food products that build up on pots, pans, and plates, they’re also a good way to deal with butter when it gets on clothing.Dampen the stained area with lukewarm water.
Apply a small amount of dishwashing soap to the stain.
Rub at the stain gently with your fingers, making sure to spread the soap throughout the stained fabric.;
, Using a sink or bathtub faucet, run warm-to-hot water over the stained area until the soap had been rinsed from the fabric. Make sure you’re not just catching the soap somewhere else in the fabric of the garment; hold the fabric taut so you can see that the suds have run off and down the drain.
 If you’re dealing with something as stubborn as a butter stain, treat it with a concentrated stain fighter before running it, finally, through the washing machine. You can purchase prewash stain removers in the laundry aisle at the grocery store, or you can make your own at home.


If you wish to make your own prewash stain remover, mix the following ingredients together: 1 1/2 cups of water
1/4 cup of liquid castile soap (if you cannot find this in a store, it can be easily purchased online)
1/4 cup of vegetable glycerine (again, available for purchase online)
5-10 drops of lemon essential oil
Once the ingredients have been mixed, apply the product to the stain, rubbing it into the fabric gently with your fingers.
Let the fabric soak for at least an hour (see specific brand instructions if you purchased a product in-store) before putting the garment through the washing machine.
 The hotter the water, the higher the likelihood of the butter stain coming out, so use the hottest temperature allowable for the fabric of the stained piece of clothing. However, check the garment tag carefully to make sure that the fabric won’t be damaged by high temperatures. If so, use a lower temperature setting.
 If the stain hasn’t been removed yet, you don’t want to run it through the dryer; the heat will cause the stain to set more permanently in the fabric.If the stain has not yet been removed, repeat the process of applying dish soap, rinsing, pretreating the stain, and washing one more time before putting the garment through the dryer. After a second round of treatment, the stain should be removed.

