 Make a deal with your partner that it is time for both of you to reclaim personal space and pursue your own interests and hobbies some of the time. If you and another person have mutually agreed space is necessary, you can both try to make the most of it. Instead of wallowing or feeling lonely, take the time to learn something new.Try learning a new hobby. It's important you and the other person have your own interests. If there's something you've always wanted to try, try it. Take a cooking class. Teach yourself to sew.
It's vital to know how to grow alone. Your relationships with others will be more successful if you're more independent. Do not view space as negative. You're learning to try new things and, in turn, getting to know yourself better.
 Find opportunities throughout the week for small amounts of space. This is especially important in a romantic relationship if you and your partner live together. Try to have specific times during the day or the week where the two of you seek space.Have one night a week where you each go out with your own friends.
Choose a few hours each weekend when you can spend time apart. For example, you can each agree to spend Sunday mornings pursuing your own activities.
Do activities that require space, such as reading, taking a bubble bath, or going after a new job.
While at home, remember to keep space in mind. If your partner is reading or working on something, don't interrupt. It's important to be able to indulge in solitary activities when at home.
 Negotiating space will be an ongoing discussion. There may be times when you need to request more space. The other person may also need more space at times. When renegotiating what space means, both you and the other person should be kind and respectful.Always talk in terms of your own feelings. Do not say something like, "You need to give me more time at the end of the day to unwind alone. You can't expect me to watch television with you every night."
Rephrase this focusing on yourself. Use "I" more than you use "you." For example, "I need more space at the end of the day. I don't always want to watch television with you. Sometimes, I just want to read a book alone."

, You should not feel guilty for wanting your own space. It is normal and healthy to need space in a relationship. You risk co-dependency if you don't have space from a partner, friend, or family member.In turn, do not make the other person feel guilty for needing space. Never guilt-trip someone, or pressure them to spend time with you when they don't want to. For example, don’t say things like, "I guess you don't really care about me" or "I see how little I mean to you..."

