 You will need a couple skeins of yarn and a crochet hook to do double crochet. Contrasting colors work best for interlocking crochet, so make sure that you choose two colors that will pop next to each other, like green and pink or purple and yellow. Also, choose smooth yarn types for this project and avoid anything too fluffy.You will need:


Two different colors of yarn.
A size 8 crochet hook (or a hook that is appropriate for the type of yarn you are using).
A pair of scissors.;
, The number of links in your foundation chain will depend on how many squares you would like your finished interlocking crochet to have.Multiply the number of squares you want to create by 2 and then add 4. For example, if you want your interlocking crochet to have 6 squares, then you would multiply 6 by 2, which equals 12, and then add 4, which equals 16.
If you want larger squares, then multiply the total number of squares by 3 and then add 5.For example, if you wanted your interlocking crochet to have 5 squares, then you would multiple this by 3, which equals 15, and then add 5, which equals 20.
 Use the number you came up with as your guide and create the foundation chain for your first filet mesh piece. For example, if you came up with 16 for your number, then chain 16 stitches., To begin making the foundation chain into filet mesh, count 6 stitches from the loop on your hook. Then, insert your hook into this loop and crochet to create your first window.To make your first window larger, count 8 stitches from the end., Next, chain 1 stitch and then skip to the second stitch away from where you made your first one. Skipping a stitch on your foundation chain will make the second window.To make your windows larger, skip 2 stitches instead of 1., Next, loop the yarn you’re your hook and double crochet into the foundation chain.Continue to chain 1, skip 1, loop over, and double crochet until you reach the end. Keep making mesh squares following this pattern until you reach the end of your chain., The turning chain is what you will use to connect this piece to your second piece. Each of the filet mesh pieces you create will need a turning chain at the end. To create a turning chain, make a chain of 4 at the end of the piece and finish it by leaving a large loop. This will help to ensure that the chain does not come undone before you are ready to use it., For your second set of squares, use a different color and make the foundation mesh one square shorter than your first one.This will result in a pattern and allow the colors of the second filet mesh piece to show through the windows on your first filet mesh piece.
 The chains of four should be on the same side and the longer of the two filet mesh chains should be on top. Line them up so that the second color shows through the square in the first color. This will mean that the edges will not be aligned. Instead, the edge of the second color filet mesh chain will be about ¼” to ½” in from the edge of the first color chain., Take the long loop that you left on the end of your turning chain for the first (longer) filet mesh piece and loop it over your crochet hook. Pull the yarn until it is tight on the hook., To link the two piece, insert the hook in through the back of the second piece, but don’t go through the stitches. Just insert the hook through the window in the shorter filet mesh piece., Next, insert the hook through the chain on the longer filet mesh piece and do a double crochet. This double crochet stitch will lock the two pieces together by looping around the edge of the shorter piece., Keep inserting the yarn through the window of the shorter piece and double crocheting through the longer piece until you reach the end of the pieces. Keep the pieces aligned as you go.


If you want to interlock more filet mesh pieces, then follow the same strategy. To add the next piece, you would use the turning chain of the shorter piece and insert it in through the window of a long piece to connect it.

