 To help you figure out when to go meatless, make yourself a meal plan. It'll serve as guide to help you stay on track with your diet and not force you to find foods on the fly or tempt you with a quick drive through meal.


Do a meal plan for one week. Write out every breakfast, lunch, dinner and snack that you will have each day.
If you're not making every meal meatless, note which days or which meals need to be meatless.
Plug these meals into a calorie counter or food journal app so you can get a total calorie count for each day.
If your calorie level is too high, cut down on the serving size or snacks. If it's too low, add a snack to your day.;
, Fixing yourself a meatless breakfast doesn't have to be hard or difficult. You may be surprised at how many common breakfast foods are naturally meat-free.When you're looking for meatless breakfasts, decide whether or not you want to include dairy foods or eggs. These are considered vegetarian, but not vegan.
If you are including dairy and eggs, great meatless breakfast meal ideas can include: cottage cheese with almonds and fruit, a smoothie with spinach, fruit and greek yogurt or an omelet with feta cheese, tomatoes and onions.
If you want to avoid dairy and eggs, try these vegan breakfast meals: oatmeal with soy milk, fruit and nuts, tofu scrambled with peppers, onions and spinach, or chia seed pudding with fruit.
 If your normal lunch meal is a burger or cold cut sandwich, it can be difficult to figure out an alternative option. However, there are a lot of great items that are meatless and are good for lunches.Great vegetarian lunches (that include dairy products) include: a greek wrap with spinach, feta cheese, hummus, peppers and olives, a 1/2 grilled cheese sandwich with tomato soup, a black bean and cheese quesadilla with sliced avocado or a homemade "protein pack" with sliced cheese, nuts and fruit.
Vegan lunch ideas include: 3 bean chili, curried chickpea salad in a whole wheat wrap, vegetable barley soup or a cold sesame noodle salad with tofu and steamed vegetables.
 Many people find dinner hard to make meatless. It's very common, especially in more Westernized countries, to feature a meat as the main course of an evening meal.


If you're used to having a piece of chicken, steak, fish or even a pork chop at dinner, it can be difficult to switch gears towards meatless meals.
To start, serve up some common meatless meals. They're probably something you've been eating anyways. For example, try: whole wheat spaghetti and marinara sauce, vegetable stir-fry, cheese pizza on whole wheat crust or try a quiche with vegetables and cheese.
Get a little more creative with this meal by trying meat replacements. You can use soy crumbles in the place of ground meat, veggie burgers in the place of hamburgers or vegan sausages in the place of Italian sausage.
Other ideas you can try include: quinoa salad with diced vegetables, beans and feta cheese, a caprese sandwich with mozzarella, tomatoes and pesto, spinach and cheese stuffed shells or stuffed portobello mushrooms with tomato sauce, spinach and cheese.
 To help you go meatless, get your family involved. They can provide a lot of support and may also benefit from this new diet change.Talk to your family about your weight loss goals and desire to go meatless. Ask for them to be supportive of you as you make changes to your diet and lifestyle.
Also ask if anyone would like to join you as you incorporate more meatless meals. Or ask if they'd mind if a few days during the week, everyone ate meatless meals together.
It might be fun to research recipes together and cook new meals for everyone to try.
If everyone isn't on board with meatless meals, ask if a few meals a week could be meatless. Or, if they'd mind preparing their own meals so that you could focus on preparing meatless meals.
 Part of weight loss is choosing leaner cuts of protein. Fortunately, many of the vegetarian and vegan protein sources are naturally low in calories.Protein is essential to any healthy diet. But it's particularly important for weight loss. It'll help keep you satisfied and fuel your metabolism.Include at least once serving of protein at each meal. Measure out a 3-4 oz portion or a 1/2 cup serving.Vegetarian protein sources to consider include: dairy products, eggs, nuts, beans, lentils, tofu, tempeh, seitan, and vegan meat replacements (like veggie burgers, vegan cheese or vegetarian sausages).
Meatless options to try include: a tofu and vegetable stir fry, poached eggs with asparagus, lentil and bean chili or a grilled tempeh reuben.
 Fruits and vegetables are common in meatless meals. Include a variety of these items and try making them the star of your meatless meal. For example, you could have a cauliflower steak by cutting a large central piece out of a cauliflower and grilling it.It can be difficult to figure out what to eat for a meatless meal. But instead of focusing on what protein is the main part of the meal, try using a fruit or a vegetable as the main course.
Not only are fruits and vegetables perfect for vegan and vegetarian diets, they're also high in fiber. High fiber diets, like protein, can help you feel full with less food and keep you satisfied longer.Try to include at least 1-2 servings of either a fruit or vegetable at each meal. Measure out a 1/2 cup of fruit or 1 small piece, 1 cup of vegetables or about 2 cups of leafy greens.Meatless ideas to try include: sweet potato enchiladas, a spinach salad with berries, baked eggplant parmesan or stuffed artichokes.
 In addition to fruits and vegetables, whole grains are a vegetarian food that can help provide additional nutrients to your diet. Just be sure to choose 100% whole grains.


Even without meatless meals, it’s still recommended to choose 100% whole grains. These nutrient-rich foods contain higher protein, fiber and other minerals compared to refined grains.Whole grains, like all foods, should be portion controlled. Measure out 2 oz or about 1/2 cup of grains per serving.100% whole grains to try include: quinoa, millet, farro, barley, whole wheat pasta or whole wheat bread.
Meatless meals to try include: quinoa breakfast porridge, whole grain spaghetti with marinara sauce, whole wheat pizza crust with your favorite toppings or a vegetable and barley soup.
 Regardless of whether or not you're trying to lose weight, working more meatless meals into your diet can be difficult at first.Make it a bit easier by following some of these tips:


Start with your favorite meatless meals. If you want to go meatless, you don't have to always find totally new recipes. Start by thinking of meals you already make that are meatless and incorporate these more often. For example, spaghetti and tomato sauce, bean and cheese burritos, or vegetable soup are already meat-free.
Take a little help from the store. There are a variety of meat-free items that can make adapting current meals easier. For example, use veggie burgers in place of beef burgers or use veggie meat crumbles in place of ground beef.
Try more global cuisine. Many global cuisines, like Indian or Thai, have dishes that are meat-free as well. This can be a fun way to experiment with new foods and flavors while sticking to your meatless meal plan.
 In order to make sure you meet your weight loss goals, you need to be careful and choosy when picking out meatless foods and meals.


Not everything that's considered vegetarian or vegan is also considered healthy or nutritious. The lack of meat or animal products doesn't automatically make something a better or healthier choice.For example, cheese pizza, French fries, milkshakes and mac and cheese are all considered meatless meals. However, they're also not the healthiest nor will they aid in your weight loss efforts.
Your meatless meals should be primarily lean protein, fruits and vegetables. Stay away from items that are high in fat, high sugar or overly high in calories.
For example, limit or avoid: chips, crackers, cookies, cakes/pies, ice cream, fried foods and fast foods.
 To start your meatless meal weight loss plan, you'll need to set a weight goal. This will help you determine a calorie level to follow and provide guidance on what meals to include in your diet.


To start, make sure you have realistic expectations about weight loss. Remember, it's not safe or recommended to lose a lot of weight too quickly.
In general, most health professionals only recommend aiming for a 1-2 pound weight loss per week.This slower rate of weight loss is considered safer and more sustainable long-term. You're more likely to keep off that weight loss instead of regaining it.
For example, if you want to lose 10 pounds, it'll take just over a month to hit this goal.
 Once you've come up with your weight loss goals, start tracking your foods. This will provide insight into what you eat, how you eat and where meatless meals will be the most effective for you.


To start, track your meals and snacks in a food journal. Track every breakfast, lunch, dinner, snack and calorie-containing beverage that you have during an entire day. The more accurate you are with your tracking, the more reliable your results will be and the more helpful they'll be.Using your food journal, tally up your total calorie intake after each day. To lose that 1-2 pounds a week (and have safe and sustainable weight loss), you'll need to cut out about 500-750 calories from your day.This can be your target calorie goal each day to help you lose 1-2 pounds per week.
Note you need a minimum of 1200 calories a day so you prevent nutrient deficiencies, low energy and fatigue and weakness.
 In addition to making changes to your diet, it's also important to make changes to your lifestyle. Adding in aerobic activity is an important part of a healthy life and to weight loss.Aerobic activities are those exercises that increase your heart rate and breathing pace. They help burn extra calories that will aid in weight loss.
In general, health professionals recommend that you include about 150 minutes of moderate intensity aerobic activity each week.
You can split this up throughout the week as needed. However, in order to count towards this goal, you need to be doing an activity for at least 10 minutes.Exercises to try include: walking, jogging, cycling, dancing, hiking, swimming, taking an aerobics class or rowing.
 In addition to aerobic exercise, also add in strength training. This form of exercise is an additional way to help your body burn more calories.


Strength training helps support weight loss by building more muscle mass. The more muscle you have, the more calories your body burns even at rest.Health professionals recommend that you include 1-2 days of strength training each week in addition to your cardio activities.You need to do a variety of exercises to work each major muscle group and be working out for at least 20 minutes.
Try weight lifting, body weight exercises, pilates or yoga. These all count towards strength training.
 Outside of both cardiovascular and strength training activities, you can also increase your calorie burn with lifestyle activities. It's a great way to stay active and support weight loss.


Lifestyle activities are the exercises that you do as a part of your normal daily routine. They do not burn many calories by themselves, but over the course of the day can add up.They include activities like: sweeping the floor, doing the laundry, walking through the grocery store, taking the stairs or gardening.
Try to be more active during the day by increasing the amount of time you spend doing these activities. Think of ways to take more steps, stand more often or just move more in general.
Be sure to reduce the amount of time that you spend sitting down because this can have negative effects on your health., Regardless of what type of diet you follow, you should try to manage your stress levels. If you are chronically stressed, you may find it difficult to lose weight even while following a meatless meal plan.


Stress, even low grade stress, can elevate different hormones in your body. These hormones make you hungrier, crave higher calorie foods and can slow your metabolism.To help manage your stress try: meditating, going for a walk, listening to music, reading a good book, closing your eyes or talking to a friend.
If you're having difficulty managing your stress or its seriously affecting your weight or ability to lose weight, consider talking to a behavioral therapist or counselor for additional help.
 Similar to stress, not sleeping well can make weight loss more difficult. To support weight loss, try to get a good night's sleep as often as you can.


When you don't sleep enough or don't sleep well, the next day you will be more hungry. This is because there is increase secretion of hunger hormones which increase your appetite and craving for higher calorie foods.In addition, if you're feeling fatigued, you're more than likely going to skip a workout and be more tempted to take a short cut with your meals.
Aim for at least 7-9 hours of sleep each night. You might need to go to bed earlier or wake up later to meet that guideline.

