 Use a balance or spring scale for this. If the object is a liquid, first weigh the empty container the liquid will be held in and find its mass. You'll need to subtract this from the mass of the container and liquid together to find the liquid's mass. For this example, we'll assume the object is 500 grams of water.

Use grams, not any other unit, or the result will not be in Joules.
 This information can be found in a chemistry reference, either in book form or online. For water, the specific heat capacity c is 4.19 joules per gram for each degree Celsius it is heated – or 4.1855, if you need to be very precise.Specific heat capacity actually varies slightly based on temperature and pressure. Different organizations and textbooks use different "standard temperatures," so you may see the specific heat capacity of water listed as 4.179 instead.

You can use Kelvin instead of Celsius, since a difference in temperature is the same in both units (heating something by 3ºC is the same as heating by 3 Kelvin). Do not use Fahrenheit, or your result will not be in Joules.
 If the object is a liquid, you can use a bulb thermometer. For some objects, you may need a probe thermometer.
 This will let use measure the amount of heat being added to the object during the heat.

If you want to measure the total amount of energy stored as heat, you can pretend the initial temperature was absolute zero: 0 Kelvin or -273.15ºC. This is not typically useful.
 This will produce the degrees of temperature change in the object. Assuming the water was originally at 15 degrees Celsius and heated to 35 degrees Celsius, the temperature change would be 20 degrees Celsius.
 This formula is written H = mcΔT, where ΔT means "change in temperature." For this example, this would be 500g x 4.19 x 20, or 41,900 joules.

Heat is more commonly expressed in the metric system in terms of either calories or kilocalories. A calorie is defined as the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water 1 degree Celsius, while a Kilocalorie (or Calorie) is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kilogram of water 1 degree Celsius. In the example above, raising 500 grams of water 20 degrees Celsius would expend 10,000 calories or 10 kilocalories.


