 Large surfaces in the basement should be light in color to brighten things up. Walls, for example, should be painted white or warm shades such as yellows, light reds and oranges. Select light or brightly-colored rugs or tiles, as well. Even large pieces of furniture can make a difference in how bright the room appears, so go for warm, vibrant patterns on sofas and chairs.;
, Select some darker pieces of furniture (end tables, for example) or dark wall hangings to contrast with the light colors of the large surfaces. Select dark moldings for walls and ceilings. These measures bring out the brightness of the lighter colors and impart a more natural-feeling shadow effect.
 Lighting that hangs down from the ceiling is fine for other rooms, but in a basement it poses two problems. First, many basements have low ceilings, so hanging lights can make it difficult to get around. Second, hanging lights take up space and make the room look smaller. To remedy this, select recessed lighting in the ceiling, and complement that with wall sconces, table lamps and floor lamps--the indirect lighting will light up the ceiling and help get rid of that cave-like atmosphere.
 First, those old fluorescent bulbs are out. Soft white incandescent bulbs will make the lighting seem more natural. An even better option is to use full-spectrum bulbs, which cost a bit more than regular incandescent bulbs, but which mimic the sun's natural light.
 If your basement has exposed concrete walls or wood paneling, install drywall and paint it to give the room a more finished appearance. If you have suspended ceilings and exposed boards cover them up with drywall and paint, as well. Keep in mind that drywall is only usable if your basement is completely dry, year round. If your basement is damp or wet, drywall is a poor choice because it tends to soak up water and support mold growth. You should look for waterproof, mold proof basement wall and ceiling systems that will not absorb moisture and rot overtime. You may not be able to cover all exposed pipes and duct work, but you can paint such fixtures to match the rest of the room, or creatively hide them with furniture, plants or wall hangings.
 If you have unnecessary columns, pillars or walls in your basement, consider tearing them out(Consult a structural engineer if uncertain of load-bearing). The more open the floor plan, the brighter the space will appear.
 Plants can make any room healthier by removing toxins and adding oxygen. They can also give the room a brighter mood. Of course, not all plants can survive in a basement. Visit the related wikiHow on choosing an office plant for some tips.

