 They're not actually at their computer all the time; in fact, the connection might not even be coming directly from their computer at all. Idling in IRC allows your IRC client to stay connected to a server and sitting in the IRC channel while you're either not at the computer or in that channel. The benefit of doing this is that the IRC user can log on periodically to check what's going in IRC, can be contacted even when not in IRC, and can hang around several channels at once. It can also allow a user to quickly check the occasional conversation if the IRC channel is fairly quiet or if the conversation is compelling enough to join. For some frequent users of channels, the time taken to log out and log in again during the day makes idling a much easier and faster option. The method for doing this is usually through use of a shell account on remote servers or by using IRC bouncers:


A shell account is a user account that is located on a remote server which provides access to a shell via a command-line interface protocol such as telnet or ssh.An IRC bouncer is software that relays traffic and connections in computer networks in a similar manner to a proxy.It is a method that can provide the user with privacy (hiding the original source of the user's connection) and it also enables the user to manipulate the routing of traffic through a particular location.;
, Most shells or bouncers are hosted on servers running Linux, and will require some basic knowledge of Linux and the command line for you to be able to utilize it properly. Get started by reading How to learn to use Linux.
 Bouncers can be connected to through your favorite IRC client. Shell accounts allow more flexibility, but are limited to text-only. Other things to bear in mind include whether the method you want to use is permitted on your channels (read the fine print), whether it is compatible with your operating system and will do what you want it to do, and the ease with which you can use it. Another factor may involve whether you get it for free or have to pay. These are just some of the issues; do some further research on the two options before making your decision. And definitely ask friends about their choices and recommendations.
 Ask the idlers (when they're active) where they got their shell or bouncer accounts from. Chances are, some of them are hosting their own servers, and will happily let you have space on their server so you can idle as well.


If you're feeling bold, you can also try searching online for free shell or bouncer accounts and signing up for those. Often, these can be overpopulated or severely limited, so beware!

, Each provider has different ways they want you to set up your shell or bouncer account, so it isn't feasible to list any specifics here. What you need to do is read the instructions carefully and be sure to ask the provider any questions if you ever need help.


Instructions on how to get set up vary from provider to provider. There are different types of bouncer software as well as different types of distributions and setups of servers hosting shell accounts. If on a shell account, ask about screen and irssi, and how they prefer you to get set up and make changes to the config. Some administrators can get very picky and prefer to keep things organized in a special way!
Practice for a bit until you get the hang of using your idling feature. Ask people you know on the channel for guidance if you know they're using the same choice as yours.
 If you enter a channel and it looks as if there are a lot of people there but nothing is being said, say something. Eventually someone will notice and reply to you; you may need to be patient sometimes! And while you're waiting for an answer, idle in IRC.


You can find out how long someone has been idle by typing /whois and their name.
In many channels you can write someone's name to attract their attention when they're idle. This may result in a color change, a noise, or some other form of alert to let them know that someone is trying to get their attention. There is netiquette behind this though; don't overdo it. Use the person's name once and then wait; they will respond to you in due course when they're available. Constantly pinging them with their name will cause them to be frustrated and they may not respond at all.

