 Some or all of the contents of your luggage may potentially be covered under a number of different insurance polices, including your homeowner's or renter's insurance as well as any travel insurance you purchased for your trip.This will be easier if your luggage was stolen on your trip home than if you're currently traveling, but use your best efforts to find the information you need.
Particularly if you were carrying relatively new items, it's possible a single item is covered under multiple insurance policies.
For example, if your laptop was stolen, it may be covered under the device warranty, your homeowner's or renter's insurance policy, and an insurance policy offered through the credit card you used to make the purchase.
When there are multiple policies in play, the key for you is to find the one that will give you the best recovery that will allow you to replace the covered item.
For example, if your travel insurance only covers depreciated value, while your homeowner's policy provides replacement value, you want to file your claim with your homeowner's insurance company.
 Insurance companies typically have deadlines that limit the time you have to file a claim for theft. The deadline may only be a few days, as measured from the time you noticed or reasonably should have noticed the theft.Understand that taking care of the situation may take a day out of your vacation, if you're still traveling. Ideally you want to file all the necessary reports and make your claims within 24 hours of your discovery of the theft.
Getting in touch with your insurance company may be difficult if you're traveling internationally. Keep time zones in mind when you make your call.
If your insurance company has a local office nearby, you may be able to save yourself some time and hassle by going into that office to file your claim rather than working with a representative on a customer service line or trying to file a claim online.
 The more factual details you provide, the more likely you are to get a fair recovery from the insurance company. You should provide details about the flight, including dates and times, along with specific descriptions of your luggage and the contents of your bags.List everyone with whom you spoke about the theft, including names and job titles for each person, so a claims agent can get in touch with the same people if necessary.
You'll need to make copies of all documentation of your flight, as well as any proof you have of the contents of your luggage.
If you're traveling and unsure where to get copies made, talk to the front desk clerk at your hotel. They may even make copies on the hotel's copier for you at no charge if you explain your situation.
 If you have a written report that you filed with the airline, you should provide a copy of that report to the insurance company. This makes it easier for the insurance agent to assess your claim and determine the airline's liability.Some insurance companies may require a police report before they'll accept the claim. If so, this requirement should be noted on the claim form.
It's possible you filed reports with the airline, local police, and airport security. If so, you should provide copies of all of them.
 It can be difficult to keep track of the status of an insurance claim if you're traveling. However, you need to keep in contact with the insurance company and make sure they can get in touch with you if anything changes or they need more information to process your claim.Once your claim is received, you should be assigned a claim number. Keep that number with all your other forms and information regarding the theft. You'll need it if you want to check on the status of your claim.
You may be contacted by a claims agent to ask questions about the theft and the contents of your bag or the specific items you've listed in your claim.
Keep in mind that honesty is the best policy here. If you fudge on your descriptions of items in your luggage and the insurance company finds out, you could find yourself charged with insurance fraud.

