;
,,,,,, Many business owners skip this step because spam filters make it increasingly difficult to successfully deliver newsletters to email lists. Open and click through response rates can be dramatically affected by as much as 20-30% due to incorrect spam filter classification.


Still your email has a better chance to be opened and read by the recipient if he or she confirmed that he-she actually requested to be in your list. Prospects confirm the request by clicking the link on the email that you send right after they opted in. Consequently before adding the person to your list they must click that unique link verifying that they are indeed the same person that owns the email address and requested to subscribe.
Ask for their “real” or “primary” email address instead of a free email address like Yahoo or Hotmail. Free emails tend to be throw away accounts and typically have a shorter lifetime than a primary ISP address.
Some times your emails come back undelivered. Remove those names immediately. An address that bounces with a permanent error 2-3 times in a 30 day period should be removed from the list. Always remember to keep your list well maintained since it will contribute greatly to your website sales success.
 Avoid controversial words that might be filtered often found in spam such as medication, mortgages, making money, and pornography.


Many users are wary of attached documents. Addressees are cautious of attachments due to viruses running rampant and spreading through malicious emails. It’s often better to link to files via a website URL to reduce recipient fear of attachments and reduce the overall message size.
The January 2004 Federal CAN-SPAM law established several rules regarding the delivery of email. You better have your legal counselor review your practices to make sure you are in compliance with the law.
The two most important rules include having a valid postal mail address listed in all commercial messages and
a working unsubscribe link that is promptly honored to remove the subscriber from future messages.
 Reputation services are used by large ISP’s that investigate email senders regarding their email practices and policies. You may want to do this to be trusted and to avoid being filtered severely.


It is an almost impossible task to get 100% of your email delivered; yet taking into consideration the tips given in this article will take you closer to reaching that goal.

