 Spending time with other parents who have just emptied their nest can be comforting for you during this time, especially if the others are single parents as well. If you know other parents from your child’s high school or in the local community, reach out to them for connection.


You might say, “It’s amazing how much free time I have now that the kids are all gone. You want to grab a coffee together on Friday?” Offer a specific date so that the person understands you’re serious. Even if that day is no good, you’ll have a better chance of setting up something solid in the future.
You might also search for parenting groups or Meetups in your area for parents with adult children. In these groups, you can bond with others who are going through similar experiences.;
, When you’re juggling parenting responsibilities, a career and other life obligations it’s easy to say no to invites because you’re too swamped with other things. Now, you probably have more leisure time that needs filling, so train yourself to say “yes” when invited out to lunch or social gatherings — even if you don't feel like it!Between raising your kids, working, and other daily obligations, it's possible that some of your friendships have fizzled out over the years. That's okay, and it doesn't mean that you or the other party don't care about each other or no longer enjoy each other's company. Make the effort to re-energize relationships with people with whom you may have lost touch.
 Dating may have seemed impossible when you were still raising kids, but as an empty-nester, it may be a breath of fresh air to have a companion. Start slowly by connecting with the acquaintances of friends and family. Don't overthink the process — just have fun.Chat with a few friends or family members whose judgment you trust. You might say something like, “The kids are all out of the house and I think it's time I start back dating. Do you know anyone I'd like?”
If you're involved with a church or other religious institution, they may have groups for single or divorced people to get to know each other.
If you’re hesitant about jumping back into the dating game, give online dating a shot. Be sure to follow safe and appropriate online etiquette. Avoid giving your last name, place of residence, work, or any other personal details until you feel comfortable with potential dates. Always schedule your first dates in public places, and let a friend know where you are.
 It takes a village to raise a child, they say. But, when the kids are all grown up your support might retreat. Be sure to let close friends and family know that you would still love to have their company or support.


Tell a sibling, "I'm really lonely at the house on weekends. Why don't we have lunch or visit an art gallery on Saturday?"
Consider setting up recurring dates with a friend or family member, such as having lunch every other Thursday.
 The adjustment from full-time parent to single, empty-nester is a big one. If you are having trouble coping with being alone, seek help from a professional mental health therapist.


Your therapist can help you cope with loneliness and develop the confidence to build your social network or start back dating.