 Wood is harvested from trees, and planks can be made from the wood using the crafting table. Wood is a great basic material because it is cheap and easy to find in many biomes.;
, Stone is a common block, largely found underground and making up mountains. If mined using pickaxe, you can get cobblestone instead, which looks slightly different.


You can even make a basic stone generator (using glass, lava, and water), if you don't feel like mining for stone or cobblestone.
 Quartz comes from building a Nether Reactor in Minecraft PE. This makes the blocks expensive in Survival Mode, but if you want to bring some white color into your buildings, it's the best way.
 Sand is a common natural block, usually found near water or in desert biomes. This is an easy way to add beige into your color scheme and it's cheap if you're not wanting to invest too much time.
 Coal is a material that you'll have to mine, but it's pretty common. This is the easiest way to bring black into your color scheme. Remember that you'll have to smelt the coal from ore, and the original blocks look very much like spotted cobblestone. Don't miss them!

, You can build a basic house that resembles your real life home or any cliché looking house. Using stairs to make a roof and avoiding pure box shapes can help a lot in making even a basic house look really nice.
 Using cobblestone or regular stone, make yourself a castle complete with dungeon. You can even use Green wool to make yourself a giant dragon to slay! Look at pictures of real medieval castles to get ideas on the layout you want.


Fences are useful for making turrets at the tops of towers.
 Using a few tricks, you can make an underwater house in Minecraft PE. Simply build the walls up to the water's surface, fill the inside with dirt, seal the house, and then remove the dirt.
 Flex your creativity and create a super modern house. You can use the clean box lines and walls of glass panes to create a very cool looking house. These look great perched on a cliff.
 Bring out the "mine" in Minecraft and build yourself a Bat Cave. You can even include a waterfall entrance. Batmobile not included...unless you build that too.


Building a mansion over the cave can add even more fun. Use redstone or other clever tricks (command blocks, if you hack your game) to make things like an elevator that takes you down to the cave.
 Build a giant tree and then make yourself a house that either hugs around the trunk and branches or actually fits inside the trunk itself. You can even make a whole village this way and use it to hang out with your friends.
 Use quartz and column blocks to make a cool Roman palace. You can even build a temple to yourself inside! Don't forget a pool out front and a road lined with Cypress trees to seal the deal!

, It's not a small building project by any means, but who wouldn't want to have their own Hogwarts to have adventures in. Make classrooms, the Great Hall, your house's dorm, the greenhouse, the library, and any other parts of the castle you can't live without. Don't forget the lake out front and the Quidditch pitch!

, Build a skyscraper and fill it with apartments. You can use mods to add command blocks and use the command block to build an elevator that takes you to your apartment. You don't have to fill out every apartment of course. Maybe a few for your friends...but save the penthouse for yourself!

, Build yourself a pirate ship and live aboard! Remember that the bigger you make the boat, the more detail you can create. Just be careful not to get scurvy!


Glass panes make good sails for a pirate ship.
 Use different colored blocks to mark the different parts of your foundation. For example, use blue wool to mark the corners of your walls and red wool to mark the locations for redstone circuits. Place these blocks in the first ground layer so that you can build right on top of them. This lets you make sure that everything is lined up and can also help you figure out how much material you need.
 Build houses using materials that you can easily gather. Otherwise, be ready to invest in a long project. This can be fun though! Just play in a way that's fun for you.
 Always, always, always build the exterior walls first. This is often the hardest part of building, so getting it done first will help keep you motivated to finish. It's also important for keeping everything lined up and looking good. This is how real life building works too!


Building the exterior first also has the added benefit of letting you get the ceilings up, which means you get to stay out of the rain and snow.
 You can really build a cool house in just about any shape you want. All you have to do to make it cool is make it not boring! You can do this by avoiding blocky overall shapes to your house (having one giant square or rectangle) and also by avoiding too-flat walls. Use outcroppings, towers, and wings to make your house more interesting. You should also break up the colors of the outside walls and ceiling. Having everything in just one color makes it look like a blob!

, Another key part of making a house interesting is to make sure that you don't neglect the landscaping. A cool house in the middle of a completely empty plain is pretty boring. Make any house more interesting by adding a garden, lake, street, or other decorations to keep the environment looking cool.
 You can find a number of pre-made building plans online, showing you exactly how to make all sorts of different buildings yourself. This is great for beginners, who haven't gotten used to the materials available to them yet.



Minecraft Building Inc is one great example.
 There are a couple of sites on the net that will let you create your own building plans, drawing out exactly what materials should go where. The most common site for this is MineDraft.
 There are loads of videos on YouTube that show you how to build cool houses and other fun structures. Spend some time exploring and getting ideas for what other people have made.

