 Your parents aren't likely to ground you from reading, so this may be a way of doing something pleasurable while on restriction. If you weren't fond of reading in the past, it may be that you just haven't found what you like to read yet. You should be able to find lots of different styles of books on a wide range of topics at your school library.


If standard novels just aren't for you, consider graphic novels.You may not want to start out with heavy reading because it can be overwhelming. Go for shorter, easier reads until you figure out your reading preferences. You can also find resources online to help choose the best books for you., Creating art will help pass the time, relieve stress, improve mood, and help you feel productive.Art can take many forms, so you might consider researching various mediums online to find the one that appeals to you most.


Art can be done alone and often requires few supplies, so you can usually do it without violating the terms of your punishment.
 Cooking is a great way to express yourself creatively that is paternally acceptable.Your parents will probably appreciate the help with dinner, so you might even earn some brownie points.


Try creating your own recipes or adding a twist to your family's favorite meal.
 Gardening is another hobby that promotes both physical and mental health.Your parents will also likely appreciate the help, earning you goodwill.


If you find you enjoy working in the garden, you might consider trying to grow some of your own fruits and vegetables. This will reap financial and health benefits in addition to contributing to the aesthetics of your home.
 Take advantage of your extra free time to develop language skills, which improves brain health.. This is the perfect way to learn more about a culture or region you've always been interested in. You can find lots of books and online resources devoted to language learning.


This may even become beneficial in future career development. Bilingual job applicants are often more desirable to employers and command higher starting salaries.