 As before, you'll need to decide what colors you want for your bracelet. You can choose lots of different colors or just a few different colors. You'll need them in the specific loom rubber bands. You'll also need something to serve as your loom. Two pencils work the best, but you can also use your fingers. You'll also need a C or S clip to connect your bracelet together.If you use pencils, which will give you the closest thing to an actual loom, try to use dull or unsharpened ones. With sharpened pencils you risk stabbing yourself as you move the rubber bands over the looms.
If you find it too difficult to hold the pencils, you can try using your fingers. However, using your fingers might be a bit uncomfortable and it may be easier for the bands to slide off.
 Take your first rubber band and twist it into an eight. Then place one loop of the eight on the right pencil and the other loop on the left.You can use double the rubber bands to create a thicker bracelet. Instead of placing just one rubber band on your pencils, you can twist two or three rubber bands into a figure eight and place them on your pencils.
 As you did in the previous method, pick your next two rubber bands and place them one by one on top of your other rubber band. You will loop them around both pencils by stretching them across the outside of one pencil to the outside of the other. For a thicker bracelet, you can place three rubber bands instead of two., Using your fingers, grab the bottom rubber band, or rubber bands, and bring it (or them) up and over the top rubber bands you just placed. Take the right rubber band first, bringing it up and over the rubber bands and the top of the pencil. Then repeat on the left side.Tug on the rubber bands to readjust them and push them down lower on your pencils to keep working.
 Take your next color or colors and place one or two rubber bands on your pencils (depending on how thick you want your bracelet to be). Then, bring the bottom rubber band over the top rubber band you just placed as you did in the previous step.If you are doing the simple method, using only one rubber band instead of sets of rubber bands, you should just see two loops on your pencils. Bring the bottom loop up and over the top loop on each of your pencils. If you are using multiple rubber bands to create a thicker bracelet, just make sure you are still bringing the bottom rubber bands over the top rubber bands. You should see a separation in the rubber bands by the middle loops.
 Continue to repeat this process until you have your desired length. Then, attach the S or C clamp to the bottom of your chain, looping the hook through the rubber band loops., Take the rubber bands that are still wrapped around your pencils and gently pull them off, making sure you don't lose any of them. You can hold the middle rubber band loop, or you can grip the two side loops., Taking the two loops you just pulled off, stick one loop through the other loop. Then, pull the loop you just stuck through tightly, letting go of the other loop. This should create a nice knot at the end of your chain with one loop. Finally, connect that last loop to the S or C clamp and then you should have your finished bracelet!