 Hollyhocks come in an assortment of shades of white, yellow, pink, maroon and red flowers, which grow on 6 to 9 foot (1.8 to 2.7 m) (1.8 to 2.7 m) stalks.


Hollyhocks will reseed themselves for subsequent growing years. You can also harvest seeds from plants in the fall.;
, Start hollyhock seeds indoors in the fall. Germinate the seeds in October or November and allow them to grow for a while and experience a winter. This may trick the flowers into blooming the following spring.
 Hollyhock seeds are large, have a high germination rate and come few to a package, so it is best to plant each seed individually. Put each seed 1/4 to 1/2 inch (0.5 to 1 cm) below the soil.


Place the trays near a window where they receive sunlight.
Water the soil as needed to keep it moist. Hollyhock seeds usually germinate in 1 to 2 weeks.
 Keep the pots in a sunny spot and allow the hollyhocks to grow indoors through the fall and winter.
 Alternatively, you can sow the hollyhock seeds directly in the ground at this time if you did not start plants indoors.
 Although hollyhocks can be grown in a number of climates and environments, your plants will thrive if your garden provides them what they need most.


Find an area that receives full sunlight. Hollyhocks can tolerate partial shade as long as they get at least 6 hours of sun daily, but the flowers may be smaller and the colors not as vibrant.
Pick a sheltered spot. Because hollyhocks grow so tall, they tower above many garden flowers, making them more vulnerable to winds and precipitation. Plant them near a wall, tucked into a corner of fencing, or in a garden with other flowers of similar height for best results.
 Hollyhocks do best when grown in rich moist soil.
, The mulch helps to keep the soil moist, provides a weed barrier, and creates an environment for seeds to burrow into in the fall for spring germination.
 Water them daily while the plants are getting established, then water twice a week for the rest of the growing season whenever rain supply is inadequate.
 Tie the flowers loosely to allow for good air circulation.
 Seed pods on the stalks are still nourishing and growing seeds for next year's flowers.
 Pick the pods and separate the seeds from the thin, dry husk. Or, leave the pods on the plants and they will dry and open, dropping seeds for propagation.
 You have three options:


Plant seeds the same area of the garden if your hollyhocks did well in that spot, or just let them fall off the plant to the ground. Fall-planted seeds will winter over and germinate in the spring.
Sow the seeds immediately in seed trays for indoor growing if you want to start another cycle of indoor hollyhocks in hopes of first spring blooming.
You could also store the seeds in the refrigerator for outdoor planting next year.
 Some growers prefer to leave several inches of the plant intact and cover the stump with coal ash. The ash keeps moisture away from the stem and discourages snails and slugs.

