 Negative thoughts can influence your health and wellness for the worse. They also impact your immune system, making it more likely that you'll get sick. A self-defeating attitude can even cause you to make poor lifestyle choices like skipping workouts or binge-eating junk food.You can counteract these negative effects by making healthy choices for your physical health. Try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week. Eat nutritious foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and low-fat dairy. Get enough rest each night--aim for 7 to 9 hours.
 Negative thinking can tempt you to turn to drugs and alcohol. These substances may temporarily numb painful feelings, but they only make the problem worse in the end. Avoid them in favor of relaxation exercises and self-care activities., Having low self-esteem can even harm your relationships. You may put your negativity off on the other person, blaming them for the way you feel. Counteract this problem by communicating with those closest to you and letting them know what you need.


Telling them may help them understand that you are the one with the issue, not them. For instance, you might say, "I know I get down on myself sometimes. I really appreciate you trying to cheer me up. I need someone positive in my life like you right now.", Do something positive for yourself once a day. Focusing on a task that makes you feel good can break up those awful thoughts. You can use that time to boost yourself up instead of tearing yourself down.Go for a walk, meditate, read a book, hit the gym, or do whatever makes you happy. Purposefully doing nice things for yourself may make you feel like less of a failure.
 Depression and anxiety can cause you to feel like a failure even when there isn’t any real reason behind it. Visit a doctor or psychiatrist if you feel that this could be the cause.

If you constantly feel bogged down by an overwhelming feeling of failure, you could be suffering from depression. Other signs include feeling tired all the time, worthless, unmotivated, and suicidal. Talking to a therapist or taking medication may help you overcome these feelings of failure.