 Look at a map to locate cities and other places of interest. Search online or read guidebooks that feature southern France.


Provence features rolling fields, quaint villages, wide sandy beaches and hangouts popular with the very rich. Cities such as Nice, Avignon, and Arles invite visitors to explore historic streets and shop. Or visit other spots in Provence such as the Gorges du Verdon, known as France's Grand Canyon, with its high cliffs and rushing river where you can hike and swim.
The Languedoc is less well-known to tourists but offers many sight-seeing opportunities. Mountains, beaches, ancient walled cities and the chance to experience another culture, that of Catalonia, are all reasons to visit this area.;
,


Other places in southern France include the medieval walled city of Carcassonne where you can walk the ramparts. The city of Nimes contains many Roman ruins including a coliseum where gladiators once fought . The Pont du Gard, just north of Nimes, is an ancient Roman aqueduct that is a UNESCO World Heritage site. You can climb the Pyrennes Mountains by car, bicycle, or on a small train.



Regional trains connect many cities and towns. Slower than the TGV high-speed trains, these make many more stops but are still a dependable way to get around the South of France.
Purchase tickets at the train station or at ticket agencies found in nearly any good-sized town.
Consider purchasing a train pass which allows you unlimited travel throughout France, and perhaps other countries, for a set period of time. Be aware you may have to pay extra for reserving your seat on each leg of your trip.
Remember before you board, you'll need to validate your train ticket at the yellow machine found at the entrance to each train track.
 Although trains will connect you to any large city, traveling by car gives you the freedom to stop in small villages and venture off the beaten path to other places you cannot reach by train.


You will need to have your passport, driver's license, and credit card in order to rent a car. Age limits may apply depending on the car rental agency.
Renting a car for a week usually provides the optimum deal for your money. Weekly rental plans often include unlimited mileage.
Check with your insurance company to see if you are covered while driving in France. If not, buy the optional collision-damage waiver (CDW) to protect yourself from having to pay for damage to the car. Also consider purchasing liability insurance and anti-theft protection. Never leave anything valuable in the car, even in the trunk.
Invest in a reputable road map. Regional maps are available for purchase online or at large book stores. You can also get them at a more reasonable price in visitor centers and book shops throughout France. A GPS device might also be helpful.
Familiarize yourself with French law regarding automobile travel. Learn the meanings of traffic signs. Knowing, for example, that French drivers always yield to the car on their right (unless signs indicate otherwise) will help you avoid problems.
 Trains are faster, but buses link cities with smaller towns and villages. Much of Provence and the Languedoc are networked by bus routes.


Very few buses run on Sunday. Plan your trip accordingly.
Some bus routes run every half-hour and are an efficient way to get to popular destinations.
 There are many tours which will take you to the scenic villages and countryside of Provence and beyond.


Some minibuses will pick you up from your hotel and drop you off again. Most have a list of options as to where they'll travel with tourists. Tours can originate from a variety of cities including Nimes, Avignon, Nice, and Arles.
Available and desirable tours include visits to wineries, lavender fields, the busy city of Marseille, or the French Riviera and destinations such as Cannes, where the famous film festival is held each year. You can even book tours to Monte Carlo and Monaco. Half-day or whole day tours are often available.
 For example, you can glide along the Canal du Midi, a tree-lined canal that runs from Toulouse to the Mediterranean and is a UNESCO World Heritage site.


There are other boating opportunities on the Rhone River and other canals and smaller rivers. Take a short cruise on the Mediterranean. Check for choices online or find them in a guidebook or travel bureau.
 The South of France has many hiking and biking routes. Again, ask at local tourist bureaus and check out opportunities in guidebooks.



Avoid going in late November through January when it can get very cold. May through September will provide the most enjoyable weather and moderate temperatures.
Be aware that if traveling to the South of France in August, you will encounter the largest crowds.

