 Now that you have the nearly-finished animation, it's time to get the vocals just right. Your voice actors can see the final scene, their characters' expressions, and the timing you want in your final shot. This allows them (or you) to deliver the best vocal performance.

Note that, at this point, any changes to the animation might be very time-consuming to make. This is why careful pre-production is essential to an animated film of any length.
 Sound effects should come after the voice actors, and tuned to the appropriate volume where they don't overpower the dialog. There are some exceptions to this rule, of course. For example, if there is an explosion the characters need to react to, it may be best to put it in first, before recording dialog. This helps the actors out with reactions.Sound mixing is an important, and subtle, art form. Invest in a good pair of headphones and/or speakers to fine tune all the volumes correctly.
 Now that you've got the whole movie together, how does it hold up? The chances are that some of the transitions feel clunky and a scene or two goes longer than it should. Just like you would edit any live-action film, you need to turn a critical eye to your animated piece and polish it until it sparkles. While there is no "correct" way to edit a film, there are a couple of principles to keep in mind:

Do any scenes feel quick and essential? Do you feel engaged the whole time? Does a specific line or shot help move the story or theme along? If the answer to any of these questions is no, start trimming. Oftentimes the first and last lines of dialog are inessential, as jumping straight into/out of a scene is usually more engaging. Every frame counts when editing.
Watch the film with someone who is distant from the project. Were there parts the got bored? Did anything confuse them or need more time? How can you cut and trim your story to make it as gripping as possible?
How do the scene flow together? Sometimes 2-3 seconds of background footage helps the viewer catch their breath and dive into the next scene before dialog starts., For example, if you want an old-time, sepia tint to your movie, add it last. These sorts of small changes are unnecessary while you are trimming, cutting, and building your movie. Moreover, they will be useless if you cut the scene or change the color scheme. All these minute touches need to come last, once you're sure the "meat" of the movie is done.

Add wipes, dissolves, or fade-ins to the scene transitions.
Add any filters or effects over the finished footage.
Add titles and credits to the beginning and end as necessary, at the very end.

