 To determine how severe someone’s headache is, you could ask them to rate their headache on a 1-10 scale. On this scale, 10 would be the most painful headache ever experienced, while 1 is the least severe headache possible.If you want to attach a verbal description to your ranking system, you might describe a headache ranked 1-3 as dull, 4-5 as mild, 6-7 as moderate, and 8-10 as intense or severe.
 People with chronic headaches might describe the feeling as having their head in a vise. If your headache is more severe, you might employ a more colorful description. For instance, you might say, “I feel as though an elephant is crushing my skull.” Think about the description you use and comparisons you make to evaluate the potential severity of your chronic headache., When people have mild or moderate chronic headaches, they are typically able to cope with them using only conventional, over-the-counter painkillers. But if you have a very severe chronic headache, commercially available medication or other treatments – including cold packs, hot packs, or a gentle massage of the temples – will not relieve your pain., Headaches that arrive suddenly – known as thunderclap or severe onset headaches – are considered the most severe type of chronic headache. These headaches also have serious consequences, or they may be a secondary symptom of an underlying condition that only your doctor can detect.Some serious, life-threatening underlying causes of a secondary headache may include subarachnoid hemorrhage or intracranial hemorrhage (bleeding in the brain), vertebral artery dissection (a tear in the artery that supplies the brain with blood), cerebral venous thrombosis (a condition that causes blood to collect in the brain) or reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (the narrowing of blood vessels in the brain).
There is no discrete time period in which a headache starts that defines it as “sudden.”

, If your chronic headache is so intense that it prevents you from working, studying, or enjoying social situations, it is more severe than a chronic headache that does not. You can use the impact of chronic headaches on your daily life to better gauge their severity.Count the occasions that a chronic headache kept you from enjoying yourself fully, sent you home from work, or prevented you from attending an event or social situation. The more occasions in which this occurs, the more severe your headache.

