 If you are organized you won't lose things, you won't panic and you won't give up easily. Being well organized will also show your teacher that you care.;
, There are lots of ways, including color coding, dating items, using different folders, filing items, etc. Ask your parents or teacher for ideas if you're stumped; or do a search online for good organizational tips for study or personal life.


Apps can help you stay organized, if you like that sort of thing. There are to-do lists, file sharers, time keepers, diaries, and much more, all in app form. Look in the "Productivity" sections of the apps stores.
 Stop thinking about yourself all of the time and learn to think about others; volunteering will give you the means to achieve this. Select a charity or cause you care about and get involved. Even an hour a week can be a way to connect with the community and give of yourself. In the process, you'll learn a lot about being responsible.
 If you're not old enough to have a job just do something to help the community. Maybe walk dogs, babysit, make a lemonade stand, wash cars, and other basic but useful services. Put the money into a savings account to start building a decent funds base for yourself and your future.
 When you say you will do something do it right then and there. This isn't just about your studies; it's also applicable to chores, promises, punctuality and getting back to people.
 Just tell yourself that you are responsible, then live up to that self-set standard. Do not worry about what others say or think, they're not you and they haven't a clue what goes on inside of your head; once you've made a determination to change, get on with it regardless of others' opinions.
 This is where the responsibility comes in. Make sure you check over your homework. Also make sure you use your notes. As much as possible, be neat; those marking your work appreciate not having to decipher things on top of having to comprehend your gist or workings out.
 If you are not sure how to do something, just ask. If you don't ask, they'll assume you either know or can't be bothered to know; it's hard for a teacher to crack that nut either way, so stop causing them to try. Remind yourself that there is no such thing as a dumb question; many people in class are often wondering the same thing and lack the courage to ask––be the hero and do the asking anyway.
 If you have good notes and you study you will improve your marks in time. Studying isn't just about sitting there staring at the page and parroting the author's information though. Study involves really breaking down the material before you and understanding it properly. Only you can find the way to make this work best but there is help if you need it; talk to the teacher, a counselor, your parents, etc., if you feel you need help with learning disabilities or you want extra tuition. Don't suffer in silence; it's too important to let slide.
 If you aren't paying attention in class you won't know what to do when you have a pop quiz. As an added bonus––the more you listen in class, the less work you need to do outside of it because you've already absorbed relevant information. With this head start, you can leap ahead and learn more than what class taught you, expanding your mind and knowledge quickly.
 Playing around with deadlines is the result of kidding yourself or playing games with the teacher (and yourself). At the end of the day, while the teacher has a role of encouraging you, it is not the teacher who needs to get good grades––he or she already has employment. It's you who needs to get the good grades. Look ahead to deadlines, count back and start working on the items early. That way––no panic, a job well done and early hand in (which means it's off your plate). Good for you.

