 Friendships are a ‘two-way street’. Sometimes your friends will reach out to you first, and sometimes you need to be the one to reach out. Being willing to reach out to others instead of always waiting on someone to reach out to you will help you avoid feeling lonely and isolated.It also lets the people that you care about know that you are thinking about them and want them to be a part of your life.


Call your friends and family members every few days to see how they are doing and what is going on in their life.
Instead of waiting on a friend to ask you to hang out, you might call them and say, “Hey! Do you want to hang out this weekend?

, One reason that people feel isolated and lonely is because they don’t feel that they have made true connections with other people. You may be surrounded by people, but still feel alone if you don’t think anyone understands you. You can prevent these feelings if you open up and let people get close to you.Talk about more than superficial things or “small talk” with the people close to you. For instance, don’t just talk with your teammate about the weather and the game.
Share the good things and the bad things that are happening in your life with your friends and family. For example, you might tell your friend, “I feel like we need to connect more. Can I talk about some things going on with me.”

, Another way to maintain the friendships that you have is to be a good listener when people are talking with you.Actively listening gives you the opportunity to learn more about your friends. It also lets people know that you care about them and what they are talking about. This can make you and them feel more connected and less isolated.


Remove other distractions when you are talking with people close to you so that you can pay attention to the conversation.
Instead of thinking about how you will respond or letting your mind wander, stay focused on what you all are talking about.
 Sometimes bullies won’t attack you directly. Instead, they will tell other people to ignore you or leave you out.You can prevent feeling isolated and lonely by addressing this situation as you would any other type of bullying.


Report the bullying to an adult you trust like your teacher, counselor, or coach.
Get support. Turn to any friends that you do have for support and encouragement. For example, you might tell a classmate, “Would you mind walking with me? Sean is kinda making it lonely for me.”

