 Not only is word of mouth one of the best ways to track down green businesses, it's also one of the best ways to track down a good business, period.


If you're new to the area and haven't yet connected with like-minded individuals to recommend green businesses, try searching for environmentally minded local groups on social networking sites like Meetup.com.
Once you get your hands on one green business that you trust, chat with the owner or manager to find out who else they recommend.
Word of mouth gives you a quick, reliable read on other important factors beyond the eco-friendly angle, like whether the products and services are high-quality and if the customer service is pleasant and effective. Buying green doesn't have to mean getting a shoddy product or poor service.;
, These work much like the yellow pages phone book and are a good way of locating green businesses at the city, state, national and international levels. Examples of green business directories include:


Fair Green Trade at www.fairgreentrade.com/
The GreenEarth Directory at www.thegreenearthdirectory.com/
Organic Consumers Association / GreenPeople Directory at www.organicconsumers.org/btc/BuyingGuide.cfm
GreenPeople at www.greenpeople.org/
The Natural Choice Directory at www.naturalchoice.net/
The National Green Pages at www.greenamerica.org/pubs/greenpages/
EcoFirms at www.ecofirms.org/
GenGreenLife at www.gengreenlife.com/
Eco Business Links at www.ecobusinesslinks.com/
Green Watch at www.green-watch.org/green-business/businesses-going-green.cfm

, Even if they can't refer you to a specific business, they might be able to refer you to a local organization or directory for eco-friendly businesses.
 These can print books and magazines or online offerings, such as the Treehugger Buy Green guides at www.treehugger.com/buygreen/?campaign=th_nav_buygreen.
 This works best when you have a specific activity or goal in mind and need someone to satisfy that immediate, well-fined need.
 They might be able to point you toward local green businesses.
 These sites are a good way of learning about new green products and the businesses that sell them.
