 Each lawyer is different. Some might prefer to communicate by email. Others may communicate by telephone. At your first meeting with the lawyer, you should discuss how you will communicate.Try not to demand that the lawyer use your preferred method of communication. Instead, try to remain flexible.
You should ask about methods of communication during your consultation, before even hiring the lawyer. If you really don’t like the way the lawyer communicates, then you shouldn’t hire them.;
, If your lawyer is open to telephone conversations, then ask when is the best time to call. Many lawyers are busy all day, especially if they have to go into court often. It can be hard to reach a lawyer unless you get a general sense of their schedule.


Also ask who you should call if you have an absolute emergency.
 Much of your communication may be with the lawyer’s staff. You should ask the lawyer who on the staff you will communicate with. Also ask to meet this person.For example, the lawyer may have a case manager who is in charge of most communication. Meet that person, and ask them what their best method of communication is.
 Communication is a two-way street. You should ask your lawyer if he or she has any expectations for how you will communicate.For example, the lawyer will probably want you to respond to requests for information in a prompt manner.
Also your lawyer will probably want you to notify them of any changes in your situation. If you suddenly lost your job, that fact matters in a divorce or child custody suit.
 In the United States, all lawyers speak English. However, they may not speak other languages, including fairly common languages like Spanish. Accordingly, you should ask about translation services if you are not comfortable speaking in English.


Also check if the lawyer speaks your language.This information is often on the lawyer’s website. If not, have a friend who speaks English call the lawyer’s office and ask.
 At your first meeting, you need to give your lawyer the background of your dispute. Your lawyer will need to know the “who, what, where, when, how, and why.” You should spend time trying to get this information organized so that you can share it in a clear way.Take time to sit down and write out your version of events. Include as much detail as you remember. After writing your narrative, put it aside for a while.
When you look back at your narrative, try to give it some order. Rewrite it so that events are in chronological order.
Also organize your documents. You may have a blizzard of hospital records, medical bills, police reports, and letters from an insurance adjuster. Take them all out and put them in separate piles: one pile for medical bills, one pile for hospital records, etc. Then organize them chronologically.
 You hired a lawyer to serve your interests, not the lawyer’s interests or anyone else’s. Accordingly, you need to get comfortable telling your lawyer what you want. You also can’t expect your lawyer to guess what you want.Instead, commit to using the following phrases:“I need…” (“I need at least $2,000 a month in alimony if I’m to continue staying in the townhouse.”)
“I want….” (“I want full-custody of the children.”)
“I will…” (“I’m willing to drop the lawsuit if she will apologize.”)
“I won’t.” (“I won’t settle for less than $25,000. That’s the absolute minimum.”)

, You can communicate clearly only when you understand the status of your lawsuit. For this reason, you should commit to staying informed about your case. Try to understand the legal issues in dispute and the important facts. If you don’t, then you won’t know what information to tell your attorney.


Take notes if you talk to your lawyer in person or over the telephone. Store your notes in the same place. For example, you might want to keep a special notebook for your case.
Always review your notes before contacting your attorney. The answer to your question may be in your notes.
Your lawyer should also send you copies of documents filed in your case. Keep these and read them. If your lawyer doesn’t give them to you, then ask for copies. You may have to pay a small fee., Staying informed about your case requires that you ask questions. Some people are embarrassed to ask their lawyers questions. For example, they may be intimidated by their lawyer. Or they may wrongly fear looking “foolish” by asking a simple question. In truth, there are no foolish questions. Your lawyer should be happy to answer all of your questions.


If you don’t understand something your lawyer has said, ask for clarification. You can say, “I don’t understand what ‘injunction’ means. Can you explain that?”
Ask your lawyer to explain the reasoning behind their advice.For example, you could ask, “Why do you think I should settle for $25,000 when we’re suing for $50,000?”
By asking questions, you gain a stronger understanding of your case, which helps you communicate clearly and efficiently with your attorney.
 You should always know why you are contacting your attorney before you pick up the phone or draft an email. If you don’t, then you will probably stutter and stammer, which can hinder effective communication. Think about what information you are providing and why.


Alternately, if you have questions, then sit down and think about exactly what your question is. Write them out on a piece of paper and revise them so that they are as clear (and short) as possible.
 If you send information by email, then briefly tell your lawyer why you are sending the information.If you have a question, then ask the question and explain why you want to know the information.


For example, you could write: “Hi, Megan. You wanted to see copies of my doctor’s bill for May 21, 2016. I have attached it as a PDF. Let me know if you want a hard copy. I can mail it or drop it off at your office. Best, Leslie.”
Don’t treat email like a personal diary. There is no need to complain about how hard it is to get documents for the lawyer. This type of extra information muddies up your communication. You should provide the relevant information as briefly as possible.
 Your lawyer certainly understands that you have feelings and that this is a stressful time for you. At the same time, however, your lawyer is not a therapist and is not trained to handle emotional breakdowns or excessive venting. These types of outbursts hinder effective communication.


You should, however, tell your lawyer what you fear.For example, if you are starting divorce proceedings, then you should be honest with your lawyer about what you want. You may be terrified of losing your children. Your lawyer needs to know that information.
Your lawyer also needs to know if you are scared of talking in front of other people or seeing the defendant again.
 A lawyer can only effectively serve you if he or she has all of the facts. Hiding information, even embarrassing information, hurts you. Instead of bending the truth, you should always be honest with your lawyer.Remember that your lawyer is trained at minimizing “bad facts.” For example, you might be in a child custody dispute. Your lawyer needs to know if you had a drug or alcohol problem in the past. Tell your lawyer, and let him or her decide how to put the information in the best light.
 Your lawyer should promptly answer any question that you have or provide a general status update when requested. Admittedly, you can’t always expect your lawyer to be immediately available. However, he or she should respond to your call or email within a business day.If your lawyer takes more than a day, then you should ask why it took so long. You can say, “Thanks for the call. I actually called you three days ago. Were you too busy to respond?”

, You should address problems head-on with your lawyer. Remember, you hired them. If you are having a hard time communicating with your lawyer, then you should schedule an appointment to talk about it.Of course, scheduling a meeting can be difficult if your lawyer never returns your calls. Think about sending a short fax or letter. Alternately, you could show up at the office.
 Lawyers cannot work miracles. They cannot read your mind or get every deadline extended. For this reason, effective communication requires that you communicate clearly and promptly with your lawyer. If you feel communication has broken down, address your own shortcomings.


For example, you might not get requested information to your lawyer until right before a deadline. This makes it very difficult for a lawyer to represent you.Think about why you are struggling to communicate with your lawyer. At your meeting, you can acknowledge your own failure to communicate effectively, and you can work with your lawyer to find a solution.
 As the client, you generally have the right to fire your lawyer at any time.You should pay attention to common signs that the attorney-client relationship has broken down:


Your lawyer never returns your calls. This could be a sign of serious problems. For example, your lawyer might have taken on more clients than he or she can manage. Or your lawyer may have encountered personal difficulties which makes being a lawyer impossible.
Your lawyer doesn’t explain what is going on so that you can understand it. Although legal concepts are complicated, a good attorney should take care that you understand what is happening.
You think your lawyer has lied to you. A lawyer should tell you the truth. Lying is a huge red flag.
Your lawyer engages in negotiations without your approval. The other side in the dispute can call up your lawyer and propose settlement negotiations. However, your lawyer must have your approval before accepting any offer. If the lawyer has engaged in negotiation without your knowledge, then you should consider firing them.
See Know when to Fire Your Lawyer for more information on what red flags to look for.

