 Making the perfect snowball will require the perfect snow. Know that temperature, humidity, and pressure will determine if it is light and fluffy or wet and heavy. The best temperature is just below freezing, around 32 degrees Fahrenheit or 0 degrees Celsius.
Wet snow will pack best.
Dry snow will pack poorly.;
, Make your snowballs roughly the size of a baseball. Cup your hands, place them in the snow, and bring them towards each other. Squeeze the snow together to start compacting the snow into a snowball.Don't make your snowballs too large, they can be hard to throw accurately.
Wear gloves instead of mittens to allow you to more accurately form the snowball.
Try using your bare hands, allowing your body heat to help form the snowball.
 Add a small amount of water to your snowball now if the snow isn't the right consistency for packing. Be careful with the amount of water you add. Strive for the right uniformity in your snow, not too wet and not too dry.


Using too much water will melt your snowball.
Add only enough water to help hold it together.
Do not turn your snowball into an “ice ball”!

, Scoop up another handful of snow. Pack this snow onto your original core snowball. Make sure your layers are sticking together. Gently apply pressure as you work your hands around the snowball.


Add just enough to reinforce the snowball, don't make it too large.
Don't pack with too much pressure as this might break the snowball.
Keep adding layers until your snowball feels like a good size and consistency for you.
 Smooth any rough edges or bumps out of your snowball by brushing them off with your fingers. Increase speed and accuracy when thrown by making the smoothest finish you can on your snowball.If the snowball is too big, brush some snow off or pack it tighter.
Don't worry if it's not perfect!
If you have time, let your snowball sit for a few minutes to allow for maximum solidity.
 Locate the best target you might have in sight. Aim carefully and pull your arm back, readying the throw. Wait for the right moment and send your snowball flying.


Throw only at people who are playing with you!
Never throw at bystanders or animals.
Practice by throwing at a snowman you have built.
Stay calm and aim well, even during an intense snowball fight.

