 If you're having trouble coming up with an idea for a particular story, try working on a different story, a different part of the story, or a different kind of writing altogether. Changing what you're working on might free you up to come up with ideas for your original story.


If you are working on a short story idea, stop and write a poem, a review of a television show, or even just a list of words. It is important to get your mental juices flowing and writing anything is better than becoming frustrated with yourself.
 You know when inspiration will strike. Get away from your paper or keyboard. Your brain will continue to churn out ideas or will draw inspiration from something. Even though Isaac Asimov wrote 10 hours a day, 7 days a week, he found the time to attend science fiction conventions, carry on correspondence with friends, and flirt with women.
 If you're feeling sluggish while struggling to come up with ideas, take a few minutes to get some physical exercise, either by exercising for its own sake or by doing a household chore that requires some effort for a short period of time. At the end of that time, you'll feel more alert and the ideas will come easier.
 If exercising only wears you down, perhaps you should instead take a nap. A short nap of 30 minutes or less will be enough to give you a rest and may be enough to let an idea come to you. Longer naps of up to 90 minutes may allow you to enter REM sleep and give you the opportunity to dream up a story idea.


Use a dream. If you've recently had a dream and remember it, write some ideas of it down on a piece of paper and jumble them all up to whatever you want it to be or whatever feels right to you, this should give you some ideas to write a story in the future.
Edgar Allen Poe drew inspiration from nightmares for much of his poetry.According to his claims on the 25th anniversary of publishing his 1865 paper on the ring-like structure of benzene, chemist Friedrich August Kekule claimed to have daydreamed seeing a snake grab its tail, which inspired him to interpret his research as he did.