 You will feel more confident about yourself when reaching out to friends and family outside of your husband. Get their advice and perspective on the situation. Listen for any advice about things that they've been through.


While this may seem awkward, ask a friend or family member to name three positive traits about you. Instead of the conversation only dwelling on your cheating partner, use this time to bolster your self-esteem. Get them to open up about the good things you have to offer.
Explain to your friends and family that their reassurance is invaluable. Consider saying, "This has been a rough time for me. Your words of encouragement and support are very important as I cope with what to do. Your support matters a great deal."

, Take time to do things just for you, not for your kids, family, friends, or spouse. While it may seem "selfish," in truth making time for yourself to do the things you love will help to heal you--mind, body and spirit. Consider doing these things:


Take a weekend trip on your own or with a supportive friend. Don't bring the kids or spouse. Let loose and enjoy a little adventure.
Get active. Go to an exercise or fitness class. Go outdoors. Take a swim. Make being healthy a priority.
Treat yourself with a massage. Go to a day spa. Take a hot bubble bath. Unwind with activities that make you feel relaxed.
Do fun and adventurous things. Make your "bucket list" a priority. Find new people to connect with and who make you feel happy.
 When you're feeling less desirable, sometimes a change in your look or wardrobe can help to boost your self-confidence. If you've been in a rut, and are doing the same, old routine with your hair, makeup, clothes, and accessories, then consider trying some new things.


Get a new hairdo. Try a new hair color.
Change your makeup routine.
Get new clothes that make you feel young and sexy.
Find accessories that make you feel special and unique.
 Learn to let out your emotions in healthy and creative ways. With a cheating husband, you may feel betrayed, abandoned, traumatized, or unlovable. Use creative self-expression as a way to heal. This can help you to gain a better sense of self confidence and understanding of what you need in life and love.Write in a journal for about five minutes each day. Let out what you're feeling or thinking. Use this time to evaluate how you feel.
Create art. Take an art class. Draw. Paint. Sculpt. This will help you to de-stress and find clarity.
Get crafty or build something. Maybe you're handy around the house? Find a home remodel project that gets your creative juices flowing. Whatever it is, it should feel enjoyable and cathartic.
 Sometimes the best way to feel more confident is to know that you're not alone. Other people have faced cheating husbands, and have still lived happily after the fact. Whether or not you plan to stay or leave your husband, you may find emotional validation through support groups.


Consider finding a counselor in your area that can provide a referral for an infidelity or relationship support group. They may be able to find options in your area.
You may find support groups also online or through your place of worship.
You can also look more broadly for support through self-esteem and self-confidence support groups. There are many of these that focus on depression, social anxiety, feelings of loss, and body image issues, depending on what area you wish to work on for yourself.

