 As an alternative to a phone, Skype can be a great option. It’s widely known, and works as long as there is a reliable internet connection. All you have to do is download the software, register with new account, and add someone to your Skype contacts. From there you’ll be video-chatting, and sending messages if you’d like, without having to call using a traditional phone.


Be aware there are slightly different download and setup procedures for different operating systems and hardware. Do a quick bit of research on how Skype works with your preferred communication device.
You can also make a phone call using Skype. The call can be to a phone (land-line or cell), but you must use Skype credit, which can be paid for in a variety of ways.
 VoIP is short for Voice over Internet Protocol. Essentially, it’s a method of making a phone call using the internet. The person you are calling can be on a regular phone anywhere in the world. All you need to do is buy a VoIP adapter, set up the adapter so that it’s integrated into your home network, and power it on for everything to start working.


Some setup may vary based upon which adapter you purchase. Reading the instructions is key to a functional unit.
Depending on the adapter and plan you purchase, there may even be free international calls included., There are several apps that allow international calls. Finding which is the best is a matter of trial and error, but there are a variety to work through that are ever-changing. Some have regional restrictions, but for the most part they rely on VoIP technology to use your phone’s network connectivity to make calls.Facebook Messenger is one of the more popular options. Click on your contact’s profile and the click the phone icon. If you’re both using Facebook Messenger, the call should be free.
Many of the apps charge a nominal fee when calling others who do not have the app. Get the person who you are calling to download the app and you might just save some money.
Some options, like Google Hangouts, even allow video chatting with multiple people.

