

Human rights law can take you to the far corners of the globe. Even if you spend your career closer to home, your studies will give you the opportunity for international studies, internships, and conferences. Getting a passport can take up to several months. Apply while you are starting college and be ready to take advantage of opportunities when they arise.
 A Juris Doctor is a graduate degree. Before you can attend law school, you must have an undergraduate degree. The American Bar Association does not require or recommend any particular field of study to prepare you for law school.

A liberal arts degree with a diverse field of study including history, philosophy, sociology, and literature will give you a solid basis for a career in human rights law.

Law school admittance, especially at elite schools, is heavily dependent on your grade point average. Concentrate on a field of study where you will excel.If you want a human rights career outside the United States, you should consider adding foreign language classes to your curriculum. Learning to speak French and Spanish will broaden your skills and make you competitive for internships and employment in human rights law organizations.If you study outside the United States and intend to go to a domestic law school, you will submit your transcripts through the LSAC Credential Assembly Service for evaluating your credits for application to law school., Law school can easily cost between $50,000 and $150,000 for your three-year degree.Learn about financial aid resources for graduate students.Most students finance their law degree with loans. This is not an option to undertake lightly. Learn about the loan options and repayment plans available to you. Federal student loans include income-based repayment plans.Public interest lawyers may also be eligible for loan forgiveness, based on your career path.Excelling in your undergraduate studies puts you in a good position for law school scholarships.
 The LSAT is one of the factors law schools use in assessing applicants.The test is offered several times a year and tests basic skills that help measure your likelihood of success in law school. You will be tested in reading comprehension,analytical reasoning,and logic.There is also a writing sample that is submitted to law schools with your test scores.

