 Many people will miss out on opportunities because they are afraid to fail. For example, people will stay in a dead end job rather than quit and pursue their passion because they don’t want to face the possibility of failure. In order to achieve your potential you need to take risks and put yourself out there. At times you may fail, but that is okay. Many people will make things harder on themselves by avoiding possible failure.For example, if you do not apply to a job or submit a piece of your writing you will never have the opportunity to succeed.
Don’t allow a fear of failure to impact your ability to succeed.
 Sometimes life can be overwhelming. In order to stop making things hard on yourself you should seek out help when you are feeling overwhelmed. Many people will simply pretend that everything is okay, even when they are suffering internally. The reason for this is because they don’t want to admit their own weakness. Asking for help, whether from a friend, colleague, family member, or professional psychologist is actually a sign of strength.For example, if you are feeling strapped for time and are struggling to complete all of your daily tasks you could ask a friend or family member to help you out.
You could ask a friend: “Can you pick my kids up from school today? I need a few more hours at the office in order to complete an assignment.”

, If you want to accomplish your goals, you need to take ownership over your actions. People who make things harder on themselves will always find excuses for their failures or shortcomings. For example, if you fail to complete a task on time, you will make excuses for the reasons why it is late. Instead, when you are completing a task you should ensure that you tackle the most pressing issues first before distracting yourself with other things.For example, you may tell your boss that you didn't complete a task because you received a pressing work phone call.
In reality, however, you didn't finish the task on time because you mismanaged your time and waited to the last minute to finish the assignment.

