


Use the conditioner every time you shampoo your hair for best results.
If you choose a conditioner that contains silicone, the silicone in the conditioner supposedly neutralizes electric charges in your hair. By neutralizing these charges, the conditioner cuts down on the static electricity in your hair.
If conditioner seems to make your hair feel weighed down or greasy, at least use it on the mid-lengths and ends of your hair, where the strands tend to be the most dehydrated. Near the base of your scalp, you natural oils may keep your hair hydrated enough.;
, Keeping your hair clean is important for general hair care, but keeping your hair too clean can cause it to become overly dry, thereby making the static worse.


Shampoo cleans your hair by bonding with the oil and dirt molecules weighing it down and stripping them away. Unfortunately, when you strip these natural oils out of your hair, your hair also becomes drier and more prone to static.
By giving your hair a full 48 hours in between washings, you keep enough oil on your strands to naturally hydrate them without letting them get too dirty or greasy.
When it does come time to shampoo, opt for a hydrating shampoo instead of a clarifying shampoo. Clarifying shampoos strip everything from your hair while moisturizing shampoos only clean away the surface level of dirt.
 A little hair spray can tame your flyaway locks temporarily, but too much can cause more harm than good.


Standard hair sprays contain alcohol. Alcohol is a drying agent, so as a result, drenching yourself in hair spray will cause your already dehydrated hair to dry out even further, making the problem worse.If you do decide to use hair spray, spritz your brush or comb with it and run the bristles through your hair while it is still damp.
 Hair serum coats your hair with a protective layer that prevents the excessive loss of moisture. Less moisture loss means less static.


Serum works best on damp to towel-dry hair. After washing your hair and letting it partially dry, apply 3 to 5 drops to the palm of you hand. Rub your hands together to spread the serum before running your hands evenly through your hair.
You do not need to rinse the serum out of your hair.



Add a small dollop of cream to the palm of your hand. Gently rub your hands together to evenly spread the cream over both hands.
Rub your fingers and palms through your hair, focusing on the tips of your hair. This will distribute the anti-frizz cream through the most static-prone area of your hair.
Avoid putting too much anti-frizz cream on your scalp, especially if you have fine or straight hair. These products tend to be too heavy for find locks, and when they mix with the natural oils of your scalp, your hair can look greasy and flat.
 If your hair is of medium density or a wavy texture, a rich conditioning spray containing silicone or other moisturizing ingredients is a better option.


Wash your hair as usual and apply the conditioning spray to your hair before you dry it.
A conditioning spray can help you to lock moisture into your locks before the air around you has a chance to steal that moisture away.

