 The best way to clear up your hormonal acne and minimize scarring is to see a dermatologist for help. A dermatologist can prescribe medicine and perform treatments that will help to clear up your acne. You should see a dermatologist if your acne is moderate to severe or if your acne does not clear up after trying home remedies.;
, If your hormonal acne is mild to moderate, then you may only need to use a topical retinoid treatment. These creams and gels help to remove oil and dirt from pores and prevent future breakouts. Doctors sometimes prescribe an antibiotic along with the retinoid cream or gel to deal with the bacteria that is associated with acne.The dermatologist may also prescribe a product called Dapsone gel or recommend benzoyl peroxide creams, gels, or washes., Oral contraceptives can be an effective way to treat hormonal acne, but this option will usually take about three to six months to produce results.Some oral contraceptives are FDA approved for the treatment of hormonal acne and may work better than others. There are some potential side effects involved in taking oral contraceptives as well. Side effects and potential risks include:Dizziness
Headaches
Weight changes
Stomach upset
Bloating
Nausea
Depression
Chest pain
Increased risk of heart disease (especially in women who smoke)
Shortness of breath
Lumps in the breast
Liver problems
Increased risk of certain cancers
Deep vein thrombosis
Strokes

, Women who do not want to take oral contraceptives may be able to take spironolactone instead. This drug alters the hormones, but it does not have as many side effects as oral contraceptives. Spironolactone works by regulating the hormones that produce oil, so it can be quite effective as an acne treatment.Keep in mind that spironolactone is also a diuretic, so it may cause frequent urination. It may also lower your blood pressure.
 Isotretinoin is a good choice if your acne does not respond to other types of treatment. It can clear up severe breakouts in just a few months. This drug can cause some serious side effects, so you should only use it as a last resort treatment. For example, women who are pregnant or may become pregnant may not use isotretinoin because it can cause birth defects. Some other potential side effects of this drug include:Inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis
Dry skin, mouth, and eyes
Liver damage
Bony malformations
Depression

, If you are concerned about the potential side effects of the drugs available to treat acne, then laser or light therapy may be the best option for you. With a treatment called photodynamic therapy, your dermatologist will apply a medicine to your skin and then use a laser or other light to activate it. Another light treatment uses a small vacuum to pull dirt and oil out of your pores as well.Other treatments include the the Smoothbeam laser. These do not require medication and may also help with acne scarring.
 If your acne isn’t showing any improvement after two or three months, then make an appointment to see a dermatologist. Left untreated, hormonal acne may become more severe and this can lead to permanent scarring.

