 If you're concerned about your stomach (looking pale, flabby, etc.), you should probably go with a one-piece. If you're more focused on your chest or hips, though, go with a bikini. Don't be afraid to get a little bit out of your comfort zone--you might be pleasantly surprised!;
, Darker shades are subtle and simple, but certain designs can be very figure-flattering. Vertical stripes, for instance, have a lengthening and slimming effect, and ruffles hide your less favorable features while keeping you looking feminine.


White bathing suits work best against tan skin, and aren't the best idea if you're trying to look thinner. If you've been working out religiously and you're totally self-assured, then go for it, but otherwise you might want to hold off on the paper-white bikini

Vertical stripes are good, horizontal stripes are not (particularly against your stomach).
 This might not be easy if you're apple-shaped and carry more weight in your stomach and back than in your legs, but with just a little less fabric covering you up you can create the illusion that you are as thin as your swimsuit.
Seaming/ruching on the sides is another excellent tool for elongating your torso. It's a less bold approach than getting a suit with whole swatches cut out from the sides, so depending on exactly how you feel about your middle, you could go with either option.
Halter straps draw attention to your neck and shoulders, cutting you some slack in the torso area; pairing a halter top with daring sides is the perfect combination for any short-torsoed lady.
Avoid a high cut on the legs. This will make your legs look longer and your torso even shorter, which you don't want. A good guideline is the halfway point between your bellybutton and point where your legs meet your torso--if the cut goes any higher than this halfway point, you'll look a little ridiculous.
 Make it as wild and revealing as you want, even if you're relatively flat-chested (padded cups or ruffles can disguise that).
Put on a pair of solid-colored, inconspicuous bikini bottoms. Black and navy blue work with almost everything, and you can always throw on a pair of board shorts if you don't feel like revealing your legs in their entirety. Try to find bottoms that ride low, but still fit you well enough that you won't lose them to an ocean wave.
If you can, get a bathing suit with ribbons or ties on the side that trail down. Similar to seaming on a one-piece, this will make your torso look longer and distract from the parts of your body that you don't like.
 Nothing can make you look taller or more confident than readjusting your posture and acting like a supermodel, even if you don't think you look like one. Let go of your inhibitions and just enjoy your swimming or sunbathing; you can think about the length of your torso sometime later.

