 As the estate's administrator, you will not only have to handle the estate's debts but you will also have to file the decedent's income tax return and estate tax return. When a decedent has outstanding qualified medical expenses, you will have to determine how to handle them for federal tax purposes. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) usually defines medical expenses as only those that are not reimbursed (i.e., uninsured expenses). For tax purposes, you must reduce the decedent's medical expenses by the amount of insurance reimbursement the decedent receives.For example, if the decedent was charged $10,000 for medical care but $7,000 was covered by insurance, the decedent's medical expenses would amount to $3,000.
 If medical expenses are paid by the decedent before death, those expenses are deductible on the final income tax return (Form 1040) you will fill out on his or her behalf. In addition, if the decedent's medical expenses are paid out of the estate within one year of death, you can treat the expenses as paid by the decedent when they were incurred (i.e. you can deduct them on Form 1040).


However, if the medical expenses are not paid and you do not elect to pay them within one year of the decedent's death, they will be considered liabilities of the estate and you will have to claim them on the estate tax return (Form 706)., If the estate is able to pay the uninsured medical expenses and they are paid within one year of the decedent's death, the expenses can be deducted on Form 1040 only to the extent they exceed 10% of the decedent's adjusted gross income (or 7.5% if the decedent was 65 or older).


If you elect to make this deduction, you will do it by attaching a statement to the return. The statement will simply say you are making the election.
If you elect to take the Form 1040 deduction, you will be barred from counting any unpaid debt as a liability on Form 706 (i.e., you can only choose one option)., If the decedent is wealthy (i.e., they have an estate worth around $5.43 million), you should consider counting unpaid medical expenses as liabilities because liabilities will reduce the value of your taxable estate. If the decedent's estate exceeds the filing threshold ($5.43 million), reducing the value of the estate by including more liabilities will help you reduce the amount of estate taxes owed.


The estate tax rate (40%) is much higher than most income tax rates, which means you want to decrease your estate value as much as possible if you are hovering around the filing threshold.
However, if the estate is not even close to the $5.43 million threshold, you should automatically take the income tax deduction if the estate can pay the medical expenses.