 To remove leftover food particles and the majority of the onion smell, start by washing your hands with an exfoliating scrub. To make the scrub, combine 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of liquid soap and 1 tablespoon (19 g) of salt in a small bowl.


You can use any type of liquid soap, including dish soap, laundry detergent, hand and body soap, or shampoo.
For the salt, you can use table, Himalayan, sea, kosher, coarse, or any other type of salt.
As an alternative to the exfoliating salt, you can also use toothpaste, coffee grounds, or baking soda;
, Scoop the soap and salt scrub into your hands. Scrub the paste into your hands, including your palms, back of your hands, wrists, in between your fingers, and under your nails. When you’ve thoroughly scrubbed your hands, rinse them under cold water to remove the scrub and the majority of the onion smell.









For the most effective cleaning, use a nail brush to scrub the soap and salt into your skin and under your nails., When your hands are still wet, find something made of stainless steel, such as a pot, colander, utensil, or other metal object in the kitchen or around the house. Hold the item under running water and rub it on your hands the way you would with a bar of soap. Do this for a full minute.









Stainless steel may have the power to neutralize the sulfur molecules on your hands that cause the onion smell, so rubbing your hands with stainless steel might remove leftover odors.You can also buy an odor-eliminating stainless steel bar that’s specifically designed for washing hands and removing onion, garlic, and fish smells. These are available online and at home and bath stores.
 To remove any lingering onion odors, dampen a clean cloth with vinegar or lemon juice and rub it all over your hands. Be sure to get in between your fingers, under your nails, and other areas where onion smell might be hiding. Let the vinegar or juice air dry, and then rinse your hands with clean water. As an alternative to lemon juice and vinegar, you can also try:








Peanut butter
Tomato juice
Celery juice
Potato juice
Mustard
Alcohol
Aloe
Mint leaves

, The smell of onions can actually stay on your breath for a few days after eating them. Luckily, there are certain foods you can eat after having onions to get rid of onion breath. For fresh breath after an onion dish, try eating or drinking:Kiwi
Fresh parsley
Raw mushrooms
Eggplant
Raw apples
Lemon juice
Green tea

, Cut onions will stay freshest if you store them in an air-tight container, but this often leaves the container smelling of onions as well. To get rid of this smell from plastic containers:








Wash the dish with hot, soapy water
Rinse the dish with water
Wipe the dish with a cloth that’s damp with vinegar or lemon juice, or sprinkle in some baking soda
Leave the dish in the sun to air dry

, Onions taste great in dishes, but not too many people like when their house keeps smelling like onions for days after cooking them. There are a few ways you can absorb onion cooking smells from your house, and some of the most popular include:








Combine equal parts vinegar and water in a saucepan and simmer it over medium heat for at least an hour.
Alternatively, you can also fill a bowl with plain vinegar and leave it near the stove overnight.
Fill a small saucepan with water and add lemon, orange, and other citrus peels. Bring the water to a boil and simmer it for at least an hour.
Pour ¼ cup (55 g) of baking soda into a spray bottle and fill the bottle the rest of the way with water. Shake well and spray liberally around the house, and especially in the kitchen.
 When you cook with onions, the smell tends to get into everything, including the clothes you're wearing. To get rid of that onion smell from fabrics, hang the clothes somewhere to air out. Mix equal parts vodka or rubbing alcohol and water in a spray bottle. Shake well and spray the affected garments. Leave the clothes to air dry.








You can also use this method to remove cooking smells from furniture, drapes, and other fabrics.
 Onion smell even gets into your hair, and this can be difficult to remove sometimes. When your hair does smell like onions, or other cooking smells, get rid of the odor by:Mix ⅛ cup (29 ml) of shampoo with a teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda and a tablespoon (5 ml) of lemon juice.
Wash your hair with the mixture, lathering thoroughly and rubbing the mixture into your scalp as well.
Rinse your hair with clean water.
 Vinegar is great for absorbing smells, and it may even prevent your hands from absorbing onion smell when you're chopping. Before you cut an onion, dip your hands in vinegar, and then pat them dry. Cut the onion as usual.









Be very careful when using a knife, especially if your hands are damp.
 One of the best ways to prevent onion smell on your hands is to protect your hands when you're chopping, and you can do this with latex or latex-alternative gloves. Before you chop the onion, put on a pair of snug-fitting gloves, and don’t take the gloves off until you're finished with the onion.You can use the same trick to prevent garlic and fish smells on your hands.
 Another trick to prevent your hands from smelling like onions is to avoid chopping them! When you do need to use onions in a dish, peel them first, and then use a food processor to cut them up. That way, you get to cut your onions and your hands will stay fresh and clean smelling.

