 You don’t have to feed salamanders every day. Many adult salamanders can be fed two to three times each week.You can look up your particular species of salamander to determine exactly how many times each week they should be fed.
 Salamanders should have just enough food that they can eat in one sitting. Roughly, they should be able to eat this food in 15 to 20 minutes.Watch your salamander to figure out how much they can eat in that time period. After a few feedings, you will figure out how much to feed them.If your salamander starts to get fat, you can feed them less. If they are leaving food, feed less next time.
 You can help keep your salamander healthy and looking great by giving them supplements in their food. They should have a calcium supplement every time you feed them, and a multi-vitamin once or twice each week.You can buy these supplements at pet stores or online.
 Salamanders don’t need to eat the same thing every time they are fed. In the wild, they would have access to many types of bugs and invertebrates. Keep your salamander healthy by feeding them a varied diet filled with many different kinds of foods., Never leave food that the salamander didn’t eat for later. It won’t have a midnight snack. Instead, remove all live bugs from the vivarium. Bugs left in the tank can bite or cause irritation to your salamander.If your salamander has an aquatic vivarium, you should remove all the leftover food from the water. This can lead to bacteria and contamination of the water.
 Salamanders don’t drink water the way other pets do. They are amphibians, which means they soak water into their bodies through the skin. They get this water from pools in their vivarium.Keep the substrate on the bottom of the tank hydrated. It should have pools of water along the bottom but not be completely drenched.
Use a spray bottle to rehydrate the substrate. Make sure to use water that does not have chlorine in it. Use bottled water or tap water that has been left to air out overnight. You can also buy water conditioner at pet stores.

