 The correct drenching schedule can vary based on the conditions of your farm. It would be a good idea to talk to a livestock veterinarian concerning the best drenching program for you flock.If you don't plan on breeding your sheep, it's usually a good idea to do some preemptive drenching during shearing time. If you do intend to breed your sheep, however, preemptive drenching should be done four weeks before lambing.
Lambs should be drenched one or two weeks after weaning.
If you suspect that your sheep may have a worm disease problem during another period, you should collect samples and submit them to your livestock veterinarian for a worm test. Most vets will return the test within a few days at most.;
, Drenches are either broad spectrum or narrow spectrum. Choose the best type and brand based on the needs of your sheep.


As the names might suggest, broad spectrum drenches treat a wide range of internal parasites and narrow spectrum drenches only treat a limited number.
Broad spectrum drenches are good when your flock faces threats from a wide range of parasites.
Narrow spectrum drenches might be better when you only need to treat a certain type of parasite common during a specific time of year. They can also minimize the risk of drench resistance and may prove less stressful to the animal.
Note that there are also white (BZ), clear (AV), and yellow (LM) drenches. Each can perform the same basic function but may work differently, so you should check into which one best matches the needs of your flock before making a decision.
 Calibrate the drench gun to make sure that it will give an accurate dose.Remove the plunger from a 10 ml syringe and place your thumb over the end. Squirt a full 10 milliliters (0.34  fl oz) dose into the syringe from the drench gun to check for accuracy.
Repeat this step five to ten times before using the gun to deliver the drench.
Make sure that the drench gun is clean, free of leaks, and put together properly. Twisted tubes can result in harmful air bubbles. Additionally, you can check for leaks by placing your finger over the nozzle of the empty gun and squeezing the trigger.
 The dosage of your drench should be determined based on the weight of the largest sheep.


Do not base dosage on a smaller sheep. Using a smaller dose than necessary can cause the parasites to become resistant to the drench, making the medication less effective.
On the other hand, giving sheep a dramatically larger dosage than necessary could make the animal sick and may result in its death.
If the sheep in your flock vary greatly in size, split the group into different sections based on weight. Weigh the largest sheep in each group and calculate a different dosage for each group based on that.
 The correct dosage will vary based on the weight of your largest sheep and on the specific drench used.


Each drench is different, so you will need to read the package instructions that come with the drench to determine the proper dosage ration.
 Herd the sheep into an enclosed pen or yard. You'll need to organize them throughout the process so that you can determine which sheep have already been drenched and which still need the medication.


When you first gather the sheep, it's also a good idea to inspect the flock for animals that appear ill or injured.
 Load the drench gun with the correct dosage. Double-check that the dosage is correct before continuing.


Note that you should shake the container of drench to mix its contents before loading the drench gun.
Most drench guns have a dial on the side that allows you to set the dosage. Check this dial in between each drench to make sure that it remains set at the correct amount.
 Approach each sheep from behind and place your hand under its neck to hold it securely in place. Tilt the head slightly to the side to present yourself with a clear view of the mouth.


Even though tilting the head can help you administer the drench, keep in mind that the head should be mostly horizontal. Allowing the sheep's head to tilt too far to one side can cause some of the drench to slip out of the mouth, resulting in improper dosage. Pulling the head back too far can prevent the sheep from swallowing.
Do not put your thumb or fingers in the mouth, even if doing so would help you steady the sheep. The sheep will probably bite you if it senses your fingers near or inside its mouth.
Improperly restraining the sheep can result in serious injury. If it moves around too much, it may not swallow the full amount of drench. The nozzle of the gun can also penetrate the tissues at the back of the mouth, which may result in death.
 Slip the nozzle of the drench gun into the corner of the sheep's mouth.More specifically, the nozzle will need to fit into the gap in between the molar and incisor teeth.
Do not attempt to insert the nozzle over the front teeth since it isn't designed to fit there.
Once the nozzle is inside the mouth, position it so that it rests just above the back of the tongue. Pointing the nozzle in any other direction while drenching the sheep may result in improper administration.
Make sure that the nozzle doesn't point directly down the back of the throat. If it's too deep into the throat, it may prevent the sheep from swallowing. The correct position will be roughly at eye level of the sheep.
 Squeeze the trigger of the drench gun to deliver the medication into the mouth of the sheep.


The sheep may squirm as you squeeze the drench into its mouth, so prepare to tighten your grip to prevent the sheep from breaking free.
Be gentle yet firm while delivering the dose to each sheep. If you are too aggressive, you may damage the back of the throat, break teeth, or get the drench into the sheep's lungs.
 Remove the nozzle of the drench gun from the mouth and release the sheep once it swallows the dose.


As you remove the gun, you will still need to keep a steady grip on the sheep's mouth and head. After a few seconds, the sheep should swallow the drench, and it should be safe to release it.
If you release the sheep before it swallows the dose, the drench may spill out of the mouth or the sheep could spit some of it out.
 Repeat the drenching procedure with each member of the flock until each sheep has been medicated.


Carefully keep track of which sheep have been drenched and which ones haven't been.
Take your time. If you rush through any part of the process, you'll be more likely to make a mistake. Certain mistakes can be fatal to your sheep.
 After drenching your sheep, allow them to graze over a clean pasture to minimize the risk of possible re-contamination.


Allow the old pasture to rest for as long as possible before returning the sheep. Doing so will kill off more of the parasites previously festering in the pasture, making it safer for your sheep to graze over.
 After drenching your entire flock, clean and dry all of the equipment with warm water.


Rinse both the gun and pipe with warm water. Do not use any soap, though, since it can damage the seal in the gun and might be difficult to rinse out.
 Keep any unused drench in a cool storage area out of direct sunlight.


Ideal storage temperatures range between 39 and 77 degrees Fahrenheit (4 and 25 degrees Celsius).
Before using this drench again, make sure that it has not expired.
 When you administer white (BZ) and clear (AV) drenches, you should usually withhold food from your sheep for 12 to 24 hours to improve the effectiveness of the medication.


Most yellow drenches (LM) do not have a wait time, though.
Regardless of the drench you use, it's a good idea to to check the medication instructions for more accurate, specific information about withholding food.
 Record of the date and dosage each time you drench your sheep. Save this information in an official log book.


You should also make a note of the expected withdrawal period. This period will vary based on the dosage and the specific drench used, so check the instructions that come with the drench to determine what you should expect.

