 If you have a Windows installation DVD, you can create the ISO file yourself. If you don't have the disc but have your product key, you can download the ISO directly from Microsoft here. To create an ISO from your own DVD:Download and install ImgBurn (imgburn.com). This is a free program that will allow you to create ISO files, but make sure to decline any offers while installing it.
After installing ImgBurn, insert your Windows DVD into your computer and start the program.
Select "Create image file from disc". Make sure that the drive containing your Windows disc is selected in the drop-down menu in the next window.
Click the folder icon to set a destination for the completed file. Give it a name to help you recognize it (i.e. "Windows7Home").
Click the big button in the bottom-left corner to begin creating the ISO file. This will likely take several minutes to complete. Avoid performing other tasks on the computer while the ISO file is being created.
 You can download it for free from wudt.codeplex.com/. It may be labeled "Windows 7", but will work for Windows 8 and Vista as well.


You'll need the .NET Framework files installed to use this tool. You can install them for free from msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/vstudio/aa496123.
 Make sure that it has at least 4 GB, and that you have saved any important files elsewhere. All of the data on the drive will be deleted.
 You'll be taken through four steps to create the bootable USB drive.
 On the first screen, browse for your newly-created or downloaded ISO file.
 This will format your USB drive and allow you to boot from it to install Windows. You'll be asked to select your USB flash drive from a drop-down menu. It will need to have at least 4 GB of storage.
 This will take a few minutes as the file is copied over and the drive is formatted properly.
 Once the drive is complete, you can insert it into the computer you want to install Windows on and boot from it to start the installation. To boot from the USB drive, you'll need to open the BIOS or BOOT menu as your computer starts up. You'll see the key displayed on the screen with the manufacturer's logo when the computer starts. The setup key is typically F2, F10, F11, or Del.


In your BIOS menu, open the BOOT section and change the order so that the USB drive is the primary boot drive.
 You'll see a message on your screen prompting you to press a key to boot from "CD or DVD". Although you're booting from the USB, the system thinks it's a DVD, press any key to start the installation process.
 Before installation will begin, you'll need to select the language you want to install and the keyboard layout you want to use.
 If you are installing Windows 8, you will be prompted for your product key now. Other versions of Windows will prompt you for the key after installation.
 This will allow you to wipe the drive and install a fresh copy of Windows. All of the data on the drive you install to will be deleted. It is recommended that you perform a custom, or "clean", installation whenever you're troubleshooting computer problems or upgrading to a new version of Windows.
 Most users will only want one version of Windows installed at a time. Select the partition that contained your old Windows installation and delete it. This will delete all of the data on the partition. If you're installing Windows on a new computer, you can use the Unallocated Space, or you can divide the drive up into new partitions and then select the one you want to install Windows on.
 Windows will work for a while copying files and setting up Windows. You can leave it be, as this process usually takes about 20-30 minutes.
 After installation is complete, you'll be prompted to create a user account for Windows. You can add additional users later from the Control Panel.


A password is optional but highly recommended, especially for laptops.
 You need a valid product key in order to install Windows. You'll need to enter the product key for the version of Windows that you are installing.


If you're upgrading from an older version of Windows to one of the versions in this method, you'll need a new product key. For example, if you are installing Windows 7 on a computer that used to have XP, you cannot use the XP key to activate Windows 7. You'll need to purchase a Windows 7 key from Microsoft or another retailer in order to install Windows 7.
 It's recommended that you turn automatic updates on by selecting "Use recommended settings". This will ensure that your computer always has the latest security updates.
 After a few more screens, depending on the version of Windows you are installing, you'll be taken to your new desktop. You can start using Windows now, and it's recommended that you find and install the latest drivers for your hardware.

