 Over time, organic matter, such as pine needles, compost or composted manure, can lower your soil’s pH. However, this can take many years and is only applicable if you have long-term gardening goals. This is a good option for organic gardening.Organic matter is also useful for improving a soil's drainage and aeration.
Because of the amount of organic matter used and the time needed to break it down into usable soil, this application is best for small plots.
 Another way to increase your soil’s acidity gradually is by adding sulfur. The effectiveness of sulfur depends on a number of factors, including moisture, temperature, and bacteria. Because these factors can be unpredictable, the ability of sulfur to lower a soil’s pH can take several months.You can buy sulfur at most home and garden stores. Avoid using powdered sulfur because it is too fine for acidifying soil.
The increase in acidity is due to a biological reaction involving bacteria.
 This compound instantly makes the soil more acidic due to a chemical reaction involving aluminum. Because of this, many amateur and small-scale gardeners prefer aluminum sulfate to organic compounds or plain sulfur. However, because it alters the pH of the soil so quickly, it can be more difficult to control the soil acidity.You can buy aluminum sulfate at most home and garden stores.
Because aluminum sulfate creates a chemical reaction in the ground, as opposed to a biological one, some farmers and gardeners are less inclined to use it over materials that produce acidity through a biological reaction.
 You will need to till the organic compounds, sulfur and aluminum sulfate into the soil to be effective. Organic compounds may need multiple applications depending on the soil pH. Be sure to test the soil before reapplying.Avoid over applying the sulfur or aluminum sulfate.
 If the sulfur or aluminum sulfate gets on the leaves of your plants, you will need to rinse it off with a hose. Failure to rinse them off can result in burns to the leaves and damage to your plants. Watering your plants will also help the compounds set.