 The deaf community faces adversity, and as such, a variety of support groups are available. You may meet people who have recently become deaf or hard of hearing or have been like that their entire life. You’re likely to meet someone who has had a similar experience to yours.

Ask someone to get coffee or a bite to eat after the group to make a new friend. Make this attempt with someone whom you feel you can make a connection with. However, don’t take this step until you feel like you really know this person. You may also want to set up a group function to begin with, instead of a one-on-one meeting.Locate a group that matches your circumstances. Many national organizations offer local support groups like the AG Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing and the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA)., Some establishments, such as restaurants, clubs, and theatres, may hold a night in which their activities are catered to the deaf. Not only is this a great way to meet new people, but you’ll likely make a lot of friends in the process.Look online to search for events like this that are happening in your area. Take a friend—hearing or not—to go with you if you’re feeling shy or unconfident.
 You’re sure to get in touch with people you can become friends with if you join an organization that supports the rights of the deaf or hard of hearing. You share the same beliefs and likely want the same end goal.

The National Association of the Deaf is a good resource and place to start. You may be able to volunteer your time there and become friends with people who are well known in the deaf community., People who have recently become deaf or hard of hearing often attend American Sign Language (ASL) classes so they can learn about this type of communication. Consider attending such a class if you find yourself in the same situation. You may form a relationship and create a bond with someone who has also found themselves experiencing this significant life change.Consider teaching a class if you are fluent in ASL. Along with educating people, you may make a new friend.
 It may seem like a struggle, but deaf-hearing friendships are possible. This may be necessary if you go to a school or work in a job where you are the only person with hearing loss. Either way, it's great to have friends from all walks of life.Participate in a club or organization at your school like the drama club.
Connect with others who have the same interests, such as joining a local Meetup for hikers.
 Many hearing people may shy away from making friends because they don't know how to communicate with you appropriately. If you take initiative to start conversations with them, they will feel more inclined to starting a friendship.Send a message to someone you find interesting on social media saying "Hi."
Keep a notepad or your phone handy so you can pass "notes" to hearing people that you meet in-person. Let them know your preferred form of communication. For example, many teens enjoy texting anyway, so it won't be so odd to text a new pal back and forth.

