 Many people find their cats dislike the smell of citrus fruits. Soak a few cotton balls in some lemon juice, orange juice, or lime juice. Set them in the soil around the plant. This may deter your cat from going near the plants.Periodically replace the cotton balls when you notice the smell starts to fade or if you cat starts going near the plants again.


Always use juice rather than citrus-based sprays containing citrus oil extract, sometimes referred to as Limonene or Linalool. This is found in many perfumes, insecticides, and shampoos. It can be toxic to cats if swallowed so it's best to err on the side of caution., If your cat is chewing on the plants or the pots, try spritzing them with a bad tasting substance. Cats dislike the taste of hot sauces, aloe gel, cayenne pepper, and bitter apple. Add one of these substances to a spray bottle and lightly mist the plant and pot. Do this a few times a week. Eventually, your cat will learn to associate the plant with a bad taste and leave it alone.It might be a good idea to spray a small leaf of your plant with your chosen substance first. Watch for any negative effects to make sure it's won't hurt your plant.
 If you notice your cat going near the plants, you can startle him away with an unpleasant sound. You can ring a bell or blow a whistle. You can also add a few pennies to an empty can and shake it. If you see your cat going near the plant, use your chosen to device to make a noise to scare him off. This method takes a bit of vigilance as you'll have to keep a close eye on your cat, but it can be effective when used regularly.You can also use cat-safe booby traps. For example, you could leave a motion detector device near your plants that makes a noise or flashes lights when disturbed. You could put up a tower of soda cans near your plants that will topple over if your cat walks by them.If you have a particularly skittish cat, do not use this method. You want to startle your cat but not scare him. If your cat becomes stressed, this may lead to other unwanted behaviors., Cats might enjoy chewing or eating plants. If this is the case, it might be more difficult to keep your cat out of your own plants. You can purchase cat friendly potted plants at a pet store or supermarket. These plants are meant to attract cats and encourage them to chew or eat the blades.Put the cat grass in areas where your cat frequents around the house. If you put the grass near her bed or by her food or water bowl, she may make the connection that these plants are for her.
If your cat has her own plants to chew, she might be less interested in your potted plants.
 If your cat does not seem discouraged by barriers, repellants, or training, you may want to simply keep your plants out of her reach. Stop by your local hardware store and purchase hangers to hang your plants from walls or ceilings. Many people find they appreciate the aesthetic of hanging plants.If your cat is a renown climber, consider buying an old birdcage and placing a plant in their. This can be a fun, somewhat quirky decorating trick that will add some flavor to your home while keeping your cat away from your plants.

