 Explain why you don't want your relationship to be known online. Tell him that you want it to be kept offline and personal, not something that gets splashed about for everyone to treat as "their business".;
, Good reasons include:


Less pressure
No unwanted curiosity
No blackmail possibilities
No attempts to break up the two of you publicly
People won't know when or if you break up unless you choose to tell them.
 This is an issue you need to deal with, as communication is very important in relationships, but these tips can help you dodge the bullet for now. Some excuses/actions might include:


Say that you haven't a clue how to use the site, and act stubborn so he doesn't offer top help.
Say your parents are keeping an eye on your account.
Tell him you don't like Facebook.
 It becomes a sort of joke, and you can't accept his request. This is best done in advance of a relationship, so if you know now you won't want to put any relationship on facebook, 'propose' to a friend.
 Tell him that only braggers and people with unfulfilled lives want to splash everything about their personal life across the internet. Make him feel that doing this is beneath the two of you!

, If you aren't 'married' to a friend on facebook, then delete your relationship status altogether. Wanting to be listed as single is very different from not wanting your relationship publicized.
 If he really cares about it, pay attention to what he says when he argues about it. Address his concerns. Some things he might say:



"You don't really want to be with me." Reassure him that you do, and that he is important to you. Explain that this is how you feel about relationships and facebook, not how you feel about him.

"You just want to flirt with other guys." Again, make sure you aren't listed as single. Explain that it isn't about flirting, it's about privacy. If he can't trust you, maybe this wouldn't work out anyway.

"If you really loved me, you would want to show it." Talk about how you wouldn't make out in front of a crowd, and how this feels like excessive PDA to you. If he can't get past this manipulative statement, he needs to grow up.

"Why are you talking about breaking up? Do you want to break up with me?" Tell him how, if you two ever broke up, it would be really hard for you, and you don't want everyone getting involved. Emphasis that if you broke up, you would be really upset and don't want that to be public.
 If, after all your discussion, he still feels strongly about it, rethink your position. How much does this matter to you? If it is only a mild preference, then it might be your turn to compromise.
 If all else fails, maybe it just isn't meant to be between you two. If you can't agree on a Facebook status, it's a bad sign.

