 For you, Christmas is about one thing, and one thing only: celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ. Maybe the joy of the season has been lost by the secular nature of our society, or maybe you've been listening to the cynical entertainers on the radio telling you there's a "war on Christmas." None of that is relevant. Christmas is in your heart and in your faith. Everything else is noise and needless negativity.
 A beautifully-decorated tree, topped with a shining star, is as traditional as it is symbolic. Take extra care this year that your tree is everything you remember about the Christmases that used to inspire you.


Fill your house with the scents and lights of the season. Put candles in the windows (electric ones are safer than flame candles)—these were used by Irish Catholics to signal it was safe for priests to come and give them their sacraments, back during the Reformation when being Catholic could result in an early and generally painful demise.
 There is a wealth of holiday music that will bring forth warm memories of Christmases past, chief among those is the glorious Handel's Messiah. It is a work that is filled with familiarity, soaring themes, inspiring melodies, and brilliant passages.


Christmas carols are also wonderful and inspiring to listen too. It's hard to stay outside the spirit of Christmas when the spirit is flowing through you with these celebratory songs of joy. To make them even more meaningful, gather some friends and family this year, and go Christmas caroling in your neighborhood. Just stay warm, and have some hot chocolate or apple cider for when you get home!

, Instead of making Christmas morning a present-shredding frenzy, begin the day by reading Luke 2:1-20. You can memorize it, or you can read it alone, or share it with your family. Remembering the real reason for Christmas will do much to restore your faith in both the season, and in humanity.
 On the very first Christmas, the gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh were given to the baby Jesus, so you know gift giving is rooted in 2,000 years of tradition. Sadly, it's become almost completely about the gold, but that's not a tradition you need to foster.


Give small, meaningful gifts to those you love, whether or not you expect anything in return. Make it something meaningful, and something symbolic of your relationship and love.
 Christmas Eve services are special celebrations that are rich in tradition and history, and will help you be filled with love and joy.


Like the Christmas eve services, you will hear the story of Christmas, and share the celebration of this season with your faithful friends, neighbors, and family.
 That may vary, both on your tradition, your means, and your family. If you've always lavished your Christmas dinner with a great deal of attention and preparation and fuss, but you have grown weary of it, make it simple! Tell your family in advance, so they're not expecting the Christmas goose, and get grilled cheese sandwiches instead!


Make your family's favorite dinner—whether that's grilled tofu or your famous bacon-cheeseburgers, make what they love. Even if it's not a 4-course, gut-busting meal, they will be guaranteed to love it. And you'll love the lack of stress!
Take a cue from the Jews, and eschew the home-cooked Christmas feast. Go to your favorite Chinese restaurant, and please pass the soy sauce!

,

