 If you have had a recent fight with her within the past few days or so, go to her, and sincerely apologize to her.


Make sure you go to her at the right time, such as when she isn't in her room. If you interrupt what she is doing in the privacy of her room, she may be unwilling to accept your apology.
If you can't remember any recent fights, apologize for anything you have done in the past to hurt her. Make sure you mean it, and you aren't just saying it.
 Tell her that you're sorry that she feels this way about you, but mention that you still are sorry for anything you've done to hurt her in the past. Then, leave quickly and silently to give her no time to throw another insult at you. Don't wait for her reaction.


If you return an insult, it will only provoke your sister's anger further, and she will refuse any following apologies for a while.
If she calls you back, cautiously return. Don't look too eager or quick for her forgiveness, but don't move slowly or she will take it as reluctance, and perhaps be offended.
 Have a simple, but pleasant tone. Don't sound haughty or reluctant to apologize for anything.


If she tells you, immediately apologize after she is done talking, and don't interrupt her. Assure her that you will make sure it doesn't happen again on purpose.
If she refuses to tell you, mention that if she wants to talk, you will listen. Still tell her that you're sorry.
 Be willing to share with her, but don't be too eager. Although she still may not be nice to you, your kindness to her will eventually rub off on her.


If you're too nice to her, she may get annoyed and/or suspicious. Keep your kindness to an appropriate level.
 Don't argue or whine about it, or you will drive her anger further. Take a deep breath, and be the mature one, no matter how angry she may make you.


If you don't leave, you will just see a door slammed in your face.
 If she starts the fight, you will end it simply. Take a deep breath, tell her you don't want to fight, and walk off. Don't look back, and don't listen to any insults she shoots at you, no matter how bad or crude they are.


Refrain from being a tattletale, but do let your parents know if she has been abusing or hurting you in any way, verbally or physically.
 This will work well, especially if you are a kid or a tween, and she is a teenager. Privacy is one of the most important parts of her life, and she is probably going through a stage where she just needs some space. Allow her to have it, and she may be a little more nice to you.



Never go into her room without her permission. Think of her room as off limits for you, unless if she opens the door for you to come in.
If she does allow you in her room, take it a special privilege. Don't touch any of her belongings, no matter how tempted you are, or she may kick you out, and never allow you back in. Respect her privacy and boundaries, and only touch what she allows you to touch.

If she does allow you to touch something, be extremely careful with it. Don't drop, damage, or spoil it.
If you do damage a belonging of hers, buy another for her, or fix it (if possible).
 Even if she seems to get grossed out by that, telling it to her will make her feel special. Tell that to her on a daily basis, but don't make it like clockwork. Tell it to her at the most important or meaningful times, and fill it with meaning - not just empty words filled with air.


If you don't tell her that you love her, she will not know that, and will becoming even more annoying because of that. She will believe that you don't love her, when really, you do.

