 The tube might be from a paper towel roll or poster. It should be at least 12 inches long, 2-5 inches in diameter at its mouth, and have one end stopped with tape or with a cap. Place something soft in the closed end such as cotton balls or a wad of soft fabric.;
, In order to make the the tube sit on a flat surface without it rolling about, you’ll need to create a flat edge on the tube. Press a long crease in the tube along its length, then press another crease in the tube approximately 40 degrees around from the first crease. Stick a ruler in the tube to further flatten the space between the shortest distance from one crease to the other.
 Ensure it is of sufficient mass to attract a mouse but not so heavy that it will significantly alter the weight of the tube. Do not choose foods which are sticky or gummy; they can be hard to get all the way down the tube.


If you do want to use, say, peanut butter, you could apply them to the bait end of the tube before applying the cap.
 Place the tube in such a way so that about 40% of it, including the baited end, hangs over the edge of the landing.If necessary, affix the tube with a small piece of tape, but take care not to tape it so firmly that it would not give way and tip over the edge of the landing or countertop when the baited end was subjected to slight force.


If you’re in a single story home, obtain a cardboard box approximately one foot high and craft a cardboard ramp up to the top of the box. Place one end of the tube at the end of the box.
 The can should be wide enough to accommodate the falling tube. Place a small pillow, soft cloth, or pad on the bottom of the can to cushion the tube and mouse who will soon be trapped within.


Do not use a trash can which is too wide. If you do, it’s possible the tube will come to rest on an angle, rather than straight up and down. If that happens, the mouse will be able to climb out of the tube easily.
 When you see the tube sticking upright out of the trash can, it means the trap has been sprung. Look down the tube to ensure the mouse is within. Remove the tube and, keeping it upright with the open end up, take it at least five to ten miles from your house, preferably in an area free of housing.Dump the mouse out of the tube gently in a field or meadow.


This type of trap is extremely effective, and ideal for mice living on or with access to a second story.
If you don’t think it’s appropriate to drop the tube into a garbage pail several feet below the upper-story landing, you could affix the whole tube with a piece of string to the landing itself. That way, instead of dropping down into the garbage pail when the mouse triggered the trap, the tube would drop away and dangle harmlessly off the ledge until you recovered it.

