 Use a fluoride toothpaste to prevent tooth decay. Brush for at least two minutes to make sure you have time to thoroughly clean everywhere.Get a new toothbrush every three months. After a lot of usage, a the bristles become bent and are less effective.
If you are concerned about the buildup of smelly bacteria during the day, bring a toothbrush to school or work and brush your teeth after lunch.
You can also get antibacterial toothpaste.
 This will remove food particles, plaque, and bacteria that might be hiding there. When bacteria break down food particles that are leftover in your mouth, they sometimes give off unpleasant odors.Floss at least once per day. If you aren’t used to flossing, your gums may bleed a little at first, but after a few days you should be able to floss without bleeding.
 This can be done in addition to brushing. It should not be done as a substitute for brushing.Prepare the salt water solution by dissolving 1/4 – 1/2 teaspoons of salt into a cup of water. You probably won’t need all of it, so don’t feel you have to use it all.Some strong mouthwashes and the salt solution may taste unpleasant. If you can stand it, swish the mouthwash or salt solution in your mouth for two minutes.
Then gargle for about 30 seconds to one minute. Spit the mixture out without swallowing it. You can rinse your mouth with regular water.
Mouthwashes come in different flavors, including mint, which will give your breath a fresh, pleasant odor.
 The roughness of your tongue makes it an excellent hiding place for small particles of food to get trapped and harbor bacteria.Thoroughly, but gently, scrape from back to front. Don’t reach so far back that you gag yourself. And don’t press so hard that it hurts or irritates your tongue.
You can do this either with a tongue scraper or the rough pad that some toothbrushes have on their backs. This will loosen dead cells, bacteria, and food particles that cause bad odors.
Use toothpaste to make it taste better and help freshen your breath. Afterwards, wash out your mouth and spit out the material that you’ve scraped up.
 These methods have not been scientifically tested, but anecdotal evidence suggests that they might help.


Brush your tongue with a paste of lemon juice and turmeric using your toothbrush. Use 1/4 of a teaspoon of lemon juice and add tumeric until a paste forms. Both have antibacterial properties.Brush your tongue with a paste of baking soda and lemon juice. Add baking soda to a quarter teaspoon of lemon juice until it has a toothpaste-like consistency.This will also kill bacteria and remove food particles or dead cells that are stuck on your tongue.
Don't do this more than once per day.
 Dentures also provide a surface that can trap food particles and harbor bacteria. Develop a routine for cleaning them:Use soap and warm water, denture cream, or denture tablets to clean them. Toothpaste may damage them and is not recommended.
Follow your doctor’s instructions or the manufacturer’s instructions for the cleaning materials that you are using.
 Not only does smoking itself have an odor that others will notice, but it lowers your immune system, making you more vulnerable to developing infections in your gums. The bacteria that grow often give off an unpleasant smell. If you need help quitting, you can:Talk to your doctor
See a counselor
Attend a support group
Get medications
Avoid places where you usually smoke
Develop alternative methods of stress management, like exercise and relaxation techniques

