 To get a flatter stomach (and one that has nice visible muscle tone once any excess fat gets burned off), you’ll need to engage your abdominal muscles. This includes the external obliques (those on the side of your torso) and the rectus abdominus (those that make that amazing “six-pack”). There are a variety of core exercises that will work your abdominal muscles. Try incorporating a few sets of each into your regular exercise routine.Basic crunches: Lie down, bend your knees, and lift your shoulder blades off the ground. Hold the position for a few seconds, then lower yourself back down.
Lower Flexion: lie down on your back and raise your legs into the air. Hold, then lower them slowly back down.
Double Flexion (a variation on crunches): Lie on your back, and raise both your legs and your shoulders off the ground at the same time. Your body should form a slight "V." Hold the position for a few seconds, then carefully lower your legs and shoulders.
Side Flexion (another variation on crunches): Lie on one side, resting yourself on your arm, bent at the elbow. Raise yourself up into the air, supporting yourself with your arm.

Planks: Lower yourself to the floor, facing it. Support your body weight on your elbows and the balls of your feet while keeping your body absolutely straight.
Upper Twist: While standing with your feet about shoulder-width apart, keep your lower body still and twist the upper part of your body from side to side. These can be performed on a gym machine or by using a gym rod held on your shoulders.
Lower Twist: Lay down on a padded floor or floor mat. Then, bend your knees and begin to twist the lower part of your body from side to side while keeping your upper body still.
 Cardiovascular exercise—running, swimming, dancing, biking—gets your heart rate up and helps you burn fat. Since you’re trying to make a difference in just five days, dedicate a full hour to cardio every day. Bump it up to two hours if you have the time and ability.


Calorie burns vary a great deal from person to person—but as an example, a typical 155-pound person burns around 298 calories running at 5 miles per hour for thirty minutes., There is no way to “spot reduce” fat, so if you want to get a flatter belly as soon as possible, start with exercises that burn a lot of calories. High intensity interval training (or HIIT) torches calories by having you alternate between bursts of very high intensity exercise and brief periods of recovery.There are a number of different HIIT training programs, and you can incorporate interval training into most kinds of cardiovascular exercise. For example, if you walk and run, a HIIT routine might have you sprint for 100 meters (328.1 ft), then walk back to your starting point; you’d then repeat this 10 times.
Calorie burns vary a great deal from person to person, but HIIT workouts may burn up to 15 calories per minute, or up to 450 calories in 30 minutes.