 This can be for many different issues. One of the most common reasons people take neighbors to court is property damage, vandalism, or property destruction.
You can also take a neighbor to court for ordinance violations, property maintenance issues, noise violations and disturbances.
Don’t expect any financial reimbursements unless you have lost money due to your neighbors. If your neighbors, for example, have a dangerous tree limb or overgrown property, the court can order them to remedy the issue and/or pay a fine.
 Your lawyer can give you insight on how to file a suit and what to expect from your complaint. Provide all details, documentation, and evidence of formal complaint to your attorney.
Make sure you tell your attorney about any attempts to remedy the situation outside of court. Provide any documents relevant to these attempts such as voicemails, text messages, letters, etc.
If you have suffered property damage or financial losses due to your neighbors, then provide any receipts you have, photos, insurance claims etc.
 Keep in mind that only cases where smaller amounts of money are requested or complaints about local ordinance violations can be processed by small claims courts. Most small claims cases have a damages request limit of $5000.00.
You will need to fill out an application and provide documentation behind your complaint.
Provide receipts or estimates of the damages, and how you arrived at the amount of your requested damages.
Provide any other documentation regarding your complaint against your neighbors such as letters, voicemails, text messages, or emails. You can also provide photos of property damage or a poorly kept property.
If you have called the police, provide any police reports filed in relation to your suit.
Pay the court fee.
 There are several stages to a small claims suit. You will have to file an application and pay a fee, and provide any documentation.
The court will have to notify your neighbors or any other defendants of the suit.
The court will then schedule the court date, and this may take several weeks.
The court case will then take place and the judge or magistrate will make a judgement.
If damages are awarded to you, it may take several weeks or even months to start receiving your settlement. You may even receive it in installments.

