 Each state has different procedures and requirements to distribute an estate when a person dies with no will.You can find information about your state's law online by searching "probate law." General legal sites often have summaries of state probate law. For example, FindLaw has a directory of the probate law for all 50 states available at http://estate.findlaw.com/planning-an-estate/state-laws-estates-probate.html.
The court generally oversees the process of distributing the assets of an estate, regardless of whether the person leaves a will. However, if there is no will the state's probate law provides guidelines for who should inherit the person's assets.Certain types of property don't have to go through probate. For example, if the person had a joint checking account with his or her spouse, all the money in that account would automatically become the property of the surviving spouse.Likewise, funds from a life insurance policy, retirement plan, or other accounts will go directly to the named beneficiary without requiring a court process.Other property that was held solely in the name of the deceased person must be distributed using the court probate process through intestate succession laws.Keep in mind that if the deceased person had real property in another state, that property will be distributed according to the law of the state where the property is located.Typically if a person dies without a will and has a surviving spouse, all of his or her property will go to that person. If there is no surviving spouse, the person's property goes to his or her children in equal shares.If there is no surviving spouse and no surviving children, intestate succession laws can get quite complex. For example, if the deceased person's children have died but have children of their own, those children (the grandchildren of the deceased) may inherit at least a portion of what their parents would have, under certain circumstances., Your state's probate law includes a list of people who are eligible to be the executor of an estate with no will.


The state may call this person an administrator or a personal representative, but the function is the same regardless of the title.Keep in mind, particularly if you are asked to be an executor, that the probate process can take months or even years depending on the size and complexity of the estate.Typically, if someone dies without a will, the state appoints an executor or personal representative for the estate. Some states allow a close family member of the deceased, such as a surviving spouse or child, to request appointment.The executor then must appear in court and be sworn in. The court gives the executor paperwork that enables him or her to legally act on the deceased person's behalf.An executor receives any claims against the estate, pays all the estate's bills and debts, then distributes the remaining assets to the heirs.If the person died leaving behind minor children, the court also may appoint a guardian for those children., The first duty of the executor is to provide public notice of the person's death and the probate of his or her estate.


The death notice typically should be published in the legal notices section of the local newspaper where the deceased person lived.In states where public notice is required, creditors or anyone else with a claim against the estate have a specified period of time – typically three or four months – to file their claim. After that, the estate is closed and no other claims against it will be accepted or paid., Because the probate process can be extremely complex and time-consuming, hiring an attorney may ensure the estate is distributed more efficiently.


An attorney also can ensure that you're complying with all the state's legal requirements and the executor's duties are being carried out correctly according to the letter of the law.
Keep in mind that attorney's fees typically are paid out of the estate, so if you are the executor you shouldn't worry that you personally can't afford attorney's fees.If you are simply a beneficiary who believes you are entitled to an inheritance, you typically won't have any need to hire an attorney if the person died without a will. The estate will be distributed according to the law, so you would receive any inheritance to which you were legally entitled.
 The executor must create an inventory of the debts and assets of the estate.


Typically this involves having real property and some personal property appraised so its value can be determined.For example, if the deceased person had antique furniture or collectible items, the executor would need to find someone with knowledge and experience in valuing those things to issue an appraisal of the value of those items.
 Before you can claim an inheritance, the debts owed by the deceased must be paid out of the estate's assets.

Each state's probate law provides a priority list for paying the claims against an estate. Typically any estate administration costs, such as appraisal fees, court fees, and attorney's fees, are paid first.After the estate administration and funeral costs are paid, other debts such as taxes, consumer debts and medical bills are paid.If there aren't enough liquid assets such as cash available to pay the estate's bills, the executor typically must sell off real or personal property to cover the debts., After all bills and taxes are paid, any remaining assets will be distributed according to your state's intestate succession laws.The first step in distributing the estate's assets is to identify the heirs. In many cases, a deceased person will leave behind easily identified heirs such as a surviving spouse, children, or parents.In some cases heirs may be more difficult to find. If the executor is unable to find any heirs who are eligible to inherit under the state's probate law, ownership of the remaining assets of the deceased will transfer to the state by default.If a close relative of yours has died without a will, you should make your presence known to the executor as soon as possible so he or she can keep you in mind when identifying possible heirs.
However, keep in mind that you can't claim an inheritance if there is someone more closely related to the deceased person, since their claim is prioritized under the law.
In many states, an heir must have survived the deceased person by several days before he or she can inherit any of the deceased person's property.Obviously, if an heir died a few weeks after the deceased person, the inheritance would then become part of his or her estate to be distributed among his or her heirs.
Children born to unmarried parents generally can inherit from their mothers, but cannot inherit from their fathers absent some proof of relation – such as a certificate acknowledging paternity or a court order establishing paternity.