 Though it may not be the first thing to come mind, your budget is one of the most important aspects of your choosing your centerpiece. Sit down with your significant other and whoever else may be involved in the budgeting of your wedding and agree on a price range for your centerpieces.The size of your wedding is an important consideration. If you are having a large wedding and you are having centerpieces above each table, you will need to purchase more centerpieces, whereas if you are having a smaller, more intimate wedding, you can allot a smaller amount of your wedding budget to the centerpiece.
There are several ways that you can save money on your centerpieces. The more flowers you use, the more expensive your centerpieces will be. To save money, you may decide to have a light or candle-centered centerpiece, or a more sculptural centerpiece.;
, Once you decide on a budget for your centerpiece, look through bridal catalogs and the Internet to start gathering inspiration. Cut or print out pictures of hanging centerpieces that appeal to you and create a mood board of centerpieces that you like.You can create a physical mood board for your centerpiece or use a website like Pinterest to organize your ideas virtually.
At this point, don’t worry about the prices of the individual centerpieces that you see pictures of. This process is more about discovering what colors, textures and types of flowers appeal to you.
It’s ok if you are attracted to very different kinds of centerpieces. Once you take into account details about your wedding such as venue, style and general color scheme, you will be able to pinpoint what kind of centerpieces would or would not work for your individual wedding.
The only thing that you should try to decide as you gather inspiration is if you want a floral centerpiece, a non-floral centerpiece, or a mix of floral and non-floral elements.
Floral centerpieces work well for classic, traditional-style weddings, whereas light-based or sculptural centerpieces are great for outdoor weddings or weddings with a more modern style.
 Begin your search for florists or wedding designers early, ideally about 10-11 months in advance. Begin by doing an Internet search of florists or designers in your town or city. Visit their websites, look at pictures and read reviews of their work.If you want a floral-based centerpiece, look at florists or floral designers who specialize in weddings. If you are more interested in light-based designs or sculptural designs, find a floral designer that works other materials, or a wedding designer who has experience making hanging centerpieces.
Researching florists or designers and looking at their work not only can help you choose what florist you want to use, it can also give you the ideas and inspiration you need to help you know what you want.
 Researching different florists and wedding designers in your city should have helped you get closer to reaching a decision about who you want to go with. Narrow your options down to a few designers, then set up a meeting with each one you are interested in.


When you meet with the florists or designers, tell them about your vision for your wedding as well as your budget. Ask the florists to give you a more focused price estimate, and ask them to show you samples of their work.
Take your own budget and the work of each florist into consideration to make your final decision about which florist you want to use to make your final centerpiece or centerpieces.
 Once you have made your decision, meet with your florist or wedding designer to talk about your ideas and to get input. Bring the mood board you created, along with any items that may give you some kind of inspiration.Give your designer the details of your wedding, including the kind of venue at which is taking place, the size of the wedding, the colors of the bridesmaids dresses along with the other colors that you envision being the most prominent in the space of the reception.
Show your designer your mood board and tell them about any ideas that you may have at this stage. Then pick out a centerpiece with the help of your florist by both matching the arrangement with the rest of your wedding and taking into mind what arrangements are practical in terms of your wedding.
 Hanging floral centerpieces are lavish and beautiful arrangements that help to give your wedding a classic feel. To choose the right centerpiece for your wedding, think about the various aspects of your wedding, including the type of venue, the level of formality, and the style of your dress. A good place to start is to think of adjectives that could describe the aesthetics of your wedding, such as “classic”, “rustic”, “minimalist” or “colorful.” Use these adjectives as jumping off points to find the right hanging centerpiece.A “classic” style floral centerpiece often features white, neutral or pink colored flowers, with classic flowers like roses, baby’s breath or tulips hanging in a symmetrical formation. You may choose this kind of centerpiece if you want the feel of a traditional, church-style wedding and you are going for a feminine and romantic look.
A “rustic” style wedding centerpiece could feature hanging pots or large hanging arrangements of bright wildflowers, mixed textures, and containers like large metals tins or wicker baskets. This type of centerpiece is great if you are having an outdoor wedding or having your reception in a setting like a garden or vineyard.
A “glamorous” wedding centerpiece may have a large group of cascading blooms, and also may contain lavish details like crystal embellishments or feathers. A glamorous wedding centerpiece is best for very fancy weddings and receptions held in historic settings.
A “modern” wedding centerpiece may feature minimalistic arrangements of flowers or greenery, suspended in square or geometric containers, or in wreaths or hoops. This kind of centerpiece gives your wedding a chic and sophisticated feel.
 A good way to narrow down your flower choices is to consider the season of your wedding. If you are having a summer or spring wedding, you may want to use pastel-colored or brightly colored blooms.During fall, you may choose to use deeply colored flowers in crimson or purple along with white or neutral flowers.
Match the season during winter by using evergreens and neutral-colored flowers, and by incorporating candles into your centerpiece.
You may also want to check with your florist about flowers that may or may not be in season during the month of your wedding.
As long as the flowers are available, don’t feel restricted by the season in terms of the flowers you want to use. Though some future brides and grooms like to take cues from the season, it’s not necessary to do so.
 Check with the venue of your wedding reception to see whether you will be able to hang arrangements from the ceiling. If you are hosting your wedding outside or in a place with an extremely high ceiling, make sure that your florist knows the limitations of the space.


If you don’t have a ceiling from which to hang the centerpiece, it doesn’t mean you can’t have a hanging-style centerpiece. You may need to ask your florist or wedding designer about purchasing a standing structure that goes around the each table or in the middle of the room, from the top of which you can suspend a floral arrangement. Keep in mind that this is best for more casual or rustic-style weddings., Consider the overall color scheme of your wedding, including any other flowers you are using, the color of the bridesmaids’ dresses, and the color of the table linens that the centerpieces will be presented over.


You don’t need to exactly match the centerpiece to any of these colors, as long as you use colors that compliment each other. For instance, you may choose to have pastel blooms in your centerpiece if your wedding features other pastel colors. If you have a fall theme for your wedding, you may choose to have a centerpiece that has deep, dark colors along with white or off-white flowers.
Don’t use only one color throughout your wedding. It’s best to use a few colors that harmonize with each other rather than only one color. Using colors that compliment each other helps to bring out each color’s beauty and makes for more interesting visuals.
 If you are hiring a floral designer, you are likely hiring the same florist to do some of the other flowers arrangements at your wedding. Think about how the flowers of your centerpiece may fit in with the other flowers that you will have, and choose flowers for your centerpiece that match or compliment those other flowers in terms color or type of flower., When deciding on what kinds of flowers you want for your centerpiece, remember that the centerpieces will be directly above your guests for several hours. Use lightly scented or unscented flowers to make sure that none of your guests get an allergic reaction from your arrangements!, The last thing you want to worry about on your wedding day is wilting flowers. Stay away from high maintenance flowers like hydrangeas that need constant hydration and don’t last long out of water. Ask your florist for their advice on which types of flowers to use.
 Just as with floral centerpieces, it’s important that the light-based or sculptural centerpiece you use matches the style of your wedding.A “classic” style non-floral centerpiece may feature an ornate silver, gold or crystal chandelier, which enhances your wedding’s elegant feel. You can incorporate a floral element by adding garlands of flowers that twist around the arms of the chandelier.
A “rustic” or “edgy” style centerpiece could feature a canopy of string lights, or a “chandelier” of mismatched lighting including paper lanterns, Edison bulbs and lights in jars. This gives your centerpiece a unique and hand-crafted feel.
An “artsy” style centerpiece could be made of intricately cut paper, ornate pompom style sculptures, or even classy, metallic balloon letters in words like “love” or “forever.”
A “modern” style centerpiece can feature a chandelier of lights in geometric jars or containers, or “curtains” of hanging lights., Check with the venue that you are using for your reception to see what kind of supports you need for your centerpiece. This is especially important for string lights canopies, which will need to be affixed in several places and may need to be hooked up to electricity. You may have the option of hanging pieces from trees if you are having an outdoor wedding or erecting standing supports that will allow you to hang your centerpiece

, If you want a light-based centerpiece, make sure that the light is soft and pleasant, as opposed to overly bright. Choose bulbs that give off a warm glow, and assess the centerpiece together with what you know about the lighting of the venue to make sure that the room isn’t too dim or too bright.


If you are using colored lights for a modern, artsy effect, use colors that flatter skin tones such as pinks and purples.