 Take part in a local toastmasters group, if you do not feel comfortable cold calling, meeting with clients or speaking in front of groups. Some salespeople end up in this field without learning to speak effectively, so take the time to learn now.;
, Ask your company to pay for training if managing your day is the biggest impediment to sales. Most proficiency experts agree that you should do your most important tasks in the morning, to improve the success of your day.
 You may have heard of interval fitness training, and the same principles can apply to your sales schedule. Start your day by calling your most important clients, take a 1 hour break to do email, do a cold call power hour, take a break for admin tasks and return to calling in hour intervals throughout the day.


Close your email program when you are calling. Consider this time sacred. Focus on the call, take notes as needed and avoid allowing other distractions.
 Overall, you can personalize your sales process to the client if you listen closely. Use the information to establish a clients pain points, preferences and needs.


Listening is an excellent skill. Don't jump into a sale pitch until you have asked potential clients what they are looking for and what their worries are. Add a few questions to your sales process.
 Add PowerPoint presentations to your laptop or print color copies of promotional materials. Ask your company's marketing department for help creating materials if you are unable to do it yourself.
 Unless you are qualifying leads and you are not finding good potential, each call should end with an appointment scheduled or a task for your client to complete. Get your client involved in the process immediately, because they are likely to forget about your phone call or meeting when the next task starts.
 Subscribe to industry journals, read blogs, research competition and visit lectures and seminars. If you are able to supply information to your client that reaches further than just your product, you can become their first resource when they want to make changes.
 Start a LinkedIn Profile and website biography that you aren't afraid to share with clients. Avoid using social media, like Facebook, where people can post personal or inappropriate information where clients can see.
 Choose a favorite song, get your favorite beverage or watch your favorite YouTube clip to increase your energy and enthusiasm.
 Try to change and improve it every week. Adding new information from research or current events will allow your information to seem relevant during the sale.
 Send birthday cards, thank you notes or informational emails. Establish a personal connection, while you go above and beyond to meet their needs.
 Examine your sales pitch to see if you would buy the product you are selling. Develop several other ways to ask questions and deliver information that might spark your interest if you were on the other side of a sale., Leverage your strong relationships by asking if they know of other businesses that could use your services. Although you don't want to ask every time, make sure you have asked for referrals from each of them within the last year.


Practice several ways of asking for referrals. Some salespeople feel awkward asking, so figure out ways to fit it into a call seamlessly. For example, instead of saying "Do you know anyone who would be interested in this product?" try "This is a limited discount, do you want me to share it with anyone?"

