 Do you envision a similar life for yourselves ten, twenty, or thirty years down the road? Your visions don’t have to be exactly the same, but if he’s picturing a quiet life on a farm in the country and you’re imagining life in a penthouse on Central Park, there might be trouble ahead. Having similar goals helps you to be a team and work together to achieve those goals.


Do you feel the same way about having kids (or not having kids)?
Do you feel the same way about home ownership? What kind of home, where, and when do you want to own--if at all?
Do you have complementary career goals? If you want to focus on your career and he wants to focus on raising a family, have you discussed how you can make those goals work for both of you?

, It’s not very romantic, but money problems are a common cause of breakups. If you feel better with a big chunk of change in your savings account and he wants to spend every penny he makes, you’re probably going to have some big problems.


Formulate a financial plan that you can both be happy with, and stick to that plan.
Always discuss any problems you’re having with money. Nobody likes financial surprises—not even your soul mate., Are your religious and political beliefs are complementary? You don’t have to be in complete agreement on these issues, but you shouldn’t be in complete disagreement. Do you place a similar value on religion? The more important religion is to you, the more important it becomes that you have similar religious beliefs. If you’re devout and he’s an atheist, there’s going to be trouble. But if you’re both casual believers, it doesn’t matter so much if, for example, you’re Jewish and he’s Muslim.
Do you place similar value on politics? If you’re both casual observers of politics, then disagreements won’t harm your relationship much. But if one of you is a staunch Democrat and the other is a staunch Republican, you’re going to find yourselves having big arguments. This doesn’t mean that you can’t work it out, but you’re going to have to find a way to talk about politics respectfully and listen to one another’s opinions, even if you vehemently disagree—which can be a tall order.
 Do you live your lives at complementary paces and enjoy spending time in similar environments? If you’re a couch potato and who doesn’t mind a mess, it’s probably going to be difficult to live with a guy who’s a neat freak and hates to sit still. On the other hand, two couch potatoes together can be a disaster—as can two ultra-excitable go-getters. Your lifestyles should complement each other, each pushing the other to do a little better and to relax a little more. If you’re not naturally attuned to the same lifestyle, don’t fret! You can work together to find a routine that makes you both comfortable. 