 It doesn’t hurt to tell your kids how important the environment is, but this verbal assurance will carry a lot less clout than practicing your values and acting as an example for them. Indeed, studies have shown that having a parent or other adult role model who shows a vested interested in the outdoors can greatly predispose a child to interest and engagement in the environment.For example, show them how much you love nature activities like hiking, bird-watching, or gardening by allotting time to these activities in your daily life.;
, Instilling love for the environment in your children is easiest if you teach them to enjoy and appreciate it from an early age. This can be difficult in modern conditions as children have less contact with the natural world around them, but studies have shown that it’s important to make time and opportunities for them to connect with nature.Show them not just how beautiful the natural landscape is, but how enjoyable it is to do different activities within it.


Activities like hiking, beach strolls, rock climbing, camping, mountain biking, and skiing are great ways to show your kids how exhilarating and diverse nature can be. Keep your nature trips fun and educational by having them look for signs of wildlife on the trail or organizing a scavenger hunt.If you don’t live nearby any mountains, oceans, or other beautiful natural attractions, fret not! You can still take your kids to the local park, community garden, or reservoir. The wildlife probably won’t be as populous or varied, but you can still find lots of beautiful animals and vegetation to get your kids interested.
 Teach your children the value of conservation by making your own little patch of property into a miniature nature preserve. You’ll show them how important it is to be proactive as a conservationist, and you’ll also get to spend valuable time together doing constructive, cooperative activities.


You can encourage and nurture local wildlife by setting up feeders for birds, squirrels, and butterflies. Your backyard will also become more inviting to wildlife if you make room in your backyard for natural shelters like caves and rock piles.Planting evergreens, dense shrubs, and other vegetation native to the area will show your kids how important plant life is to the environment, while also providing food and shelter to local wildlife., Studies have shown that kids learn to love and connect with nature much more easily when they do so with other peers.This is because they naturally explore and learn through social engagements and playing, so the more opportunities you give them to connect with nature while bonding with other kids, the more chance you have of them developing a lasting interest in the environment.


Official groups and organizations like the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts can be a good way to do this, but you can also take informal measures, such as going on camping trips with other families.

