 During some times of your life, you may not feel like there's much interesting going on. This can make it harder to write something interesting every day. One possibility for getting around this is to devote your diary to a specific purpose, and write about that every day. For example, you can try:A project diary, in which you chronicle your progress on some on-going project, either personal or professional.
A gratitude diary, in which you write every day about something you are grateful for.
A nature diary, in which you write about plants, animals, weather, or other natural things you see each day.
A dream diary, in which you write about your dreams each morning when you wake up (if you can't remember your dreams, you can just note that you can't recall them).
 Getting in the habit of writing about events in detail will make for more interesting entries. It will also make your diary more useful for remembering things later.Even something very interesting can seem bland when described without much detail. For example, you could write: "I saw my favorite band play a concert tonight." That's not particularly compelling.
On the other hand, describing the wild applause of the crowd, the guitar player's amazing solo, and the moment when the singer bent down and kissed someone in the front row on the cheek makes this memory come alive. That will make it more interesting to write, and to read later on.
 By the same token, your writing will be more interesting if you describe your personal reflections about events that happened to you, not just the events themselves, or just your emotional responses.Following the previous example, you could describe the anticipation you felt in the moments before your favorite band walked onto the stage, how the sound of the bass made your whole body feel like it is shaking, how excited and happy you were when they played your favorite song, and so on.
This can also help you use your diary to process your feelings during difficult times.
 Remember, this writing is just for you. Filling your diary with your honest reflections will make the experience more beneficial for you. It will also probably make it more interesting.Suppressing your feelings in your journal entries will make the experience of writing less satisfying. Since you are writing for yourself alone, you should feel free to explore your thoughts and feelings in a deep and substantial way, without fear of judgement.
 Most people think of a diary as a personal story, and indeed, a lot of diary writing is just that. Don't be afraid, however, to use your diary to write more creatively, especially if you don't feel like you have much to say about your own life.Some people use their diaries to write short stories or other works of fiction.
You can jot down poems you read or song lyrics that inspire you,or better yet, use this as a venue to try writing your own poems or songs.
This material can become a first draft for something you develop more fully later, or it can just be a piece of personal writing that stays in your diary.
 Yet another way to keep your diary interesting is to use it for things other than just writing. Liven it up with some visuals!This can be anything from a fully developed scrapbook spread, to some simple drawings or doodles you add in the margin.
You can use your diary as a means of hanging onto small mementos from the events you describe.For example, after going to see your favorite band, you could tape the ticket stub on the page you've used to write about the concert.

