 The majority of food borne diseases are caused by human contamination, and the number one culprits are dirty hands. Protect yourself and people around you by washing your hands for 20 seconds using soap and warm water after using the bathroom, going outside, or handling food.


If possible, turn the faucet off with your elbow to prevent recontamination. , The kitchen and the bathroom build up bacteria quickly, so stay ahead of the game by regularly wiping down your counter-tops, sinks, and toilets whenever they get dirty. Don't leave crumbs or food around your kitchen overnight, as this attracts ants and germs.


Use a disinfected spray in you bathroom and kitchen once every few weeks.
Dry surfaces after cleaning them so that they don't grow mold.
Don't forget to steam or disinfect your curtains and furniture at least once a year too.
 Always use separate knives, cutting boards, and pans for raw meat, and wash dishes as soon as you can to prevent mold and germs.


Designate certain utensils as "meat only" so that you don't get confused cooking.
 Circulating fresh air around your house is good for your lungs and prevents bacteria from building up in the air. If you can't open your windows for long periods of time, like during the winter, use an aerosol spray with disinfectant if the house smell stale or moldy. , Oil can build up on the sheets and cause acne and irritations. Dead skin cells, dirt from your feet and body, and bugs can also hang around in your sheets if you don't take the time to wash them. You shouldn't go more than two weeks without washing your sheets. Having spare sheets that you can use while washing the other set makes you likely to change your sheets regularly.
 When someone in your house is sick the rest of the family are far more likely to become ill if you do not take adequate precautions. Sick people should confine themselves to a small area of the house to prevent spreading germs and should have dedicated dishes, towels, and sinks that are disinfected regularly. Make sure any bandages or wounds are cleaned and dressed properly each day.
Immediately disinfect common household surfaces like light switches, phones, and door knobs when someone becomes ill -- many disease take several days to manifest themselves, but the germs will be present before someone becomes sick.

