 Bridesmaids and groomsmen not only show up for the ceremony, they also play important roles in planning events like the wedding shower, the bachelorette and bachelor parties, and serve as support and sounding boards throughout the wedding planning process.Decide if you want your wedding party to take on the responsibilities of planning events such as the wedding shower, or if this is something you and your partner would rather plan for yourself.
Consider that the more voices you have in the wedding planning process, the more conflicting opinions and ideas you will have to navigate and compromise between.;
, The number of people included in your wedding party will be impacted by what their roles will be during the ceremony. Do you intend to have all members of the party stand up with you during the exchange of vows, only the maid of honor and best man, or will all of them be seated for the ceremony?, While you can do whatever you want with your big day, generally speaking the larger the wedding, the more attendants you will have. Additionally, a more formal wedding typically has more attendants, while a semi-formal wedding may only have a few, and city hall wedding may have just one pair or none at all.There are no exact guidelines, but typically large, formal weddings will have anywhere between five and ten pairs of attendants, while smaller weddings or more informal weddings will have one to five pairs.
 One of the first things you need to do once you have decided what role your wedding party will play in the ceremony is contact your venue. They may have certain limitations regarding how many people can fit at the altar or whatever the vow exchange is to take place. Likewise, seating space in the first row may be limited if you plan to have your wedding party seated during the ceremony.Ask the venue outright, “Are there any restrictions regarding how many people we can have standing with us during the ceremony?”
Smaller venues and public venues such as a city hall might not allow anyone except the partners to be married to stand during the ceremony.
 If you plan to have your bridesmaids carrying bouquets and boutonnieres for the groomsmen, remember that you assume the cost of those floral arrangements. Likewise, traditionally gifts are given to both bridesmaids and groomsmen as a thank-you for their time and effort, and transportation for photographs, which will add additional expense onto the wedding.Speak directly with your florist about package deals for bouquets and boutineers, and get an estimate of how much it will cost to provide arrangements to your wedding party before you set your size.
Likewise, look online or in bridal stores for gift ideas for the wedding party to get a sense of what the expense for those items will be.
 Your wedding party size will be determined in part by your wants and needs, and in part by the ability of the people you ask. If you have a friend or relative with whom you are close, but you know they do not have the time or the finances to dedicate to being in the wedding party, do not ask them to participate in that way.If you truly want this person included but finances are an issue, consider being willing to subsidize costs like the dress or suit, as well as their portion of any parties you expect them to attend.
You may also consider a different role for this person in your wedding, such as acting as an usher or having them do a reading during the ceremony.
 You may have a certain group of friends and family members that you want up there with you, but remember that your partner may have family members they want to involve, as well. If you are considering a gender-traditional wedding party and your partner has a brother or sister that will not fit on their side, talk to them about if they want their sibling involved as one of your bridesmaids or groomsmen., You do not need to invite someone to be in your wedding party simply because they asked you to be in their wedding. Likewise, you do not need to invite someone simply because they are related to you or have known you a long time.If you have a close friend or family member who is not in support of your relationship, it may be best to not request they be in the wedding party, regardless of how close they are to you. Your party needs to be there for both partners.
 Try to only bring in people to your wedding party who will be supportive, responsive, and communicative. These people will have their own responsibilities during your wedding, and you want to make sure they are ready and willing to handle them.


If a close friend is critical of your partnership, consider whether they can set aside their own feeling in support of you and your partner. If they can't, there's no need to include them, regardless of how long you have known them.
Likewise, if a close friend or family member has a history of being flaky, it may be wise not to trust them as a part of your party. Party members will have to assume certain responsibilities, and they need to be able reasonably handle these.
 Friends tend to be more understanding of not being in a wedding party comprised of only family. If you are worried about offending close friends because you had to make some difficult choices, consider restricting the wedding party to family including siblings, cousins, and other close family members., Instead of a full wedding party, you may decide to only have one honorary pair of attendants, such as a maid of honor and best man. This can be a happy balance for couples that want the help and support of close friends or family, but do not want the stress or cost of a large wedding party., There are a number of reasons to not have a formal wedding party, from sparing other’s feelings to keeping costs low for your big day. Not having a wedding party can be an easy way to save stress and money, if either are a concern. Additionally, it saves your potential party members time and money leading up to the wedding.You may still ask a friend or family member to be involved in the planning process. If there is someone you want involved, let them know that you value their time and input, and would like their help in your wedding planning process.
 You may decide against having certain people stand up with you during your ceremony or in photos, but you may still decide to ask people who are special to you to wear a certain color or attend a rehearsal dinner. Decide what parts of the wedding party you want to keep and ask people close to you to participate., If you decide against having a formal wedding party, there are still ways you can honor those important to you during your wedding. You may ask certain people to still be in photos with you, or you could have a portion of the reception where you and your partner thank the people who supported you and helped get both of you to the altar. You may also invite your close friends and family to a rehearsal dinner-style event as a way of thanking them for their help and support.

