 Cardboard dollhouses are the best because the owner of this wonder can decorate it in any way that she or he likes. You could involve the child in making the dollhouse from the beginning, present the dollhouse when built but in need of decorating, or go the whole way and give a completely finished dollhouse. For ideas on how to make this, see How to make a cardboard dollhouse, How to build a cardboard dollhouse and How to make a cardboard dollhouse from a box. And why not make some cardboard dollhouse furniture too?;
, This cute little number is perfect for the budding little "Master chef". All you need is a cardboard box, scissors and markers and you can put together a very cute stove.


Find a short, square box. Tape it up so that it is completely closed.
Choosing one square side to the be top, divide it into four quarters. Mark these with a pen or pencil.
Stick opaque tape (black, white or any color the child likes) on the dividing lines. Also take the tape around all of the edges of the box. This will make it look sturdy and stove-like.
Make the hotplates. For each hotplate, make a cross from two popsicle sticks. Glue on diagonally for each quarter. For the round part, glue on varying sizes of cardboard circles. Black is a good color for the circles, but you can use colors to match the tape if preferred.
Add knobs. Screw or glue on drink bottle caps to the front side of the box. Have at least four knobs (one for each hotplate) and an on/off knob. You can add letters or pictures to the knobs if desired.
Make a splashback from cardboard. Choose a square piece of cardboard as wide as the stove. It must be box cardboard or strong cardboard, to withstand having things hang from it. Glue or staple it to the back of the stove.
Hang some cooking items from it. Use two bottle caps as holders and glue them towards the top of the splashback. Drill holes into the caps in the same place to allow for a wooden skewer to slide across as a hanging bar. Alternatively, glue it in place.
Hang little cooking items from the skewer bar. Open up paperclips to form S-shaped hooks, then hang off toy scoops, etc.
Done. The stove is now ready for fun.

