 Property should be listed in the debtor’s Summary of Assets as filed with the court.


If you want to file a lien on property, file it on a secondary residence (e.g., a summer home) if possible. In the case of primary residences, many states have “homestead exemption” laws, which exempt a portion of a property’s value from certain creditors.
 A lien allows you to receive payment if the property is sold or refinanced. However, if there are already other liens on the property, they can take priority over your lien. To decide whether or not to put a lien on a property, find out how many liens the property already has. Even one could represent a problem for you.


You can find liens by researching the property's deed. Visit your county clerk’s office, and explain that you want to find the liens on a piece of property. Provide the property's address or description.
 The court will have a form for you to fill out requesting an abstract of judgment. Fill it out and pay the fee. An example of an Abstract of Judgment form is available here.
 Depending on the court, you can place a lien on a piece of property by filing the abstract with the court where the property is located or by filing it with the county recorder. Ask the court clerk for help in filing the lien.
 Generally you have to wait for property to be sold before having your lien satisfied. If you do not want to wait, you could move to foreclose. However, there are several factors that can make foreclosure expensive:


You will bear all costs of the lawsuit to foreclose. A foreclosure suit is complicated and requires an attorney whose fees you will have to pay.
The property may have superior liens. A non-mortgage lien has low priority compared to mortgage and tax liens.If you can wait until such time as the homeowner sells the property, by then he or she may have paid off one or more superior liens, which is an advantage for you.
 If you put a lien on the property, and the debtor then satisfies your judgment, release the lien.


Get a Release of Lien form from the court or from your county Recorder’s office. Complete it and send it to the Recorder.
Send a copy to the debtor along with the Satisfaction of Judgment form if the lien proceeds satisfy the judgment.

