 Launch the Google Chrome browser on your PC and visit the Google Chrome Webstore at https://chrome.google.com/webstore.;
, Type in “Flip It” on the search text field on the upper lefthand corner of the Web Store page and press the “Enter” button on your keyboard to begin searching. A list of search results will be displayed on the page.
 Move down to the “Extensions” part of the search results and click the “Free” button beside “Flip It”.


Note that you should select the Flip It listed under “extensions” and not “apps,” which is usually displayed first.
 Do this by clicking the “Yes, I trust it” button on the Confirm New Extension pop up.


After installing, a confirmation message will show on the top righthand section of the screen, pointing to the Flipboard icon added to your Chrome, right beside the menu button.
 The extension works well with news articles like those from Google or Yahoo News, and other online news webpage.
 Once you’ve opened the web page, click the Flipboard icon on the upper righthand corner of the browser window, beside Chrome’s menu button. The Flipboard login page will open on a new, small window.
 Enter your username/email and password on the text field provided to log into your Flipboard account.


If you want to create a new account using your Facebook or Google+ account, or you’re already using it as your login method, then just click either the “Sign In with Facebook” or “Sign In with Google” to continue.
 After logging in to your account, the article you want to add to your magazine will be displayed on the same small window. Move your mouse cursor over the thumbnail of the magazine and a “Select” button will appear.
 Click the “Select” button, and list of thumbnails that you can use for your magazine will appear. Just click on the thumbnail you like to select it.
 Just click on one of your magazines from the list to select it.


You could also make a new magazine to add the content to by clicking the “Create Magazine” thumbnail. Just enter a short name and description, and click “Save” to create one.
 Write any thoughts or ideas you have or what you may find interesting about the magazine on the text field provided at the bottom of the window.
 Finally, click the “Add” button on the lower-right corner of the window to finalize and add the selected article to your Flipboard magazine.


You can now read it from any device you have the Flipboard mobile app installed on.

