 You’re going to want to make sure you understand the essay question before you write anything. But this isn’t just about understanding the question or prompt itself; you need to also understand why they’re asking the things that they are. What are they trying to find out about you by asking this? Analyze the question and try to figure out what they’re looking for so that you can respond appropriately.


For example, questions about your area of interest are really trying to gauge your passion for your subject and how well you know it. Questions about current events are probably trying to gauge how aware you are of the world around you and how well you understand complex issues.;
, Foundations, schools, and other organizations granting scholarships often have core values which drive their company. If you want to impress them, research and find some of the key terms and core values that they use consistently and work those ideas and terms into your essay., An outline is a road map to writing your essay, and without a road map you will get lost. Write down each of the points you want to make in answer the question, with a few notes on how you will make those points or evidence you will use. Figure out the best order for all of your paragraphs and write that down too.Consider also making notes about how you will transition between paragraphs. Good transitions will help your reader follow and understand your thought process, so it is important to do this well.
 Make sure that when you do write the essay, you actually answer the question they asked. This is important: don’t answer the question you think they asked, answer the question that they actually asked. Sometimes, especially when reading quickly or without enough depth, we tend to take the wrong message away from something. Make sure that what you’re writing is what they want to know.
 Staying within the word count will keep you from losing some serious points. Too long and no one will want to read it. Too short and you will seem incompetent. Try to stay within the upper 20% of the word count range.

