 After cleaning and drying your clothes always fold immediately after to avoid wrinkles. Take any clothing with stains for immediate treatment at a dry cleaner. Make sure there aren't loose threads, the buttons are intact, and the hem is clean.If you take care of yourself, take care your clothing.
Use a lint roller on your clothes if it’s needed.
 Pilling is the build up of fibers and threads that create little balls on your clothes. You don’t need any special equipment to de-pill your clothes. First clean your clothes then if you notice pilling, shave it off. Take a standard razor you’d use on your skin and shave off the pilling. Use a lint roller afterwards for a clean finish.Be slow and gentle with the razor. It is easy to cut a hole if you aren’t careful.
 If you aren’t in love with an article of clothing, ditch it for something that excites you. When you enjoy the clothes you own, you tend to care for their condition more. Dressing in your favorite clothes will make you look great and boost your self-esteem.


If you love a coat or pants but they don’t fit well, take them to an alterations store., Notice the trends around you by noting what someone wears that strikes you as being well groomed. As a general rule, keep it simple. You don’t have to dress up everyday, but you can go a long way by wearing something simple that compliments itself and your body.


When you know what works for you, go for it and double up. Don’t hesitate if you know something looks good on you.
Embrace your shape. Whatever you’ve got, you can find clothing that accentuates your flattering qualities.
Make sure your clothes fit you. Don’t wear anything too loose or tight.
Always try clothes on before you purchase and get a second opinion., Shoes are always the first thing many people look at. They tell a lot about a person. If you’re shoes become dirty due to dirt or salt, clean them that night., Finish off your clothing choice with a quick mist of fragrance. Go for a nicer type of perfume or cologne. Be aware that some people are violently allergic to certain scents. A fragrance should be discovered, not announced.If in doubt find a health and beauty store, and pick out an essential oil based fragrance. Using essential oils can even help elevate your mood, decrease your stress, and smell incredible.
 About twice a year, go through all your leather goods and give them a thorough cleaning. If you’re leather articles are too dry and appear to scab, apply a leather dressing or cream to them. Try to use something recommended by the leather’s makers since all leather is different.Clean dirt smudges with a damp cloth. You can use a leather soap if you want. The trick is to never let your leather get too wet.
Never let your leather dry in direct sunlight.

