 It's important you get 8-10 hours sleep each night so you won't be tired the next morning. You don't want to look like you're tired all day, so go to bed early.;
, Stretching helps keep your body toned. You may want to consider doing some yoga poses, but regular stretching works as well.
 Cleanse your face using a skin care routine suited to you and don't forget the moisturizer if the weather is harsh outdoors. Toning your skin as well really helps. Apply sunscreen of at least SPF 15 everyday, even when it is cloudy. Boys have to put on sunscreen too, and though you don't have to put on moisturizer you may want to consider it.
 Boys will want to make sure to put effort in to their appearance. You don't have to go all out and use hair gel on your hair to look good. Instead try some accessories like baseball caps, 'boy' necklaces, and wristbands. Girls, accessories are a great way to express yourself. Try to pick accessories that are 'in' right now. Some accessories could be scarves, necklaces, earrings, bangles, and headbands.
 Keep it simple and low-key. Nobody likes smelling your choice of scent filling up the whole room all day long. Try to figure out what scent suits your personality. For free spirited girls, natural scents like violet suit you, for girly girls, scents like flowers, fruit, and vanilla suit you. Boys may want to try to buy matching deodorants. Just try not to over do it! Some may not like the scent, and it may annoy them. So choose wisely and don't over kill it!

, Simple updos and braids are good or you can get a nice haircut that does not need too much styling time every morning. You have better things to be doing than fussing with your hair all morning. Add a fancy clip or ribbon if you want to spice your look up a bit. Try to find hair accessories that make it simple to express your self; if you are a beach girl, then a headband with shells would be perfect for you. Boys, you can spike up your hair or use a style from a famous guy, especially one that you know lots of girls love.
 There is not much time in the morning for playing Cover Girl and getting enough snooze is definitely more important for growing bodies and glowing faces than a pancaked face. Opt for simplicity. Items such as concealer to conceal redness or under eye circles (which you won't have if you get enough sleep) and maybe a bit of little lip balm and/or gloss are good items. If you really want to put makeup on your lids, just try to keep it simple and natural. Black mascara and a natural colored eyeshadow is perfect for those who want to wear eye makeup. However if you don't normally wear makeup, make sure that you look fresh and happy!

, Eat something simple but filling, such as a fruit salad and a glass of water or toast and orange juice. Try to have a backup breakfast bar in the pantry to grab in case you didn't make time for breakfast. Remember that some breakfast is better than no breakfast.
 Brush your teeth until they feel clean. If you got food stuck in your teeth from breakfast, then take some floss and get that out too. That would be embarrassing. If you have braces, make sure to clean between brackets so you don't have gunk in your teeth. If you have problems with bad breath, rinse your mouth with a good-quality mouthwash and perhaps bring some breath mints with you to school.
 This might include such things as:


Essentials: Your school books, any homework, a planner, money (if you have to pay for something), lunch(or lunch money), a small snack, a drink, a pencil case, feminine products (always keep these handy if your a girl!).
Optional: make-up, tissues, breath mints, perfume, a mobile phone, a hairbrush or and a small mirror.
 It's always best to get homework out of the way early. Try to do it as soon as you get home. If you don't have time to, wake up early so that you can get your homework done before school. Always make sure that you do all of your homework. If you can't, get a written note from your parents or have a very good excuse ready. Learning is important and you are only cheating on yourself if you can't be bothered to do the homework.
 Take a bath occasionally with a school text in one hand and a massage brush in the other. It is very blissful. Also, listen to some calming music or nature sounds (waterfall, wind rustling though the trees, etc.). This will soothe you and get you ready for bed.

