 Travel can be stressful by itself, and the stress of physical, emotional, and social changes can affect pre-existing emotional disorders.Before you make travel plans, know that conditions can reappear or become exacerbated with travel.


It’s also possible for people pre-disposed to certain disorders (such as having a strong genetic link) to experience the emergence of a disorder while traveling.Be aware of your family history and personal history before planning a trip.;
, If you fear having an episode or crisis situation, look into buying travel insurance and medical evacuation insurance. Ensure you declare any and all existing conditions.If you are involved in an emergency situation and require airlifting, this can be covered under this insurance. You can choose from many options for insurance depending on your needs.


Check with your insurance provider to see what options you may have involving mental health while traveling., If you are scared to fly or have a fear of airplanes, many major airlines provide courses to help with this.If you suffer from anxiety related to travel or planes, use some coping strategies for the worry and anxiety. Ask yourself, “Will worrying help me solve this?”


Instead of using worry to run away from unpleasant emotions, embrace the emotions you feel, even if they feel unpleasant.Learn to live with uncertainty. Ask yourself, “Can I live with the small chance that something bad will happen to me, even if it’s highly unlikely it will happen?”, Before traveling, set up an appointment and discuss your travel plans with your mental health professional. Have a mental health screening prior to your trip done by a mental health professional and not at a travel clinic, as travel clinics are not trained in mental health treatment.Consult with your mental health professional if you are in a difficult emotional or mental state. If your mental health is unstable or you recently changed medications, you may want to delay your trip.
 If it is a short-term trip, take enough medications to last at least the duration of the trip, if not more. If you have long-term travels, ask your physician whether your medications are purchasable overseas and readily available.


Have written prescriptions of your medications, as some countries do not allow psychotropic medications without a prescription. Ideally, have it translated into the native language of the country you are visiting.Not all countries will have the medications you need while you travel. Check with a country’s embassy or a reputable health clinic about obtaining prescription refills while abroad., If you take medication for mental health, consider checking any possible drug interactions. That way, if you fall ill and need medical treatment, you can know up front if there are medications you may need to avoid. Medical practitioners abroad may be unfamiliar with your prescription or unaware of potential interactions with foreign medications.


Those with mental health issues should avoid the medication mefloquine, which is used to treat Malaria. It can have potential side effects that include neuropsychiatric consequences., Know your itinerary, modes of transportation, characteristics of cities and the nature of your trip.While many things can be unpredictable during travel, the more you are aware of your trip, the more peace of mind you can have. Gathering information can eliminate some of the unpredictability of travel and ensure a sense of ease.


Before you leave for your trip, think about what potential risks may exist on your trip, and how you will deal with them. For instance, if you take meds, put them in your carry-on bag in case your checked baggage gets lost.
If you don’t like the idea of not having an international phone, buy a SIM card so you can place local calls while abroad.
 A lack of sleep can contribute to problems with mental health.This can be more relevant while traveling because of heightened stress and adjustment. If you start to have mental health problems while traveling, make sure you start getting regular restful sleep.


If hotels or hostels are loud, consider taking some earplugs. You may also want something to cover your eyes if it becomes unusually bright in your room in the mornings or at night.
 While on your trip, take some time to exercise. Exercise can reduce and prevent stress, which can be especially important while traveling with mental health diagnoses.It can be hard to find a gym while traveling, but you don’t need to lift weights or use a treadmill to exercise. Instead, spend some time learning dances, go on a walk or a hike, rent a bicycle and tour your surroundings, or find a popular sport to play.


The maximum benefit from exercise happens when you exercise 30 or more minutes most days, but do what you can when you travel.If you have the option of taking a taxi or walking, choose to walk.
 Think about who you will be traveling with and if someone can help you if you have a health crisis. Also consider the access you may have to receiving support from friends and family back home.


You may want to download a phone or video application for your phone or computer to connect with friends and family back home. You may want someone back home to check in with each week, like a parent or family member, that can help you monitor your mental health.
 If you are struggling with mental health challenges while traveling, go to a hospital or clinic. Depending on your trip, you may have to find a clinic that your insurance covers (if within your own country) or find a clinic that treats mental health disorders.


If you do go to a clinic abroad, realize that cultural differences may exist in mental health treatment. You may need an interpreter to express your needs for you.Check with an embassy to find mental health services if you plan to travel to a foreign country., If you’re somewhere with an unfamiliar language and/or culture, you may experience “culture shock” and struggle with language barriers and cultural differences. It can be hard to adjust to a different way of life, different foods, transportation, and surrounding sights. Interacting with people from a different culture can be difficult, too; you may find yourself offending someone or becoming offended because different cultures interact differently.


Try to find out as much as you can about the social norms of places you will be visiting before you go. For example, do people shake hands when they meet, prefer not to make too much eye contact, or avoid certain topics of conversation? Are there any unusual foods or traditions that you might be expected to try?
Cultural information is often available in travel guides, or you can ask someone who lives in the country you will be visiting.
 Especially if you’re somewhere for a length of time, many people become homesick while traveling. You may miss friends and family, or miss familiar foods and activities. Homesickness and isolation can deepen feelings of depression.


If you feel homesick, remind yourself that you are on an adventure. Home is waiting for you, but enjoy what’s in front of you each day as you travel.
 Even though you may prepare well for your trip, there will likely be moments of stress (trying to catch a flight or a bus, electronics not working, food poisoning). Before leaving on your trip, know ways the deal with stress.Prepare your travel bags with things that can help, like a stress ball or a journal you can write in.


If you don’t know how you cope with stress, try different ways before you leave for your trip, and practice before you leave. Think of things you can do while traveling: for instance, you can go on a walk, spend time in nature, call a friend, light a candle, listen to music or read a book.