;
, Depending on your vehicle, the hubcap may need to be removed before you're able to access the lug nuts and loosen them. Hubcaps are usually either attached by metal clips, held on by the lug nuts themselves, or using plastic lugs.








If your hubcaps clip on, pry them off using the flat end of the tire iron or a flathead screwdriver against a thick or solid part of the hubcap.
If your hubcaps are held on by the lug nuts, you'll only be able to remove them after you've removed the lug nuts entirely. If you try to remove them before doing so, you'll break them.
If your hubcaps screw on using plastic lugs, you'll need to remove these with a lug wrench (and avoid excessive force when reinstalling them to avoid breakage).
 The wheels of cars, trucks, and other vehicles will be affixed to the axle with between four and eight lug nuts, used to center the wheel and secure it onto the vehicle. Some European cars will have lug bolts instead of nuts, though the removal process should be exactly the same.


On some cars, locking lugs are used to keep the wheels from being stolen. This is usually only necessary for one lug nut per wheel, and it should look different than the others. These require a special key to unlock require the use of a key to loosen the lock on the end of the lug nut.
On some locking lug nuts you can hammer on a ⅞ 12 point socket and remove the locking lug bolt instead of using the special key. The hardest part is that you also need a vice to put the socket in to hit the locking lug nut off with a punch.
 A lug wrench, sometimes called a tire iron, tire tool, or a t-bar, should be provided in your vehicle's tire kit, along with a jack and a spare tire. Lug wrenches should fit the lug nuts used on your wheel assembly perfectly, and in most cases you shouldn't need other tools to remove them.


Lug wrenches can be either a straight bar or two crossed bars, which is sometimes called a “spider wrench.” The crossed bars give you extra strength, because you can grab onto either side with your hands and twist with all your arm strength.
If your lug nuts are stuck on because of rust, over-tightening, or some other factor, read the next section for tips on loosening especially tenacious lug nuts.
 Don't jack up the car before you attempt to loosen lug nuts. Instead, use the resistance created by the tire's contact with the ground to help you loosen the nuts. They won't spin if they're on the ground, which means you'll be able to remove them much more easily.
 Turn the wrench after you've secured it onto one of the nuts, pulling hard until you feel the lug nut begin to loosen. You don't need to remove the lug nut entirely, just use the wrench to loosen it until it's loose enough to remove with your fingers.
 It doesn't matter which nut you loosen first. Pick one, then continue moving around the bolts in a "star" pattern, skipping the lug nut adjacent to the one you just loosened. This pattern helps keep the wheel centered and is more important when you're installing the wheel. Still, it's a good habit to get into when you're loosening the bolts as well.









When all the bolts are loose, it's time to jack the car up, remove the lug nuts entirely, spinning them off by hand, and then remove the wheel to complete whatever project you've planned. If your project requires mores than just immediately replacing the the wheel with the spare or a new wheel, you should put a frame stand under the car until the project is complete.

