 Society, rafts of self-help books, great orators, colleagues, fellow students, parents, teachers, everyone it seems, is always telling us to "pursue our dreams". Nobody ever really stops, though, to explain that we should hold realistic dreams and that sometimes our dreams are not in sync with our abilities, needs, and interests as time moves on. Facing the fact that dreams have become stale is hard but can be very rewarding because it is the first step in allowing you to let go and to create new goals.;
, Sometimes if we behave in a 'perfectionist' way, we keep seeking more and more, even if some of our goals have already been realized. In this case, we think the grass is greener elsewhere and we keep on looking for what is more rather than what is better. Rejoice in that which you have already achieved and work from the successes you have already had.
 Dreams that have become stale need a momentous farewell; once they guided you, so even though now they drag you down, they do deserve a fitting send-off. Do something that marks the finality of these dreams and creates closure for you. Good ideas include a burial of dreams written on paper or burning the pieces of paper, dropping pieces of written dreams into the ocean, shouting them to the wind on a windy day, even involving trusted loved ones to attend your letting go ceremony, as witnesses to you moving on.
 Be kind to yourself for letting go and do nice things that you enjoy. This is a hard time of growth in your life but you should be proud of yourself for facing it.
 You are now at liberty to replace your old dreams with healthy new ones that will guide you into the future from here onwards. Hang in there; you're going to do just fine.
 Maybe you have placed limitations or expectations on how your dream is supposed to look. Maybe you don't need to completely let it go, but instead can open and allow a different version to materialize. One that will suit your circumstances better and may even fulfill more than you would have originally imagined.

