


Draw each floor on a separate piece of paper, with the main floor as #1, and the 2nd floor as #2 if that is the next most important floor.
If you have more than 2 levels, show them in the order of how you use them, in other words if the upper floor just has a bonus room, show it after you show the lower level if you go there more frequently.
The flow of the photos needs to match how you, and the buyer, would walk around your house.;
, There is a joke that goes, “Do you know the difference between the kitchen and the bathroom? If you don’t, you’ll never be invited to my house!”

, The size of each room you drew is not important for now (the agent handles that in the listing document), only the sequence of which rooms the buyer will actually walk through your house.



Follow the line up and down stairs and through each blueprint (house levels).

Note that you need to add staircases to the blueprint if the house has more than one level, and indicate where they are.
Use parallel lines to show them. Add a 2nd staircase and an elevator if you have them.
 It sounds so easy when you put it down on paper.



Do not take the pictures larger than 640 x 480 pixels.
Don’t take vertical ("portrait") pictures. Generally you get a better view with a wider than higher view.
If possible, include a window in the photo so the buyer can see which floor the room is on.
Use a wide angle lens if you have one to show the surroundings within a room.
Taking photos of the opposite sides of a room is appropriate, as long as you include a piece of furniture that can be identified in both pictures as the same room, otherwise the buyer will think that it is a different room.
 If some of your room description is left out make it up.


A=attic
BA=balcony
BMT=basement
BONUS=bonus room
BA#1=1st bathroom, etc.
BR#1=1st bedroom
MBA=master bath
BR#1=1st bedroom, etc.
DECK=deck
DEN=den
DR=dressing room
G=garage
GA=game room
GR=great room
III. Outside first
KEEP=keeping room
M=media room
MBR=master bedroom
O=office/study
P=patio
S= sitting room
SU=sunroom
ST=storage
W=workshop
WD=wraparound deck
K=kitchen
L=laundry room

,


Let the buyer know about the surroundings of the house – the neighborhood--just as anybody would see it when driving down your street.
Show the photos of your neighborhood. If you’ve ever gone house hunting with an agent, you may have driven up to a house and said, “It doesn’t fit my pictures.” You’ve already made a decision that the house is not for you based upon its ‘curb appeal’ and its relationship to other houses in the neighborhood. The buyer who is looking at the pictures of your house also wants to get a sense of your neighborhood, so show them photos of what they’ll see when they drive up to your house in the following sequence:

Take the views of your street looking down it and up it with your house in the middle of the block or area. The buyer can then see exactly what surrounds your house.
Take a picture of your house from the house directly across the street to it and include the houses on either side of it for proximity to yours or if your house is privately situated, show what’s on either side.
Take one from the front door of your house showing what the buyer would see across the street looking out from your front door. Again, include houses if there are any, including empty lots or vegetation. Some buyers need community and some need privacy.
Take a closer view showing only your house from the front, then the two sides of the house and finally the back of the house and this point is most important. Buyers want to see themselves entertaining and having fun in the back so take the next picture of the back of the house from the furthest point on your property, so the buyer gets a ‘feel’ of how big the back side of your property is.
The last picture of the outside needs to be taken from the rear of your house sharing what the buyer will see if sitting on the back deck, patio, or sun-room – regardless if that room is enclosed or open. The buyer must be able to see whatever can be seen as far as the view that can be seen. There’s no use hiding a road that’s in the back, if you have one there, because the buyer will see it when the house is viewed in person.



Let’s discuss the lighting inside of your house. Make sure that you take the pictures at a time when the sun does not shine directly into a room. Too many pictures show the sun glaring through windows into dark rooms, all because the photographer did not compensate for the light shining into the camera lens. Take pictures with the flash on.
Take the pictures with the lights on in the house. Or wait for dusk or a cloudy day when the outside light matches the inside light for best results. Buyers do not like to see dark rooms
The kitchen and the master bath need special attention as they are key elements in the buying decision to a woman.
Also take pictures of stairs as they are important to buyers who are concerned with climbing them.

The price of the house, and this is always last, if the first two considerations are satisfied. It’s not the other way around!

, In essence, you’re creating a moving picture flow. That’s the reason for following the blueprints.


The name of the game is to attract one buyer who wants to buy exactly what your house has to offer them. This will prevent you and your agent from wasting time with buyers with expectations that do not match what you have to offer.
Because agents do not identify each picture in text and often take shots of random rooms, thereby confusing buyers, you can easily overcome this problem.
Make up large folded card placards or ‘tents’ of the rooms you have labeled on the blueprint that identifies each room and place them in each picture you take! Put them on tables, chairs, sofas; on prominent pieces of furniture.
Remove all personal pictures from every wall and those sitting on pieces of furniture to make the buyer to be able to see his family living in it, not your family. Put them in the closets, in the attic, out of sight. That includes all the knickknacks and curios on shelves and bookcases. You can put them back after they leave.

