 When most people start off doing wheelies they put their gears into the “easy-to-pedal” mode, which means their chain in on the smallest cog on the front sprockets, and biggest cog on the back sprockets. This is fine when first starting out, but once you get more advanced, you’ll want your chain to be on the middle cog on the front sprockets, and somewhere around the middle cog on the back sprockets. The speed for your wheelie will be about 5–10 mph (8.0–16.1 km/h), and having the gear ratio set to “easy mode” will make you lose your wheelie due to excessive pedaling.;
, The back brake is the integral part of the long-wheelie, so make sure your brakes are powerful enough to bring you to a skidding stop when used at high speeds. Anything less and you’re liable to “loop it,” which means falling backwards and having a fart shoot out when your back slaps onto the pavement. While doing the wheelie you should have 1-2 fingers on the brake lever.
 Some people say lower your seat, some say make it higher. It is the most comfortable a little bit lower than your "high" setting of your seat. If it's too low, it will be harder to pedal, and if it's too high, well it's just pretty scary

, Doing wheelies on a hard tail is far easier than on a full suspension, but if you happen to have the latter, see if you can lock out your back shock. A bouncing back end will seriously affect your balance.
 Try to find a straight flat road that works up a slight incline. Wheeling uphill is far easier than down, and you’ll want conditions set to your advantage as much as possible in the beginning. Also, try to find a place with low wind. Even the slightest breeze can topple you.
 Get your bike lined up as straight as possible while in a slow roll. While pedaling down hard, lift the front tire as hard as you can. Don't pull on your handlebars. Use your weight to shift the bike back.
 Apply a hard, steady stroke once you're up in wheelie position.
 When you feel you’re about to flip over backwards (loop it), tap on the back brake to bring the front back down again, then counter the downward fall of your front tire with the force of your pedaling. It’s a delicate balance, but the truth is, you should always be “about to loop it.” As your get better you’ll notice you’ll actually WANT to be right on the edge of that balance point. When you can stick it there, you’ll be applying more breaks and your speed will remain slow and steady. Pedaling hard to try to keep up with a wheelie is the most common way to lose it, so don’t be afraid to lean way back and keep it right on the edge. With a little practice, you’ll find the sweet spot and hold it there longer and longer. Soon enough you’ll be wheeling around town like a champ and dodging flying panties and bra’s from your female admirers.
 Once you get more advanced you can do wheelies one handed, go off curbs, navigate turns, and even do circles. Nothing feels better than rifling off a sick wheelie, so even if it’s frustrating at first, stick with it!

