


As soon as school starts, keep your eyes open for cute boys that could potentially be your date to the dance. Once you find your perfect match, flirt a little and drop hints that your interested. If you think he likes you but can't tell for sure, ask one of your girlfriends to talk to him and find out what he thinks of you. Or tell your friends to tell him that you and he would make a cute couple.;
,


This is going to be the most important night of the year when it's your time to get all dolled up and shine. So make the most of it and always remember, be confident because it will make you irresistible!

,


Go with your friends to search for possible dresses to wear. Remember to keep in mind your shape, size, skin tone, hair color, and type of dress that flatters your body type most. Then go back to the store and look one final time with a parent or friend before you purchase your final dress.



Get a manicure and pedicure that will look good with your dress.
,


Make sure to exfoliate, shave thoroughly, and wash your hair.



Be sure to wear loose clothing to and from the tanning salon. Do not get wet for at least 8 hours after spray tanning. Do not shave again before dance or else the tan will get blotchy, streaky, fade, or come off in some areas.



If you're going to do a fancier hairstyle, take it to the salon. Make sure you get an appointment scheduled way in advance so that you will for sure get a spot because, as homecoming dates arrive, openings are less common and harder to find. If you are going for a certain look, bring in a picture of your ideal hairstyle.



That's the flower that you pin to the guys coat. Make sure you don't forget this because it is very important! The guy buys the girl a corsage. The boutonniere and corsage should match the girl's dress. Also make sure that your date's tie matches the color of your dress!

, Don't leave your house without snapping a few shots with just the two of you. You should have an area either in your living room or in front of your house nicely decorated & cleaned for a background. Also it is a good idea to have Hors d'oeuvres available for your date when he comes to pick you up. If you are going to someone else's house for group pictures, make sure you bring a tray of fancy snacks and a thank you note in order to be as polite as possible.



It's a good idea to google some of the common dances such as: The Cha Cha Slide, Soulja Boy, Electric Slide etc.. so you don't look awkward when everyone is dancing in sync and you're just standing there watching or badly attempting to follow everybody else's moves. It's extremely hard to learn on the spot.
,


Homecoming will be a treasured memory that you will someday be able to share with your kids and brag about how awesome you looked with your date, so have a good time! Don't forget to take pictures- memories are forever.

