 When the school administration is sued for injuries that occurred on school property, a complaint and summons will be served on the appropriate administrator.The complaint tells you who is suing the school administration, and the facts that the plaintiff alleges constitute damages or injuries for which the school administration can be held liable.
The summons provides information on the court where the lawsuit was filed and how long the school administration has to respond to the complaint.
Pay attention to who the plaintiff has named in the lawsuit as defendants. If individuals also are named as defendants, the school administration's liability may be reduced or eliminated.;
, Schools typically have full-time attorneys on hand to respond to lawsuits filed against the school administration. Depending on the incident that occurred or the amount of damages, the school's attorney may want to bring in other attorneys with experience in premises liability defense.If the school's insurance company has not been notified or is not a party to the lawsuit, either you or the school's attorney should provide notice of the lawsuit. The claim may be covered by the property's general liability insurance.
The school's attorney will evaluate your state's law. In many states, school districts are considered government entities and are therefore immune from liability in most circumstances.
 To defend a school administration in a premises liability lawsuit, you will work with the attorney to closely examine the allegations in the complaint and evaluate the potential benefit of various defenses.Initially, you will need to work with the school's attorney to secure all potentially relevant documents and information regarding the incident or the location where the incident occurred.
These documents may be requested by the plaintiff during litigation of the case, so gathering and retaining them is crucial. The attorney will later evaluate them to determine their value to your defense.
You also want to identify any possible witnesses, including people who may have been with the plaintiff at the time of injury, as well as school staff members who were in charge of the students or the area where the incident occurred.
 Before the deadline listed on the summons, the school administration must file some sort of response to the lawsuit. Typically this will be an answer, although depending on the attorney's evaluation of the case you may file a motion to dismiss.Typically defendants have around 30 days to respond to a lawsuit or the plaintiff may have an opportunity to win the lawsuit by default. The school's attorney will make sure this doesn't happen.
If the lawsuit was brought in a state where school districts have sovereign immunity as government entities, the attorney typically will file a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim.
If an answer is filed, it typically will consist of a denial of the plaintiff's allegations along with a list of affirmative defenses. These are defenses the school must prove, but if proven would mean the school administration isn't liable for the plaintiff's injuries.
For example, if the plaintiff was injured as a result of someone else's actions, the school may assert that the person's actions were not foreseeable, or that the injury occurred outside school hours.
 If a motion to dismiss was filed, the judge typically will hold a hearing to determine whether to dismiss the lawsuit. The plaintiff will have the opportunity to defend the case's legitimacy and explain to the court why it should be allowed to proceed.A hearing on a motion to dismiss can in many ways resemble a miniature trial. However, the judge doesn't consider any facts. If you've argued the plaintiff has failed to state a claim, the judge accepts all of the plaintiff's allegations as true.
The standard for a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim requires the party that filed the motion to prove that even if all the facts the plaintiff alleges are true, they still don't add up to anything for which the school administration can be held liable under the law.
 Before any effort is expended on pretrial litigation, you may want to make an attempt to resolve the case by extending a settlement offer to the plaintiff. Settling the case early can save a lot of time, expense, and stress.The plaintiff may have already sent a demand letter. If so, the attorneys for the school or insurance company may advise countering with a much lower offer.
If the judge has refused to grant the school's motion to dismiss, this puts the plaintiff on slightly more solid ground. However, you still can raise arguments why the school's liability should not be as high as the amount the plaintiff is demanding.
For example, if the plaintiff is a student (through her parents) who was injured by a bully who shoved her down on the sidewalk, you might argue that the plaintiff should be suing the bully who actually pushed her, not the school.
While the school may bear some responsibility in that case for neglecting to properly supervise the students, you might argue, the child who committed the act of aggression should be responsible for the bulk of the damages.
Settlement negotiations may go back and forth throughout the pretrial litigation process.
 Through the written discovery, the school administration and the plaintiff have the opportunity to exchange documents and written information that pertains to the incident at the heart of the plaintiff's case.The plaintiff also typically will send interrogatories, written questions that must be answered in writing under oath. If you are responding on behalf of the school administration, you must answer these questions to the best of your own knowledge and understanding.
Requests for production are the other part of written discovery. These are requests for documents and other evidence related to the incident alleged in the lawsuit.
The plaintiff likely will demand copies of any video from security or other closed-circuit televisions in use around the school or in the area where the incident occurred.
The school administration also can send interrogatories and requests for production to the plaintiff. In a premises liability case, you often would want the plaintiff's medical records or other proof of injury, as well as proof of the expenses the plaintiff incurred treating his or her injuries.
 During discovery, both the school administration and the plaintiff have the opportunity to interview people involved with the case using depositions, which are taken under oath and recorded by a court reporter.The school administration likely will want to depose the plaintiff, as well as any doctors who treated the plaintiff. You also may want to depose anyone who witnessed the injuries the plaintiff is claiming.
The plaintiff likely will depose any teachers or other school staff who were in charge of the area or had responsibility for monitoring the students' behavior.
 Pretrial motions filed by either the school administration or the plaintiff may result in hearings where both sides present their sides of the issue and the judge decides whether to grant the request.Generally speaking, a motion is when an attorney asks a judge to make a particular ruling. While a motion to dismiss, if granted, has the effect of ending the lawsuit entirely, there are many motions which only concern a specific part of the case.
For example, there may be motions to compel one party to answer discovery questions or submit to a deposition. There also may be motions requesting the court to allow or disallow specific documents as evidence.
Depending on your role in the defense, your presence may not be required for hearings on some procedural motions.
 Even if you are unable to reach a settlement on your own, the mediation process gives you an additional opportunity to work with the plaintiff in a confidential and non-adversarial environment to resolve the matter.Many courts require the parties in civil cases to at least attempt mediation before a trial will be scheduled.
Courts that require mediation typically have a list of approved mediators available in the clerk's office. These services may be free of charge in some jurisdictions.
Mediation generally is a voluntary process, meaning you should negotiate with the other party in good faith, but you aren't required to come to a resolution of the matter. In contrast, arbitration would impose a binding resolution on both parties.
If you are defending a school administration, mediation has the advantage of being confidential. A public trial can not only do damage to the school's reputation but also inspire others to file similar lawsuits.
 If the plaintiff agrees to participate in mediation, you likely will meet with your attorney to evaluate the case and arrive at acceptable options to resolve it.One of the benefits of mediation is that it allows you to come up with solutions that a court could not necessarily impose. You and the school's attorney may be able to brainstorm actions or policy changes that could be implemented to prevent future incidents such as the one the plaintiff experienced.
In many cases, the plaintiff may find a policy change or other action more valuable than any money he or she might win at trial.
You also have a better idea of how much the case is worth after you've obtained proof of the plaintiff's medical bills through discovery.
Typically a plaintiff will also ask for additional damages for emotional distress, which gives you room to negotiate.
 The mediation process typically begins with both parties seated together with the mediator in one room. The mediator explains the process, and each side has the opportunity to present an opening statement about the dispute.After the opening statements, the mediator typically will move the parties to separate rooms. Then the mediator will talk to each of you individually.
As negotiation proceeds, the mediator will move back and forth between each room sharing information and attempting to facilitate a settlement of the dispute.
If it appears the school administration and the plaintiff are close to agreement, the mediator may bring everyone back into the same room to hammer out the final details together.
 Mediation is a voluntary process. However, if you reach a settlement and list its terms in a written agreement signed by both parties, it becomes a legally enforceable contract.The mediator may write up the settlement terms on behalf of both parties. Read them over carefully and make sure they reflect your understanding of the agreement.
Once both parties have signed the written agreement, it can be legally enforced in a court of law.
In some situations, the court may require you to file the settlement with the court and get the judge's approval. This typically is the case if the plaintiff is a minor.
If the court required an attempt at mediation and the attempt was unsuccessful, the mediator typically will provide a form to be filed with the court that indicates both parties attempted to mediate in good faith but were unable to reach an agreement.

