 The size of the circle is completely up to you—small circles will make small pompoms, and bigger circles will make bigger pompoms.
 You should have two identical half circles.
 Cut down the paper you are going to use so that it is significantly smaller than your sheet of scrap paper. Then, place one sheet of paper flat on top of the scrap piece.
 Keeping it flat on the scrap paper, evenly divide the honeycomb paper into 4 to 8 sections (depending on how large your paper is). Instead of folding the honeycomb paper, draw lines on the scrap paper where each fold would be. Alternate mark colors every other line.


If you do not have scrap paper, you can make these marks directly on your paper, using a pencil or thin pen.
If you are using a piece of paper that is 4.25"x5.5" (half of an 8.5"x11" piece of paper), consider spacing your lines between 1 1/4 and 1 3/4 inches apart. , Keeping your honeycomb paper flat on the scrap paper, run the glue stick vertically across the honeycomb paper where you have made marks in that color.


If you are using a thin paper, such as tissue paper, hold it firmly and gently work your glue stick from the middle of the paper to the edges to prevent tearing.
 Rub firmly to make sure it sticks.
 Apply glue along the lines of the opposite color as last time. Place another piece of tissue paper on top and rub across to ensure the glue sticks.
 Be sure that you alternate glue lines between each sheet to continue the honeycomb effect.


For a multi-colored pompom, change the color of your paper halfway through the gluing process.
For a stripe pattern, change the color of your paper every 5 sheets or so.
 When you're done gluing sheets of paper, place one of the semicircles on top of the paper and trace loosely around it. Then, cut out the paper so that it is very slightly larger than the cardboard.
 Once you have cut out the honeycomb paper, glue one piece of cardboard onto each side.
 To ensure a uniform effect, pull the threaded needle at the top corner of your semicircle. Tie a loose knot, cut the thread, and repeat on the bottom corner.


Be sure you've left some slack in your knots, or the pompom will not open. Leave the thread long on one end—you can use this to hang the pompom up later.
 Pull apart slowly and round into a ball. The honeycomb pattern should become more apparent as you open up the pompom.
 This will allow the pompom to hold the spherical shape.
 Enjoy your new decorations!

