 Your child may have a trigger that causes them to talk back to you, or they may be learning this behavior from someone else. Try to figure out why your child is talking back to you, and confront the problem.If your child is cranky after school, give them an hour to decompress when they get home.
If your child always snaps at you when they’re tired, you may want to encourage naps or a better sleep schedule.
If your child is watching TV shows where children misbehave, you may want to choose different programming.
 Complimenting instills good behaviors more effectively than disciplining them does. Compliment your child on a daily basis as well as when they say something nice to you. It is important to let your child know that you love and appreciate them no matter what, not just when they are being good. You do not have to wait until they are doing something good to compliment your child. Sometimes it is more effective to give a compliment on a whim. Offering frequent compliments may improve your relationship with your child.For example, if your child talks about their problems in a healthy way, you can say, “It’s so good that you can talk about your feelings so clearly.” If your child compliments you, you might say, “That’s so nice of you. I love hearing compliments.”
Make a point of offering them daily reassurances of your love and appreciation of them. For example, you can say, "I love you", "I appreciate you", "You mean the world to me", "You are very special", or "Thank you for being such an awesome kid."

, Let your child have an opinion on what they eat, do, and wear. You can do this by offering two choices to them. This will reduce their resistance by giving them a little bit of control in their lives.At breakfast, you might ask, "Do you want apple slices or a banana?"
When they're getting dressed, you can say, "Do you want to wear blue or green today?"

, If the child is frustrated or unable to express their anger in a healthy way, try giving them some crayons and paper. Ask them to draw their feelings. This will let them express their emotions in a productive way.