 Wash 2 2/3 cup (200 g) of button mushrooms and finely chop them. Set them aside while you peel one onion and discard the peel. Carefully chop the onion so you get 1 cup (150 g) of diced onion. You should also wash a tomato and chop it to get 3/4 cup (150 g) of diced tomatoes. Set these aside while you prepare the base for the gravy.You could measure out and use canned diced tomatoes to save time.
 Heat 4 tablespoons of vegetable oil in a large skillet or saucepan over medium heat. Once the oil shimmers, add the aromatic spices and stir them into the oil. You'll need to saute:2 whole cloves
1 one-inch (2.5 cm) stick of cinnamon
1 piece of marathi moggu or several salt-dried capers

, When the spices in the oil start to sputter, carefully stir in the diced onions and one or two curry leaves. Stir the mixture so the aromatic spices combine with the onions. Saute the onions until they're brown.You'll probably need to saute the onions for 8 to 10 minutes so they're completely cooked.
 Add 1 teaspoon of ginger garlic paste and let the mixture cook for a few minutes. Stir in the diced tomatoes, a pinch of turmeric powder, 1 tablespoon of chili powder, 1/2 teaspoon of garam masala, and salt to taste. Cook the diced tomatoes until they're completely soft.If the Indian mushroom gravy becomes too thick or dry, you can stir in a one or two tablespoons of water.
 Stir in the chopped mushrooms and 1 cup (240 ml) of water. Cook the Indian mushroom curry for a few minutes. The mushrooms should soften and release their liquid. Add 3 tablespoons of coconut paste and let the gravy cook for another 6 to 7 minutes.The gravy should bubble gently as it cooks. Stir it occasionally to prevent it from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
 Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of chopped cilantro over the gravy before serving it. Use this gravy in recipes that call for traditional beef or chicken gravies. Or serve it along with rice, potatoes, or naan.While you can make this gravy ahead of time, it may separate a little once it's cooled. Whisk it well if you plan on reheating it.

