 If you have towels that are already somewhat stiff, one way to soften them up is to throw a dryer-safe ball or two in the dryer with them. The repetitive action of the ball circulating with the towels will gradually "work out" any stiff spots, leaving you with softer towels. Commercial dryer balls can be found online or at many major department stores for reasonable prices — usually no more than about $5 per ball.


If you want to save money, try throwing a few tennis balls in the dryer with your towels instead. These generally work just as well.
 Ordinary household white vinegar can help you get softer towels. If you want to do this, add about 1/2 cup during the first rinse cycle (using more for large loads and less for small loads). This helps pull the soapy chemical buildup and hard water deposits out of the towel's fibers. You should notice softer towels after just a few cycles.


Only use white vinegar for this task. Other vinegars, like apple cider and especially balsamic vinegar, can stain your laundry.
 Another good additive for getting your towels soft and fluffy is baking soda. Like vinegar, it will pull the grime and chemical buildup from the towel's fibers. As an added benefit, baking soda will also help remove odor from older towels.Note, however, that baking soda can fade bright colors.


Many online sources recommend against using baking soda and vinegar at the same time. These chemicals will react with and neutralize each other (just like in the famous "papier-mâché volcano" science fair project).
 "Hard water" is water that contains a high amount of dissolved minerals.When hard water is used to wash laundry, these minerals can build up and lead to stiffer fibers in the fabric of your towel. However, some "water-softening" products can reverse this effect. For instance, borax (sodium borate) is a safe, affordable laundry additive that can help reduce the mineral content in hard water and leave you with softer towels.Borax is available online and in the "laundry" section of most major department stores for cheap — rarely more than $5 for a small box.
 Don't have any borax handy? Try removing the hard water from your towels yourself. Gently wring the water from your towels over a sink or go outside and snap the towels to fling off excess water. The less hard water in your towels when they go into the dryer, the less mineral buildup you'll experience.
 While fabric softening products may seem like a no-brainer, many sources actually recommend not using them for towels. While they can give soft, fluffy results in the short term, over time, the chemicals in these products can build up in the dense, interwoven fabrics of most towels (just like many detergents). Over time, these will make the towels stiffer and less-fluffy. This problem is worsened by using too-large loads and using too much product.

