 Before you start building, it is imperative that you get an accurate measurement of your space. This will help you to buy an accurate amount of supplies and reduce the stress in building.


Walk around your space to decide how wide/long you want the barn to be. Once you’ve gotten a general space marked off, take exact measurements and keep track of them on a notepad.
Decide how high you want your structure to be. If you plan on using it as a garage or a storage shed, a minimum of 8 feet (2.4 m) is required. You can build it as tall as you would like though; just remember that you will have to work on the roof from the tops of the poles once they are in the ground.
Make sure that the area you choose has good drainage to avoid flooding in the rainy season.
 If so, then you will need to hire someone to set these up. You will also need to call 811, the national Digline to have utility companies come out and check for pipes and wires underground., Pull out any shrubs or trees in the space where you plan on placing your structure, in addition to a 5 foot (1.5 m) wide space around it. If you have grass down, use a sod-cutter to remove it and cut it away in pieces. It can be replanted in another area of your yard if you desire, or be used to start a compost pile.
 Make sure the area you are working with is level. It is easiest to use a tractor to do this, by moving soil from one area to another. You can do this manually though, especially when the area you are working on is already pretty level.


Check to see if any base rock is needed to build up the floor of the barn. If so, then add 4 to 6 inches of decomposed granite or a similar type of smaller, easily compacted gravel material for a dirt floor and drainage.
 You do this to mark the outline of the building you plan on making. This will make laying out the post-holes much easier, and help to keep the structure in perspective during the beginning stages. Put a small stake in each of the four corners of your building, and then wrap a long piece of string or twine between each stake.