 When you need to remove more than one drawer from a piece of furniture, you should usually start with the top drawer. Progressively work your way downward, saving the bottom drawer for last.


The order of removal is only important if the loaded drawers are heavier than the body of the furniture. In such cases, the piece can become too top-heavy if you work from the bottom up, and the piece may tip over as a result. Working from the top down prevents this issue from occurring.
 Extend the drawer out as far as it will go on its own. Stop only when the drawer reaches its natural stopping point.


You should stand in front of the piece of furniture while removing the drawers. Position one hand on either side of the drawer, keeping your hands close to the drawer front and out of the way of the metal tracks.
Keep a little space in between your torso and the drawer so that the drawer can extend outward as far as possible without being blocked.
 You should spot one lever in the center of each metal track. The lever can be either straight or curved.


Full-extension slides, which are most common on 12-inch (30.5-cm) drawers, will usually have straight tabs. Three-quarter-extension slides, which are more common on 6-inch (15.25-cm) box drawers, typically have curved disconnect levers., Use your left hand to press up on the left-side lever. Use your right hand to simultaneously press down on the right-side lever.For drawers with straight levers, simply lift or depress the lever as far as it will go.
For drawers with curved levers, lift or depress the lever until the curve flattens out. You'll need to press directly on the curved or humped portion of the lever to accomplish this.
 While still holding the levers in their correct positions, continue pulling the drawer outward and toward your torso. It should lift straight out.


Typically, the metal tracks will continue sticking out from the front side of the piece after you've removed the drawer. Carefully push those tracks inward, moving them in a straight, parallel direction, before handing the piece of furniture further.

