 Ensure your nails are healthy by getting into the habit of rubbing cuticle oil on them regularly and pushing back your cuticles with a cuticle pusher. This will make your nails strong and stop them from breaking., Use nail clippers to trim your fingernails to even lengths and a nail file to smooth them out before you apply your design. You can choose your nail shape, such as rounded or square-shaped, but a rounded nail matches the shape of a ladybug best., Before you apply nail polish, use a cotton ball soaked in rubbing alcohol or nail polish remover to remove any existing nail polish left on your fingernails. It's important to start with a clean, fresh canvas which makes the nail polish stay on better., Using a base coat allows the nail polish to stay in place. Skipping this step can lead to chipped nails early on., Using a bright red polish, brush three thin layers of red nail polish onto each nail so that the color looks opaque. Avoid painting thick coats as they will dry very slowly. Wait until each layer of nail polish dries before starting on a new coat.You can also use other bright colors as the base coat if you don't like the classic ladybug red.
 Use either a nail art pen or a thin brush to paint a long stripe across the center of your fingernails. To avoid smudges, first, apply two strips of thin nail tape to the outside edges of where you want your line to go. Then, carefully apply the polish in between these lines with your nail art pen or brush, and pull off the nail tape while the paint is still wet., Place the guides at the ends of your nail so the curve points down and the end of your nail is visible above the guide. Do not do this until your nails have completely dried, as it could tear the polish underneath.
 Keep the tip guide on as you paint so when you remove it, you will have an even line. Remove the tip guide while the black polish is still wet to ensure that it doesn't stick to your nail.
 Use a dotting tool, toothpick, or the tip of a bobby pin to paint three black dots on either side of the black line. Spread the dots out by arranging them in a triangle formation.
 Apply two white dots on the black tip of your fingernail, one on either side. You can even add a black pupil in the middle if you're going for a more animated look., Keep your stylish ladybug design intact by adding a clear top coat. Wait for your nails to dry before applying the final coat — you wouldn't want to ruin your pretty design by applying the top coat too soon. Try using a quick-drying top coat polish which will help your nails dry faster.
 Set your blow dryer to "cool" to dry your nails. The thin layers of nail polish you applied earlier on will ensure a quicker drying process. Funny enough, you can also try sticking your hands in the freezer for a few minutes to freeze your nail polish dry!, When you're done, try not to use any hot water for about 12 hours, which is about how long it takes for your nails to completely set. Try to finish any chores such as laundry and dishes before you paint your nails so the design lasts., If you want your nails to last longer and keep that glossy shine, add another top coat a couple days after your mani. You'll be glad you did!