 You may have a number of mathematical functions you need to learn, but take your time on each step. Focusing on each portion individually will make them easier to grasp and allow you to master skills without confusing things with additional variables.Don’t bite off more than you can chew. Math is like learning to read; you have to learn the sounds letters make before you can form words. Focus on learning each step, instead of the overall concept.
If you need more help with a certain subject, don’t be afraid to ask your teacher or research it online. Math skills compound, so mastering one aspect will improve your ability for the next one.
 The more you do math, the more comfortable you will be with it. Do some practice math with yourself when there’s no pressure. Once you become more comfortable with doing math on your own, it will be that much easier to transition into doing math at school or work.Do addition and subtraction at the grocery store as you add or remove items from your cart. Try to keep a running tally of your total.
If you are purchasing more than one of the same item, practice multiplication by determining the total for all of them.
Use the clock to work on fractions. Split an hour into fractions: fifteen minutes is ¼ of an hour, thirty minutes is ½. Try to think of periods of time in fractions to better master how they relate to each other.
 It might not sound very exciting, but giving yourself practice problems to solve at home can be a huge help to improving your math skills. Just like in sports, math takes practice to excel.Find math problems that are at the level you need to learn online or from your text book and practice working through them.
If you can find ones that also provide the answer, check your work to ensure you are practicing the right skills.
If the answer is not provided, ask a friend, teacher or parent to look over your work.
 Simply memorizing formulas or how to complete a math problem doesn’t always make you good at math. Having an understanding of why you use an equation will make remembering it easier and help you to solve complex problems.Memorizing formulas and equations is just the surface level of math, the important thing to learn is what those equations and formulas do and why.
You could forget memorized information, but understanding the logic behind the math you are doing will help you work problems out even if you aren’t sure about the right way to complete them.
 There are many people you can ask for assistance in learning and understanding math. If you aren’t sure about something, ask about it. Your teachers and coworkers can be a great resource in helping you to better grasp complex mathematical concepts when you’re unsure.


If you are in school, ask your math teacher when you aren’t sure about something. Let them know if you need additional help and see if they can work with you one on one.
If you are at work, ask a coworker or friend for help solving a problem. People are often happy to help and excited to share something they understand with a friend.
Look for help online if you aren’t sure where else to look. There are many websites that provide tutorials that may explain mathematical concepts in a way you understand and appreciate more.

