 Sometimes the main culprit that causes hair to thin is the shampoo you use every day. Hair cleansers, conditioners, and styling products often contain chemicals that wear down the hair, dry it out and cause it to fall out more easily than healthy hair. Immediately improve the health of your hair by making the following changes in your bathroom:


Swap shampoo with sulfates for sulfate-free shampoo. Sulfates are harsh cleaners that are effective at stripping away the oils in your hair. The problem is that without the protection of natural oils, hair gets easily damaged and frayed. Choose a shampoo made with oils and natural cleansers that won't be too harsh for your hair.
Replace commercially-manufactured conditioner with something made with natural ingredients. Conditioners can contain sulfates, too, and they also contain other chemicals that can be hard on your hair. Replace your conditioner with one that is made with coconut oil, aloe, and other natural conditioners. You can also try substituting an apple cider vinegar solution - it makes hair soft, supple and shiny.
Toss out hair sprays, gels, and pomades containing a lot of chemicals. Again, applying these to your hair can damage it over time. Use them sparingly or replace them with hair products containing natural ingredients.;
, Hair is soft and fragile, and if you're trying to grow it as thick as possible, it's important not to treat it too roughly. Certain hair-handling habits can cause hair to fall out, break off, or fray. Change up your routine in the following ways:









Wash it less frequently. Washing your hair every day doesn't give your scalp time to produce the natural oils that coat your hair and keep it healthy. Wash it three times a week at most. Use dry shampoo to freshen it up between washings.
Blot your hair dry. Instead of wringing it out and roughly toweling it, use a soft towel to gently squeeze your hair and blot it dry.
Use a wide-toothed comb instead of a brush. Brushing your hair can pull it out, and especially never brush your hair when it's wet. Use a wide toothed comb to work out the tangles gently.
 Styling tools like hair dryers, straightening irons, and curling irons are tough on hair. Use them sparingly or forego them altogether. If you absolutely must straighten or curl your hair, try straightening without heat or using sponge rollers to curl it.
 Bleaching, highlighting and coloring your hair can cause it to fall out or become dry and brittle. Chemical straighteners and permanent curls are also extremely damaging to your hair. Embrace your natural color and texture to promote hair growth and preserve the health of your hair.
 Trimming your hair gets rid of dull, damaged ends and adds new life and volume to your hair. Shorter cuts and layered cuts, especially, can make your hair appear to be thicker than it looks when it's long and untrimmed.

