 This will allow you to wear the jacket regularly over most of your clothing ensembles. For example, buy a black jacket if the majority of your clothes are bright in color, or buy a brown jacket if your clothes are in earth tones such as beige or tan.


Choose a color that makes you feel comfortable and best aligns with your personality. For example, don't buy a bright orange leather jacket if you think you may feel self-conscious wearing it out in public later on.
Buy a black jacket if you plan on wearing the jacket with both business and casual wear. Black may "dress up" your business attire and give it a professional appearance; whereas black will also denote a casual appearance when wearing the jacket with jeans or slacks.;
, Some jackets are designed to make you look slimmer; whereas other jackets may cause you to look bulkier.


Buy bomber-style leather jackets if you are lean, with broad shoulders. Bomber jackets have extra room in the chest area and will usually fit snugly around your waist. If you have a thick mid-section, a bomber jacket may cause you to appear bulkier, especially since most contain thick padding or a lining made of fleece or sheepskin.
Buy a biker or motorcycle jacket only if you are considered to be tall. Motorcycle jackets typically contain several visual effects such as zippers and pockets that can overwhelm the frame of men typically considered to be short.
If you are considered skinny and lanky, buy a jacket with an elastic waistband that can cinch snugly below your stomach. The elastic waistband will emphasize your upper chest and shoulders and may cause you to appear bulkier.
If your midsection is thick and bulky, buy a straight jacket with a streamlined cut. Straight jackets may help eliminate the bulk and padded look around your midsection area; whereas jackets that contain elastic waistbands and other adornments such as zippers and multiple pockets may accentuate your thickness.
 The sleeves on any jacket you buy should not extend past your actual wrist line; otherwise the jacket may look too small or too large for your frame.
 This length will accentuate your frame regardless of the cut you choose; whereas long jackets such as dusters or trench coats may cause you to look shapeless.
 Some materials may appear dressier; whereas other materials are designed to offer you warmth and protection.


If you are wearing the jacket with professional attire, choose lambskin material for its soft feel and sleek, glossy appearance.
If you intend to wear your leather jacket outdoors in cold weather or on a motorcycle, choose cowhide leather for its thick durability.
 This will allow you to determine how well the jacket fits and feels before your purchase.

