 If you are attending a formal dance like a winter formal or prom, you should go for a formal outfit. This means a formal dress that is floor length or no shorter than three inches above your knee, with a modest neckline. You may go for a strapless dress or a dress with a halter top as long as it fits your upper area properly.If your dress has slits, the slit should be no higher than three inches above your knee. Try to go for a dress made of flowing fabric, as your school may not allow you to get into the dance if your dress is skin tight or made of spandex. Fabric like chiffon, nylon, and silk are all good options for a formal dress.
Avoid exposing your midriff for formal dances and if your midriff is exposed, make sure you are showing no more than two inches of skin below the inseam.;
, Though you may be looking for the latest, trendy look for your formal gown, you may also want to consider dressing based on your body type. There are four main body types for high school girls:Straight: This body type appears as a straight line, with very little definition between your bust, waist, and hips. Empire waist gowns fit straight body types well, as well as fitted sheaths. You may go for a one shoulder detail on your gown to add some drama.
Pear: This body type is smaller on the top and fuller at the hips and butt. You may go for a fitted strapless gown or a halter top gown, as they will draw the eye upward. A full skirt or an empire waist will also help to show off your figure.
Hourglass: This body type is curvy, with a full bust, a defined waist, and full hips. Look for gowns for a fitted waist, as this will enhance your curves. Adjustable waist styles, such as wrap dresses, are also ideal for this body type.
Apple: This body type is apple shaped, with the narrowest point of the body located above your waist, just below your ribs. Go for a gown with an empire waist, with neck details like straps or a halter top. A gown with a full skirt or an A-line skirt are also idea for this body type.
 If you are not a gown girl, you may decide to go for a formal look by wearing nice slacks and a dressy top. Make sure your pants are made of nice material, not denim, and your top is formal enough for the dance. You will still need to follow the dress code rules if you decide to wear a top and pants.Some high schools may not approve of you wearing slacks instead of a dress. However, if you choose suit like pants and a formal top, you may be able to adhere close enough to the dress code.
 Complement your formal look by adding on accessories like high heels or shoes with a heel. Avoid wearing sneakers, flip flops or casual shoes, as this will likely be against the dress code at your high school for a formal dance. Go for comfortable heels that match your gown or your outfit., You may also decide to bring a small clutch or shoulder purse to the dance. Look for a purse made of similar material to your gown or in a complementing color. Bringing a small clutch or shoulder purse will allow you to carry the bag around easily and not have it distract from your outfit.Another accessory you may want to add to your formal look is jewelry. Go for long drop earrings for a dramatic formal look or studs with a bit of sparkle. You may also wear a necklace with a pendant or decorative elements, especially if the neckline of your gown exposes your neck. Finish your look with bracelets for a put together, formal look.
 For a formal dance, you should make an effort to do your hair. This may mean an updo like a sleek bun or a braided up do.You may want to choose an updo based on the style of your outfit. If you are wearing a long gown that is strapless, you may want to show off the top of the gown by going for a sleek bun. If you are wearing a formal top and slacks, you may decide to put your hair in a braided updo to create a more formal look for your hair.
 Another option is to splurge and get your hair done by a professional stylist or hairdresser. You may have a formal hairstyle in mind that you do not think you can do on your own. The stylist should be able to make your hair requests come true and help you create the perfect formal hairstyle to match your formal outfit.


You should get a referral for a good hairstylist from a friend or look for a hairstylist who specializes in formal hair styles. You can also bring in photographs of what you would like done on your hair so the stylist has a visual reference.
 For a formal event, you may want to go all out on your makeup. You may apply your normal foundation, highlighter, and bronzer routine, as well as blush. You may then decide to do a dramatic eye look for a little more of a formal look for your face.You may create a smoky eye using charcoal shades and shimmery champagne eye shadow, as well as eyeliner and mascara.
Be sure to finish off your smoky eye look by putting on lipstick in a dark hue, like dark red or dark purple.

