 This doesn't mean you should become a scary control freak. It's a balance. But if you give up all of the power, she will be less likely to respect you.


When taking her out - as friends or if you've worked up the nerve to ask her out on an official date - take the lead. Choose the place, offer to pay for the meal, but be sure it's all within reason. Choose some place you know that you will both have fun (if you're trying to earn her love, you'd probably get brownie points for going to someplace you know that she likes, even if it means a little suffering on your behalf).
Don't be available every time she asks.
Don't be jealous. You talk to other people. There's no bigger turn off to a girl than the guy she's interested in becoming all clingy and controlling. A little jealousy is cute, but don't overdue it with questions such as "Who was that? Are you into him? How do you know him?"
Never, ever beg. If she says she doesn't want to date you, she's not going to want to date you more if you plead. Instead, act disinterested. It will increase the chances she will change her mind.
 Women can't stand it when a guy talks about a past girlfriend too much because they want to feel unique. So avoid it at all costs.


If she asks you about why you broke up with a past girlfriend, just say "because she wasn't you." Women will over-analyze detailed answers, so don't go there. And definitely don't bring up exes on your own.
If you run into the ex, make sure to introduce your girlfriend and move on quickly.
 Women notice when a man doesn't treat other people well. They are likely to be turned off by displays of obnoxiousness.


Talk kindly to your server at restaurants, and leave a decent tip.
Never let her see you angry (unless it's about someone who has mistreated her). Woman are frightened by male anger (so resist the road rage and don't get in a fight in the bar.)
Speak respectfully of your parents and all past relationships. Even if your past relationship was a nightmare, don't go into a negative rant about it. Don't talk about it a lot, but don't talk negatively about past exes when the subject does come up.
 For many women, being unfaithful is a deal-breaker. And women may define faithfulness as emotional cheating, not just physical.


Don't flirt with other women when you are around her, and don't talk too much about other women, including people at work, or she will get suspicious.
Watch conversations on social media and texting. Always consider how she would react if she had access to your phone or computer. For that matter, let her have your passwords or see your phone if she asks. There's nothing bad on it, right?
Don't cheat and lie about it. Just don't be unfaithful, period. If you can't be faithful to her, you can hardly expect her to love you.

