 Since you don’t have a blender to whip your milkshake together, you’ll need a large container that you can use to mix, and stir all of your ingredients in.


Alternatively, you can use an electric mixer or food processor if you have those instead of a blender.
If you don’t have an electric mixer of any sort, a handheld whisk works just as well.
 Lighter ice creams will make your milkshake fluffier, while a thicker ice cream will make it creamier. If you’re using a flavor that has chunks of candy in it, you may want to let it sit out a bit longer so the ice cream is easier to mix.To make your ice cream easier to scoop and mix, consider letting it sit at room temperature for 10 to 15 minutes, or heating in the microwave for about 20 seconds.
If you are using frozen yogurt or sherbet, you don’t have to let it sit as long because it will be softer.
If you are adding fruit or chunks of candy, make sure you have cut or mashed those ingredients into small chunks.
 You want to have a ratio of about three parts ice cream to one part milk.


Like your ice cream, the thicker the milk, the creamier your milkshake will be.
Add any powder you may be using to your milk before mixing the milk into your bowl. It’s easier to dissolve any powder in the milk first, rather than trying to do so once it’s in your bowl. Use a bottle with a spherical whisk if you have one, or simply stir with a fork or spoon.
 You have several options for mixing your ingredients together depending on what consistency you want in your milkshake. If you are looking for something a bit chunkier, then you can use a spoon or masher. If you want something smoother, try whisking your mix with a hand whisk.


If you have an electric mixer, you can mix your ingredients together like you would for cake batter.
 Take a spoon and do a taste test to decide if you’re satisfied with the consistency.


You can add a little milk to thin it out, or add more ice cream to make it thicker.
 It’s best to pour as much of your shake into your glass as you can right away. This way you can enjoy your milkshake without it melting, thinning out, or becoming soupy.If you want your milkshake to be extra cold, store your glass in the freezer while you mix all your ingredients together.
Plop a dollop of whipped cream on top if you want and grab a straw.
You’re finished! Now enjoy!

