 Also known as “turnover tax,” a gross receipt tax is sometimes implemented in place of a state income tax, so check into each state’s laws regarding these taxes before you decide to where to incorporate. While income tax considers a company's revenue and allows for deductions, a gross income tax levies fees against all business transactions. This includes business transactions such as purchases of materials and equipment.Currently, Nevada, Ohio, Texas, and Washington are the only states to impose a turnover tax.Many people find this method to be economically harmful because it adds an extra layer of taxation.
 State income taxes are taxes that states levy on corporations based on the amount of income reported each year. Currently, forty-four states levy a corporate income tax, with the rates ranging from 4% (North Carolina) to 12% (Iowa).


South Dakota and Wyoming are the only states that do not levy a state income tax (nor a gross receipts tax).North Carolina, North Dakota, Colorado, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Utah are the states with the lowest income tax rates, falling at or below 5%.
 Sales tax is a fee imposed on either the seller or the purchaser of an item or goods, so this is important to consider when you are thinking about where to incorporate your business. Business owners have to be concerned with obtaining registration for taxable sales, collecting appropriate taxes, and remitting and paying the appropriate taxes.When states don’t have a sales tax, business owners can decrease the costs of materials and supplies.Alaska, Delaware, New Hampshire, Oregon, and Montana are states that do not assess a state sales tax against corporations.Keep in mind that if you sell your products online only, then you do not have to charge sales tax. However, if you sell online and you also have physical store, then you do have to charge sales tax.If you offer a service rather than a product, then you may also be able to omit sales tax from your customer transactions.For example, educational services are not subject to sales tax in New York, so if you have a tutoring business, then you would not need to charge sales tax.Make sure that you check your state’s rules regarding sales tax if your business offers a service.
 Make sure that you look into each state’s franchise tax as well before you decide where to incorporate. A franchise tax is a tax levied on corporations and businesses by the state for the privilege of conducting business transactions within a state’s borders. Each state calculates their franchise taxes differently, possibly basing it on income, shareholders, or maybe forgoing a franchise tax altogether. Therefore, it is important to calculate how much you’ll be paying in franchise taxes to determine if incorporating in a particular state is cost-effective.Franchise taxes are based on where the business operates, not where it is incorporated. For example, if you run a business from your home in Texas, but incorporate in Nevada because they have no franchise tax, you won’t receive a tax break. Because you are operating in Texas, you will be subject to Texas franchise taxes.Many people consider moving business operations to Nevada because there are no franchise taxes in this state. If you have a brick and mortar business, then you might consider setting it up in Nevada.
You can compare state franchise taxes to determine how they are assessed (based on income or stock), as well as the percentage or dollar amount paid.