 You might have done this already. If so, skip to the next step. If not, simply type "Animal Jam" into your web browser and click on the first listed result.;
, This part is kind of self-explanatory - there will be a sign in the middle of the page that says "Play now." Click on it and you'll be guided through the motions...first, you'll be asked to choose an animal. There are wolves, rabbits, koalas, seals, penguins, pandas, tigers, and monkeys to choose from. They are all great choices, but note that wolves are probably the most popular of all these animals so they're great animals to start off with. Then you'll be asked to supply a little more information, your age, gender, birth date, email, etc., and agree to the Animal Jam code of conduct.
 Lots of people skip this, but if you've never played Animal Jam before and nobody has ever showed you how, it's a critical step that will help you a lot later. You'll meet Liza, the panda shaman. There are other shamans, too, one for almost every animal on Animal Jam. She'll take you through the simpler ropes of Animal Jam - changing your colors, buying items, and how to use gems. You'll also have an opportunity to watch a video about the history of Jamaa. (Jamaa is the name of the world Animal Jam is based off of).
 Explore Jamaa. It's really a good thing to do when you first join, because the more knowledge you have of what's around you, the better. Chances are, you'll appear first in Jamaa Township, which is like a village type scene. There are a lot of shops, and usually a lot of people. This is where you'll find the main clothing store, Jam Mart Clothing, and the main furniture store, Jam Mart furniture. Don't buy anything just yet, feel free to browse the selection and see what they have, or what you might be interested in buying later. When you want to switch lands, just click on the button in your bottom right corner that looks like a globe. Then you'll be able to switch to different lands.
 This will get rid of that "new member" look, and it will make it look like you've been playing the game for longer than just one day. Jam Mart clothing is probably the best place to get your stuff. o get there, go to Jamaa township and enter the large building on your left. Click on any of the tables there and a selection of clothing items will appear. Note that some items are for paying members only, and that those items will be highlighted with gold paw print marks near their price tags. Find a few non member items to buy. Also, non members are unable to change the color of items, so if you want a different color, you might ask a member if they would be willing to trade you that item in the color you want.
 Animal Jam is full of fun games to play, so try some of them out now! You'll have a lot of fun, not to mention you'll need more gems for the later steps, which you can earn from playing games. They are scattered in almost every land, and are usually easy to find, but if you want to see all the games in one place, visit the Sol Arcade (the long, rocket shaped building in Jamaa township).
 Most people an Animal Jam are very proud of their dens, so start decorating yours now! Just like the clothing items, you may be limited on how fancy your den can be based on whether or not you are a member. Still, there are lots of fun and cheap den items out there, even for non members! To start off simple, try items such as the welcome mat, mailbox, and armchair (Jam Mart Furniture) or the non member plants sold at the Sarepeia Forest plant shop. Flags from the flag shop are also a great choice, and the striped couches at Jam Mart furniture are very popular, for couches as well as for beds. You can also dress your walls up with the free online safety plaque, which you can earn by taking the online safety quiz located in the Appondale Museum.
 Friends are a great thing to have, and on Animal Jam, making friends is incredibly easy. Simply click on a player's name tag, and click on the "add buddy" button on their player card. Other people might also send you buddy requests, even before you come to this step, and that's perfectly fine. You'll be able to accept or deny these requests, and if you want to turn them off at any time, click on the options button in the top right corner of your screen and it will be listed there. Once you're someone's buddy, you'll be able to visit their den, trade with them, play a game with them, or go to them at any time.
 Click a player's name tag, and then click on the trading tab on their player card. This will show what is currently on their trade list. If you want to send them a trade request, Click on the item you want, and click the plus buttons to add the item(s) you want to give them in exchange for it. To add items to your trade list, click on the picture of yourself in the bottom left corner of your screen. Then you can switch the tab on the left from the clothing items you have to your trade list, which you can change whenever you want to. People can send you trade requests as well, and you can turn them off the same way you do with buddy requests.

