 You can bake some simple fruity cake treats for your horse at home. Horses tend to love apples and carrots, so this recipe is normally a winner. Gather together one carrot, an apple, a cup of molasses, two and a half cups of oats, and some vegetable oil. Grate up the apple and the carrot, and then mix them in with all the other ingredients.


Place the mixture onto a shallow baking tray, and then place the tray in a pre-heated oven at 300 degrees Fahrenheit.
Bake it for around 40 minutes, or until they look golden brown.
Remove the tray from the oven and allow the mixture to cool for four hours in the fridge before you cut out the cakes.;
, For this recipe you will need a cup of dry oatmeal, a cup of flour, and a cup of chopped carrots. You will also need some sugar, salt, vegetable oil and molasses. Start by chopping up carrots into small pieces, and mix in the oatmeal and flour. Add a teaspoon of salt and one of sugar and mix it some more. Next, stir in two teaspoons of vegetable oil, before pouring in a quarter cup of molasses.


Stir the mixture thoroughly until everything is sticking together.
Use your hands to form the mixture into small balls and place them on a greased baking tray.
Put the balls into a pre-heated oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit, and bake for around 15 minutes, or until golden brown.Ensure they have completed cooled before feeding them to your horse.
 Another variation on the baked oats recipe are oat bars. You will need a third of a cup of oats, a third of a cup of sweet feed, a third of cup of molasses, and a third of a cup of flour. Mix all of these ingredients in a large bowl, starting with the oats and adding them one at a time. When the mixture is thick and sticky, mould it into a series of bars. You can wrap each bar in tin foil, or use a cookie cutter or mould if you have one.


Put the bars onto a greased tray and place them in a pre-heated oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
Bake the bars for around 22 minutes, before removing them and allowing them to cool in the fridge or freezer., You can make some simple baked cookie treats using cob feed (a mix of oats, corn, and barley). You will need eight cups of dry cob feed, three cups of ground carrots, half a cup of corn oil, two cups of flour and two cups of molasses. Gather all the ingredients and then mix them together well, in a large bowl. Leave the mixture to stand for an hour to enable the grain to absorb more of the moisture, and then stir it up again.


Scoop out teaspoon sized amounts and place them onto an oiled or greased baking tray.
Bake them in a preheated oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit, for between 12 and 18 minutes.
Cool the cookies on a cooling tray and then store them in an airtight container.