 Offenders write letters in support of their own parole for a variety of reasons. One common reason is that the inmate fears getting nervous at the hearing or doesn’t express himself well orally. If this is the case, then you should write a letter. Parole boards are looking for offenders to say certain things in their letters:Take responsibility. You can’t plead your innocence or try to minimize your role in the crime.
Express remorse. You must express heartfelt sorrow at the pain you have caused the victim and the victim’s family.
Explain how you have changed. Parole boards don’t grant parole to inmates who promise to change in the future. Instead, you need to explain how you have changed your life while in prison.
Describe your future. The parole board wants to see that you have realistic, concrete plans for leading a productive life outside of prison.;
, You can try to find sample letters written by other inmates. You can ask your lawyer if he or she has examples you can read. There are also templates on the Internet, however these are not usually real letters.


Even if you find a sample to use, remember that you must write the letter yourself.You should not have the lawyer draft it for you to sign. Instead you want the letter to feel genuine.
 You should type the letter instead of writing it by hand. A typed letter is more professional and will be easier to read. Set the font to a readable size.


Times New Roman 12 point font is fairly standard. You should adjust it if you find you can’t read font that small.
 At the top of the page you should insert the date on which you are writing the letter. Two lines beneath the date you should type in the address of the parole board. This information should all be included in the packet of information you have received from the parole board.


Two lines beneath the address, include your salutation: “Dear Parole Board”.
 In the first paragraph, you should state your name and your prison identification number. Also specify the date of your parole hearing.


For example: “My name is Jeffrey Smith, and I am writing in support of my application for parole. My hearing date is April 22, 2016 and my identification number is 12345.”

, In the second paragraph, you will need to explain the crime you committed.You should be sufficiently detailed so that the parole board does not think you are shirking responsibility for the crime.


For example, you should write “I shot the gun” instead of “the gun went off.”
You should write “I stabbed him three times in the back” not “we got into a fight and I defended myself by stabbing him a couple times.”
You also shouldn’t complain about the quality of your attorney or that the judge was biased. Also don’t try to blame the crime on drugs or alcohol (although you should certainly state if you were high or drunk during the crime).
 In the third paragraph you need to express remorse for the crime and the pain you caused the victim and the victim’s family.You may need to spend some time thinking over this paragraph. Often, it is difficult for people to put into words their sorrow at what they have done.


You might write, “I never stop thinking about the people whose lives I ruined. That is guilt that I will have to live with for the rest of my life. At night I pray that the family has managed to rebuild their lives. When I pray, I feel sorrow for the pain I have caused them. If I could go back in time and not commit the crime, I would.”

, In the fourth paragraph, explain how you have managed to rehabilitate yourself.Mention specific things: religion, earning a degree while in prison, meeting a mentor, etc. Do not simply assert that you have changed; instead, describe the process.


A short summary might read, “When I came to jail I had a seventh grade education and no interest in learning about anything or anyone else. The first year I was sent to work in the library. Bored, I sometimes leafed through magazines but realized I could barely read what was written in them. At that point, I decided to try to earn my high school diploma….” Then you can describe how education opened your mind and helped you confront the reality of your crime.
 In order to grant parole, the board wants to see that you have thought out your future. A promise to keep your nose clean is pretty empty unless you can point to specific steps that you will take once released.


You could write, “I have a support system in place for when I get out. My job, at the Stop and Top, is waiting for me. I am confident that I will do a good job as I have managed to get several commendations for the work I have done around the prison. I also have a rental available, which is close enough to my job that I will be able to walk to work. It is also close to my parents, who will stop in to visit me once a week just as they have while I have been in prison.”

, End the letter by promising the parole board that you will not commit more crimes once released. Unless they are convinced that you will stay crime-free, they will see little reason to release you back into the general population.


“If given parole, I can promise the board that I will make the most of my opportunity and not re-offend. I now have the tools to build a meaningful life for me and my family.”

, Write “Thank you for reading this letter” and then move down a couple lines to insert “Sincerely.” Sign using a pen.

