 If all you do is talk about hooking up or how much you want each other, then your relationship is mostly about sex. Sure, many relationships can start off like that -- you're obsessed with each other, you're always having sex, you're missing invitations to have sex, etc -- but if it's been a long time and you haven't progressed past the sex sex sex phase, then your relationship may not be deeper than that. Or if you are the only one disclosing all the details of your past history, relationships, etc, and he never shares real details about his past, but always phrases questions to get more information about you, then be careful he is trying to manipulate you.


See how he reacts when you ask him what he's thinking, feeling, wondering about. If he immediately backs off, then you have a problem.
 Are you spending an infinite amount of time in the boudoir? Is this balancing out with a whole lot of other activities together or is it the main (or even only) activity the two of you spend together? If it is taking up more time developing a range of interests together, then it is probable that he is only interested in your relationship for the sex. Is he requiring you to perform additional sexual acts that you are not comfortable with?


Even if it's not literally all you do, if you feel that way, then you have to follow your gut.
 Or if he doesn't really contact you after a love making session. Does he rarely or never stay the night? If so, you're one of his nightly activities, not the love of his life. If he'll give you perfunctory kiss, and then start throwing on his clothes, then he doesn't want to spend the night with you because it will feel too much like you have a real relationship. And if he always offers a convenient excuse for why he has to go, or why he doesn't contact, or he is always so busy, then that's even worse.


Sure, he may tell you that he has to wake up wicked early. But then why did he wait until 1 a.m. to come over to your place?

, In most relationships, people kiss just to show affection, to feel a connection, and to be intimate in a quick and enjoyable fashion. You can just be kissing when you're taking a walk, kissing in a dark bar, or just because you have the urge on a Monday morning. If every time you kiss your man, he starts reaching for your x-rated body parts, then he may think that he should only kiss you for some sexy time.


Check out his level of affection. Does he ever want to snuggle, cuddle, or hug just because, without any sexual connection? If not, then it may be because he wants one thing only.
 Have you been hooking up for months, but you've never met a single one of his friends? Does he hang out with his friends all the time without you but never invite you out to join him? That's because either he's too embarrassed to bring you around, because he doesn't want to invest that much in your relationship, or even because there may be some other girls hanging around who he wants to keep away from you.