 For a baking station, having the work area below counter height can be helpful, as it can help you get the right leverage when rolling and cutting baked goods. If you can't have a lower work area, try adding a small, sturdy step stool to the area, so you can raise yourself higher.Generally, a good height is between 30 inches and 36 inches from the floor, though it may differ depending on how tall you are.;
, When you're thinking about a baking area, get out all your baking supplies. You can't design a space until you know exactly how much space you'll need to store everything. Having the visual can help you determine the size of your baking station., Because baked goods are cooked in the oven, it's best to put your baking station near the oven if possible. Locating it near the oven will make it easier to transfer the goods before and after they're baked, reducing the chance of mishap., Another option is to put your baking area out of the way, so that it doesn't create a mess in the main part of your kitchen. For instance, some people with a large pantry set up a baking area in there, so that it's out of the way., A flat, marble area makes an ideal place to roll pastry. Even if you don't have marble counter tops, consider adding a marble area for your baked goods. If that option is too expensive, consider adding other options, such as a mat designed for rolling out baked goods.Marble is a good choice because it is a hard surface, good for rolling. It's also very cleanable, and it stays cool, which is good for working with doughs., You obviously need counter space for a baking area, but storage area is just as important. You're going to need space to store away your baking tools. While some things, such as ingredient canisters, can stay on the counter, you don't want everything out on the counter. Dedicate some cabinet space to your baking station.
 One option to keep everything together where you need it is to use a small rolling cart with storage. You can move it easily around the kitchen, so you can have it wherever you need it. That way, you won't need to gather and move your supplies one by one.This type of cart can be tucked out of the way when you're not using it, making it convenient.

