 Do not provide any personal banking information, such as your banking institution and account number or credit card number to vendors you do not know or recognize. Do not open emails or site offers that require you to provide personal banking information for access, as these are likely scams.Trustworthy vendors will only ask you for your personal banking information once you have agreed to purchase an item or service online. Many vendors will use certified processing tools or sites to complete your purchase online. Legitimate vendors will have safeguards in place to protect your personal banking information from theft.
 You should make sure you understand exactly what you are signing by reading all contracts thoroughly, including the fine print. A trustworthy vendor will be transparent and willing to explain any details of the contract that confuse you or are unclear to you.You should check that the contract protects you as a consumer and does not limit or restrict you from returning or exchanging an item. If there is print that restricts you from doing this, you should be aware of it and willing to agree to it.
If the sales pitch by the vendor includes details not in the contract, you should clarify this and request that it is added to the contract in writing. This will ensure you are protected as a consumer and that the contract is clear to both you and the vendor.
 As a savvy consumer, you should always keep copies of your receipts and contracts for all items and services you buy. Having a record of your receipts will ensure you know exactly where your money goes and that you have information on hand in the event of a dispute with a vendor or seller.You should also always keep records of any warranties you have for items you buy. Make sure you keep a copy of the warranty for at least the duration of the warranty, as you will need it in the event of an issue or incident with the item.
There are apps available that you can download on your phone to help you keep track of your receipts, many of them free. These apps are easy to use and make it easy for you to maintain a record of your transactions without having to sift through piles of paper.