 Go to the grocery store and buy a liter or two of plain soda water. Look for a brand that doesn't contain sugar or any other additives. All you need is plain, carbonated water.


If you have a carbonation machine at home, there's no need to get carbonated water at the store.
You can also buy "sparkling water" - sometimes soda water goes by that name.;
, Would you like to make a fruity flavor, or something a little richer? The sky's the limit when it comes to making your own soda. Choose one of these delicious flavors, or make up your own:


Lemon lime. This classic flavor combination is refreshing, and even more so when you create it yourself using fresh limes and lemons.
Vanilla cream. Another soda counter favorite, this smooth, rich soda is delicious any time of year. You'll need whipping cream and vanilla extract.
Chocolate. Chocolate soda is surprisingly easy to make - all you need is some chocolate syrup, and you're good to go.
Tropical punch. Buy some mangoes, pineapples, and kiwis, or skip the whole fruit and just buy a variety of juices to make your tropical soda.
 The great thing about making your own soda is that you get to choose how sweet to make it. You can stick with plain sugar or go with a different flavor like honey, agave nectar, or even molasses. Choose a sweetener that matches the soda flavor you designed.


Soda made with fruit won't need as much sweetener as other types of soda, since the fruit itself provides a lot of the sweetness.
Pair vanilla and chocolate sodas with maple syrup for an interesting twist.
Make diet soda by using a sugar substitute.
 Pour the carbonated water into a large pitcher or punch bowl. Add the flavor you chose, whether it's freshly squeezed fruit, chocolate syrup, or cream and vanilla. Mix in some sweetener, then stir the entire concoction with a large spoon. Serve immediately or store in a capped bottle for later use.


Taste the soda as you add flavorings and sweetener to determine how much more you want to add.
Serve the drink in clear glasses with straws to show off its pretty colors and the sparkling bubbles. Homemade soft drinks make a great party treat.

