 It is always important to make sure that the shelter or rescue you are supporting is a legitimate non-profit charity. Sometimes puppy mills will disguise themselves as a rescue to sell puppies or dogs who do not live up to their standards. Others will pack in as many dogs as they can in filthy conditions to maximize profits from adoption fees.If a breed-specific rescue is only offering puppies, be aware that it might be a puppy mill. Legitimate rescues will normally offer dogs of many different ages.Visit the shelter. A filthy or overcrowded shelter is usually a sign that they are complying with local animal laws. If the dogs appear malnourished, they may not be using their funds for food.
Puppy stores are not shelters. They sell the dogs for profit, and they often buy their dogs from puppy mills. Avoid donating to these stores. If you are worried about the welfare of these dogs, contact animal control instead., Some pet shelters may have a wish-list of items that they need desperately. Others may be trying to raise money for a new building, new bedding, or special medical care.To identify the best donation for your shelter, call them. You can ask:


“Are there any special projects that the shelter needs money for?”
“Are you in need of food, bedding, or other supplies?”
“What is the proper way of donating money to your shelter?”
“What types of items do you not accept?”

, Shelters need money to buy food, medical care, and food for dogs. By raising money, you can help improve the quality of life for dogs in the shelter. It may also allow the shelter to care for more dogs without euthanizing them.


You can host a bake sale, garage sale, or other small scale sale to raise money at your own home, school, or office.
If you have a birthday or wedding coming up, you might consider asking guests to donate to your local shelter instead of buying you gifts.You can set up a crowd-funding page for your local shelter on a platform like Go Fund Me or Generosity.com to solicit donations.
 You can encourage people to donate dog food, toys, treats, and other dog items. This will save the shelter money. It may also give the dogs a special treat. Some things you can donate include:Food and water bowls
Leashes
Dog beds and blankets
Toys like tennis balls, chew ropes, or KONG toys
Both wet and dry dog food

