 Because pigeons are social animals, keeping a single one is only recommended if you're sure you can offer enough time and companionship to keep your pigeon happy.


You should also consult local regulations to verify that you are permitted to keep pigeons.There are many different breeds of pigeons and their respective social needs vary considerably. However, you should be able to set aside some time every day to help socialize your pigeon.;
, You should have indoor accommodations for your pigeon and, if at all possible, outside accommodations as well. It is important that you prepare these ahead of time. It will be disconcerting to the pigeon to relocate it without providing it with a new home immediately. Clean all cages before your pigeon arrives.


An ideal indoor cage is rectangular and partially enclosed. Be sure that there are no holes in the cage long enough for the pigeon to stick its head through. Because pigeons like to walk, the bottom of the cage should be covered with paper or grassy sod. Keep the cage in a bright area but not one with direct sunlight. If the cage is in a place liable to be exposed to light at night, you should cover the cage during the evening.
An outdoor aviary should be approximately 6’ square and 8’ high. Include shelves for nesting, including one as high as possible in the enclosure. The enclosure should be sturdy enough to protect against outside predators. If possible the aviary should be oriented toward the south or southwest, allowing for maximum sunlight.include in the housing a bath that the bird can use to clean itself.
Certain breeds are adapted to free flight. You can provide them with a “dovecote,” which is a small structure that can be attached to the side of your house. Be aware, however, that your bird could be hunted by predators if permitted to fly freely., There are a variety of mixes that are designed for pigeons and doves. Pelleted diets are the best source of nutrients. Seed diets and other commercial mixes will require more supplementation.


You can supplement the pigeons regular diet with lettuce, endive, chickweed, spinach, berries, apple, and pears.
Providing the pigeon with grit and gravel will help it digest its food.
Pet stores also sell vitamins and calcium supplements for birds that can help improve your pigeons health., Online you can find databases of local breeders.. Some locations also have issues with abandoned pigeons. That means you should be able find them at the local animal shelter.Either way, you should ask about the breed of pigeon and care specifications, because different breeds vary considerably in terms of needs and behavior.


it is recommended that you meet a few pigeons beforehand to check for allergies, and make sure they meet your expectations. Judge whether or not the shelter is clean and the pigeons well cared for. If the pigeons are not well cared for, it might be difficult to socialize them.