 Take a measuring tape, and measure from the trunk to where you want the tree skirt to end. Add ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) to your measurement for seam allowance.
 Choose a fabric to be your main/outer fabric, and another fabric to be the underside/lining. Stack the two fabrics on top of each other, right sides together, then fold them in half.
 Tie a piece of string to a pen, then pin the other end the folded part of the fabric. Adjust the string until it matches your measurement, including the extra ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Hold the pen until the string is taut, then use it like a compass to draw an arch.
 Adjust the string again until it is about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) long. Hold the string taut, then draw a smaller arch. This will make the center part of the tree skirt that goes around the tree trunk.


If your tree has a really thick trunk, make the inner arch bigger.
If your tree is very small, make the inner arch smaller.
 Cut the outer arch first, then the inner one. Make sure that you cut through all layers of fabric at the same time. Don't unfold the fabric yet.
 Start cutting at the outer edge of the big arch, and stop cutting when you reach the inner arch. Use one of the folds as a guide.This will create the opening slit. Unfold the circles when you are done.
 Choose ribbons that are between ½ and 1 inch (1.27 and 2.54 centimeters) wide. They can be the same color as your skirt or a contrasting one.


If you have a small tree skirt, cut four pieces of ribbon instead. Use thinner ribbon, if you can.
 Turn the main/outer fabric circle so that the right side is facing you. Pin the ribbons to the open slit, three on each side. Make sure that the ribbons are facing into the circle and are not sticking out beyond the slit.Place a set of ribbon on the top of the slit, and another at the bottom. Place the last set of ribbons in the middle.
 Pin the two skirt pieces together with the right sides facing in. Make sure that the ribbon closures are tucked inside. Sew around the inner and outer arches as well as the slits using a ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) seam allowance. Leave a gap between two of the ribbons for turning., Snip the corners at the top and bottom of each slit. Cut some notches into the inner arch and the outer arch. This will reduce bulk and help your fabric layer smoother., Use a knitting needle to help poke out the corners. When you are done, the ribbon closures should now be on the outside! Gently press the seams with an iron using a heat setting suitable for the fabric.
 Thread a needle, then use a ladder stitch to sew the gap shut., At this point, your tree skirt is done, but if you can add some final touches to make it nicer. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Topstitch around the seams. You can use a contrasting or matching thread color.
Add a trim, such as pompoms, rickrack, ribbon, or bias tape.
Apply appliqués using fusible interfacing. You can also hand stitch them on.
Stitch designs onto the skirt, like on a quilt.

