 If you are in year eight, and you still wear your hair in pig tails and have Winnie the pooh t-shirts then maybe it's time to update your wardrobe. Cool shops for teen and tween girls are New Look, Accessorize and Claires Accessories. Although they are practical, jeans and hoodies aren't always the best thing to wear. If you are short, try a a skirt or a jumpsuit and a cute top. If you are tall, try maybe a tube skirt and a blouse, or leggings and a dress top.;
, Most schools have a set uniform and many are strict about them. Schools let girls wear stud earrings, so try a sparkly pair or some that match your eyes. Get in style shoes, although if you are tight for money then most clothes and shoe shops sell very cheap black ballet pumps. If your uniform is a skirt then don't wear it on your knees! The average length for teen girls is about 5 or 6 inches (12.7 or 15.2 cm) above the knee. You can also wear patterned tights or coloured ankle socks (if your school allows it.) If you wear a tie then make it short and pin some badges to it. Thin chain necklaces are a great way to add to the sparkle on your head area, especially If you have your hair up. Small rings, friendship bracelets and charity bands are cool too. Try wearing a vest underneath your school shirt/blouse and letting it hang out under your jumper.
 Shower once everyday, or if you are sporty possibly twice a day. Wash your hair in the evening so it is dry when you wake up. Use deodorant and nice smelling soap/body wash. If you are allowed, you could shave your legs (you don't have to!)

, If you have straight hair, try a side fringe and a side parting or a scruffy bun with a fringe. If you have wavy or curly hair try a top knot or just leave it natural! If you fuss with frizzy hair to much, it looks even worse than when you started. All the steps so far have been about appearance, but that's not all you need to make people like you!

, Smile and laugh at jokes. It's good to make your own jokes once in a while as well, If you are upset about something at home or in school, tell people if they ask, instead of saying 'nothing', because then people will get the impression that there really is nothing wrong and you are just generally grumpy. People will like you if you relax and smile a lot.
 Don't tell people to shove off or go away just because you are having a bad day and they try to talk to you. Help people with books, hold open doors and generally be helpful. If you are nice to them, they'll be nice to you.
 Don't walk around the school grounds by yourself, find a group of people and walk around with them. If you are shy or uncomfortable in large groups, find one or two people who you think are nice and talk to them.
 It's all very well being friends on a low level with everyone, but when it comes to the crunch then you need some real friends that you can rely on. It doesn't matter if they're boys or girls, as long as you like them and know you can trust them then they're a brilliant friend.
 Find an activity that you enjoy in school (many girls like sports such as hockey, netball or tennis.) If you're not the sporty type, then try art or ceramic clubs. If there are other kids in your year doing this club, then you are bound to make friends with them.
 If you find it hard in some subjects, ask for help or go to a homework club. It IS cool to work hard, and people will admire you for it.
 Enjoy your time in year eight because its probably one of the best years of your school life. Just be yourself and everyone will like you for who you are.

