


Most kitchen staples are such because they have an extended shelf life and can be used in a variety of dishes. When deciding which kitchen items to stock up on, it is important to keep in mind how long you will be able to keep them in your pantry or refrigerator. You should buy a minimal amount if it is an item that has a short shelf life or if you will only use a small amount at a time. You should buy several boxes or cans of a staple item if it has a long shelf life and will be used in large amounts at a time. When your kitchen staples are on sale is a great time to stock your pantry.;
,


Herbs and spices are used in almost everything you make in your kitchen. The ingredients you choose to stock in your kitchen are specific to you and your type of cooking. If you do a lot of baking, you will probably choose staples such as cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg. If you cook more savory dishes, you will need kitchen staples such as black pepper, basil and dill. Choose staple herbs and spices that are most conducive to your style of cooking.



Dry ingredients such as beans, pasta, flour, sugar and rice are great kitchen staple items to always have on hand. These items can be added to a variety of dishes to change the flavor, consistency or can turn a thin dish into something hearty. Dry goods also have a lengthy shelf life so, once you stock up on them, you won't have to worry about purchasing them for quite awhile.



You can always keep meats, vegetables and fruits on hand by keeping a supply of them in your freezer. Stock up on these items when your favorite brand is on sale and you should be set for a long time. Be sure to store them well, though, to avoid freezer burn. There are many staple items that can last a long time in your refrigerator. Obviously, your typical mayonnaise, mustard, ketchup, jelly, salad dressing and butter have a fairly long shelf life. You can add more staples, though, to your list by placing other items such as coffee grinds, nuts, and oils in your refrigerator to lengthen the amount of time you can use them.



In order to make stocking up on staple items for your kitchen worth it, you have to use them. To help you remember what you have, it is important to have your kitchen organized and accessible. This will not only help you cook faster and more efficiently, but it will prevent you from buying more of an item you don't need.

