;
, Our ways have developed with good intelligence & warm hearts & these things have been the way for good reason, even if you don't happen to like it right now. People generally behave with good intentions, even if they get it wrong, so try to gain some clarity on this. We can evolve better ways as we always build on the ideas, understanding and strengths of what we know. Create with good heart and also respect that right now things are as they are.
 You have everything you need inside you. You will find your way and if you try just a little, the way it is is that the universe will help, sometimes in a surprising way and always good.
 You may learn something in 5 minutes or 15 years that will make perfect beautiful sense of everything you're struggling with right now. You may yet become glad things are the way they are. Or perhaps your experiences will enable you to help someone else someday. Perhaps you will grow & express yourself more openly allowing others the ease to be more open with you and in their own lives. Time changes many thoughts.
 It doesn't stop most of us having a good go at times anyway, so crack on there, have at it for a bit. But know when to stop. Give it a good, hard stare. Face it, unafraid, with good grace.
 Think outside your norm if you like, but stop short at anything which will in anyway harm. For that is not the way. Nor is fear. Be creative, listen to your wisest, clearest inner voice. Look at what will make you proud of yourself, honestly, now and in 20 years time. How would you like it to be? When you have peace in your heart, despite everything going on around you, you'll find what you need. The way is the one which glows, makes you feel most alright about everything & has least boulders on the path.
 Our egos love a bit of drama. They usually make a mess. Are you thinking from your heart, centred, working for the highest good of everything & harming none? Is love, honest, genuine, undemanding love where you're coming from? It should be, for the best results.
 Know yourself, know your strengths & flaws & run your plan by these, see how you could develop strengths & replace unhealthy habits with positive, happy ones. Shine your light, radiate your unique, beautiful, wonderful ways in the world. Accept and acknowledge the parts of you you're not liking just now, see ways you can begin to heal them.
 Simple as that.
,