 It is important when choosing the different options in the character customization screen to understand how those choices will affect your later game play. Each race has different starting stats and abilities, and knowing those will get you off to a great early start in Skyrim.
 The different races all have aspects of the game they are particularly good at. Select your race not only for what it looks like but also based on the starting skills of each race and the powers they come with upon creation. There are ten different races you can play in Skyrim., The Altmer, or High Elves, are particularly adept at Illusion magic. They start the game with a bonus to regenerate magicka (Skyrim’s version of mana), an ability to gain +50 to magicka at will, a +10 to the Illusion skill, and a +5 to Alteration, Conjuration, Destruction, Enchanting, and Restoration. They also have the additional spelled, Fury., The Argonian is a lizard like creature that excels at being sneaky. They make excellent thieves. They begin the game with the power to recover health faster once per day, have increased resistances to disease, the ability to breathe underwater, and a higher unarmed damage. Thier starting bonuses to skills include a +10 to lockpicking and a +5 to Alteration, Light Armor, Pickpocket, Restoration, and Sneak., The Bosmer, or Wood Elves, are very good at Archery. They start the game with the skill to command animals and have a 50% increase to resist both disease and poison. Thier bonuses to skills are a +10 to Archery, and a +5 to Alchemy, Lockpicking, Pickpocket, Light Armor, and Sneak., The Dunmer, or Dark Elves, are particularly skilled at Destruction magic. They have the ability to invoke their Ancestor’s Wrath once per day and cause any opponent that gets close to them to take fire damage. They start the game with a 50% increase to fire resistance, a +10 to Destruction, and a +5 to Alchemy, Alteration, Illusion, Light Armor, and Sneak., The Breton are humans with the power to absorb 50% of the magicka from spells cast against them. They naturally resist a quarter of any magic used against them, and are very adept at Conjuration spells with a bonus of +10 in Conjuration. They also have a +5 to Alchemy, Alteration, Illusion, Restoration, and Speech. Additionally they have access to the spell, Conjure Familiar., Imperials are lucky in every sense of the word. They have an increased chance to find gold, they can use the power Voice of the Emperor to calm even the toughest of foes, and they can easily pick up any one handed weapon and put it to good use. They are also very good at Restoration spells. They have a +10 in Restoration and a +5 to Block, Destruction, Enchanting, Heavy Armor, and One-Handed weapons., The cat creatures, Khajiit, are the sneakiest of them all. They have a natural weapon in the form of claws. They can see very well in the dark by using the power Night Vision. They have a +10 to Sneak and a +5 to Alchemy, Archery, Lockpicking, Pickpocket, and One-handed weapons., The Nord are a large race of humans that inhabit the majority of Skyrim. They have an increased resistance to Frost, the power to make all targets flee in fear once per day, and are adept at the large two handed weapons with a +10 to Two-Handed skill. They also have a +5 to Block, Light Armor, One-handed, Smithing and Speech., The Redguards are great at single-handed combat weapons. They have the power to regenerate stamina at 10x faster rate once per day. They start the game with a +10 to One-handed, and a +5 to Alteration, Archery, Block, Destruction, and Smithing., Once you have chosen your race all other decisions are solely cosmetic. You will be able to create a truly unique character in Skyrim with the many options in the character customization screen. You can choose to be male or female and change nearly every aspect of your body, face, and hairstyle. If you do not like your face, you can change at a later time in game., The Items menu is your inventory. This menu is the catch-all place to equip items, weapons, armor, scrolls and to consume food., This menu shows you your different spells and shouts. You should also be aware that it is in this menu that you can check on the effects of diseases and poisons done to your character., The Map menu will open up the world map. You can then use it to fast travel to any place you have already been., The Skill menu is where you will level up your character, choose perks for individual skills you have leveled, and where you will choose new attributes., The Quest Journal is where you view your quests. You can make any quest active by choosing it, and a map marker as well as compass marker will appear to guide your way., The skills system in Skyrim is simple and liberating to use. There is no wrong way to do it. Each skill has an individual level attached to it and in the skills menu you can add perks that increase the abilities associated with that skill., Every character level you gain one perk and may assign it to any skill. The skill must be leveled to the required level for that perk in order to assign the perk to it. You can level skills by using them, training them through NPC’s, or through reading certain in game books., Every time your character gains a level you will be able to increase one of either health, stamina, or magicka. Depending on your character’s focus you will want to put more into one than the others., Which one feels right.

Do you favor a bow or a greatsword.
 You might want to use heavy armour. Likewise, using mage robes for a mage is not necessary, but they will increase Mana regen and do other good Mana buffs.
 While it may seem useless, having a mindset for your character helps you make decisions better.
 Soon, you will have 20+ options of side and misc quests to keep you busy.

