 Retinoids also come in oral form and, due to the medication's relation to Vitamin A, they can reduce the production of skin cells. This helps slow the scaling and flaking associated with psoriasis.Usually, oral retinoids are prescribed if your psoriasis does not respond to other treatment options. The main downside is that symptoms of psoriasis often return when treatment ceases.Hair loss and lip inflammation may occur while on oral retinoids. Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should not take oral retinoids as they can cause severe birth defects., Methotrexate tablets help reduce psoriasis by decreasing skin cell production. They also reduce inflammation.In low doses, most patients experience minimal side effects on methotrexate. An upside to the medication is that it can stall psoriatic arthritis in some patients.Side effects may include upset stomach, fatigue, and loss of appetite. Longterm use is not recommended, however, as severe side effects such as liver damage and decreased production of red and white blood cells can occur if the medication is used too long.Topical application of liposomal methotrexate hydrogel is scientifically proven to be quite effective compared to conventional medication.
 As many oral medication carry heavy risk of side effects and cannot be used long term, injections might be an option if your psoriasis does not respond to other treatments.


Enbrel, infliximab (Remicade), adalimumab (Humira) and ustekinumab (Stelara) are all given by intravenous, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injection. Usually, your doctor will only recommend such procedures if your psoriasis does not respond to other therapies and is causing arthritis.Biologically, such treatments should block interaction between certain cells in order to reduce skin inflammation.If you are taking these medications, you will probably be screened for tuberculosis as the meds have a strong effect on the immune system. They are usually a last resort effort and should only be used with extreme caution and under supervision of a doctor.