 Ask your partner, “Do you think I am protective of what we have together?” or “Do you think I am overprotective?”

Listen carefully to your partner’s answer. If you are confused or have follow-up questions, ask for more information when your partner has finished speaking.
If your partner expresses that you could be more protective and caring, take proactive steps to show that you care. For instance, if your partner indicates that you seem unconcerned when others flirt with them, explain why you react the way you do.
You could explain that you feel so confident in your relationship that you do not feel obligated to fend off other people who are flirtatious with your partner. Do not be defensive or passive-aggressive when explaining yourself. Explain your perspective in a calm, measured way and refer only to your own actions and beliefs.
For instance, do not respond to your partner’s expectation that you will be more protective by arguing that because he or she is not protective, you do not need to be either.
If your partner thinks you’re overprotective, take proactive steps to reduce your overprotective behaviors. For instance, if you scrutinize and over-analyze the messages she gets on social media, or designate which of her friends she can see, she might be concerned that you’re being overprotective. Adjust your behavior appropriately.;
, For instance, you might send a short message like, “Thinking of you,” or “Hope you’re having a great day.”


If you know your partner has a rough time ahead or is facing a serious challenge refer to it in your short, thoughtful message. For instance, if your partner has a test later, you could write, “Good luck on your test!”
Don’t overdo it. One or two brief, spontaneous messages a day is enough. More than that might be perceived of as clingy.
 Nonsexual touching can inspire feelings of affection and provide small opportunities for bonding. Showing you care is as important as saying you care.


When you wake up in the morning give your partner a big hug and a peck on the cheek.
If your partner is sitting or laying down watching TV, give them a squeeze on the shoulder as you pass by.
After your partner comes home from work, offer to give them a back rub to relieve the day’s tension.
 If a certain friend or family member is constantly pressuring you in overt or subtle ways to leave your partner, limit the time you spend with them. For instance, perhaps your mother makes sniping comments about your partner like, “She doesn’t have much of an education, does she?” You might have a friend who insists, “You could do much better.” You should respond to these situations by defending your partner. Tell the individual in question, “I’m in a loving and committed relationship. I wish that you could see how happy my partner makes me.” Explain to the friend or family member that you love and are committed to your partner. Encourage your partner to do the same.


Sometimes friends and family have serious concerns about our choice in romantic partners. Listen carefully to the issues your family and friends are concerned about regarding your partner. If many people have similar or overlapping concerns, you might be in a bad or abusive relationship.
Do not complain publicly about your partner. If you have issues with your partner, work them out one-on-one behind closed doors.


Go out in public with your partner. Instead of spending every night inside watching TV and eating dinner, go on dates. For instance, you could go to dinner in a nice restaurant and see a film together. You could go downtown and go shopping, or just enjoy walking around. Use your imagination to concoct a fun date you can do with your partner.

Celebrate your relationship on social media. Post happy pictures of you and your partner doing fun things together. Update your personal information to reflect the fact that you’re in a relationship.
Tell friends and family about fun things you and your partner did together. For instance, if your coworkers inquire as to what you’ve been up to, say, “My partner and I went to the park this weekend. It was great fun,” or “My partner and I had a barbecue in our backyard. We really enjoyed it.”

, Good health is the cornerstone of a good life. If your partner is not exercising enough -- or too much -- express your concerns in a loving way.


You could say, “I am concerned about your health. I want us to have a long, happy life together. Let’s work together to stay healthy.” Encourage your partner to get fit with an invitation such as, “Let’s go for a bike ride.” You might also say, “There’s a new gym nearby. Let’s check it out this weekend.”
Partners who work out together tend to improve the quality of their relationship.Take a walk after dinner or a bike ride at the park with your partner. Not only will be burning calories, but you’ll get to bond with your partner.
Besides working out regularly, eating right is an important component of good health. Go shopping with your partner so you can both buy things that you want to eat together. Choose healthy foods like vegetables, fruits, and whole grains. Avoid processed, packaged foods loaded with salt, sugar, and fat.

