 Reducing the length of your trip to work, school, shopping, and wherever else you need to go is a painless, easy way to cut down the distance you drive and the time you spend in the car. It also makes it easier to use transportation other than driving.
 Do what you can online or by phone.

Comparison shop online rather than hunting all over town, or call merchants to ask about prices and availability.
Make an appointment online or by phone.
Deposit checks with a phone camera and app.
Pay bills and send messages online rather than go to the post office.
Call into a meeting or webcast.
Don't shop or drive simply because of boredom. If you're going just to get out of the house, take a walk or bike ride around your neighborhood.


Make a shopping list as you run out of items around the house.
Shop in fewer, larger trips.
Reduce the number of separate stores you visit. Is it worth your time and fuel to go all over town for specialty items or better deals?
Combine shopping with other trips, too. Should you visit the post office or doctor while you're in that part of town? Is the store on your way home from work or school?
Take your shopping list with you so you don't have to return to get a forgotten item.
 It's no fun hunting around for a parking spot, and it's a waste of time and resources, too.

Go at times when there will be less demand for parking. You may also manage to miss the crowds in your favorite restaurant or on the roads, by avoiding peak hours.
Don't circle the lot in a quest for the very closest spot. Park further from the building and walk a few more steps.
If you know parking will be costly or in short supply, try to avoid driving. Take transit, carpool, bike, or take the bus.
 If you can perform your work remotely, ask about telecommuting. Not all jobs are suited to it, and not all managers and workplaces are amenable, but if you can save even one day's commute per week, it will add up. Some people find they can be more productive without all the distractions of a busy office., If your trip is less than about 10 miles, try going by bicycle. You'll get exercise and fresh air, and you'll have a lane all to yourself. You might even get there as fast as you could sitting in traffic in a car. Riding a bike is fun, too.

Get a rack, backpack, panniers, or trailer if you need to carry things.
If it's been awhile since you've been on a bicycle, get together with an experienced rider, and make short, easy trips at first.
Don't forget to inflate your tires. It's much easier and you'll go faster with good tire pressure.
 If you're going less than a mile, enjoy some fresh air and get there on foot. It's great exercise, and it offers a nice break from other fast-paced activities., You can walk or bike to the stop, or drive to a park-and-ride.

Use your bus or train time for things you couldn't do while driving. Read a book or magazine, sleep, catch up on your email, plan your day, learn a language, or do a portable handcraft.
 If you do drive, take along passengers. You can share the costs and the driving time, and you may be able to use a high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lane to save additional time.

Use apps to connect with neighbors with similar commute patterns.
Use rideshare boards to identify people going your way if you are taking a longer drive or road trip.
 There's no bus involved. Instead, children walk to school together in groups, and neighborhood parents take turns supervising the groups., Then, remind everyone to keep it up. Biking and walking to school is more fun the more people do it. It's also safer.

If safety is a difficulty near your child's school, work with the city, the school, or the district to get crossing guards at nearby intersections.
More kids and parents biking or walking to school makes for fewer cars around the school, which is safer for everyone.
 You might spot a way to avoid driving. You might also shorten your route or avoid traffic slowdowns. Some map applications can give you typical or historical traffic, too. Use that information to avoid traveling at peak hours.