 One way to become aware of the cause of your fear is to be more aware of yourself in general. Being present in the moment and aware of your emotions and thoughts can help you identify what exactly you’re afraid of. It can also help you recognize what strategies help you overcome your fear. Meditation and yoga classes can train your mindfulness for everyday life.


Be fully present in the moment by focusing your senses and your mind on what you are doing. For example, if you’re eating, pay attention to how the food smells, looks, tastes, and feels in your mouth.
Pay attention to how certain situations and the thought of certain situations make you feel. For instance, you might think, “When I thought about speaking at the meeting, I got nauseous.” Keep a journal to track these thoughts and discoveries.;
, Fear of the unknown often has an underlying cause you may not be aware of. Figuring out what exactly you’re afraid of about unknown situations and why you’re afraid can help you overcome the fear.It is often easier to get insight into other people than about ourselves, so consider talking to a trusted friend or a therapist who can help you identify patterns or connections. In the meantime, you can start with some self-reflection:


Think about the last time you feared the unknown or about something you’re afraid of know. For example, you may fear living on your own after a divorce.
Write down what this situation meant or will mean for you. For example, living alone will mean being independent, spending more time alone, and being responsible for everything.
Highlight those things that make you anxious about the situation. For instance, you may be okay with being independent and responsible for everything, but being alone may scare you.
Ask yourself why those specific things scare you. Did something happen in your past to make you uneasy about similar situations? How did you (or the affected person) handle the situation?

, This game is one way to figure out what you’re afraid of. It can be useful when you’re having trouble articulating what you fear. By completing the sentence “I am afraid of ___ because ____” you can force yourself to figure out what exactly you’re afraid of and why.


For example, you may fear traveling because of the uncertainty you feel it has. You could say, “I’m afraid of traveling because someone might break in while I’m gone.”
Or, for instance, you may be afraid of dating. You might say to yourself, “I’m afraid of asking someone out because they might reject me.”

