 Take everything you need with you to class. It would be a good idea to take books, folders, pens, pencils, homework, review sheets and anything else you need.;
, Staying organized in school is extremely important. If you are organized, then you are one step ahead in being successful. Keep a folder for each subject, that means that you put your math papers in your math folder, your Language Arts papers in your Language Arts folder, your science papers in your science folder, and so on. To make this easier, use color codes or label your folders.
 When a teacher is giving a lesson, take notes and if you don't understand something, raise your hand and ask questions. The more questions you ask, the smarter you'll get, believe it or not. Taking notes will help you think and help you understand what is being taught more.


The teachers expect you ask questions and form an impression of you from how willing you are to do so.
Concentrate on staying focused. Keep your eyes on the teacher, keep your ears open, and take notes.
 Do not distract others and don't be distracted by them.


If friends are distracting you, don't be mean! Just tell them you are working and say that you really want to focus on the teacher and maybe talk later during recess or lunch. They'll understand, and may even feel the same way themselves.
 Rewriting notes taken in class is helpful if taking exceptionally hard classes, such as legal studies, economics, engineering, etc.
 Just remember, it doesn't hurt to go over what you have learned.
 If you are not already a reader, start at your level and work your way up. You may not know this, but by reading challenging and difficult books, you can expand your vocabulary.
 Use of mind maps can be helpful for understanding hard topics.



A mind map can help with revising before any exam or test.
 Study is one of the key factors at any level of an education. Spending two hours a day studying increases your grades. These two hours however, have to be constructive study. Remove all distractions; this will include mobile phones, television, loud/fast-paced music and talkative friends and family members as to ensure a calm collective environment.
 Make a daily routine for yourself, it really works. Keep all of your electronics such as your phone, iPod and laptop away from you as these cause distraction. When you come home from your day of learning, read through what the teacher or lecturer had taught in class that day and practice a few math problems to be right on top.
 For example: one 15 minute break every 2 hours. Don't lose your cool if you're stuck. Just take a break, then refocus on your work and you'll succeed.
 That way you become familiar with what he/she will be teaching and will be able to target areas that you do not understand so well. Highlight the explanations of difficult concepts and ask questions when you have doubts.
 Attempt extra credit problems and assignments. Even if you are getting a 98% in a class, you can improve your grade and understand the material better.


When you are finished with your work, ask your teacher if you can do extra work.
Look in next year's subject book and try to figure out those problems. This will help your thinking skills and give you an advantage during the next school year. Don't skip ahead so far though that you fail to cover the fundamentals. The fundamentals are always essential for deep learning ability.
 Teachers give you homework for a reason. It is to review what you have learned that day. Take advantage of your free time. Do your homework on the way home from school and in any spare time. Unless you have a kind of school that gives you homework for reasonability and not to review. But most schools have it to review. Do as much at school as you can; you have the teacher there in case you need help. Make sure not to rush on your homework, to check over it, and to be neat. If you really want to be a successful student, you should know right from the beginning when you want to be great at anything, and when you have to put up with things that just don't seem fair. Doing your homework is not a big deal. Remember, homework can also help you develop good habits and attitudes. Always do what is asked of you.
 It is advised to start studying at least a few days before a test. Make a study schedule. If an extracurricular activity gets in the way of your studying, tell the person in charge of that certain event that you will not be able to attend that event, or you will have to leave early. However, there will be certain situations where you will have to attend. In this kind of situation, you will just have to study another day. This is where your study schedule comes in. Write out a schedule of the week of your test and find your free time. Always remember, use your time wisely. Study as if you are motivated for the outcome of your hard work.
 Study before the night of your test.

