 For this purpose, you may produce either a U.S. birth certificate or a current U.S. passport. You will need to bring originals. Photocopies will not be accepted, even if they are notarized.If you are foreign born U.S. citizen, you may also produce a Certificate of Naturalization (N-550/N-570), Certificate of Citizenship (N-560/N-561), Certificate of Report of Birth (DS-1350), or Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS-240, CRBA).
If you are a non-citizen residing in the U.S., you will need to show proof of your legal residency. These may be Form I-551 (Lawful Permanent Resident Card, Machine Readable Immigrant Visa), I-766 (Employment Authorization Document, EAD, work permit), I-94 (Arrival/Departure Record), or admission stamp in the unexpired foreign passport.;
, You will need some recently issued document that proves your name change. This must be a document that has been issued within the past two years. All documentation must be original. Photocopies will not be accepted. The documentation to prove your name change may be one of the following:Marriage document
Divorce decree
Certificate of Naturalization showing the new name
Court order approving the name change.
If updating a Social Security card for a child, you must provide a final adoption decree with the new name, a court order approving the name change, or an amended birth certificate with the new name.
 In addition to your citizenship and your recent name change, you must have proof of your identity. This must be a current, unexpired document that shows your name, date of birth or age, and preferably a recent photograph. As with all other documents, these must be originals. Photocopies will not be accepted. The following are all qualifying proofs of identity:U.S. driver's license
State-issued non-driver identification card
U.S. Passport (You may use your passport for both proof of citizenship and proof of identity.)
Employee identification card
School identification card
Health insurance card (not a Medicare card)
U.S. military identification card.
 You may get a copy of the application form in one of three ways. Whichever you choose, you must use the official form to apply for your replacement social security card. To get the application form, you may:Download and print the form at https://www.ssa.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf

Call the Social Security Administration Office at 800-772-1213 to request a copy of the form
Visit a Social Security Administration Office near you to pick up a copy of the application form. To find an office near you, visit www.socialsecurity.gov, call the number at 800-772-1213, or check your local telephone directory.
 Whether you are replacing a lost card or replacing a card because of a name change, the application form is the same. Read the instructions carefully that accompany the application form and fill in all the information that you can., Your application will not be processed without the appropriate signature. If the applicant is over 18, then the applicant must sign the form, if he or she is mentally capable. If not, a guardian may sign. If the applicant is a minor, the minor may sign the form, or a parent may sign.If you are signing the form on behalf of another person for any reason, be sure to mark the box in Item 18 that indicates your relationship to the applicant.
 You must submit the citizenship, identification and name change documents together with your completed application. If the application is submitted without all the required documents, your application will not be processed or will be delayed. The Social Security Administration will need to contact you or return your package and request that you resubmit it with the appropriate documentation., Applications for replacement cards are taken at all Social Security offices, so you will want to locate the one closest to you for the fastest service. You can search by zip code for the nearest office at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp. Alternatively, if you do not have access to the Internet, you may call 800-772-1213 and ask for the location of the nearest office., You may not apply online for a replacement social security card. The Social Security Administration must see your original supporting documents.If you are applying by mail, you must include the original documents. The Social Security Administration will return all your original materials to you when they send your new card.
 Generally, a new or replacement card will be issued within about ten business days after the application is received and processed. When you receive your new card, your original documents should be returned to you in the same package.If for any reason you do not receive your original documents when you receive your new card, call the Social Security Administration support number at 800-722-1212 to inquire.

