 Choose proteins as the basis of your diet, and eliminate high-calorie junk like fried foods, cakes, creams, butters, and sugars. Drink plenty of water each day. The more water you take in, the better it will be for your body. A good meal might include:


Lean proteins, like eggs, fish, and chicken, are essential.
Good, unsaturated fats, found in fish, avocados, and nuts.
Complex carbohydrates, like pasta, whole wheat, and quinoa, instead of white rice, white bread, and other simple sugars.
If you're thirsty, at any point in the day, get some water. If you're drinking to keep thirst at bay, you're well hydrated.Make sure you always have a lot of water available when training.
 Shadowboxing is just you and the ring as you move around, throw punches, and mimic the rhythm of a real fight. This is the best way to train into fighting shape without worrying about injuries or taking punches. However, you need to be focused on getting the most out of it. Keep your feet moving, alternate between throwing punches and blocking, and keep the intensity up. Most importantly, make sure you time each "bout" to last the same time as a standard round -- 3 minutes for amateur fighters.Focus on your movement around the ring. Keep active as you move, dart, and dance.
The hardest part of shadowboxing is the mentality. You need to convince yourself to practice with intensity or you're not going to get a lot out of it.
 Even if you don't do any other strength training, make sure you're doing pull-ups. Perform a few each day, and try to work up to higher amounts over time. Focus on a slow, even motion both up and down for the best workout. While they are difficult at first, try to start with at least 10 a day, gradually working up.


The differences between pull-ups and chin-ups are your grip and the muscles used.

For pull-ups, both palms face away from you, hands shoulder-width apart. They work your back, shoulders, and core, focusing on your back.
For chin-ups, both palms face towards you, hands shoulder width apart. They work your back, biceps, chest, and core, focusing more on chest and biceps.
 Your core, made up of your abs and obliques, is where you transfer energy from your upper body to your lower. As such, it cannot be underestimated when training for boxing. You should work on core every day, mixing in 3 sets of 20 reps of:


Body holds. A modified crunch to protect your back, start by sitting on your butt with knees and feet in the air. Place your palms under the floor, underneath your back, and curl your head up towards your knees for one exercise.Planks (1-2 minutes each side, repeated 2-3 times)
Leg lifts., Like any other sport, you can learn a ton by watching the greats. Make watching fights a part of your training routine. As you watch, spend each round watching specific things. In one round, watch their feet -- how they get out of trouble, move around the ring, and position themselves on offense and defense. Then watch their hands. When are they throwing punches, how do they react and counter-attack on defense?, This is the only way to get realistic practice. You get used to hitting and being hit by a moving opponent that fights back unlike a heavy bag. This is the time to get a full body workout, work on new techniques, and grow as a boxer. There is no substitute for sparing when it comes to training.


Try and spar with better boxers whenever possible. They will push you to learn more and help you grow quicker as a fighter.

