 Start off your paper or essay with an interesting sentence that makes the reader want to dive in and read your whole work. There are many devices that you can choose from. You can use humor, surprise, or a clever turn of phrase in order to catch your reader's attention. Look at your research notes to see if a clever phrase, surprising statistic, or intriguing anecdote jumps out at you. Some of these possibilities include:An anecdote: “When he was growing up, Samuel Clemens watched steamboats on the Mississippi River and dreamed of being a river boat captain.”A statistic: “Women directed a mere seven percent of major Hollywood films in 2014.”A quotation: “ 'I am glad to see that men are getting their rights,' Sojourner Truth said in 1867, 'but I want women to get theirs, and while the water is stirring I will step into the pool.'"A thought-provoking question: “What will Social Security look like in 50 years?”

, It can be tempting to use a large, general phrase as your hook. However, hooks are more effective when they are specific to your topic. Resist the temptation to introduce your essay with sentences that begin with phrases like:


"Since the beginning of time . . ."
"From the beginning of mankind . . ."
"All men and women ask themselves . . ."
"Every human on the planet . . ."

, Once you have your hook, you will need to write a few sentences to orient your reader to what the rest of your essay will be about. Is your essay making an argument about Social Security? Or is it a history of Sojourner Truth? Give your reader a brief roadmap about the scope, purpose, and overall thrust of your essay.


If possible, avoid phrases such as “In this paper, I will argue that Social Security is ineffective” or “This paper focuses on the ineffectiveness of Social Security.” Instead, simply make your point: "Social Security is an ineffective system.", When you want to grab the reader, you need a sentence that is clear and easy to follow. The beginning of your paper is not the place to write a convoluted, long-winded sentence that the reader will stumble over. Use common words (not jargon), short declarative sentences, and easy-to-follow logic to guide your introduction.Read your paragraph out loud to see if your sentences are clear and easy to follow. If you have to take a lot of breaths while you read, or if you have a hard time keeping track of your ideas out loud, you should shorten your sentences.
 A thesis statement is a single sentence that provides the overarching argument of your essay. State your thesis at the end of your opening paragraph if you are writing an academic paper. For an academic paper, the thesis statement is the most important part of your essay. Remember that a thesis statement must be:


Argumentative. You cannot simply state something that is common knowledge or basic fact. "Ducks are birds" is not a thesis statement.
Convincing. Your thesis must be based in evidence and careful analysis.Do not posit a wild, deliberately unconventional, or unprovable thesis. Follow where your evidence leads.
Appropriate to your assignment. Remember to adhere to all parameters and guidelines of your paper assignment.
Manageable in the space allotted. Keep your thesis narrow and focused. That way you might be able to prove your point in the space given to you. Do not make a thesis statement that is too large ("I have discovered a new reason why World War II occurred") or too small ("I will argue that left-handed soldiers put on their coats differently from right-handed soldiers")., Bring the reader back to your introduction by starting off the conclusion with a reminder of how the paper started. This strategy serves as a frame that bookends your paper.


For example, if you started your paper with a quote from Sojourner Truth, you might start the conclusion with: “Even though Sojourner Truth spoke almost 150 years ago, her statement continues to ring true today.”

, You can use this final paragraph to offer one last insight into the discussion that took place in the rest of your paper. Use this space to pose a final question or propose a call to action.


For example, you could write: “Is an e-cigarette really any different from a regular cigarette?” Or, “It’s time to write to these companies and tell them we want things to change.”

, If you’ve written a paper that is long and complex, you may choose to reserve your conclusion for recapping what you’ve written. In doing so, you can reiterate the most important points for the reader. This also helps the reader understand how your paper fits together.You can start off by writing, “In summary, the cultural policies of the European Union support global trade in three ways.”

, Conclusions are a great place to be imaginative and to think about the bigger picture. Has your essay opened up new space for more work to be done? Have you asked some large questions for others to answer? Think about some of the larger ramifications of your paper and articulate them in your conclusion.


For example, if you wrote about a current human rights violation in another country, then you might bring the problem back home. What comparable problems have members of your country faced? How were they solved? Can any of this be applied to the problem you have raised?

