 Find alternatives to stealing that give you a high or a focus but that don't create more harm in your life.This could include hobbies, activities, volunteering, helping others, making things, growing plants, caring for animals, writing, painting, studying, becoming an activist for a cause you believe in, or many other wonderful alternatives to stealing. Whatever you choose, make choices that are beneficial for you and that aren't simply about swapping one disorder for another (such as sedating yourself with alcohol).
 If stealing is filling a void in your life, fill it with activities.Take up sport or exercise, take up a hobby, or start volunteering. Instead of resorting to stealing as a way of filling in your time, use your time more productively and beneficially. This will lift your self-esteem, create renewed energy, and remove boredom. It will stop you from stealing for a lack of better things to do, or a sense of purposelessness. Just keep yourself busy and the rest will follow.
 If you've been stealing out of survival need or a sense of deprivation as well as from emotional triggers, having a more steady, certain stream of income might alleviate your desire or "need" to steal. Moreover, the security and routine of having a job if you don't have one, can restore a sense of responsibility and self-esteem that might be missing in your life. This step may not be relevant to you if you already have enough money, a job, or money isn't the issue, but if a toxic relationship with money is at the heart of your problem, earning your own secure source can be helpful.
 Use the knowledge you gain from the writing therapy to start tackling the emotions and feelings that are triggering your need to steal. Tackle your anger, your confusion, your sadness, your distress, and so forth. Acknowledge your original feelings and find new ways to deal with them other than through stealing.


Make notes of new ways to distract, entertain and amuse yourself. What sorts of new thoughts and actions are you discovering you can use to make yourself feel better?

