 One way to define a woman's body type is to analyze how her curves connect her bust, waist, and hips. There are four general body types:


Apple - top-heavy; 14% of women; bust three or more inches bigger than hips; if you have this body type, emphasize your tight legs and butt, draw attention away from your waist and shoulders/arms (wear long sleeves or loose, long tops), and draw attention to your bust and neck (e.g. v-necks).
Straight/rectangular - 46% of women; waist is about the same as hips and waist, more like a cylinder; if you have this body type, you can "pinch" your waist and exaggerate curves to avoid looking lanky or boyish. Go for ruffles and frills to add texture and volume (and femininity) to your figure. Steer clear of baggy jeans and track clothes if you don't want to look boyish.
Pear - bottom-heavy; 20% of women; hips significantly larger than bust; if this is your body type, there are things you can do to make your hips and butt look slimmer, but some women might want to make their butts bigger!
Hourglass - 8% of women; equal hip and bust measurements with a narrow waist; if you're one of the lucky few with this body type, dress to flatter - not flatten - your beautiful curves.;
, If you have a straight shape, this is a must because it'll create the illusion of curves. If you have a pear or hourglass shape, this will accentuate your existing curves.


Dresses or tops that wrap around your waist and cross over your chest are only a good idea if you have an ample bust; otherwise it can make your bust look disproportionately tiny (if you're pear-shaped) or your chest and shoulders look flat and square (if you're straight-shaped) .
No matter what your body type, making your legs look longer is generally flattering.
 It adds more "shape" to a straight body and it helps balance out wide shoulders and/or a heavy upper body.


Stock up on miniskirts and bright tights to make the most of your great legs.If you're pear-shaped and you are short (or have short legs), wear straight-leg or slightly flared pants with heels.
Skinny pants that hug your ankles can make your lower body take on the appearance of an upside-down triangle. Flared pants can make your legs look very thick, perhaps bowl-legged, in comparison to your upper body.Wear clothes with patterns that go down your body (especially your legs) and not across.4Shape your bust.
If you have an "apple" or "hourglass" shape, you probably have an ample bust; your main concern should be to wear a supportive bra so that your chest looks perky, not droopy. Book yourself a professional bra fitting; it's life-changing and will make your chest look fantastic! Stock up on V-neck dresses and tops - they're super flattering on big-busted girls.

If you don't want to draw attention to your chest, stay away from necklaces and wear chunky bangles instead. You should also wear plain colors around your bust and go for patterned and colorful bottoms instead.
If you have a straight or pear shape, wearing a push-up bra to add curves up top might not be a bad idea. If you have a flat stomach and aren't shy about showing it, cropped tops will make your chest look a little bigger in relation to your waist.
Choose your colors and patterns wisely. If there are any curves, handles, or lumps that you'd prefer to hide, wear solid dark colors (black, navy, dark purple) over them. Wear bright colors or patterns on your hot spots to draw attention away from your trouble spots!Ads by Google



, Choose cropped jackets, shorts, and mini dresses to keep your petite frame in perfect proportion. Dressing in one color or wearing vertical stripes will make you look taller.


Try high heels too!

, The only thing that really matters is how you feel in your clothes. These are just ideas and suggestions on what to wear if you want to accentuate certain things that make you-you.
 If you have a straight shape, this is a must because it'll create the illusion of curves. If you have a pear or hourglass shape, this will accentuate your existing curves.


Avoid this, though, if you have an apple shape (which means you have a thick waist, or you put on weight easily there)--wear tops that "drape" over any love handles, like tunics and flowing tops with an empire waist (the waist begins just below the bust and flows outwards).
Dresses or tops that wrap around your waist and cross over your chest are only a good idea if you have an ample bust; otherwise it can make your bust look disproportionately tiny (if you're pear-shaped) or your chest and shoulders look flat and square (if you're straight-shaped).
No matter what your body type, making your legs look longer is generally flattering.
,


Skinny pants that hug your ankles can make your lower body take on the appearance of an upside-down triangle. Flared pants can make your legs look very thick, perhaps bowl-legged, in comparison to your upper body.
 Shape your bust. If you have an apple or hourglass shape, you probably have an ample bust; your main concern should be to wear a supportive bra so that your chest looks perky, not droopy.


Book yourself a professional bra fitting; it's life-changing and will make your chest look fantastic! Stock up on V-neck dresses and tops - they're super flattering on big-busted girls. If you don't want to draw attention to your chest, stay away from necklaces and wear chunky bangles instead.
Wear plain colors around your bust and go for patterned and colorful bottoms instead. If you have a straight or pear shape, wearing a push-up bra to add curves up top might not be a bad idea.
If you have a flat stomach and aren't shy about showing it, cropped tops will make your chest look a little bigger in relation to your waist.
 If there are any curves, handles, or lumps that you'd prefer to hide, wear solid dark colors over them.

