 You can climb Mount St. Helens year-round, but late spring through early fall is the most popular season.;
, If you are climbing between April 1st and October 31st, purchase online: https://secure.kinsail.com/calendar.asp?p=mshi&pt=parks&ItemID=573012&GroupID=28812 for $22.00 each.


If you can't find a permit for the day the you want to climb, check http://purmit.com/ for permits for sale that people purchased but aren't going to use.
 There is no fee for this time of year.
 You'll still need to purchase a permit, but it's the last weekend before permits are limited to 100 per day. It's a tradition for everyone (male and female) to wear a dress over their hiking gear.,,
Hike Mt. Defiance(the hard way) to get used to the elevation gain.

Know how much water you'll need, especially if it's hot.
 You'll be scrambling over boulders for a good chunk of the Mount St. Helens climb, so it's good to make sure you can handle this.
 You can do that here.
 It's not uncommon for the climb to take 10 hours. If you're climbing during summer, it's best to avoid going up during the hottest part of the day.
 Attach it securely to the outside of your pack. Sign in at the register.
 For people reading this article, that will probably be Climbers Bivouac.
 It's a pretty obvious trail, but it's also marked by blue triangular posts on trees for those hiking it in the winter. You'll gain around 900 feet (274.3 m) in elevation in these first two miles, which is the easy part of this hike.
 Soon after that, there is an outhouse toilet. The rest of the hike will be exposed, so it will be hard to find a private place to do your business. Use this toilet if that's a concern of yours.
 The trees will disappear and you'll need to use the wooden posts to guide your way for the rest of the climb. You've just crossed the timberline, and into the part of the climb that requires a permit.
 There will be many little trails--just keep following the posts.
 The rock piles will turn back into a trail when you're close. This part is grueling. Just keep at it. There's no mistaking when you've reached the top; take a few steps further and you'll risk falling right into the crater!


If there is any snow at the crater, do not step out to the edge. The snow forms into cornices which can easily collapse under you and result in death.
 Many people choose to slide down the snow patches in their waterproof rain pants. It's a lot like sledding, just be careful. Most accidents occur when people glissading cannot control their speed and stop: Most climber deaths are due to glissading.