 You can use anything from a clutch purse to an extra pocket in your backpack, as long as everything you need fits in it.;
, What would have helped you during those situations? Pack these items into your kit.
 This can include:


Lip gloss. Use this when your lips are looking dull.
Lip balm. Use this when your lips have lack of moisture. Apply this before you apply clear lip gloss for a great lip look. Sometimes your lip gloss can dry out your lips, so putting lip balm on before will keep your lips healthy.
Cover up. If you have a problem with acne, this is a must-have.
Small, travel-sized bottle of lotion: Use this if your skin is getting dry. A great essential for winter and fall. Keep it lightly scented in case anther student has fragrance allergies.
Hairbrush or comb. If your hair gets messed up, use this. Try to get a miniature one to take up less room.
Hair accessories --- a few hairbands and maybe a ribbon. This is a great quick fix if you forgot to bring some or you are having a bad hair day.
Compact mirror. This is a lot easier than rushing to the restroom every time you need a mirror. Choose a metal flip makeup mirror.
Sunscreen. This is essential on a hot, sunny day. This is the most important; a pimple or bad hair is nothing compared to sun exposure causing skin cancer and wrinkles!
Mascara.
 Bring along your medication if you have allergies, rashes, asthma, etc. Many schools, with parental permission, will allow you to keep the medication with you while at school.
 Just go to the sinks in the girl's bathroom and wash up!
Hand Sanitizer. Great for removing dirt from your hands, as well as protecting yourself from the virus that is going around.
Deodorant. Great cover-up if you are sweating a little more than usual.
Tampons or pads. You never know when you will get your period for the first time or if you're about to get it. It is good to be ready, though sometimes the School Office may have one or two on hand.
Tissues. Tissues are great to have on hand when you have a cold and they work well to mop up spills. Look for travel sized packs that come with approximately 8 tissues each for added convenience.
Breath mints. Great for times that you forget to brush your teeth or when you ate something spicy.
 This might include:


Ten dollars. Money is great to have on hand for days when you forget field trip fees or lunch money. You might also want to bring some coins to school for use in vending machines and for city bus fare.
Extra socks. It sounds silly, but you might need them for PE or if you begin to get a blister.
Pencils/pens. Use these utensils only if you don't have anything else, and put it back in your kit.
Safety Pins. You never know when a button is going to pop off your jeans.
Food & Drinks. Try to bring things that won't spoil, like a granola bar and a bottle of water. Having food on hand is great, especially when you forget your lunch at home.

