 A jumper, whether full-bodied or a sweater, can look cute with a cardigan or cape. If you have a jumper that's plain pattered, a patterned cape or cardigan can add some flare to your outfit.While capes are often sold to women, cardigans can work for men or women wanting to add a little extra to their jumper.
If you're going to the store to purchase a cape or cardigan for your jumper, be sure to wear your jumper on your shopping trip. You want to make sure you pick the right cape or cardigan for your outfit. Different cut cardigans/capes look more flattering, and the wrong choice can make your jumper look bulky.
 For men and women, a blazer can be a great touch to add a layer of formality to your jumper. A dark colored blazer worn over a full-bodied jumper or sweater jumpers is a great for more formal occasions.You should always wear your cardigan to the store when selecting a blazer. While some blazers will look slimming and stylish, others can make a jumper look bulky. You want to make sure you see the outfit in its entirety before committing to a purchase.
 Often, jumpers are sold with belts running through the middle. Cinching a jumper at the waist can make it look slimming. This is especially true if you are female, as a jumper can accentuate your natural curves. Even if a jumper is not sold with a vest, you can buy a midsection belt at a department store. As your belt will be more easily seen than a belt worn around the hips, buying a belt in a cute color or pattern can help add some flare to your jumper.


As with any accessory, you should wear your jumper to the store when choosing a belt. You want to make sure the belt gives you the look you want.
Some jumpers have loops of fabric made for fitting belts. If your jumper does not have loops, you can still use a belt as long as you tighten it enough that it stays in place.
 For men, a touch of denim or a fitted coat can make a jumper look slimming. Layering can also make a jumper look slightly less casual. While denim and loose jackets may not be appropriate for an office setting, they can make it look as if you took the time to assemble an outfit rather than simply throwing on a jumper. If you're going to a social event, like a party, try throwing a loose coat or a denim jacket over a jumper. This can be particularly nice in the fall and winter as the weather gets colder.