 Feng shui values simplicity, so reducing the overall amount of stuff in your room is a must to enhance the energy and balance of the room. Energy is able to flow more freely in open space without clutter, so to maximize energy flow in your bedroom you need to reduce the amount of stuff you have there.Carefully go through the room and consider what is there that doesn’t need to be. Do you keep piles of work papers? These will create negative energy. Do you have exercise equipment or multiple storage containers? These reduce the amount of open space in the room.
The best balance will be achieved in a bedroom by having more open space and less unneeded stuff crowding the room.
 The position of the bed is important to create the right energy that promotes peace and restful sleep. Locate your bed diagonally across the room from the door with the foot of the bed toward the door. In this case, diagonally is meant to express that the bed should not be directly in front of the door, rather at an angle from the door whenever possible. Make sure the headboard is against a wall to anchor the bed. You also want to have space to walk on both sides of the bed, so don’t push it up close against a wall.This positioning is one that promotes protection because you are able to easily see what comes through the door. You will be more at ease knowing that nothing can come through the door without you knowing.
If it is possible, place a large rug under the bed to help ground the bed’s energy.
It is also good to have one night stand on each side of the bed to help balance it.
 Since the bed is such a large item, you need to help balance the room out by placing something of comparable size on the opposite wall of the room.This balancing piece of furniture does not need to be the same size. The effect will be achieved as long as it’s somewhat large. If you are going to have a dresser in the room, this is ideal for balancing out the bed.
 Windows are a way that energy can flow into your house through sunlight, but it can’t do this if the windows are always covered. Open curtains during the day, and consider leaving the windows open to allow for the maximum flow of energy.Use soft, ruffled curtains rather than plastic, wooden or metal blinds. If possible, use wood rings to hang curtains with.
Close the curtains at night to keep out the dark which brings negative energy.
Clean your windows fairly often to make sure that energy from outside can flow through easily. Dirty or smeared windows hinder the energy flow.

