 You need at least two players to play. There is no limit to the number of players you can have in each game. Each player should be able to shoot and rebound a basketball., Unlike most variations of the game, knockout requires that you use two basketballs simultaneously. Purchase two regulation sized basketballs. Test to verify that the basketballs are still properly inflated.


Generally, when you drop a properly inflated basketball, it should bounce back to about two thirds of height from which it was dropped. For a more exact measure of how inflated the ball should be, check the instructions that come with the ball. The instructions should specify how heavy the ball ought to be., The first person in the line should be directly behind the foul line. The first and the second person should each have their own basketball.


The foul line, also known as the free throw line, is a line on the court inside the three-point line. There should be a rectangle on the court that is adjacent to the semicircle which intersects with the three-point line. The foul line is the line where the rectangle and semicircle meet.
The foul line is where professional players shoot from when they have been fouled.
If you are playing at home and need to create your own line, the standard distance for the foul line is 15 feet from the backboard. Use a piece of chalk or tape to mark off the line., The player is not allowed to advance beyond the line before taking his first shot. After the first shot, however, he can run up and shoot from whatever location he chooses too. He should keep on shooting until he gets it in, at which point he can run to the back of the line.


The player is not required to dribble the ball after picking it back up again.
There are variants of the game in which the player is required to return to and shoot from behind the three point line, but that is not the standard way to play.The person who starts out in the front of the line will always be at a disadvantage. Every player will rotate to the front, but the person who starts there won't have anyone in front of them who they can knock out.
 After the first person in line has taken his shot, the second can advance to the foul line and take his own shot. If he misses, he should rebound as quickly as possible and take another shot from anywhere on the court. He should continue shooting until he scores., Once a player gets the ball in the basket, he returns to the back of the line. There, he is safe until the line cycles through and he is back to the front of the line.When the player scores, he should pass it to the next person in line as quickly as possible. The faster that player gets it, the more likely it is that he will have the time to score and eliminate another player.
 If the first shooter scores, then no one is eliminated from the game. However, if the second person to shoot scores first, the person in front of him is eliminated.To get an advantage, you can “bump” or “knock” the ball. This is when you take your ball and use it to bounce the other ball off the court. The other player will need to chase the ball and will lose valuable time. You can knock the ball directly out of the other player’s hands, if possible.
 Cycle through the line as many times as is necessary. Each time you cycle through, some players should be eliminated by the person behind them. By the end, there will only be one player standing.
 You should keep your feet approximately shoulder length apart. Your shooting foot should be slightly in front of the other foot. Bend your knees slightly when you begin to shoot.


It is important to keep a consistent stance. So that you can develop a feel for how to shoot the ball accurately, try to shoot it the same way every time. To do this, be conscious of how you position your feet., Spread your fingers far enough apart to balance the ball on your fingers. Position one hand on the center of the ball, with the air hole between your middle and index fingers. Place the other hand on the side of the ball, along the long seam of the ball.


Keep some distance between your palm and the ball. The ball should rest on your fingertips.
The hand on the side is only used to balance the ball. You should not apply any force to the ball from that hand. Remove this balance hand as you take your shot., Align the ball and your eyes directly with the rim of the basket. Bend over slightly, keeping the ball a couple of inches above your waist. Maintain a consistent from every time you line up for your shot., As you shoot, straighten your body and jump. Simultaneously lift the ball so that your elbow is directly underneath the ball. The ball should be above your head, aligned with your eyes and the basket. Flip your wrist just before the high point of your jump to propel the ball toward the net.


To maintain balance and aim, jump straight up. You should aim to land at exactly the same point from which you jumped., Rebounds are unpredictable, but typically the ball bounces back in a particular direction, depending upon where you take your shot. If you are shooting from the foul line, the ball is somewhat more likely to rebound directly back than to the side. However, shots taken from the side of the rim tend to bounce to one side or another.


When shooting from the front, the ball will rebound to the front 40% of the time and has a thirty percent chance of rebounding to one side or the other.
When taking a shot from the side, there is only a 20% chance that the ball will rebound to the front. There is a 40% chance that it will rebound back to the side from which you shot, and a 40% chance that it will rebound to the opposite side.
Because it is extremely disadvantageous to chase the ball to the opposite side of the court, you are better off taking shots from directly in front of the backboard. There, your chances of the basketball rebounding back in your direction is higher.