, Remember that everyone on this earth has something valuable to contribute to the society.
 Most Indian men, even those who are highly educated and employed are physically and emotionally dependent on women-mother, wife, sisters, sisters-in-law, aunties or grandmothers for food, water, socks, laundry, ironing and cleaning. Practice doing these things on your own. It will make you feel more independent.
 Exercise regularly and eat well and drink sufficient water.
 Do not ogle at women. Women are no longer mere housewives. They are out, going to schools and colleges, working, working out and learning to be independent. Get used to seeing them walking in the streets, jogging or traveling. Applaud their courage and celebrate. Don’t discriminate.
 If you see another man or men eve teasing or sexually harassing a girl, fight with her and report them to the nearest police station.
 Many parents kill their female infants because the society has been made unsafe for girls.
 You will feel horrible about yourself afterwards. Organize a patrol instead. If you are part of a group of men who have no work and lots of spare time, organize a patrol and monitor lonely streets. While you are at it, clear the streets of plastic bags and other garbage.
, Parents kill their daughters in the womb because they are unable to earn enough to pay your dowry. When you stop demanding dowry, parents will stop killing their girls. Then the male-female ratio will even out. More number of males is one reason for gang rape.
, There are many youth and men who are uneducated. This is another reason for gang rape. Lack of education means idle brains and morality goes down the drains.
 Round up all your unemployed mates and demand that your states create jobs. Too many unemployed men—another reason for gang rape.
 If a girl or a woman sits next to you on a bus, or a plane or a train, do not touch her. Do not peep when she is asleep.
 Do not eve tease or touch her. She keeps her hands to herself and so should you.
 If you are going on a long journey, read a book, or listen to music on your headphones or introduce yourself to her and talk to her only if she is also willing to talk. If she prefers to be silent, you too remain silent. Close your eyes and go to sleep or meditate or count sheep.
 If you feel like hitting someone, punch a pillow or find someone your size to wrestle with. Join a wrestling club, do shadow boxing or push-ups or train to run a marathon or try a triathlon.

