 The difference between being cheap and frugal is that a frugal person knows that purchasing a quality product can save money in the long run. For example, purchasing energy efficient light bulbs will cost more money upfront, but they will last much longer and will cut costs on your electricity bill., Most consumer items will go on sale at some point during the year. A frugal person will save money by waiting for more expensive and high quality items to go on sale, rather than just purchasing the cheapest item available. This is a smarter way to shop because you are prioritizing both quality and cost.Essentially, by waiting for items to go on sale, a frugal person will get a high quality item at a lower price.
 Cheap people will often avoid spending money even on the basic necessities of life. For example, cheap people may avoid visiting the doctor for regular checkups as a way to cut costs. Alternatively, frugal people will spend money on medical treatments, but will look to get the best price.For example, a frugal person may purchase private health insurance to help cover medical costs. This will save them money over their lifetime.
 Some cheap people will skip meals in order to cut costs. A frugal person; however, will collect coupons or only purchase food items that are on sale. Frugal people will rarely skip out on life necessities as a way to save money., Frugal people will always give meaningful gifts to friends and family members, regardless of the cost. A cheap person, on the other hand, will give an item based solely on the cost. You don’t need to spend a tremendous amount of money in order to give something meaningful.If you are a painter or chef, create a special painting or exquisite meal to give to someone you love as a gift. Most people would treasure a gift from the heart more than one from the wallet.
You can also ask other friends or family members to chip in and purchase a more expensive gift for your loved ones. This is a great way to save money without being cheap.
Alternatively, you can add an expensive gift to your budget and save up for that special item.

