 Dinner out at a restaurant is a classic Valentine's tradition However, you may find most restaurants overbooked or overpriced for that very reason. If you want to take him out to eat, make reservations as far in advance as you can. Plan to eat at home, or pack a romantic picnic if the weather permits.


Hire a professional chef or a talented single friend to cook the two of you a romantic dinner at home.
If one of you works on Valentine's day, consider meeting up for a brief lunch. It will be too rushed to constitute the main event of your day, but it is a romantic gesture.
Breakfast in bed is another classic romantic gesture. If your partner doesn't like eating in bed, just popping out of bed before him and having it ready by the time he gets up is a kind act.
If your husband really loves cooking, give him the gift of appreciation. Tell him you're dying to eat a home-cooked meal, maybe make a special request for something you think he could make, then sit back and watch him cook.
Cooking together can also be romantic. If you guys can stand a little cheese, buy matching aprons.
If you're feeling foxy, consider cooking in only aprons.
Timing is everything. If you are planning a heavy meal at home or at a restaurant, eat late. Get your romantic time together before you head out, as you may be too full and sleepy after a large meal to enjoy one another's company afterward.;
, If you and your partner drink alcohol, drink something nicer than usual on this occasion. Get a bottle of nice wine, or buy a growler from a local beer distributor. Buy ingredients to replicate a kind of cocktail you both enjoy, and mix it up as a surprise.


Design a new cocktail. If you're crafty, make a custom cocktail using flavors your husband enjoys. If you plan a week ahead, you can make a custom liqueur for the special drink.Give your cocktail a personalized name, or tell him it's an aphrodisiac.
Beer doesn't have to feel casual or inelegant. Opt for a locally brewed beer with a high alcohol content, and serve it in champagne flutes or wine glasses.Red wine is a classic romantic drink for a reason. All alcohol could be considered an aphrodisiac, but red wine is even more so., Valentine's Day doesn't have to be all dinner and swooning. If you and your husband are outdoorsy, consider taking a hike, hitting a rock-climbing gym, or taking an excursion on a boat. If you enjoy dancing together, go dancing.


Sign up for a one-off class and learn a new kind of couple's dance.
If you're already expert ballroom dancers, consider a romantic team activity, like AcroYoga or a couples-oriented contact improv class.
Hike somewhere gorgeous and have a picnic.
If your February's snowy, go ice skating or sledding together, or take a trip to a ski lodge.
 Being in a new place will make your special day all the more special. Book a weekend trip to a nearby town, or find a cheap flight to a totally foreign place. Make the journey part of the celebration. Pack media you can enjoy together, and make pit stops in interesting places.


Consider taking a long train ride together instead of flying or driving. You can watch romantic movies with headphones in and eat a delicious meal that you pack.
Sleep in a hotel. Even if you can't afford a trip out of town, consider booking a room in a hotel for the night. Staying in your town doesn't mean you have to follow your ordinary routine.
Take a trip to an activity you can enjoy together. Book a day visit to a spa, or camp at some natural hot springs.

