 The lemonade cleanse, also known as the "master cleanse", is one of the most popular and well-known cleanses, thanks to several celebrity advocates. The lemonade cleanse involves making a drink out of water, lemon juice, maple syrup and cayenne pepper which you will consume exclusively for a period of between three and ten days. The lemonade cleanse is intended to help you flush toxins from your system, while also effectively aiding weight loss.To make one glass of the lemonade, mix four tablespoons of freshly squeezed lemon juice, half a teaspoon of cayenne pepper and half a teaspoon of organic maple syrup into a ten ounce glass of water. Make four to five times this quantity to make enough to last you an entire day.Be aware that most medical experts do not recommend this cleanse as it creates a serious calorie and nutrient deficit that can have a negative impact on health. It is also not scientifically proven to effectively flush out toxins.;
, This cleanse is a less intense version of the lemonade cleanse, as it only needs to be completed one day a week and may be accompanied by some light, healthy snacks. In addition to the apple and ginger, this recipe also includes psyllium husk - a type of dietary fiber which is said to effectively bind waste material together, making it easier for the waste to be flushed from the system.To make the juice cleanse, combine eight ounces of freshly-pressed or organic apple juice with one teaspoon each of ground ginger and ground psyllium husk. Mix well with a spoon, or blend at a low speed.After drinking this mixture, you should continue to drink plenty of water throughout the day, as this will help to keep the digestive system moving.
Once again, this cleanse has not be scientifically proven to effectively remove toxins.
 Doing a salt water flush is another popular, if rather unpleasant, way to cleanse your system of built-up waste and toxins. Salt is a natural disinfectant which effectively flushes out the entire intestinal tract. In fact, this process is so effective that it is often used as a cost-effective alternative to expensive colonic irrigation procedures. The flush involves drinking a glass of salty water on an empty stomach, then waiting an hour or two as the solution flushes out your bowels, resulting in multiple eliminations.To make the salt solution, dissolve two level teaspoons of unrefined, non-iodized sea salt into one quart of lukewarm, purified water. Drink the solution first thing in the morning, as quickly as possible, using a straw if it helps.You should then lie on your right side for half an hour. This aids the passage of the salt water into the small intestine. At this point, you will feel the urge to eliminate, so make sure you are near a bathroom!Be aware that intense diarrhea and sometimes vomiting are not uncommon after a salt water flush. These symptoms are normal and should subside within an hour or two.The salt water flush is not recommended for people with digestive or kidney problems. If you have any concerns about doing it, you should consult your physician first., Drinking this smoothie is a great natural, healthy way to cleanse your body, without resorting to depriving yourself of essential nutrients or going hungry. All you need to do is replace one meal a day with this energy-boosting drink, to gain all of its digestion-friendly benefits.


Simply combine one cup of kale (with the stems removed), one coarsely chopped granny smith apple, one ripe banana and half a cup of fresh, flat-leafed parsley in a blender.Blend until smooth, adding a little water to thin the consistency, if necessary.

