 This can be olive oil, coconut oil, almond oil, or any other oil that you prefer. These oils all have different textures and scents, so be sure to smell and feel them before you begin working so that you don’t end up with a finished product you don’t like.Coconut oil is solid at room temperature, so keep this in mind when choosing it as your base oil. You will likely need to find a container with a wide mouth. That way you can scoop the finished oil out with a spoon or your fingers.;
, Add dried herbs like calendula, chamomile, or lavender to give your baby oil additional anti-inflammatory and skin-soothing properties. You can buy them at most health food stores and organic shopping centers, or grow them yourself in containers to have on hand for future recipes.Choose a fragrance oil or essential oil if you want your baby oil to have a particular scent, like lavender, orange, or rose.
 Use 1 cup (about .25 liters) of your base oil and 2 tablespoons of any chosen herbs.Adjust the amount of herbs accordingly if you want a stronger or more subtle scent. If you’re adding any additional fragrance or essential oils, only use a few drops. Too much of these oils can irritate skin.
 Herbs can burn quickly, so don’t heat the concoction in a pan directly on the burner. If you don’t have a double boiler, you can make one by filling a saucepan with an inch or so of water and bringing the water to a boil. Place another saucepan on top of that one and fill the top pan with your ingredients.


Heat the ingredients for about an hour, or until the oil begins to take on the color and the scent of the herbs., Allow the pan to cool to room temperature before you attempt to handle the oil.
 Take a mesh colander or a piece of cheesecloth and sift the contents through that into a mason jar or glass bottle.


If you chose to work with coconut oil, the oil will need to be warmed slightly so that it’s liquid again while you strain it. Try not to touch the warm oil as you strain it to avoid getting burned.
 A dark spot like a cabinet or closet shelf is best, and be sure the jar or bottle you’ve selected has a tight-fitting lid. The oil will have a shelf life of 6-9 months.