 To do this, flick it off the skin using a fingernail or the edge of a credit card. There is a slight chance of squeezing more irritants into the skin if you grip the stinger in order to pull it out of your dog’s skin.
 Bee stings are slightly acidic so the irritant can be neutralized by the application of a little baking soda. There is no exact formula for how much to apply.Simply add a teaspoon of baking soda into a cup of water. Soak a cotton wool ball in the solution, and hold this over the sting site for one to two minutes.
 Applying a cold compress to the area can help to minimize swelling. You can improvise a cold compress by using anything from a packet of frozen peas to some ice cubes in a plastic bag.


Hold the cold compress over the site of the sting for five to ten minutes. Remove the compress and, if necessary, repeat again around a quarter of an hour later.
 Antihistamine may be effective in some dogs, while it does nothing for others. There is no harm in giving your dog an antihistamine, so you may as well try. The antihistamine is intended to stop further swelling, and potentially reduce the swelling that has already occurred. However, there are some things to keep in mind:


Many over-the-counter antihistamines are suitable for dogs, but never use combined products, such as cold and flu relief product that happens to contain an antihistamine. The other active ingredients may not be safe for your dog.
One typical antihistamine is diphenhydramine (Benadryl). The dose is 12.5mg (equivalent to a child's strength Benadryl) per 10 to 15 kg body weight. Thus a typical Labrador requires two tablets.If your pet has other health problems (especially heart disease or seizures) speak to your vet before administering antihistamines, as diphenhydramine can increase blood pressure in some rare cases.Another non-prescription antihistamine is cetirizine (Zyrtec). This is particularly effective against allergic skin disease, and may help a particularly itchy dog. The dose is one 5 mg tablet twice a day (per 15kg body weight).