 Hydration is essential for healthy digestion, so be sure to drink lots of water throughout the day.Keep in mind that alcohol and caffeine can actually cause dehydration, so drink them in moderation.
You should drink water all day, but drinking during and right after you eat is especially helpful for digestion.;
, Fiber helps regulate your digestion, so it’s important to eat foods that are naturally fiber-rich, like fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.There are two types of fiber, soluble and insoluble, and they play very different roles in digestion.


Soluble fiber (found in oatmeal, nuts, beans, apples) absorbs water, while insoluble fiber (found in celery, whole wheat, the skins of fruit) does not. Increasing your soluble fiber intake can help with issues like diarrhea and can bulk up your stool; increasing your insoluble fiber can help with issues like constipation and hemorrhoids.If you plan on adding more fiber into your diet, do so slowly. Adding a lot of fiber all at once can cause digestive issues like bloating and gas.
While most whole grains are good for you, you should stay away from wheat products if you are gluten intolerant.Cabbage is a fiber-rich food that is especially beneficial for digestion.Our bodies can’t process all types of fiber easily. For example, corn contains cellulose, which is a type of fiber that is very difficult for the human body to process. If you eat corn, make sure to chew it thoroughly to help your body break it down better.If you suffer from gas, you may actually want to consider temporarily reducing the amount of fiber in your diet. Do so slowly and pay attention to whether or not the change in diet has any effect on your digestive issues. You should then begin reintroducing fiber little by little., Leaner proteins, like chicken and fish, are much easier for your body to digest than fatty proteins, like beef., Some foods are just more difficult for your body to process, so it’s best to stay away from them as much as possible, especially if you have digestive issues. Avoid fried foods, foods that are high in fat, and spicy foods.It’s also very important to stay away from dairy products if you’re lactose intolerant.
 Large meals may overwhelm your digestive system, so try eating several smaller meals throughout the day — five or six small meals instead of three large ones.Eating more slowly may also help improve your digestion because it will prevent you from overeating and encourage you to chew your food more thoroughly., Small amounts of ginger are thought to be very good for promoting digestive health.Bitter herbs like beet leaf, dandelion, milk thistle, and artichoke are also beneficial for digestion, and can be consumed in a salad or in an herbal tea., Certain kinds of bacteria are beneficial to your digestive system. One of the easiest ways you can increase the levels of healthy bacteria in your gut is to eat foods like yogurt or kefir that contain live cultures.