 No matter how many wrong answers you have, as long as you follow ALL the directions, you will get some credit. Re-read the question slowly. In your haste and panic, you may have missed the point. Then, analyze what you have learned and start writing.;
, Words like "explain" mean that the question is looking for an in-depth definition. Words like "evaluate" mean the question is looking for you to look at the good and bad points of a topic.
 No matter how obvious the sentence is, there always should be an example. For example: "During Urbanization in the late 1880s, many disasters happened in cities, such as Chicago's Great Fire and San Francisco's Earthquake".
 Your essay should begin with an introductory paragraph containing a clearly stated thesis (argument); it should contain several body paragraphs, supporting the introduction and thesis; and it should end with a concluding paragraph, which summarizes how the essay supports the thesis (conclusion/argument).
 Analyze your favorite author/book. What do you like about it? Try to bring whatever you like about other authors and writing into your essay. Do NOT plagiarize. Just write with a similar style and make your essay interesting.
 Then, go back to the question. Read it through. Analyze every word. Look through the test. Maybe answer is somewhere in here (sometimes, one question has to do with another one). If it isn't, re-read the question slowly. Look for key points and make an educated guess. If you bubbled something in, do not erase it. Most of the times, if you do, it is wrong (unless you did not study for test at all).
 Imagine getting an A+ on the test. Imagine being happy and bringing the report card home. Then, say to yourself "I am going to pass this test" several times. Close your eyes. Relax. Imagine success again. Then, take the pencil and begin.
 Proofread it and write another one on same topic. Learn from your mistakes. Bring two copies to school and read them over and over until the actual essay. Put the practice essays away and write a perfect paper.

