 Red wines should be served at room temperature--about 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18 degrees Celsius). This includes wines like Syrah, Shiraz, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon.



Serve full-bodied white wines like Chardonnay and lighter red wines like Pinot Noir at slightly below normal room temperature. Chill the wine in the refrigerator for a few hours or overnight, then let it stand at room temperature for about 45 minutes before serving.
Lighter white wines like Pinot Grigio and Sauvignon Blanc should be chilled until just before serving. Keep these wines in a refrigerator or wine locker that will keep them at around 52 degrees Fahrenheit (11 degrees Celsius).
Keep white wines cold until they are poured by using a chilled ice bucket or wine refrigerator at the serving table.
 Wines of all varieties should be uncorked and allowed to breathe. This enhances the full flavor and undertones of the wine.


Pour the wine into a decanter, which is a glass vessel with a wide body and narrow mouth, to expose wine to the maximum amount of oxygen. When decanting red wines, tip the wine bottle as little as possible. This will keep most of the sediment in the bottle instead of in the decanter. Swirl red wines in the decanter after pouring to expose it to the air.
Dark red wines, like Shiraz and Syrah, that have a lot of tannins should be aerated for 1 to 2 hours before serving. This will reduce the tannic flavor. White wines, lighter red wines like Pinot Noir and rose wines have few tannins, so they only require about 20 to 30 minutes to breathe before serving.



Red wine glasses have shorter stems and wider mouths. These glasses allow for rich red wines to aerate as the wine is being consumed.
White wine glasses have longer stems and taller, more slender mouths. Consider chilling white wine glasses to keep the wine cold when poured.
Use a table side wine chiller to keep white wine at the optimum serving temperature. Some chillers have separate temperature compartments to store white and red wines.
