 You may not be able to do as much as you could before without resting, and that is okay. Take rests throughout your work day when you need them. Go to a quiet, calm place, turn off the lights, and spend a few minutes with your feet up and eyes closed. This can help you destress and reenergize.You also may want to take short cat naps during your lunch break for a quick recharge.
 Work can be really stressful! However, it’s important to keep your stress level down when you are pregnant. Prioritize your duties and projects, make to-do lists, and delegate work when you need to. If you can’t do something, let them know so someone else can, and don’t worry about things that aren’t important right now.Talk about your frustrations or stressors with supportive coworkers, friends, or family members.
 You will need to see your doctor often during your pregnancy, and you cannot miss those appointments. To minimize the amount of work you miss, try to schedule appointments before work or during your work breaks. You can try after work, but you may be too tired.Keep a record of your visits in case someone thinks you are not doing your job and cutting out of work. You can request a note from your doctor to keep for your records.
 Though when you tell your boss will depend on many factors, you should tell your employer about your pregnancy as soon as possible. Some women choose to wait until they are further along into their second trimester. However, if your physical symptoms are affecting your work, talk to your employer and let them know what’s going on.
 It’s important to know what your company’s policies are about maternity leave and pregnancy. Refer to your company handbook, human resources department, or members of management for information about maternity leave.The Family Medical Leave Act allows you to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to deliver and bond with your baby. This act only applies to employees who have worked more than one year, are employed full time, and work for a business that employs more than 50 people.
The Pregnancy Discrimination Act awards you the same rights and protections as anyone suffering a medical disability. In most cases you cannot be fired, demoted, or have your hours reduced just because you are pregnant.

