 Jobs on container ships are extremely physically demanding, so you must be prepared to be on your feet for long hours, lift and carry heavy items, and perform various other physical tasks, depending on the kind of job you accept.;
, In addition to being physically strong, you should be mentally prepared to work long hours, spend most of your time in confined quarters with the other crew members, and be away from your family for weeks or even months at a time.


You may end up at sea for longer than expected if there is bad weather, a mechanical problem, or even a strike at one of your ports.
 A job on a container ship will likely require you to travel all over the world. It's best to have your passport well in advance of your job search so you don't have to worry about it.
 Most jobs on a container ship fall into three departments: the engine room, the deck, and the galley. Crewmen in the engine department are responsible for repairing and maintaining all mechanical and electrical components of the ship. Crewmen on the deck are responsible for navigation, security, and maintenance, depending on their rank. Crewmen in the galley are responsible for preparing and serving meals and cleaning.


If you have experience as a cook, engineer, mechanic, firefighter, nurse, or doctor, you may be able to transition into the maritime industry without first performing entry-level jobs.
 If you don't have any experience working at sea or any special training, you will need to start your career in an entry-level position. All of these positions offer the opportunity to advance to higher level positions once you have the appropriate level of experience. Some of the most common entry-level container-ship jobs include:Ordinary seaman (OS): This is an entry-level deck job. An OS will learn fundamental seamanship during a specified training period. Ordinary seamen will grease lashing gear, chip rust, and paint fixtures. As they gain experience, new deckhands are given additional responsibilities. Eventually, an OS can expect to be designated as an Able Bodied Seaman, or AB. AB duties include lookout watches, handling tow lines, and making security rounds.
Wiper: New engine room personnel start as wipers and perform a wide range of functions, including basic maintenance, cleaning, and inventory. A wiper usually moves into a position as a qualified man of the engine department, or QMED. QMEDs perform a range of functions, including maintaining and repairing the engine and auxiliary-power systems.
Steward utility: New galley hands start their maritime careers in utility roles, which include dish washing, laundry, and housekeeping. These crewmen often later become stewards, which involves helping with meal preparation and supervising other galley personnel.

