 As the oral glucose test lasts an hour after you have consumed a glucose solution, it is recommended you make an appointment to reduce the time you wait in line before the clock starts ticking (see next steps).


Call a few days ahead when you want to take your test and make the appointment. Then, fast the night before your appointment.
Be sure to use a laboratory that is the primary provider for your health insurance.
 This type of glucose test is used to understand how your body processes glucose.This test requires you to fast, usually 10–16 hours before the test is given.
Eat normally several days before the oral glucose test, then fast the night before.
The only thing that you can consume during the fast is water.Please note that if you take medications, ask your doctor if the medicine will affect the test results., Oral glucose test will take a few hours to complete. Thus, you may want to bring along a book or play a game or watch a movie on your smartphone, laptop, or tablet.


Also remember to bring the form you received from your doctor to your appointment so the laboratory personnel knows which test to perform.
 The first blood sample is collected when you arrive to give a baseline reading (before sugar is added into the bloodstream).The laboratory technician will perform a venipuncture to draw your blood.
 After your first blood sample is taken, you will be asked to drink 8-ounce glucose solution. The solution resembles a soda drink with a higher sugar content (about 75 grams).After you drink the solution, you need to sit and wait. Relax by reading a book or watching a movie on your smartphone.
 Your blood will be drawn three to four times after the glucose solution is absorbed into the bloodstream. This will give your doctor a better picture of how your body processes the glucose in the drink.


The first venipuncture is done 30 minutes after you consume the solution.
The remaining two or three tests are done one and two hours, and sometimes even three hours after you consumed the solution.
Each test is analyzed to show the rise and fall of blood sugar levels over time.Please note that you should remain calm and not be active during the test.
You may also feel nauseated, sweaty, light-headed, experience short of breath, or faint during the test. If you experience any of these symptoms, talk to the laboratory personnel and ask if you can lay down., A normal test result will have your glucose levels decline during the test.A normal fasting value is between 60 to 100 mg/dL.
A normal glucose level after one hour is less than 200 mg/dL
A normal glucose level after two hours is less than 140 mg/dL
If your results are higher than the above values, you are positive for diabetes and your doctor will initiate a treatment plan for you to begin.
 Your test results may be false for some reasons, including:Higher glucose levels are possible due to certain medications, stress or a trauma, such as stroke, heart attack, or surgery.
Lower glucose levels may be due to exercise or certain medications.

