 There are certain standards you need to meet in order to be a police officer. In Ohio, police officers must meet the following minimum criteria:Be a United States citizen.
Be a high school graduate or have a GED at a minimum.
Be at least 21 years old when testing for the civil servants exam.
Have no felony convictions.;
, Highway patrolmen in Ohio have many of the same basic requirements as a police officer, but some are more specific. In Ohio, highway patrolman must meet the following criteria:


Be a United States citizen.
Be 20-34 years of age.
Have a high school diploma or GED.
Be an Ohio resident and hold an Ohio’s driver’s license.
 Sheriff’s deputies must meet most of the same requirements as a police officers. However, some criteria vary by county. In Ohio, sheriff’s deputies must meet the following criteria:


Be a United States citizen.
Be at least 18 years old.
Have a high school diploma or GED.
Be able to speak, read, and write English.
 All police officers must meet certain levels of physical and medical fitness. Though these tests can be challenging, they are required upon entry to any police training program.All four of these physical fitness tests break down into a cumulative 1-7 score. From this score, you are ranked based on your desirability as an applicant., In this test, you will be prompted by a proctor to complete a 75-yard run while being careful not to bump into or knock over cones or obstacles.


You can do this test twice and your best time counts as your final. If you do bump into any obstacles or cones, you are given a two-minute break before beginning again.
 Only proper push-ups are counted. A proper push-up is considered as your hands shoulder-width apart and your feet 8-12 inches apart.


You must lower yourself to the floor and push back up again to where you started from. You are given two minutes to complete as many push-ups as you can.
 For the sit-up test, you must complete as many sit ups as possible in two minutes. As with the push-up test, only proper sit-ups are counted. A proper sit-up is counted as you lying on your back with your knees at a 45-60 degree angle.


When prompted, you must sit up until your elbows touch your thighs. Then, you must bring yourself back to the ground until your back touches.
 In this run, you are attempting to go as fast as possible to complete the run.


Your run will be measured alongside your push up, sit up, and 75-yard pursuit run for a total score. Even if you don't run extremely fast, you can get a higher score by doing well in those other four areas.
 You will need to be in good health with no major conditions in order to qualify to be a police officer. Completing a full physical will generally fulfill this requirement., While all departments are different, many require that you fall under a maximum body fat percentage.


For women, the maximum body fat percentage is usually 30%, while for men it is 22%.
 Your hearing and vision need to be excellent, though you can wear hearing aids or corrective lens to make for any hearing and vision problems you may have.
 You will need to take a series of psychological tests to determine whether or not you are fit for duty.


It's also important that your background check shows no major history of psychological problems.
 All police officers must undergo a background check. While some past history may not be relevant, there are a few red flags that may prevent you from becoming a police officer in Ohio.If you were dishonorably discharged from the military, that may be a problem if you want to be a police officer. This does not mean you failed out of basic training or were injured, but instead left under bad terms from your military service.
Having a poor driving record can also be a red flag in a background check. A few tickets will likely not be a problem, but any reckless driving or unsafe driving may disqualify you.
Poor or bad credit can also be a problem for potential police officers. A history of bankruptcy or debt could potentially tempt you for bribery.
A history of drug use or abuse can also disqualify you. If you have any drug convictions, especially felony convictions, you will not be able to be a police officer in Ohio.
 Oral board interviews are one of the final initial qualifications to becoming a police officer. During oral interviews, make sure you convey a positive and respectful image that shows you are mature enough to be an officer of the law., Being late to an interview is always a red flag for potential employers.
 Convey an image of positivity and confidence that shows you can be respectful and also assertive.
 Do your homework so you know what kinds of questions the interviewer will have for you. This way you can speak confidently about the topics they bring up.
 You should be moderate in how you are communicating to the interviewer. This reflects well on your ability to do as a police officer.
 For police officers who are looking to move up in the ranks, they may need a college degree or military experience to advance. It's becoming increasingly true that police departments want their officer to have at least an associate's degree.College degrees are required for most federal police jobs. While you likely do not need a college degree to becoming a police officer in Ohio, it may be harder to move up in the ranks without one.
An associate's degree or at least a few years of college can be beneficial if you want to become a police officer. Any education that shows you are dedicated to improving yourself is likely beneficial.
If you want to work a federal policing job, or even in the Ohio Bureau of Investigations, you will likely need a bachelor's degree.
Military experience is also beneficial to becoming a police officer in Ohio. While it may not help you advance your career the way a college degree may, military experience prepares you for the physical, mental, and emotional challenges of being a police officer., These tests measure your general aptitude and preparedness for police work. The Compass and Asset tests are often used by colleges to place incoming students in basic skills like reading, writing, and math. How well you do on this test can determine your placement when opportunities are available to become a police officer.


The Compass test is used to determine student's readiness to learn. Along with the Asset test, it places to students entering college.The Asset test is generally used by two-year colleges to place incoming students. It generally tests knowledge from secondary school and your potential to learn beyond that.Potential police officer can opt out of either test if they have a college degree.
 In order to become a police officer in Ohio, you must go through OPOTA training. At this training, you will learn the basics of policing from trained instructors.The Ohio Peace Officer Training Academy or OPOTA is recognized as a national leader in training law enforcement agents. It is also internationally recognized by the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies for its achievements in accreditation, compliance, policy development and other issues
Potential police officers in the state of Ohio have to complete the basic police academy training course in a OPOTA accredited academy.
There are around 60 schools that in the state of Ohio that provide this training. In general, there is at least one school per county in Ohio.Schools will have to pass all requirements to be approved and accredited as a school. Before attending OPOTA, make sure your specific location is accredited by the state of Ohio.
 There are two types of enrollees. Take note that some schools will accept non-appointed officers while others don't, so please check with the academy prior to sending your application.


First type are sworn police officers who are either full time, part time, or auxiliary officers coming either from a city, township, or another agency who are required to complete the peace officer basic training course.
Second type are individuals who haven't been appointed to any police officer position, but want to attend the training academy at their own expense. These individuals are considered "open enrollment"
Open enrollment students who are appointed within a year after completing the academy training will have no additional training required.
For open enrollment students who are appointed over a year after but less than two years after completing the academy, training will be required to complete an OPOTC approved refresher course before being appointed.
Open enrollment students who are appointed more than two years after completing the academy training will be required to repeat the training again.
 OPOTA training has a lot of components, including classes, physical tests, psychological tests, and written exams. Make sure to complete all required parts of your training in order to be prepared to be a police officer in Ohio.


All peace officer training academy students must complete at least 579 hours and any additional hours as provided by the school.
Training courses involve self-defense, police tactics, how to deal with suspects, diffusing a violent situation, evidence gathering, review of existing laws, and much more.
Academy courses typically last 6 months and possibly more. Cadets are required to live in the academy premises at least 5 days a week. In most cases, you will be paid in your tenure with the academy.
 Aspiring cops need to pass this in order to be certified as a police officer. This exam will test your knowledge from OPOTA.


Out of state appointed police officers who have completed the required training and/or education in another state can apply for a prior equivalent training analysis from the Ohio Peace Officer Training Commission.
 Your previous training will be compared to the OPOTC curriculum. If found equivalent, you will be given credit.
 Now that you are qualified to become a police officer, it's time to find a job. Try to look in locations in Ohio where you want to live. Also pay attention to the crime rates in areas, depending how much crime you want to handle.
 Visit police departments where you may want to work to find out when they are hiring and how often.
 You may want to work in an urban, rural, or suburban environment. Though you may not always get a choice, try to choose the place you're most comfortable with.
 If a job becomes available, make sure to apply for it. You'll have to go through some of these steps again, but it's the best way to become a police officer in Ohio.

