 One way to help combat the stigma of Tourette’s is to find the humor in it. This means laughing about the unique and sometimes funny tics that accompany the syndrome.Some of the involuntary verbal tics people say are creative and humorous. Just as you would laugh at a joke someone tells, finding humor in the things you say can help you break the stigma on yourself. Acknowledge that you are funny, which is a great part of your personality.This doesn’t mean to laugh at someone because he is different or to make fun of someone. Finding humor in Tourette’s phrases acknowledges that some of the verbal tics can create funny imagery and that’s a good thing instead of laughing at someone who is different.
Laughter is a great way to break down the fear or anxiety people might feel about Tourette’s. If a person is unfamiliar with how a person with Tourette’s acts, she may find the tics, verbal outbursts, and uncontrollable motions scary. By approaching your condition with humor, you can help break that fear in someone, which is the first step in acceptance and understanding.;
, Because people with Tourette’s may get bullied or discriminated against, they hide their condition. Hiding the condition just reinforces the idea that something is wrong with you, when there is nothing wrong with you. You are a unique, wonderful individual who deserves to live a full life being yourself - your whole self.Don’t choose to remain at home instead of going out because you are scared. You have the same right as everyone else to enjoy what the world offers.
For places where your tics may be disruptive, talk to the people who run the place. Talk to them about disability accommodations, such as private boxes or VIP seating.
 Spending time with family and friends who know about your condition and understand it can help reduce the stigma. When you go out, bring people with you. If strangers see you with your Tourette’s interacting with people, it may help them be less fearful or discriminating., It may be helpful for you to find other people who have Tourette’s Syndrome. By talking to others, learning how they deal with the condition, and making friends with people who understand you, you can start to accept yourself, remove the stigma from yourself, and learn more about your condition.Try support groups for Tourette's Syndrome.
You may also be able to talk to your doctor about finding other people with Tourette's. Some practices have patients who sign privacy waivers giving their doctor permission to share information with other people who have Tourette's.Look online for Tourette's organizations or meet-ups in your area.
 Because you have Tourette’s and have unique experiences, this can make you able to understand others better. Volunteer at a local organization. This can be a Tourette’s organization, or something else, like an animal shelter, food pantry, or even a blood drive., Instead of looking at your Tourette’s as a shameful disorder, celebrate the uniqueness of the condition. Tourette’s can be a very creative condition, whether it is the words you say or the unique way you move your body. Embrace these parts of yourself.Some organizations encourage people with Tourette’s to draw pictures featuring their tics. This can be an artistic representation of an involuntary phrase you say, or a picture of your tic.Writing, playing music, or engaging in other art forms, such as painting or sculpting may also help.Other people have used their Tourette's as inspiration for dance and theater productions.If you enjoy one of these forms of expression, then you might consider developing a dance routine, monologue, or play based on your Tourette's.
 Another way to take control of your life and break the stigma of Tourette’s is to research the condition. This includes learning everything you can about Tourette’s, talking to your doctor, and being active in your treatment plan., Many foundations have conferences for people with Tourette’s or neurological conditions. Attending these conferences can help you learn more about your condition, along with meeting other people with the condition, learning how to embrace it, and learning how to live a more fulfilling life.Try searching organizations, such as the Tourette’s Association of America and Fox Foundation.

