 You will need a single taper candle and a simple holder for it. Usually a black candle is used, which represents the dark magic you’re reversing. If you prefer to be more specific, use a red taper to represent the hatred aimed at you, or a green taper to represent the envy behind the curse. You will also need a glass or bowl, approximately the same height as the candle, water and salt.Water from the tap will work fine.
Table salt can be used, especially if that’s all you have on hand.
 Place the taper candle into the glass or bowl you’ve chosen. Carefully fill the vessel with water up to about a half inch to an inch below the tip of the candle. Make sure the wick is not submerged or wet, which will prevent you from lighting it. Sprinkle the salt into the water, around the taper, and say:“With salt, this water is made pure. I give it the power to heal and cure.”
If you practice magic, you can use your own words for the incantation.
If you are unfamiliar with how Wiccan rituals are done, you can read about the topic here.
 It might help to visualize sparks as the salt hits the water. Light the taper and say, “A spell was cast with baneful will. A wicked web was wrongly spun. I take away the harm and ill. I now undo what has been done.”Imagine that positive energy and light are emanating from the water and flowing around you.
As the candle burns, allow this positive energy to grow within the circle.
Picture this energy building to become powerful enough to reverse the curse.
 Remove the extinguished taper from the water. Hold it horizontally with both hands. Say these words, “This harmful spell I now negate. Return things to their rightful state.” As you say the final words, “rightful state,” break the candle in half.


Imagine the snapping sound being as loud and powerful as a sudden clap of thunder.
Picture the white light and energy suddenly bursting from inside your circle like lightning, energetic and powerful enough to destroy the curse’s effects.
 Bury the candle pieces in the earth, along with any candle wax that dripped into the water. Then pour the water around the buried candle, circling the spot with the water. Close the circle.There is no guarantee that this works. Try to think of the ritual as a symbolic gesture. Work on thinking positively about your situation.

