 This may sound like a cliché, but think for a minute, do you know anyone that is really really ugly? Believe me, you don't. Everyone is beautiful in their own way.
 There's no way you're going to be happy and confident if you don't show others the wonderful person you really are.
 What if you were a supermodel but unpleasant to everyone? There's no point in wanting to be beautiful and confident if you're rude to people. The next steps will help you with that.
 Even if you don't know them very well, just say hello, everyone likes that and they will also say hello to you. If the person is rude to you and doesn't answer, don't care. You did your part, you were nice to them, if he/she was mean to you, it's he/she who's lost. Even if you're shy, make a little effort to do this everyday, people will see you as a nice person and this will improve your confidence.
 Who would you ask for help, a nice and smiling person or an angry one? Smiling makes people prettier, attractive and approachable. When you're walking alone listen to a song that makes you happy, you will want a bit. When you say "Hi!" or you're talking to someone show you're biggest and nicest smile, even if you wear braces.
 Try to talk with the people you know alone. Everyone is different, so it's very funny to start knowing them individually. Ask them about their hobbies, of what music they like, about their family, etc. And listen more than what you talk. If you see that someone is sad, try to cheer them up! You can try to ask what's going on, but if is too personal, he/she might not want to tell you. Anyway, try to cheer him up and let him know that you're there if he/she needs anything.
, Exercise, eat healthy food, etc. The next point will help you with this.
 Do a sport that you like. This way, you'll keep in shape, meet new people and develop a new interest.
 Wash it with a shampoo and a conditioner than suit your hair type and colour. Wear your hair in different way: natural, ponytail, with hair accessories, etc.
 Moisturize your hands and they'll be soft. Do your nails every 2 weeks: cut them and paint them with nail polish. In the summer, wear all types of colours: red, blue, white, green; who cares?

, Try to choose clothes that look nice on you. Also use some accessories, but don't use too much.
 Try to get rid of all your acne, and make your skin look beautiful. If your skin is beautiful, you'll feel beautiful.
 Start eating fruits and vegetables, they'll make you feel better, slim down your body, plus they'll give you energy!

, Drinking water flushes the toxins out of your body and clears up your skin. Plus it keeps you hydrated!

, This is the most important! If you feel beautiful on the inside, you will look beautiful too!

