 Drinking water clears all the toxins from your skin and prevents it from drying out. Take a water bottle with you to school. Resist the urge to glug soda or juice when you're thirsty. Instead, have a sip of water. Not only does this help your skin, it improves your overall health.;
, The skin reflects overall health, so if you nourish your body with plenty of exercise and good, healthy food, your skin will look great as well. Try to consume healthy fats, oils, and proteins every day. Make sure to include fruits and vegetables. At lunch, pick up an apple or a banana and opt for a side salad instead of French fries. Try to walk home or take a quick walk around the track. If your parents or a friend drives you home, ask them to drop you off a block or two away from your house so you can walk home. Enlist in a sport.
 When taking a shower, you want to buy a soap or shower gel that is good for your skin.Unscented soaps are best. Shower gels are best for smooth skin, but there are plenty of bar soaps that work great as well. Follow the directions on the shower gel bottle to wash yourself with shower gel. With soap, put the soap under the water from the shower to get it warmed up. Then rub it between your hands. Rub the soap all over your body and rinse off.
 Only one blast doesn't make you cold, but it makes a big difference.
 Pull your hair back and splash your face with cold water to wake your skin up. Put some cleanser on your fingers and rub it in upwards circular motions around your face. Use a product that is specific for young skin and your skin type. Rinse well by splashing water on your face again, being careful to remove every last bit of cleanser. Pat your face dry with a paper towel, hand towel, or even a bit of toilet paper. DO NOT RUB! Even though using toilet paper on your face sounds disgusting, it's very gentle and doesn't cause irritation on your face.
 Toners are inexpensive and can be found at your local drugstore. If you can't buy toner, feel free to use a little bit of rice water for a fresh face. A toner will pick up everything in your pores that the cleanser didn't get out (dirt, oil, makeup). It will leave your skin feeling refreshed, smooth, tight and springy. But make sure there's no alcohol in it because that will make your skin more oily and dry!

, Moisturizing is key. From school to sports, we can lose the moisture in our skin pretty easily. Moisturize after cleansing and toning so your skin stays soft and smooth. Also, moisturize your skin after showers. Try to find a moisturizer with at least SPF 15. Also, a night moisturizer made for after your nighttime wash can help to renew your skin while you sleep. When moisturizing your skin, take an amount the size of a pea

, Buy a scrub, loofah, or just use a wet washcloth. Rub your face and body with the item of your choice during a hot shower. If using a scrub, follow the directions on the package. This gets rid of dead skin and makes your skin glow.

