 As the production of this vehicle was ended in the early 90s, you are looking at a car which is at least two decades old that Jeep dealers no longer stock parts for and haven't in over a decade.


Grand Wagoneers are classics, and are neat to look at, and fun to drive, but they never had the greatest reputation for reliability even back when they were new. They also get terrible gas mileage because they were built in an era when gas prices were measured in cents per gallon rather than dollars. Expect around 11 mpg city 13 highway.;
, In contrast, individuals who have a special bond with this particular model will typically be "gentler" with the vehicle, and will not require it to perform vigorously. This makes the restored Jeep Grand Wagoneer a viable choice for these customers.



Talk to Jeep retailers, mechanics, and restorers. Educate them about your desire to purchase a restored Jeep Grand Wagoneer. Chances are high that one of these individuals should be able to point you in the proper direction. In addition, individuals who are exhibiting their vehicles at classic car shows and members of Jeep car clubs may be able to provide you with the name and contact information of someone who is interested in selling their restored Jeep Grand Wagoneer.
You may also want to consult online discussion boards for possible leads. A number of websites, including www.wagonmaster.com, contain listings of restored Jeep Grand Wagoneers for sale.
, A major area of concern is where the gas tank skid plate attaches to the frame. If you see rust on the skid plate or the frame don't walk, RUN!

,, areas to check are the rocker panels (under the doors) and directly in front of and behind the rear wheels. If the magnet doesn't stick the truck had rust spots that has had a cheap repair with bondo, the rust WILL be back! The correct way repair rust is to cut out the whole rusted body panel out and weld in a new one.
 These vehicles are known for water leaks and if the carpet has stayed wet for any length of time, the floorboards will likely be rusted out.
,, If there is any oil in the air cleaner the engine has blow by and will need an overhaul soon.


Once you have identified a possible option, you should evaluate both its physical appearance and function capabilities. Take any vehicles you are considering for a test drive before committing to a purchase.



If a certain vehicle meets your approval, make an offer to the seller. Be prepared to pay a large sum of money for a completely restored Jeep Grand Wagoneer. Some estimates suggest that these vehicles can sell for as much as 20 to 35 thousand dollars for an all original Grand Wagoneer with very low miles. Good driver quality Grand Wagoneers with over 100,000 miles (160,000 km) usually run from 2 to 8 thousand dollars..

