 With episodically limited third person, also referred to as third person multiple vision, the writer may have a handful of main characters whose thoughts and perspectives take turns in the limelight. Use each perspective to reveal important information and move the story forward.Limit the amount of pov characters you include. You don't want to have too many characters that confuse your reader or serve no purpose. Each pov character should have a specific purpose for having a unique point of view. Ask yourself what each pov character contributes to the story.
For instance, in a romance story following two main characters, Kevin and Felicia, the writer may opt to explain the inner workings of both characters at different moments in the story.
One character may receive more attention than any other, but all main characters being followed should receive attention at some point in the story.
 Even though multiple perspectives are included in the overall story, the writer should focus on each character one at a time.


Multiple perspectives should not appear within the same narrative space. When one character's perspective ends, another character's can begin. The two perspectives should not be intermixed within the same space.Incorrect example: “Kevin felt completely enamored of Felicia from the moment he met her. Felicia, on the other hand, had difficulty trusting Kevin.”

, Even though the writer can switch back and forth between different character perspectives, doing so arbitrarily can cause the narrative to become confusing for the narrative.In a novel-length work, a good time to switch perspective is at the start of a new chapter or at a chapter break.
The writer should also identify the character whose perspective is being followed at the start of the section, preferably in the first sentence. Otherwise, the reader may waste too much energy guessing.Correct example: “Felicia hated to admit it, but the roses Kevin left on her doorstep were a pleasant surprise.”
Incorrect example: “The roses left on the doorstep seemed like a nice touch.”

, Even though the reader may have access to information viewed from the perspective of multiple characters, those characters do not have the same sort of access. Some characters have no way of knowing what other characters know.


For instance, if Kevin had a talk with Felicia's best friend about Felicia's feelings for him, Felicia herself would have no way of knowing what was said unless she witnessed the conversation or heard about it from either Kevin or her friend.

