 An important ground rule to set for your dog is a prohibition on biting or mouthing. If your dog tries to chew on your hands, try substituting a chew toy. You should also encourage your dog to play in ways that do not involve contact, such as fetch or tug-of-war.If your dog does bite or mouth you, try giving a high-pitched yelp and then ignoring your dog for sixty seconds.
 It's important that you curb any destructive chewing your dog engages in. For starters, you should make sure all items that might be appealing for your dog to chew on, such as shoes, are in places that are out of your dog's reach. You can also purchase a bad-tasting repellent or spray at the pet store to use on furniture or other items. These specially formulated sprays are not toxic to dogs but the taste will deter your pet from chewing.When you leave the house, either crate your dog or make sure they have a chew toy to gnaw on during your absence.
 Some dogs have a bad habit of rushing to the door when a visitor knocks or rings the bell, and many will jump on your guests once the door is open. Teach your dog to sit and stay when they hear the sound of a doorbell or knock. This will help your dog learn that guests are only to be greeted after the successful execution of a command and permission from you.When the doorbell rings, make your dog sit. Do not open the door until your dog is sitting.
 Dogs are great at begging, using their adorable faces and sad eyes to convince you that getting on the bed or nabbing a bite of your pizza is a great idea. It is important that your dog understands that begging will not be rewarded. If your dog begs for food, try establishing a place away from the table where they are required to be during meals.At mealtimes, make your dog go to a designated area such as their crate or bed.
Try rewarding your dog with a dog treat at the end of meals if they remain in their established space.
 An important ground rule to establish with your dog is the prohibition of jumping. While jumping up is a common way for dogs, especially puppies, to greet people, it’s critical that you stop this behavior in your pet. When you come home from work, do not give your dog any attention until they sit and stay. If they jump on you, continue ignoring them until they follow your commands. Then reward them with attention by petting them or giving them a treat., Once you establish your authority and set the ground rules, it’s important that you use positive reinforcement as you teach your dog the ropes. Positive reinforcement can come in many forms, such as extra attention, a walk, or a treat when your dog does a good job following the ground rules.
 When your dog does something good, such as responding positively to a command, be sure to reward them quickly. For example, if your dog sits and stays while the doorbell rings and a guest enters your home, reward them immediately with a treat. If you wait until five minutes after the good behavior, your dog will not associate following a ground rule with a treat.