 Either it's a multimedia machine, gaming, or office use. This is a very important step, as different machines will have different requirements, e.g. an office computer will require a much less powerful machine than one designed for gaming.;
, Choosing a motherboard is a backward process, especially if it's the first time a person is performing this. Remember to keep in mind what the purpose of your PC will be, and also remember to read reviews on your products before buying them, just because something looks good on the seller's website, or is more expensive than another product, doesn't mean it will perform the best of all of your other options.
 There are a few requirements that you have to keep in mind.


Every motherboard is designed for a specific CPU slot. Ensure that you select the right socket for the CPU that you chose. For instance, an AMD CPU can have AM3, AM3+, FM2, or FM2+ sockets, while an Intel CPU might have LGA 2011, LGA 1156, LGA 1155, or LGA 1150 sockets.
Every motherboard is also designed with specific RAM speed and type. If you are going to get, say, 240-pin DDR3 1333 (PC 10660), then you need a motherboard that can support 240-pin DDR3 1333 (PC 10660).
If you are going to be purchasing PCI components, ensure your motherboard has enough of the correct types of slots for all of your components.
Make sure your motherboard will actually fit in your case, for instance, if you buy a microATX case, you won't be able to fit an ATX motherboard inside of it.
Make sure your power supply can support the motherboard, for instance, if your power supply only has a 20-pin motherboard connector, and your motherboard needs 24 pins, or if your power supply only has four pins for CPU power, and your motherboard needs eight (remember, motherboards usually have two power connections, not counting any accessories).
 One of the most obvious steps. Buy a middle performance CPU in the latest technology with a middle performance motherboard, it will be cheap and effective.
 Take your time and don't rush.
