 Instead of paying ridiculous amounts of money at a name brand store for a pair of pants or a new blouse that you hardly ever wear, trying shopping at a thrift store. Although not all thrift stores are exactly ideal, most offer clothes that are unique and cannot be found anywhere else. Then, not only will you wear an outfit that you found for a good deal, but you will be wearing something that no one else has.;
, You don't always have to have money saved in order to be able to update the look and style of your home. If you are wanting to add zest and personality to your home without lightening the load in your wallet, look for recycled materials to enhance your home. For instance, decorate picture frames with shells, paper mache jars, and use empty glass pop bottles as flower holders. These simple changes can take your home from blah to ooo-la-la!

, Instead of spending tons of money on a vacation that may end up classifying as an episode good enough to appear on family feud, try vacationing near home. All you need to do is borrow a tent, find a friend who lives near a wooded area, and buy some smores ingredients and viola! You can camp in your own backyard! If you do not like to camp, travel within your own state and find hotel deals so you can enjoy your vacation and still remain debt free.
 Gas these days is definitely on the high end and one alternative that remains cheap and good for you is walking. Walking allows you to on save gas while getting a good amount of exercise that we often deny ourselves of. Walking also gives you the chance to enjoy the scenery and take a breather from the chaos of your daily agenda. So take a walk today and give your wallet a break

, As the price of gas rises, the price of food becomes more and more expensive. Instead of having your own family dinners that force you to either eat too little on little money or eat too much on too much money, have a potluck dinner instead. Potlucks give you a chance to make only one dish, which saves you more money in the long run. It also allows you to try different kinds of foods that your friends make.
 When seeing previews for a movie that is coming out, our first reaction is to want to go to the theatres the minute it comes out. However, going to the movies is not always the best choice to make, especially if we are trying to save money. a cheap alternative would be to wait until the movie is released to the redbox. Redboxes allow you to rent a movie for a night for only $1 and, even though you have to wait for the movie to come out, you can save a whole lot more than if you went to the movies.

