 Protein is the building block for healthy hair. Having a diet that’s very rich in protein will help your hair grow faster. Make sure you’re getting the daily recommended amount of protein each and every day.


Protein-rich foods include eggs, meat, nuts, legumes, and leafy greens.
Vegans and vegetarians commonly eat less protein than meat eaters, since there are fewer protein-heavy options. If you’re vegan or vegetarian, pay close attention to your protein intake to make sure you’re getting as much as you need.
Proteins will help your hair the most if you eat them in combination with complex carbs. Legumes (like beans, peas, and lentils), whole grain rice and other whole grain foods, and starchy vegetables like corn and potatoes are all excellent sources of complex carbs., This healthy fat is integral to healthy hair growth, and without enough of it in your diet your hair can appear brittle and dull. Incorporate more omega 3 fatty acids into your diet on a daily basis. Your skin will also benefit from a diet rich in omega 3 fatty acids.


Avocados, nuts, eggs and fatty fish like salmon are the best sources of omega 3s.
Consider taking fish oil or flaxseed oil supplements to up your daily dose.
Almond, carrots, yeast, walnuts and fish are among the food that contain the most biotin. Consider supplements if you're not eating any of these foods daily.
 Biotin supplements are composed of B vitamins that contribute to hair health. Vitamin B12 is especially important when it comes to regrowing hair. Consider taking biotin supplements so you know you’re getting enough B vitamins every day. B vitamins are also commonly found in prenatal supplements.


You can also get your daily vitamin B12 from eating organ meats, fatty fish and other animal products.
Vegans and vegetarians have a harder time getting enough B12. Consider taking supplements if you’re a vegan or vegetarian.
 When you aren’t getting enough iron, your body produces fewer red blood cells, leading to a condition known as anemia. This can cause hair loss among many other symptoms. Add more iron to your diet by eating leafy greens, red meat and other iron-rich foods. Alternatively, consider taking iron supplements to meet your daily needs.


If you’re concerned you may be anemic, it’s important to see a doctor. In many cases the recommended treatment will be taking iron supplements, but sometimes further treatment is needed.
 Drinking water can help your hair grow more vibrant and healthy. Just like other parts of your body, your hair is greatly affected by dehydration. Make sure you’re drinking enough water every single day. Drink when you’re thirsty, and switch out coffee, soda and alcohol for water as often as possible. Recommended intake of water is 2L per day minimum.

