 With good diction, and a calm voice, say your full name to the person you are meeting. Even if you have met them before, it is always good to stir their memory. If you're meeting someone you know very well, greet them and say their name. Use polite sayings such as "nice to see you," "it is so great to meet you," "how are you," "I've heard so much about you," etc. It may seem formal, but it's polite, respectful and it makes others feel important.;
, Usually, this is a handshake. Most likely, the other person will offer his or her hand first, but after a few seconds if they cease to do so, out reach your hand. Always be assertive in that sense. If you're going to shake hands, don't give a weak, wobbly fingertip. It portrays you as timid and frail. Grasp the hand thoroughly, but don't crush their bones. Many think an immensely firm handshake makes a good impression, but all it makes is a painful one. Be firm enough so that they know you're confident, but not so firm you make them wince.


You may also adjust this with the person you meeting. A strong, eccentric man may require something more stable, while a frail, eighty year old woman something softer. However, a handshake is not the only introduction gesture. Cheek kissing, friendly embrace, and pats on the back are also vital motions, more often used with people you are familiar with. For you girls, cheek kissing can be especially awkward. Not every man does so, or every woman, but if they pull you in for such, don't be surprised. You never want to look like a deer in headlights. Let them kiss you, smile, and so on. Usually, they will shake hands with you and then pull you in. Hugging should be quick and soft. Don't strangle a person, but show them you care and carefully wrap your arms around them, then let go. Many men shake hands and then pull in to pat each other on the back. It's a sign of respect, and sort of brotherhood/friends. Whatever the gesture, always act prepared and willing, even if you're not.
 Looking at the ground or someplace besides their eyes signifies insecurity, and generally announces to the person your are meeting that he/she is not important. You may feel uncomfortable doing so, but trust me, not looking someone in the eyes when they're speaking is a huge mistake. If it really bothers you, concentrate between their eyes, it looks the same from their point of view anyway.
 Never seem, as mentioned, like a deer in headlights, even when you feel like one. Smile, and have a happy, friendly demeanor, yet seem strong and memorable. You want someone to remember you, and shying away doesn't make an impression in their mind. Stand up straight, speak to them, and seem interested. Nod, feed them back commentary, ask them questions. Don't look for someone else while you're speaking to someone at a function. Do not bite your nails, play with your hair, or do anything else that makes you look nervous/insecure. Humans feed off insecurity. The way you do everything and anything subconsciously sends messages to the person your meeting.

