 These cabinets are found in kitchen corners and have folding doors. Kidney shaped Lazy Susans are designed specifically for these cabinets.Ensure you have a cabinet fitting this description before attempting to measure it.
 Place the tape measure at the opening, and stretch it until it touches the back wall. Record this measurement, which will usually be about 10 inches shorter than the Lazy Susan’s diameter., This can be done by placing a tape measure on either side of the cabinet’s opening, where the wall ends. Starting here, stretch out the tape measure until it touches the opposite wall of the cabinet. Record this measurement as the cabinet’s depth.


As the Lazy Susan needs about an inch or 2 of clearance on either side to rotate smoothly, the depth of your cabinet minus 3 to 4 inches will give you the maximum diameter your cabinet can fit for a Lazy Susan.
 Repeat the previous step, as if you were measuring the cabinet’s depth. Dividing this measurement by two will help you find the center. Mark this point with a pencil. Then use a ruler to draw a straight line, perpendicular to the measurement you just took, connecting this point to the far wall of the cabinet.


Next, use your tape measure to measure the cabinet’s depth once more, this time from the opposite side of your cabinet’s opening. This means the tape measure should now run perpendicular to the measurement you previously took.
Divide this measurement by two, finding its center. Mark this point with a pencil.
Now draw a line from this point, away from the cabinet’s opening, perpendicular to the measurement you just took.
The lines you’ve drawn should now intersect at one point. This is the center of the cabinet.
 From the center you’ve drawn, bring your tape measure to the corner of the cabinet’s opening in a straight line. Compare this measurement to the minimum requirement on the Lazy Susan you plan to install., Start with a tape measure at the cabinet’s opening and run it along the inside wall until it lines up with the cabinet’s center. This measurement will also need to be compared to the minimum requirements for the Lazy Susan, so it spins smoothly in the cabinet.


You can erase the pencil lines after taking this measurement.
 Start from the very bottom of the cabinet, stretching a tape measure until it touches the top. Compare this to the height range for the Lazy Susan.

