 What is bad about your schedule? One common problem associated with schedules, next to getting the classes you want, is having a lot, or even all of your advanced/core or less-pleasant classes one day, and having a minimal amount of hard classes the next day. (This applies if you have block scheduling) If you don't have block scheduling, it may just be that you have a lot of hard classes, maybe ones that give out more homework than you are accustomed to. (Please comment me, the initial author, if you have a different type of problem with your schedule, and I will write what I know on it.);
, It's usually good to be thinking about how you will handle your schedule before school actually starts. When you go school supply shopping, be on the look-out for things that will help you keep track of what you need and when you need it. Think big, but for a small space. Look for locker shelves and racks that look sturdy, and take up the least amount of space. Buy small notebooks, if your teachers would allow it, so that if you have a lot to carry between classes, they won't take up so much space. (You can look up some good related articles on locker space and school supplies for more tips.) If you have any friends or siblings who were recently in your grade, ask them about any additional things they needed to be prepared. Also get things you will need specifically for each class, like a scientific calculator and ruler for math, a composition notebook and editing tips book for English, or extra reeds for band (that type of thing!) When you get everything, organize your locker when you are allowed to.
 Keep a small, somewhat flat zipper pack in your binder/bag to keep a few pencils, pens, highlighter, calculator, etc. so you aren't caught off-guard during class. Keep your textbooks upright, in the order you will use them. If you don't have much time to go from class to class, think ahead and carry what you can (where you can walk without easily dropping anything) the class before. Organize your binder/bag regularly so that you can access papers quickly without wasting time or space. Label things. Take things to and from lunch if you are allowed to-keep the bulk out if you can, but you can still carry something so you don't take as long to get to your next class. Who knows, you could even work on homework if you finish eating early! It isn't hard to work on something and be in a conversation if you focus. And don't work on homework WHILE you eat-it can get very messy and make you rush.
 In class, listen and work efficiently. Work on your handwriting so that you can write quickly and still read it! That is very important. Work on homework at school as much as you can (as long as it doesn't disrupt you/others DURING class), and don't be afraid to ask teachers for help on an assignment that troubles you. Just think of it as professionally enhancing your work! Also, work on homework right after school. Grab a snack, maybe turn on the radio softly, and/or adjust the lighting to your satisfaction, and start and finish your homework in a space where you are not distracted OR discouraged. If you have block scheduling, (4 classes a day, a total of 8 classes) do most, or all, if you can, of your homework the first day, and finish the rest as quickly as possible if it isn't done the first day. If you happen to have an assignment you didn't complete that is due that day, make sure to take it to school and work on it in the morning in the bleachers, or esp. the library before class. You may still have a chance at completing it, or at least getting some credit. It is especially good to have a folder for homework that you need to finish urgently, so you don't lose them in other binders, folders, or papers. Finally, write in your agenda every single day, so that you won't forget anything. You don't have to write what happened in the class if you have a limited amount of time to write, but at least write down everything you need to know for your assignments that you don't already have written down.
 If you find your grades are slipping, or you have too many other activities to finish your homework, don't pull yourself down so much... drop activities that are not very important to you or take up too much time for you to commit. If you have done that and still can't finish your work, find some time you were wasting originally, or didn't realize was useful, and work then, or get a tutor of some sort.

