 When makeup is overdone, not only is this evident in real life but it also shows up in photographs. The only exception is for stage makeup but given you'd also have a fancy costume, then it would be clear to the viewer that it was for a performance.






;
, Only place this foundation where you think it is needed, such as over pimples or on the sides of your nose, etc. Avoid caking your whole face in it.
 A shiny face will reflect poorly in the camera and you won't look your best. To avoid too shiny a face, use matte-formula makeup to cover blemishes. For your eye area, use a creamy concealer with reflective qualities.









Avoid any foundation or other makeup containing titanium dioxide if flash photography is likely (it is a commonly used sunscreen in makeup). The shielding effect of the titanium dioxide on your face will make your face appear washed out and mask-like.
 Place blush on the apple part of your cheeks and some glossy lipstick to highlight lips. If you want longer lashes, consider adding false ones.









Avoid too much contouring; this can result in a washed-out look. Be sure to balance the look though - either eyes or lips should be the focus, not both.Blush should be contoured to ensure skeletal detail is brought out in the photo.
 Lashes tend to look a little bare and sparse on the camera. Give yourself an advantage by using the mascara wand to apply mascara. Comb out your lashes with the mascara wand with a wiggling motion. Open your mouth and apply the mascara in a windshield wiping motion for length. Make sure your lashes aren't clumped and spidery, the camera picks up every detail.
 Avoid pastels as these will wash you out. Colors the camera loves in makeup include reds, charcoal,emerald greens, golds and chocolate brown. Beige, tans and dusty shades do show up on the camera well. Anything that is rich and deep in color should look good in a photo.
 Unless you have the best editing team in the world, there is no way you can touch up chapped cracked lips in a photo. Warm your lips up with a washrag and apply any type of oil to your lips and buff away with a washcloth. Apply a nice layer of chap-stick to your lips to give them the dazzle they need.
 To add life to your face, swipe a highlight pencil(shimmery not glittery unless you want to look like fairy) under the arch your brow and blend it in with a brush or finger. Highlighting the inner corners of your eyes can help them look brighter and large. Draw a light line down the center of your nose and blend to define it for that shimmering glow.
 Swish with hydrogen peroxide, to give your teeth a healthy nice glow. You can also use lemons or baking soda for a all natural teeth whitener if you do not have any around. Remember not to get lipstick on your teeth and stay away from lipsticks that make your teeth look yellow.
 That way you be reassured that it's in good condition or you can quickly touch up anything not quite right.









For important events, such as a wedding, a career portfolio, a long-lasting family portrait, etc., seriously consider having professional makeup done. Explain to the makeup artist what the event is so that they can choose a look with you that suits the type of event.

