 Aliens are not included in the base Sims 3 game. In order to encounter them, you will need the Seasons expansion pack.;
, Aliens have a chance to visit each night between 12am and 4am.The easiest way to increase the odds of an abduction is to keep your Sims awake during this time, and keep them on their home lot.


It's possible that Sims who are outside in the yard are more likely to be abducted. Set up activities for your Sims outside and have them visit each night.
 Buy a telescope in Buy mode. Have your Sims interact with it to "Stargaze" or "Look Through" to increase the odds of an alien abduction the same night.If a Sim has a few points in Logic, she can use the "Search Galaxy" option, which might increase it even more.
 Keeping space rocks in your lot increases the odds of an alien visit, but it's possible that actively collecting rocks or keeping them in the inventory is what adds to the chance of an abduction that night.Rarely, you can find space rocks using a telescope or just noticing them on the ground, but using Lifetime Points to get the Collection Helper will greatly increase your ability to find these.


If you have the Pets expansion, dogs may occasionally find space rocks as well.
 When aliens do eventually decide to abduct someone, sparkly lights will appear over a Sim's head. That Sim will start to "Investigate Mysterious Anomaly" and move toward an alien spaceship in the yard, at which point he or she will be abducted.
 The "Abducted" moodlet will typically last several game hours, after which the Sim will return. Non-occult male Sims sometimes get the "Unexpected Weight Gain" moodlet immediately after returning, which means they are pregnant. If you are trying to get a male Sim pregnant, save before the "Abducted" moodlet wears off, and reload if the moodlet wears off without being replaced by "Unexpected Weight Gain."

, If a male, human Sim is abducted and becomes "pregnant," an alien baby will be born 48 game-hours later. You will be prompted to make a decision, and can either send it back to its home world, or raise it yourself. Despite the human father, the baby will be 100% alien.It can be raised as an ordinary baby would, but will grow up into an alien with special powers.


Non-human Sims and female Sims cannot have an alien baby from an abduction.
 Between about 12am and 4am game time each night, aliens have a chance to land in your yard. Keep space rocks outside your home and use a telescope to increase the chances of this happening.


Smashing pumpkins may give you a tiny additional chance., Pay attention during the game night, and wake up your Sim if you see an alien. Interact with it to befriend it. Once you have encountered an alien, you can contact it at any time as you would any Sim.
 Make your Sims friendly with the alien, then invite it to move in to your household. Once the alien is in your household, you can control it as you would any Sim. Each alien begins with level 10 logic and level 7 handiness, as well as additional benefits described below., Instead of the energy motive, aliens have "Brain Power," which is recharged using the self-interaction "Restore Brain Power," or by consuming space rocks. This resource can be used for a variety of powers:Interact with other Sims to restore energy, learn their personality, or mind control Sims from other households.
Interact with any broken object to quickly repair it.
Interact with gems or metals to upgrade them into more valuable items.
 When an alien joins your household, it will come with a "Galaxa Space Car." This lets you travel between two locations instantaneously, summon a storm, or abduct a friend and bring him to your home lot.A Sim with enough Handiness can perform two upgrades:The laser upgrade allows the car to invade other households, shooting lasers that singe off clothing.
The space travel upgrade allows Sims to embark on space adventures. These "disappear" your Sim for a while, and give you text updates describing the adventure and result.
 You can use your Alien Sim to sell alien secrets at the Military Base, steal from the Science Lab at night, or start a part-time career as an Alien Test Subject at the Science Lab. The test subject job may give your alien Sim a negative "nausea" moodlet.
 Aliens and Human Sims can "Woohoo" together and make children. The child will have part human and part alien DNA, with the exact amounts determined semi-randomly. Any Sim with more than 20% alien DNA may have alien powers, which is extremely likely for the first generation or two.These powers might only show up once the baby grows up, however.Even supernaturals like Fairies & Werewolves can reproduce with aliens. The children will have a mix of alien and supernatural features, but no alien powers.

