 To make a disappearing handkerchief box, you’ll need to gather several household items:Thin cardboard or posterboard
Tape
Scissors
Handkerchief
Paint, wrapping paper, and other decorative items
Glue
Black construction paper or black paint;
, Use a ruler and pencil to mark out your squares, and cut them out using a pair of sharp, sturdy scissors.


You can make your magic box any size that you want, but you’ll need six squares of the same size no matter what their size. For a manageable small box, measure 4”-6” squares.
 You can do this by gluing the cardboard squares onto the black construction paper or by painting one side with black paint. For one square, glue black paper to or paint both sides.


Paper may be preferable, as it is the same color and texture throughout. You also don't have to worry about smearing the paint.
If you glue your squares to construction paper, allow the glue to dry. Then cut them out and trim the excess paper from the edges.
 Place four squares on your work surface with the black side down. Tape their edges together, then bring the last two sides together to form a box. Place a strip of tape on the outside of that edge too.


Don’t use the double-sided square for this step.
 Place the remaining single-sided cardboard square on your work surface with the black side face up. Place one edge of the double-sided square about ⅓ of the way from one edge of the square. Secure with tape on that side to form a hinge.
 Slide the four-sided box you made in Step 4 over the secret compartment piece. The double-sided square should create a flap inside the box and should be able to move freely back and forth. Secure at the bottom with tape.


If the flap isn’t able to move, trim the edges just a little bit. Don’t trim too much, or you’ll ruin the illusion.
 Use paint, wrapping paper, and/or stickers to decorate the outside of the box. Make it as colorful as you can; the vivid colors and patterns will help distract your audience as you perform the trick.
 Push the flap forward to open the secret compartment, and place a handkerchief inside. Then, push the flap back into place. Hold the box by the side where the flap connects so the compartment stays closed.
 Show your audience the “empty” box while you hold the secret compartment closed with your hand. Then, reach into the box, behind the flap, and pull out the handkerchief. Voila!