 Outdoor flowers are a favorite for bugs and other wildlife (roses are like deer crème brulee). Treat your flowers or build them a removable greenhouse to keep them safe and growing happily.
 Some flowers require full sun, some prefer partial, or even full shade. Make the most of your house to provide these needs - use the sunny side for sun-lovers and the shady side for shade-dwellers.
 Weeds will take away resources from your flowers and keep them from reaching their full potential. Generally, you know this. But what you may not be doing is staying really vigilant. If you can weed every day or every two days, that is best. Don't just occasionally remove one or two really bad weeds. Try to get them all.
 Remove blossoms which have begun to wilt, remove excess flowers before they start to bloom, and cut back dead or overgrown branches. This will help your plant to focus on the blossoms that you want it to.
 You want to save your plants from the risks associated with frost. Carefully time plantings and transplants so that it is not too cold or too hot. They are delicate and often can't handle the shock!

, Some plants bloom better if you prune or cut them back at specific times of year. For example, summer-blooming trees and bushes benefit from a winter pruning. Look up the specifics for the types of plants you have.
 Plant them in good, suitable soil with plenty of compost for nutrition, mulch for water retention and space to grow. You'll also want to pay attention to the pH. Check what is recommended for the flowers you grow and adjust your soil accordingly.
 If you have an entire garden that requires constant high maintenance, then none of your special blossoms are going to be able to get the attention they really need. Mix flowers you don't have to pay as much attention to with those that need more care to help ensure that all of your flowers reach their full potential.
 It is important to get the watering balance right - don't over water or the flowers might rot. Don't underwater or they might not get enough and wilt and die. It is very important to know the requirements of your type of flower.

