 While you are driving, understand where you are. This includes what city you are in, what road you are driving on, and what direction you are going.If you get pulled over by a vehicle that looks like a police vehicle, you can use the information about your location throughout the rest of your interaction.


If you have to call the police, knowing where you are located will help you explain the situation to the dispatcher.
If you are looking at the person's vehicle, knowing where you are will help you identify the markings on the vehicle in order to ensure they match your location. For example, if you get pulled over in Los Angeles, you want to make sure you aren't being pulled over by a New York police car.
 When an officer begins the process of pulling you over, they will turn on an audible siren.Listen for the siren and determine whether it sounds legitimate. While different police forces may use different sounds, try to familiarize yourself with those sounds so you can spot improper ones.


Police cars, fire trucks, and ambulances all use different sounding sirens. Impersonators may not know this and may accidentally install the wrong siren.
 One of the easiest ways to spot a police impersonator is to examine their vehicle.If it looks older or is not running in good condition, it may not be a real police car.Look for the reflective decals on the sides and the hood of the car.These decals should clearly identify the vehicle as a police vehicle and should include car numbers, a police shield, and police department identifiers.
Identify the warning lights on the police car. Most police cars are equipped with a number of lights that flash colors to warn people of their presence. Police lights are often red and blue.Beware of single white lights or green and yellow lights behind the grill.Read the officer's license plate. Real police units utilize specialized license plates that identify he vehicle as a police vehicle., Before you pull over, especially if you are in a dark area, turn on your hazard lights to inform the vehicle attempting to pull you over that you see them.Trained officers know this means you are acknowledging their presence and that you are not trying to run from them., With your hazard lights still on, drive until you reach a will lit and populated area.Pulling over where people are nearby can help disincentivize a police impersonator from committing a crime against you. Also, if you are in a well lit area, you will be able to examine the person and their actions better.


If you do this, a police impersonator will often drive right by you because they will not want to risk getting caught.
 Once you pull over, do not open your door or get out of the car.Stay in the vehicle with your doors locked.Only roll your window down enough to speak to the person outside your vehicle.If the person puling you over is an impersonator, you do not want to let them gain access to you or your vehicle, which is why you should not open your door or roll your window down all the way.
 While talking to the person through the window, examine the uniform they are wearing.The clothes themselves should be clean and unwrinkled. Uniforms with stains and uniforms that do not fit properly are good indications of a fake. Also, look for a hat, which is a requirement for police officers.
The uniform will always include a badge, name tag, and service tags.The badge will be made out of metal and will never be plastic or flimsy. Service tags indicate the years of service an officer has had on the force.Look for a utility belt with all of the tools of the trade.These tools include a flashlight, firearm, handcuffs, taser, bullet magazines, and pepper spray.The utility belt itself is usually made of woven leather.All officers will carry a radio, so be sure the person you see has one.Try to identify the officer's citation pad., Once you have examined what the person is wearing, or while you are doing so, ask to see the officer's identification. A trained officer should comply with this request promptly and professionally.The officer should have a badge, identification card, and even a photo ID.While an impersonator may be able to fake a badge, it is much more difficult to fake a photo ID and police identification card. If the person cannot show you these things, they may be impersonating an officer.
 If you have any doubt after examining and speaking with the officer, call the police.Dispatchers will know whether an officer has been sent to your area and if they have actually pulled someone over.The dispatcher will send out a real officer if there is any doubt as to what is unfolding.


Real officers should never be upset if you choose to call the police to verify their identity. This verification process is easy and pain free for the officer, so they should be happy to let you make the phone call. If anyone asks that you not call the police, they may be impersonating an officer.

