 This will form the base of the rosette. Use either a compass or a circular object to trace a perfect circle. Trace the circle onto the duct tape, then cut out the circle, leaving the duct tape backing firmly in place for now.


The size of the circle is entirely up to the final size of rosette you want but a fairly typical size would be about 3" (7.5cm) in diameter.
You'll need to use sheet duct tape for this project, as it is wide enough and gives you the opportunity to make plenty more circles for more rosettes. This can be purchased from craft stores.;
, Assuming you're making a rosette based on 3" (7.5cm), cut a length of duct tape measuring approximately 12 inches (30cm).
 However, leave a small edge of the sticky part exposed at one edge, which will be used to adhere the pleat in the following step.
 This method will be used for each subsequent layer of rosette ruffles, so simply repeat the step each time:


Begin by attaching a sticky edge of one end of the length to the circle, color side facing up. Pleat by bending the strip at regular intervals, working in a curve around the edge of the circle. The sticky edge left above should be pressed down and attached to the circle each time.
Continue bending and attaching all the way around the circle.
Finish pleating. Cut off any loose edge. Should you find you've run out of enough to finish a total circle with the pleating, this can be quickly remedied by patching another length to the first one and cutting off any excess when completed.
 Follow the step above for making another circle. This circle should be smaller, just sticking over the edge of the ruffle you've just pleated in place. Use the compass to measure accurately.
 Attach it to the ruffle, being careful to overlap the edge of the ruffle circle evenly all the way around.
 As above, cut a new length for the second ruffle, using the same dimensions and method. Pleat onto the second circle, using the method described above for pleating.


Finish by tucking the last pleat under the edge of the first pleat.
 Again, this should just overlap the second ruffle, so use your compass to make this smallest circle accurately. Cut and attach as above.
 Use the pleating method described above to attach the final layer to the rosette, using the same measurement as before.
 This can be a costume gem, a button, an artificial flower or another piece of circular duct tape. The choice is up to you.


Use a hot glue gun to attach a non-self-adhering centerpiece

, The duct tape rosette is now ready to use in crafts, on gifts, as a beauty accessory or for any other use you can think of. You can attach double-sided tape at the back, a brooch pin, Velcro tabs or similar items to adhere the back of the rosette to something else.

