 If you are suffering from a medical condition and believe that ozonated olive oil may help, be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin any self-treatment. When inhaled, ozone can cause serious health problems and should generally be avoided. If you suffer from a respiratory condition like asthma, avoid using any type of ozone generator.Follow your doctor’s recommendation for treating any ailments.;
, If you want to create ozonated olive oil, you will need to buy an ozone generator. You can purchase a machine designed specifically for creating ozonated olive oil. If you already own a generator or want to ozonate other things, you can also buy the individual parts. Check online and find a machine and parts that meet your needs.If you purchase the individual parts, you will need an ozone generator, an aerator, and a glass jar.
Purchase a generator that creates ozone through corona discharge or cold plasma. Ultraviolet machines are not strong enough to ozonate olive oil.
 Place about 8oz (237mL) of olive oil in a glass jar or the container that came with your machine. If you are using your own jar, be sure to pick one that can be sealed with a lid. Avoid using plastic containers that can contaminate your oil during ozonation.If you are using a machine designed specifically for ozonating oils, follow the manufacturer’s instructions.
 Once you have the oil in the jar, you can connect it to the machine. If you are using your own setup, insert the aerator hose into the oil. Once the oil container and the generator are connected, turn on the machine., As it is ozonated, bubbles will appear in the oil. These should be tiny bubbles, which facilitate the process of ozonation. Large bubbles will not allow the transfer of ozone into the oil. If your machine is producing big bubbles, contact the manufacturer.You can also purchase an glass ozone bubbler that will ensure the creation of small bubbles.
 Depending on your machine and how concentrated you want your ozonated salve, the ozonation process can take anywhere from one hour to three weeks. If you are using an all-in-one ozone generator, follow the manufacturer’s guidelines.If your oil still has color to it and is runny, it is not done with ozonation. Ozonated olive oil should be clear and gel-like.
 Once your oil is ozonated, cover it with a lid and place it in your refrigerator. After being stored in the refrigerator, your ozonated olive oil should be good for up to 30 days. You can also store it in your freezer for up to a year.