 AT&T provides a service called Smart Limits, but unfortunately it can only be used to block specific numbers, rather than private or anonymous numbers.If you want to block private numbers, you’ll have to check if your phone has a setting for that.


On an iPhone, you cannot block a private number but you do have another option. If you click on the “Settings” icon, you will see an option called “Do Not Disturb.” Click on this, and you can select to only receive phone calls from people in your Contacts. Of course, this may block numbers that you simply don’t have saved, but it will also block all private calls.On an Android, you do have the option to block private numbers. Open the phone app, click “More,” then “Call Settings,” and then “Call Rejection.” Once you’re on this screen, tap “Auto Reject” and turn the “Unknown” option ON.For other phones or questions about specific models, you can perform a quick Google search to see what your phone is capable of. Search “Blocking private numbers on .”

, There are various different apps for different devices that can provide blocking services. The CTIA, or the Wireless Association, provides lists on their websites of blocking apps that are available for your specific device (iPhone, Android, Windows, and BlackBerry).Some are free, and others can cost you anywhere from $1 to $5. Before you download any call blocking app, make sure to thoroughly read its description and reviews to make sure it can accomplish what you want.
 Head to DoNotCall.gov to register your number for free, or confirm that your number is already registered. While this may not stop all private calls, it should stop all private calls from telemarketing companies. The National Do Not Call Registry will make sure that telemarketers cannot call your mobile phone.If you continue to get telemarketing calls, you can file a complaint on the National Do Not Call Registry to ensure it stops. On the DoNotCall.gov website, click on the link, "Submit a Complaint." Then, follow the steps and fill in the information about the specific unwanted call.

