 A 3-way light bulb is a bulb that is capable of producing three different levels of light. Traditional 3-way bulbs will also produce light at increasing levels of illumination. Most of the time, the light bulbs in your lamp produce a lot of light than necessary, or produce a small amount light, both making it harder to see. 3-Way light bulbs can help you adjust the level of brightness that suits your needs. , Whether it's on your desk, reading area, on your kitchen counter, where you sew, or the place where you iron clothes, place a goose-neck lamp next to your work space so you can increase light and make it much easier to see when doing a certain task. Many companies have lighter light bulbs, which create natural daylight, and can be very helpful to someone with a visual disability and needs light in their work areas. , If you have a staircase, placing lighting over it such as strip lights or wall & step lights make it easier to go up and down the stairs safely. You can adjust the lighting to the brightness that suits your visual needs by adjusting the settings.


Place lighting over the places on the staircase where accidents are more likely to occur. , Consider installing easy lights to switch on and off in a closet. It's highly recommended to install certain lighting in the closets you frequently use on a daily basis, such as your closet of clothes or a closet of all your sport equipment. Lights in the closet will make it more trouble-free to search for the tools you need, and can also help you place and store items in the closet as well. , Make it simple and less complicated to identify where the light switch is. You may want to consider installing railing to make your way safely to the light switch. It might also help to place tactile marks on the light switch so you can identify where it is easily. Make sure there are no obstacles that prevent you from switching the light on or off, as this can cause you to trip and hurt yourself. , Nightlights are small and bright, making it easy to see and roam around. You may want to consider placing a nightlight in the bathroom, hallway, and in your bedroom. Some type of nightlights you may consider picking out are: Wireless nightlights. These nightlights are easy to move around to the places that need light without a cord or plug.
Switchable nightlights. These nightlights are easy to plug in without a cord or plug, making them small, mini lights for places like your bedroom or hallway.
Lava lamps. These nightlights are shiny and bright, helping you to identify where you are, and are perfect fits for a bedroom.
Plasma lamps. Just like the lava lamps, this nightlight is shiny and bright, and is a good keep to place in your bedroom to help you see better. The light provides many colors and movement so it's easy to identify clearly.
 This may be as simple as replacing the blinds or curtains, or installing more windows in your house. You may want to consider installing large windows so more natural light comes into your house. When choosing blinds or curtains, pick out the mini blinds and choose light curtains so natural light can enter your house easily. Avoid heavy, thick curtains or blinds as this prevent natural light from coming in. , Ensure you can easily reach light switches from doorways and from your bed. You may need to move certain light switches around to make it easier to reach, and easier to switch on and off. Consider installing light switches an picking out lamps that allow you to change the brightness settings so you can pick the setting that suits you.
 For example, you may want to fix a light underneath a cupboard, so that the light shines directly your work area where you prepare food. Install lights in areas that can easily give you direct light, especially in important spaces where you work and do tasks. Examples include in:


Your sewing area
The place where you read.
The computer area
The place where you do your make-up.
The area where you write or type.
 For your safety, always shut any doors from the cupboard, drawer, or closet to avoid any accidents from happening. After you open something, immediately close it after use, and do not leave it open. If you live with multiple people remind them to always close anything after use for your own safety. , Accidents and spills happen, but they should not be left alone. If you spill a liquid on the floor it should be immediately cleaned right away. It can be really dangerous leaving the spill there with your visual disability, possibly making you trip and fall over. If you live with multiple people remind them to always clean up if they have caused a spill for your own safety.
 Ensure the house is always clean. After you have done a task (e.g cooking, woodwork, sewing, etc) always pick up after yourself and store the materials in a proper place for later. Trash should be picked up and thrown away. If there are certain objects that must remain there, place railings to identity where they are. , Using brightly colored fluorescent tape, tape small strips of tape on the settings you typically use. This can prevent you from mistakenly changing the temperature up to high or too low. You can also stick strips of tape near the spots that you do not usually use. That way when you try to place the thermostat on you'll know what not to click. , Repair trip hazards such as broken paths or fencing. When it comes to being outside, there are times when they'll be hazardous spots like broken paths or fencing. Ensure these are immediately fixed to prevent an accidents from occurring. The pathway must be completely fixed, easy to walk on, with no cracks. The fence should not be leaning forward or broken, it should be completely straight and fixed neatly. Ensure the grass is cut daily and the bushes are trimmed as well, to avoid you from tripping or getting hurt. Maintain your garden to avoid hazardous situations. Remove weeds, cut hedges, and trim over-grown plants. , The floor, windows, countertops, gutters, roof, cupboards, drawers, pipes, and carpet should all be in check. There should be no cracks, holes, or loose placements in your house as this can cause an accident. Make sure everything is in check daily. Have a sighted friend or family member check your house daily to ensure that there isn't something that could leave you getting hurt. Examples include:


Cracked windows
Loose carpet
Pipes with holes
A leak in the ceiling
Broken handrails on a staircase

, Pick out tools and materials that make organizing and labeling easier for you. You may want to consider getting: White 3 x 5 inch index cards
Jumbo colored paper clips
Colored adhesive labels
Colored electrical or plastic tape
Wide-tip markers
Flair felt-tip pens
Laundry markers
Velcro
Foam alphabet letters
Self-stick magnetic tape

, For example, on a bookshelf, you may want the first shelf to have all the books and the second shelf for all the magazines. Storing items this way makes it less complicated to search for the things you need ahead of time. Examples include:


The top shelf in a closet having all the blankets, the second shelf having all the shoes.
One box storing all your comics, the second box storing all your novels.
One drawer storing all your socks, another drawer with all your shirts.
 Try labeling your boxes using a braille labeler, if you know braille. You can also write on the box using a tactile marker or 3D pen. If you'd prefer not to, you can use your sense of touch to organize and label boxes by sticking Velcro, self-stick tape, or foam alphabet letter on the boxes to identity which box is which. , If you reach for an item daily, it's highly recommended to place the materials on easy-to-reach shelves so it can picked out easily without a hassle. Consider placing tactile marks around the shelf so you can identify where to reach. , On plain white 3 x 5 inch index cards, write the name of the household supply using a black wide-tip marker, a laundry marker, or a felt-tip pen so the letters can come out big and bold. Stick the labels by placing the label on the supply and wrapping it with a rubber band. You can also: Tie different-textured ribbons around the opening of a container.
Place a different number of rubber bands around each container that's different.
Transfer items to different shaped types of containers.
 Consider installing doorknobs that can contrast in color with all your doors. This makes it easy to locate where you need to open the door, finding your way easily. , Avoid having too many checker-designs, swirly-line shaped patterns, and markings all over the house. This not only makes it physically difficult to see, but can also make it even harder to safely move around your house. Avoid floors that have checkered patterns, stick to basic wood floors or floors that are smooth. , Placing lightly colored objects against dark backgrounds are much easier to spot for someone with a visual disability. For example, you can place a black switch-plate on a white wall, or a beige chair against a dark wood wall. Color contrasting makes it easier to spot the object you need or are working with.
 Seems silly, but letting each room have a color scheme makes it easy to identity so you know which room you're in. You may like your bedroom red, but then the living room green. If you have multiple bathrooms, you may want one bathroom to resemble a blue color scheme, while another bathroom could be brown. Color schemes not only make it easier to figure out the room you're in, but also make it safer. , To identify where the doors are and open them with ease, paint the door frames a different color than the door. If the door is black consider painting the door frame white. If the door is red paint the door frame yellow. The color contrast make it much safer to open and close doors. , To see doors and windows with ease, buy brightly colored glass so they are able to see more clearly. Consider getting turquoise, red, dark orange, or purple glass so you can identify where the glass doors and windows are, which can be helpful if you need to open it independently. , Instead of regular blinds, use mini blinds to place on the windows. Mini blinds are a highly recommended window covering, because they can be altered during the day to eliminate glare. , When polishing the floors, avoid using wax as this causes glare and can be hazardous to walk on. Instead of using wax, use a flat finish to avoid the glare from appearing. Flat finish does not reflect light and will not allow glare to appear. , If you own a television, you can make it easier to see by turning the screen away from the sun or a lamp, so the light source is behind the screen and not straight at it. This will prevent glare from producing.
 Instead of flat paints, matte paints are shiny and reflect light in a mirror-like direction, causing it not to provide glare. This can be useful to avoid glare from forming onto the walls. 