 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out a baking sheet and line the sheet with a silicone baking mat. If you don't have a mat, you can line it with a sheet of parchment paper. Set the pan aside while you make the cookie dough., Measure 1 tablespoon of ground flax seeds into a small prep bowl. Pour 3 tablespoons of water over the seeds and stir to combine the mixture. Let the mixture sit for 2 minutes, so the flax seeds absorb all of the moisture. Set the mixture aside., Place 2 cups (180 g) of old fashioned oats into a large mixing bowl. Stir in 1 cup (120) of gluten-free all purpose flour, 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Stir the dry ingredients for about 30 seconds, so the baking soda and spices are incorporated. Set the dry mixture aside.Ensure that the oats you use were prepared in a gluten-free facility.
 Place 1/2 cup (113 g) of softened vegan butter into a large mixing bowl. Add 1/2 cup (100 g) of white sugar. Use a stand or hand mixer to beat the butter and sugar together on medium speed for about 3 minutes.The butter and sugar mixture should become light and fluffy. You may need to stop and scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally.
 Turn the mixer to low and stir in the hydrated flax mixture along with 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. Beat the mixture just until the extract and flax are mixed in., Keep the mixer on low and slowly stir in the dry ingredients and 1 cup (150 g) of raisins. Stir just until the dry ingredients are combined.If you'd like to make plain oatmeal cookies, just leave out the raisins. Or you could swap out other dried fruit for the raisins. For example, try dried cranberries or apricots.
 You can use two spoons to scoop the cookie dough onto the prepared baking sheet. Or use a cookie scoop that measures about 2 tablespoons to scoop the dough onto the sheet. Set the cookies about 2-inches (5-cm) apart on the sheet., Put the baking sheet in the oven and bake the cookies for 15 to 20 minutes. The cookies will puff a little and become golden brown once they've finished baking. Let the cookies cool on a wire rack.Store the leftover oatmeal raisin cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to a week.

