 Choose between five and ten of your best pieces to highlight in your portfolio. Pick pieces that demonstrate the breadth of your work. For example, if you’ve worked on seating, tables, and lighting design, use examples from all of those areas. Show your best work first., For each piece, include your sketches and other prototypes that led to the final design of the piece. Show your CAD models, 3D prints, and the results of testing and interviews you might have conducted in developing each piece. This will make your portfolio stand out and provide invaluable insight into how you work.Show the finished product first. Add information about how you got to the final design second.
 Pick a clean design that showcases each piece. Also organize your material clearly. For example, you might want a clear photo of each piece to be a single page, followed by information about its design, form, function, and process.Make sure your portfolio is easy to look through.
Create an index so that specific work and information about your designs can be located quickly.
 Describe your work in a straightforward way, giving only the most pertinent information. Provide context to your work without being wordy or using long blocks of texts. These will distract from the visual nature of your work. Write short paragraphs or annotations for your sketches, models, drawings, and photos.For example, give the title of each piece, tell it’s function, and you might include a sentence about your inspiration.
For a desk, you might say, “The Stolik Desk was designed for children. Drawers can be interchanged for both right and left-handed users. The legs can be extended as the users grow.”
For a floor lamp, you might say, “Drawing inspiration from the shape of the snap pea plant, the Fasol Lamp features a vivid green color and whimsical base with intertwining vines.”

, Describe yourself briefly. Include information that will interest prospective employers or clients, like your background, your professional goals, and your sources of inspiration. Again, don’t make this too wordy.For background you might say where you come from and where you studied: “I originally come from Oslo and pursued my MA in Furniture and Interior Design from the Savannah College of Art and Design.”
You could combine your focus with information about your internship or apprenticeship: “My focus is industrial furniture design and I’ve interned at the Glory industrial design studio.”
If you have testimonials from professors, employers, or clients, include those.
Highlight any awards you’ve received for your designs or related skills. Include relevant scholarships.

