 The Xbox can play the music files from your USB thumb drive or portable media player (iPod, etc.), but it cannot copy the files from that drive or device. It can only play the music while the drive or device is connected to the Xbox 360 via USB.


Place your music in a folder on your flash drive. The folder can be labeled anything you'd like, but naming it "Music" will make it much easier to find.
You can play as many songs as you can fit on the drive.
 Xbox 360 supports most of the major audio formats, but protected iTunes files will not work unless they are converted. You will need to download the Optional Media Update by searching for it using Xbox Bing. Confirm the download and then click "Continue" once the download has finished to install it.


To convert protected iTunes songs, open iTunes and select the songs you want to convert. Right-click on the selection and click "Create AAC Version". After a few moments, a copy of the songs will appear in AAC format. Move these copies to the USB drive.Xbox 360 supports WMA and MP3 music files, and AAC music files with the Optional Media Update.
 There are three USB ports on the front, and one on the back of the 360. If you are connecting a portable media player, connect it using its USB sync/charging cable.
 You can play the music on the flash drive from the Xbox 360's Music Player app. You can do this in a game if the the game supports custom soundtracks. Open the Music Player app by pressing the Xbox button and scrolling to the music tab.


Select the flash drive as the location of the songs.
 The Xbox Music player functions much like other media players. You can Play, pause, stop, and skip tracks, or load playlists of your favorite songs. Most games allow you to play your music instead of the game's soundtrack.


You can create playlists using the music on your hard drive. Open the Music Player program and find a song. When you select it, you will have the option to add it to a playlist. Continue adding music until the playlist contains all of the music you want. Select "Edit or Save Playlist" and then click "Save Playlist". You can name your playlist and then select it anytime to begin playing it.
If you are subscribed to the Xbox Music subscription service, you can add music from the Xbox Music library to your playlist as well. Select the music from the store and click "Add to Playlist". Then select the playlist you want to add it to.

