 Before you can accept that you are suffering from trauma, it might help to understand what types of situations are generally considered traumatic. Although anything that causes you to feel a great deal of stress, fear, anxiety, or overwhelmed can be called traumatic, there are some situations that seem to have a deeper effect on a person than others.One-time events such as accidents, natural disasters, unexpected death or injury, being the victim of a crime, or even being humiliated can be traumatic.
Recognize that ongoing situations like homelessness, abuse, and chronic or serious health problems are considered traumatizing.
Trauma can happen during childhood. If it is not properly addressed early, its impact can worsen and cause severe problems during adulthood.;
, Sometimes we can get so caught up in a situation that we don’t realize the effect it’s having on us. Taking a step back from a situation can help you take a different perspective on it and see the traumatic effects it might be having on you. You might need to do this in order to accept that you are suffering from trauma.


For example, if you recently found out you have a chronic illness, you may be so engaged in getting treatment that you don’t realize that you are experiencing trauma.
Picture the situation as if it happened to someone else. For instance, imagine that you’re hearing about the situation as a news report rather than something that happened to you personally.
Ask yourself, “If this had happened to someone else, would I call the situation traumatic? Would I be worried that they were suffering from trauma?”
Use a resource like the Checklist of Trauma Symptoms provided at http://www.ptsd.va.gov/public/assessment/trauma-symptom-checklist.asp.
 Trauma can cause your body to remain on “high alert,” even when there is no apparent danger present. This feeling can wear away at your both your mental and physical health. Try to become aware of how your body reacts and responds in certain environments, situations, and social atmospheres.

If you notice that a certain place, person, or activity makes you feel tense, anxious, alert, or fearful, take note of it. Later, you may want to question why that situation made you feel that way.
You can study your body’s response by doing a mental body scan. Lie down on a comfortable surface, and close your eyes, breathing deeply. Notice your feet first, paying attention to every detail. What do you feel? Are they cold, tense, itchy, or numb? Move up to each body part until you finally reach your head.
 Trouble sleeping may indicate trauma. Everyone has trouble sleeping every now and then. But, there are times that traumatic events can affect you so that you can’t sleep and get the rest that you need. If you can’t fall asleep, stay asleep, or have nightmares about the event that disturb your sleep, it may be due to trauma.Keep a sleep journal or log and track how well you’re sleeping. You don’t have to be too detailed; just noting what time you went to bed and what time you woke up can help.
You can also record any dreams or nightmares you recall. Keep paper and pen close to your bed so you can jot them down as soon as you wake up.
 Anger for no reason is another sign that you may be suffering from trauma. For instance, you may find that you are constantly grumpy, short-tempered, or irritated even though nothing is wrong.Being aware of this sign that you’re suffering from trauma can help you change your attitude and address your trauma.


Be honest with yourself if you’re in a bad mood – don’t blame someone else. For example, instead of blaming your mom for making you late, admit that you didn’t want to get up and that you’re irritable.
Ask someone close to you if you’ve been touchy or grouchy lately. You might say, “Be honest with me. Have I been angry or irritable for really no reason recently?”

, Another sign that you are suffering from trauma is suicidal thoughts or thoughts of self-harm.What happened to you may have feeling worthless or considering things you wouldn’t have before. If you are having thoughts like this you should contact a crisis hotline like 1-800-273-8255 immediately.
 After experiencing a trauma you may feel like no one understands you or that life doesn’t have the same meaning. Feeling numb, distant, or withdrawing may be signs of trauma.You may feel like you aren’t connecting to anyone or don’t want to do the things that normally give you pleasure.


If other people mention that you aren’t around as much, listen to them. They might be telling you that you’re showing a sign of trauma.
Ask yourself if you’ve been keeping in contact with family and friends as much as you used to. Ask if you’ve been participating in activities as much.
 Sometimes traumatic events can cause you to have extreme physical and emotional reactions in similar situations. You may have flashbacks, trouble breathing, or feel dizzy or weak. When you haven’t had them before, anxiety or panic attacks might indicate that you’ve been through something traumatic.


Try taking a few deep breaths to calm yourself. Slowly inhale and exhale and focus your thoughts on your breathing.
Leave the situation that’s causing you anxiety. Take a walk or, if possible, leave the situation for good.

