 This is an indirect but potentially effective way to get back in touch. This is something that you can do to build up your courage to talk to her, or this can be a primer for starting a conversation. Liking her posts or retweeting her tweets will remind her of you, and let her know that you are following her posts.


Do not like everything she posts. Choose one or two things that you genuinely like and space out the time between your likes to every few days. If you send too much attention to her all at once, it may come off like you are trying too hard.
Do not like only the cute pictures of her. You can like one photo where you feel like she looks particularly good, but if you like too many pictures of her looking pretty, you may come off creepy. Consider liking a variety of things that she posts rather than just her pictures.;
, If you have been liking or commenting on her posts, provide her with material to comment back on. Post clever or interesting thoughts you have about the world and people, share beautiful or interesting pictures that you have taken, or find funny gifs, pictures or quotes from the internet that you can post along with a comment about why you like it.


Consider what she would find funny or interesting. You don’t want to post things for her; however, you want to take into consideration that her internet style might be different from yours.
Take a look at her posts and the things she likes to get an idea of her online interests and style. For example, if she writes a lot of posts about bands she likes and you share a band you like in common, you can post one of their music videos or the lyrics from one of their songs with a comment about why you like it.
Stay true to yourself. Only post things that you genuinely like and are a part of who you are. It can come off fake if you are posting about things you haven’t shown an interest in before.
 You should make a comment on a post that she writes early after it has been posted. If you write the comment early, she will be more likely to respond. Look for things that she is into that is a common interest you share, like your music taste, love of food, love of movies, etc.. Consider praising the post, asking a question about it, or commenting about something you find interesting about it.


For example, if she writes a post about going to a show, you can respond “I am so jealous you got to see them! Did you think they were good live?”
Hopefully your comments will spark a chain of comments back and forth. If this happens, you should send her a message asking her how she is doing or extending the conversation. Say “Hey, I am enjoying our conversation. How have you been? Are there any other bands you have been listening to lately that I should check out?”

, Follow the inline citations to learn how to create an event on either platform. You can either create an event, or you can invite her to an event you are attending. For example, if you are going to a music festival that you think she would like, invite her to the event. There are several events that are open invite. You can send her an invitation by going to the page of the event and sending the invite from that page. Or if you and your friends are throwing a Halloween party, for example, make an event for it and invite her.


After you invite her, you should send her a follow up message saying hello and telling her about the event. Say something like, “Hey, my friends and I are having a Halloween party and I was thinking it would be great to see you again. Are you free for Halloween?”
If she cannot come to the event, use the event as an opportunity to continue messaging her. Ask her about how things have been going, and start a conversation with her.
 Whichever way that you decide to reach out to her, you can follow the same tactic as writing a comment. Send her a message with a praise, talk about some common ground that you have, or ask her a question. Send a message that praises her for something she has recently done or accomplished. For example, if she recently finished a program or got a new pet, for example, send her a message saying congratulations, and then ask her how she has been lately.
Talk about something that you share in common. For example, if she did a hike recently and you also like to go hiking, send her a message that say something like “I saw that you went on a hike to Palm Canyon. I was just there a couple of months ago and really enjoyed the waterfalls- did you like the trail?”.
Ask her a question about something she has posted. Say something like “I saw the pictures you posted of you surfing- what kind of board do you have? I love surfing and go every chance I get.”

