 The more the better! Every trustful ally you have increases your chances of surviving and getting rich.;
, You could be a miner. Friend 1 could be a hunter. Friend 2 could be a builder and so on. This way you will get precious items faster, especially if you are well organised. If you are alone, though, make sure you schedule your day like this: 1. Build a house. 2. Find food. 3. Go mining. 4. Make a bed. Try to get allies as fast as you can - joining a faction is a good way to do this.
 If you see a guy weaker than you attack him. If you see some pro with a diamond set either run away or call your friends for backup and ambush him. Know your capabilities or you'll be killed like a fly.
 Give your friends what you have and don't be shy to ask them for anything. Having a collective chest for everyone to use is a good idea.
 Trading is the best way to get in-game money/rare items. You mined tons of gold and you don't need it? Exchange it for some diamonds, which you always need! Most severs have a PVP free market to trade but if there's none the spawn is always an option! Advertise yourself in the chat but don't spam because you'll probably get kicked.
 Griefing is always legit in PVP servers and it's a good way to gets some easy items. Homes with valuable items are always strongly protected, though and sometimes they have faction protection. The only way to get items from them is with TNT (As long the faction officer forgot to protect the claimed land from explosions).
 A common way to do it is to live underground but it's certainly not the most secure. If the server has factions they are the best way to do it. 1st Make a faction with /f create . Next make a description with /f desc (description). Invite all your friends and allies with /f invite (their name) and /f officer (their name). Last but not least make sure to type /f (desc) peaceful and /f (desc) no boom. The last two could vary, so be sue to ask an admin if they don't work. You could also enter /f auto-claim to claim land for your faction automatically. if this faction thingy is too complicate for you just make it impenetrable with secret rooms, traps, and giant walls. It's certainly not that secure but it's a lot more awesome.
