 Examine the reasoning behind your beliefs. If you find that you’ve been basing your ideas on emotions or misinformation, do some research and see if you need to re-evaluate your position. Stay up-to-date on current events and issues by reading widely and watching the news.When you can backup your ideas with facts, you’ll feel more confident in yourself, and you’ll be better prepared to have rewarding conversations with other people.
Be mindful of whom you choose to associate with. Choose people who are also informed and thoughtful and who respectfully challenge your ideas.
Use good judgment when reading information published on the internet. Some websites purposely spread false or malicious content.
 Focus on the things you can control, instead of wasting mental energy on the things you can’t. If you’re worried about a situation or an upcoming event, ask yourself what you can do to prepare for it or make it less stressful. Then put your energy towards taking action.If you’re a habitual worrier, set aside a short window of “worry time” every day. Give yourself ten minutes to do nothing but worry. If you catch yourself worrying at other times throughout the day, force yourself to think about something else.Try out a few different times of day to do this and stick with the one that works best for you.
 Develop the mindset that you’re in control of your own actions and choices. Instead of blaming other people when something goes wrong, think about how you can respond most constructively, and ask yourself whether you can prevent it from happening again.Similarly, when something goes well in your life, congratulate yourself for the role your hard work played in the achievement, instead of chalking it up to luck. Share the good news with others and find a way to commemorate it. This will help keep you motivated and build your self-confidence.
 Increase your willpower by establishing positive everyday habits, such as getting up the first time your alarm goes off, keeping your house clean, and exercising regularly. If you procrastinate often, break the habit by making yourself accountable to other people and breaking your goals down into achievable steps.Start with one good habit at a time. Keep a log of how often you stick to the habit. Try to consistently do the habit for at least a month before moving on to the next one.
 Being strong-minded doesn’t mean never changing your mind about anything. Our understanding of things changes over time, so do your best to not get stuck in the past. Stay open to new possibilities, and practice looking at complicated issues from multiple perspectives. When you talk to the people around you, really listen to them, even if you don’t agree with them.Educate yourself and update your knowledge by doing activities such as: reading, watching documentaries, listening to podcasts, and visiting museums.
 Strong-minded people don’t doubt themselves completely every time someone disagrees. Practice being confident in your beliefs by journaling regularly and practicing saying “no.” Speak up confidently when you don’t agree, instead of keeping your thoughts to yourself or feeling the need to justify your opinions to others., In order to be more confident in your opinions and decisions, you’ll need to work on developing a clear perception of others. You should always consider what people have to say when they’re trustworthy and admirable, but listening to those with potentially selfish or harmful motives can make you feel confused or tricked.

If you notice the person is continuously needy and persuasive and you have a bad feeling about them, don’t associate with them. They most likely don’t have your best interest at heart.