 You can be serious or silly, dramatic or loose, but no matter what you need to fit your entire head in the shot. Getting the upper halves of your shoulders provides nice framing and puts everything in perspective -- floating heads come off as a little unsettling.


If your friend is taking photos, check them every so often to make sure they're capturing the right things.
 Digital cameras have made head-shots far more affordable and easy for the budding thespian. There is rarely a limit on the number of photos you can take, but you'll need to variety to choose from. This is the one photo that is supposed to represent you, and you'll want a large collection of subtly different shots to choose from.


Hold each pose for at least 2-3 photos. That way, if you happen to blink in one, you'll always have a few extras.
If a pose doesn't feel comfortable, or "like you," then skip it. Genuine smiles and emotion will always translate better in the camera., For your headshot, you want to look right in the camera. But you also want to act natural, trying your best to act like there is no camera at all. While everyone has a different way of "warming up" to the camera, you can try to:


Close your eyes, take a deep breath, and then open them with your big smile. Often this moment, right when you break out in a smile, is the most natural.
Have a trusty, funny friend helping out. If they're yelling out jokes, poses, or ideas, it takes pressure off of you to think of something and perform at the same time.
Move through emotions slowly. Don't try and force them. Instead, let your face change slowly. Subtly change your smile (which lip is higher, open or closed lips, etc.) and head angle, tilting it slightly up and down to see what looks best for you., Where you position the camera will subtly change your look. In all cases, the camera is shooting you almost entirely head-on, as if lined up with your nose. How you carefully deviate from "dead-center," can change the shot. For example:



Putting the camera below your face and pointing up makes you seem bigger, stronger, and more masculine.

Putting the camera slightly above your face and angling down makes you seem softer, more tender, and "quieter." It is often more feminine, but guys showing their softer side use it too.

Putting the camera to either side gives you a slightly dramatic, theatrical look. Don't overdo it, however -- you should still be able to see at least 95% of your face., Don't just assume they all look good (or worse, assume they look terrible) without looking. The easiest time to retake photos is right now, so run through them with a trusty friend to see if you have enough strong material.If you're really dedicated, change your outfit and take another set. You'll already be "warmed up" to the camera, and everything is set up.

