 This is the most common reason for using the late swap feature on DraftKings. You should definitely swap out a pick if you learn that he was injured, is facing suspension for an offense, is being traded at the last minute, or basically learn about anything that causes a player in your lineup to be unable to participate or perform well in the coming game. Even foul weather could mess up your fantasy lineup’s performance if your team is suddenly unable to play.
 If you’ve had a pretty bad day and your picks are lagging behind your competitors, you could switch to a high-risk, high-reward lineup. Players with a reputation for suddenly breaking out and scoring big will thus be useful when you find yourself in the underdog situation. If they go bust, then you don’t stand to lose much since you’re already at the bottom. But if they manage to grab a lot of yards, then you stand to regain ground and catch up to your competitors who played it too safely.

In cases like these, you’ll want to focus on your wide receivers (WR) and tight ends (TE). Spending more for ‘elite’ players on these positions will give you the chance to gain a score boost to get back in the game. This is especially useful in head-to-head matches where you have only one opponent to deal with.
 If your team has been doing very well and you’re taking a large lead against your competitors, then you will want a lineup that is stable and brings in a steady stream of points. In order to do that, you can make late swaps to invest in a good running back (RB) that will bring in the points at a more reliable rate. This does not mean that you should be complacent about your picks though. As mentioned earlier, an underdog who suddenly switches to a high-risk, high-reward lineup could catch up to you if your team doesn’t earn enough points to keep their lead., The FLEX is an ideal position to increase the volatility of your lineup or keep it down to more stable levels. If you are in dire need of points, you can pick up an extra WR or TE to increase the maximum number of points you can earn. If you are enjoying a surplus of points, switch to an RB so that you’ll keep earning points and reduce the chances that you lose your comfortable lead should a WR or TE not find a chance to score big.You can also use the FLEX to hedge your current position. This means spreading your lineup in a way where you have players that can reliably bring in points and another set of players that have the potential to score big. Even if your high-risk players bomb, the rest of your lineup can bring in enough points to keep you in the game. If your high-risk players do pull through though, you can expect a substantial lead over your opponents. This offers a good balance between stability and variance if you’re in a good position and want to prevent your competitors from pulling nasty upsets to steal your lead., If you have access to information that goes against commonly held beliefs and expectations, then the late swap is one of the best ways to put that knowledge to good use. You can refine your predictions based on the performance of your lineup in the early games and then act on the information you possess as you see fit. If you are able to handle this right, you could find yourself shooting up the leaderboards since few (if any) other people are using your lineup. On the other hand, you could also find yourself irredeemably shot down if your educated guesses don’t work out in the end. 