 Your posture is the key to conveying your confidence. A slouched or hunched-over posture implies fear and a lack of self-assurance. Keep your back straight and your shoulders squared. This tells your opponent that you are ready to compete and are confident in your abilities.Taking this posture, even if you are not feeling confident, will help you develop a more assured attitude. Acting confidently can lead to you feeling more confident.;
, Walk around in an assertive manner while sticking out your chest and holding your head high. If you are standing, widen your stance by spreading your feet and bending your knees. Expanding your physical space makes you appear more powerful and confident, possibly shaking your opponent’s self-assurance.Avoid standing with your feet closely together. This can make you appear fearful.
Try crossing your arms across your chest. This makes you appear bigger and more intimidating., Lowering your vocal pitch conveys authority and confidence. High-pitched voices, on the other hand, convey nervousness and weakness. Maintaining a low, yet natural, tone will help you appear more in control. Practice putting your lips together and saying, “Um hum, um hum, um hum.” This will help relax your voice and lower your pitch.
 Look your opponent in the eye and avoiding breaking their gaze. A timid glance tells your opponent that you are insecure in your abilities and intimidated by them. When you meet your opponent, look into their eyes long enough to see what color they are.Try looking at your opponent’s forehead if you are uncomfortable maintaining eye contact. This gives the appearance of eye contact without actually doing it.
 A friendly look will convey to your opponent that you are not nervous and, therefore, not intimidated by them. Although severity can appear intimidating, it is more likely to make your opponent think you are nervous. Smiling will also help you relax and help you feel more confident about the situation.Smiling at your opponent can actually improve their attitude towards you, challenge the negative image of you in their head.

