 At month's end, a review which outings were at new places. Have a minimum goal of exploring new places at each monthly report.;
, Jot down on paper, random thoughts of places you want to go to.
 Have a shipping box for your metal detector and equipment. Research where to go and what you will find.
 It will enable you to detect in different ground conditions.
 Dry sand metal detecting is a great way to start beach metal detecting, after a while move on the wet sand. With wet sand, you will find more jewelry, find even more jewelry by going into the water with a waterproof metal detector. Move from the sand to the grass, and find less jewelry but more coins.
 Internet search the best places to metal detect, and you will find many ideas of places to try that are close to home such as vacant lots, old school sites, railroad stations, backyards, etc.
 If you travel far, it will be time-consuming to return home to fetch a vital piece of equipment.
 Record where you went and what you found. Annually, tally your finds and notice patterns and changes in your outlook. Be true to yourself and fulfill your longings to visit new places even if you suspect that the outcome will not be fruitful.
 Watch your time, explore each place quickly and in a superficial manner. Initially, go through a mental list of places to find treasure. Your mental list, of places at a beach metal detect, would apply to all beaches. If your preference is concise detecting, keep careful records and expect big swings in your finds journal.
 However, if this ratio is not acceptable in a certain section, move on to another section or change your plan of action. If finding jewelry is part your goals, have a correct ratio of nickels to other coins. Since pull tabs and nickels have similar characteristics, think of pull tabs as a cost of doing business.
 For example, dew on the grass is a greater problem than early morning moisture on sand, metal detect the sand first until the dew disappears.
 Enjoy the scenery, fresh air, exercise, sunshine and the challenge.
 Put on your thinking cap when all else fails. Move and think quickly, because as an adventurer your time is limited; travel time and other factors associated with going to new places will diminish your detecting time.
 Respond politely to the questions that you will be asked by the curious.

