 Step in the shower, and wet your hair thoroughly. Squeeze a quarter sized amount of shampoo (or less if you have shorter hair) into your palm and build up a gentle lather, starting from the roots. There should be a white soapy foam appearing from the reaction between the shampoo and water. The more bubbles there are, the cleaner your hair is.


Find products with silicone or natural oils that will hydrate the hair follicle.
For curly hair, wash your hair with a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner to hydrate your hair. This will allow for shinier hair from the onset. You can buy any moisturizing shampoo or conditioner at your local drugstore or grocery. For straight hair, deep clean your hair once a week. Purchase a deep-cleaning shampoo and conditioner. This variety of shampoo will remove grease and build up from any products you've used in the past week.;
, Hot water can damage your hair follicle. Make sure there is no soap residue left on your hair or face. Gently wring out the soaked water from your hair.
 Squeeze a dime sized amount. Rub in both hands and apply directly to the bottom ends of your hair. Use your fingers to work through the different sections of your hair. Avoid putting the conditioner near the scalp. Allow the conditioner to work for about 1-2 minutes. This will help the conditioner to do it's job in making your hair soft and shiny.
 Use cold water to seal in the moisture and properly condition your hair. Wring out the water once more.



Prevent acne by thoroughly rinsing out the conditioner from your hair as well as your body. Leftover residue can cause acne on your skin and back.
 Squeeze the access water from your hair. Use a clean, dry towel to pat your hair, beginning at the roots. Use a gentle side to side motion. Do not create friction or split ends by rubbing the towel with your hands with hair in between.


For curly hair, use a wide-toothed comb for your hair to remain flatter.
For straight hair, use a fine-toothed comb to smooth.
 If your hair is completely dry before styling with product, it will dry to look greasy and have a crunchy texture to the touch. Allow the mousse product to work with the moisture in your hair to create a shine that will last all day.


If you hair is damaged with dryness and split ends from blow drying and hair tools, use a leave-in conditioner once a week to improve your hair. Strong and moisturized hair creates a great foundation for natural oils and healthy shine. , Use a medium or cool setting to protect your hair from overheating and drying out. Following the instructions for hair type will help your hair be shiny and vivacious.


For curly hair, attach a diffuser to use with your blow dryer. Take the dryer in one hand, and gently grab a section of your hair with your other. Slowly move the diffuser over your hair in sections until it is dry.
For straight hair, attach a nozzle to your blow dryer and point the blow dryer from the top of your head down. Finish with cold air to seal in the shine.
 Shake the container to activate the mousse's ingredients. Apply generously through your hair, carefully and evenly spacing out the mousse through each section of hair.


For curly hair, find a frizz combating or curl producing mousse to use.For straight hair, find a volumizing mousse to enhance shine and presence.
 Allow the mousse to work its way through your hair and create beautiful and (seemingly) effortless shine. Comb or curl your hair according to the desired style.


Use a flat iron to tame your hair cuticles. Flattened cuticles lead to more surface to reflect light., Choose a lighter hairspray that will help hold in the style. Using hairspray with mild to medium hold will create a natural look for your hair to be shiny and bold. Heavy or extreme hold hairsprays may create a rigid texture that looks stiff, not bouncy and lively.


Instead of hairspray, consider a gloss or shine enhancing oil like argan oil for your hair. Pump a dime sized amount and run it through lightly. Your hair will be ready to shine all day!