 By far the best way to treat simple, uncomplicated newborn jaundice is by exposing your infant to filtered sunlight either through a polarized window or shade in your home or by taking him outside in a covered stroller for five minutes twice daily.The infant should not be exposed to direct sunlight, but can benefit from sunlight filtered through a shade or glass specifically treated to allow blue light through while blocking ultraviolet rays.Some pediatricians are reluctant to recommend this due to the harmful effects of sun rays on sensitive infant skin; however, all over the world this is still the preferred treatment as long as parents are mindful of the amount and type of exposure.
 Breastmilk is important to your baby because it encourages bowel movements, which help to remove bilirubin from the baby’s system. The more your baby feeds, the more milk is produced and the more bilirubin your baby excretes. Your doctor may suggest an increase in feeding.A breastfed baby may be upped from eight to ten feedings per day. Supplementation may also be suggested. The newborn should be kept hydrated to help excrete bilirubin from their body.
A formula supplement to breastfeeding may be necessary to keep your newborn hydrated. Excess loss of water can occur through the newborn’s skin.
Consider working with a lactation professional to ensure the baby is feeding properly. A lactation professional can also help with supplementation. , Your doctor may order light therapy for you baby either at home or in the hospital. Your baby will be placed under special lighting that emits blue-green light. This changes the shape and structure of the bilirubin molecules so that they can be excreted in urine and stool.


The baby will be weighed each day and the levels of bilirubin in your newborn’s blood will be checked often.Your baby will wear a diaper and protective eye patches during treatment.
The light isn't an ultraviolet light. A protective shield filters out ultraviolet light that may be emitted.
Light therapy may be supplemented with the use of a light-emitting mattress or pad.If standard phototherapy doesn’t work, the doctor might suggest the baby be placed on a fiber optic blanket; an additional bank of lights might be added.Physiological jaundice (the most common form) almost never requires treatment beyond phototherapy.
 An exchange transfusion may be ordered by your doctor if the bilirubin levels in your baby’s blood remain high. Your newborn will receive new blood through a small plastic tube inserted into a blood vessel. The bilirubin-heavy blood will be replaced with bilirubin-free blood reducing levels quickly.Your baby’s condition will be closely monitored throughout the transfusion process.
An exchange transfusion can take several hours.
When the transfusion is completed, your baby’s blood will be tested for bilirubin. If the levels haven’t dropped enough then the baby will undergo another transfusion.
An intravenous transfusion of an immunoglobulin might help to prevent the necessity of a blood transfusion. It introduces a blood protein to the infant that that can reduce levels of antibodies.
An intravenous transfusion of an immunoglobulin could decrease jaundice and eliminate the need for an exchange blood transfusion.