 Applying teak oil maintains the furniture's glossy, brown appearance, and may make scratches and other damage less visible if it occurs, since the surface will have a similar appearance as the inner wood.However, once oiled, the furniture may become dependent on repeated oiling, at least once every three months, to maintain its appearance. If, however, the furniture has never been oiled, it can remain sturdy for decades.



Warning: Teak furniture manufacturers strongly recommend avoiding oil of outdoor furniture or furniture that is kept in damp environments. This is due to the increased chance of mildew brought on by creating an environment likely to promote the growth of mold colonies.;
, Place a cloth or newspaper beneath the teak furniture to catch spills. Put on gloves to avoid getting oil on your hand, which may cause skin irritation. While most teak oils are not highly toxic, long-term exposure may cause health problems, so working in a well-ventilated area is recommended.Keep teak oil away from heat sources, as it can be highly flammable. Select several clean, disposable rags to use for oiling your furniture.
 If the furniture is cleaned regularly, dust it thoroughly. If it appears dirty, feels sticky, or has grime buildup, wash with water and mild soap, or use a specialized "teak cleaner." See the care section for more detail.



Warning: Dry the furniture after cleaning and leave it for 24–36 hours to remove all moisture before applying the oil. Even if the surface moisture has dried, moisture just below the surface could be trapped by the oil, altering color and longevity., The "teak oil" products used for this purpose are not actually made from the teak tree, and composition can vary between them. Of the common ingredients, tung oil may be more effective than linseed oil.Teak oil sometimes comes with an artificial color or an additional sealant product mixed in, so read the label carefully before selecting. Teak sealer typically requires less frequent application than teak oil, but otherwise operates in a similar fashion., Cover the teak in even strokes with a wide brush. Continue to apply the oil until the furniture has a matte appearance and cannot absorb any more.
 Allow the oil to penetrate the wood. You may notice the surface oil changing to a tacky consistency as the wood beneath it is absorbed. Once this occurs, or after fifteen minutes, wipe the furniture with a clean rag, taking care to remove all excess oil.A second clean rag can be used to buff the surface once it is dry.
 Moisten a clean cloth with mineral oil to pick up excess oil and drips. Teak oil may stain other furniture or floors if not removed immediately.
 Your furniture will now fade in color if oil is not reapplied. Reapply oil once every few weeks or months, whenever the color and sheen fades. You may apply an additional coat to deepen the color, but only apply a new layer once the furniture surface is completely dry to the touch.

