 Transforming a kitchen need not cost a lot of money, but it's best to keep this factor in mind throughout the process. Transforming a kitchen can mean anything from a few new decorations and accessories to a full remodel. Pick the right middle ground for you and your kitchen, and do only the steps here that best suit you and your room.;
, There's not much inviting about a cluttered mess or a sink full of overdue dishes. This is the simplest, least expensive way to get your kitchen looking better quickly. It will also give you a good idea what you're starting with as far as structure and layout.
 Your kitchen is a workspace, and you'll enjoy using it most if you have plenty of light. Get as much natural light as you can, then add task lighting or room lighting as appropriate. You might want a more moderate, muted light in your dining area, if that is part of the kitchen.
 Sketch up a plan or simply stand in the kitchen and look at what you have. Changing the layout could be as simple as turning the table at a bit of an angle. Other easy, modest options for adjusting the layout for your kitchen include bringing in a cart or portable island, adding shelves or a hutch, or bringing in just the right chair.
 If you're going for warmth, try for warm colors. This can mean reds, oranges, and yellows, but it can also mean natural colors, such as tan, brown, taupe, peach, etc. Warm can be gentle or bold, or some of both. Most importantly, choose colors that get along with each other, get along with any colors you're not changing, and seem comfortable and inviting to you.
 It will unify your room. Perhaps you want country casual or a Mediterranean look.


You don't have to have a picture perfect kitchen to draw your inspiration from a home decorating magazine or book. Visit your library, browse through a few of these volumes, and see what catches your attention--and what doesn't.
Do your own thing. This is your kitchen, so choose a style that suits you.
 It's amazing how much a fresh coat of paint can transform a room. A suitable contrasting trim color around the windows and doors can give it a special pop.


Paint your kitchen with a semi-gloss paint so that the walls will be washable when the inevitable splatters and splashes happen.
 These hard surfaces don't come in quite the variety of colors that paints and textiles do, so make sure they are a part of your plan.
 If the layout is basically working and the cabinets are in good shape, there should be no need to replace the whole structure. Instead, you can paint or refinish the cabinets or replace just the fronts (reface).


If you have natural wood cabinets, see if you can refinish them rather than painting. It will wear better and the natural wood will help create warmth. Remember that you may be able to stain them a different color or remove the old stain, leaving a natural wood color.
 There's quite a variety out there, ranging from classic to whimsical.


Consider how they'll feel in your hand, how they'll wear over time, and how they'll look in the grand scheme of things.
Remember to multiply out the full cost. A $5 handle can add up fast if you need twenty or thirty of them.
 These include throw rugs and curtains, but don't forget the smaller stuff like tablecloths, towels, and pot holders. Hang a brightly colored apron as decoration, if you like. Add coordinating chair cushions, place mats, or fabric napkins.
 These can be anything you like that go with your theme.


Keep decorations generally off your counter. Your counter is your workspace.
Try tins or antiques for a traditional or country look.
Try hanging plates or tiles on your walls. There are a lot of artistic ones in a huge variety of colors and patterns. They can add a lot of color and visual interest and they're easy to clean if they get dusty or greasy.
Show off a collection hanging on the wall or on small shelves.
 Make sure to have saucers under them so the water doesn't run out and damage any surfaces. Keep them trimmed of ratty, older foliage. Choose sturdy house plants if you're not a great gardener.


Sunny window but not a plant person? If you're a terrible brown thumb, try glass bottles instead. They'll catch the sun and add color and shape with no extra effort.
 It will keep them in easy reach.


Hang your pots or utensils, especially if they are good tools.
Keep a fruit basket or bowl around. It can add plenty of color and (just maybe) entice you and family members to eat more fruit.
 There is almost nothing that makes a kitchen homier than the smell of fresh bread, cookies, or simply dinner.
 Nothing makes a kitchen homier faster than a group of friends talking, laughing, and having fun.

