 Hemorrhoids are highly treatable and generally harmless; however, they may cause complications in some people. If you are experiencing complications associated with hemorrhoids, or if your condition does not improve after about a week with over-the-counter treatments, see a doctor immediately.Blood in your stool may indicate hemorrhoids, but it may also be a symptom of a more serious medical problem. If you find blood in your stool, contact your doctor and set up an appointment as soon as possible.
Chronic and prolonged blood loss caused by hemorrhoids can lead to anemia in some people. Anemia results from a loss of red blood cells, which restricts your body's ability to carry oxygen to your cells. Symptoms of anemia include weakness and chronic fatigue.If your body's blood flow to a hemorrhoid is suddenly cut off, it can lead to a condition known as strangulated hemorrhoids. Strangulated hemorrhoids are extremely painful and may result in necrosis (tissue death) and gangrene., There are a number of options your doctor can counsel you on that do not require surgery. These options are generally safe and effective, are minimally invasive, and can usually be done in an outpatient setting.Rubber band ligation — this minimally-invasive procedure uses tiny rubber bands to constrict blood flow to the hemorrhoid. Your doctor will place these bands around the base of the hemorrhoid, and within one week the hemorrhoid will shrivel and fall off.Sclerotherapy injection — this procedure involves a chemical injection into the inflamed tissue. It results in a shrunken hemorrhoid with reduced pain and inflammation. The injection causes relatively little pain, but may be less effective than rubber band ligation.Coagulation — this technique uses either laser, infrared light, or heat (bipolar) treatments to shrivel and harden the inflamed hemorrhoids. Coagulation has few side effects, but often has a high rate of recurrence compared to rubber band ligation., In some cases, hemorrhoids may not respond to nonsurgical treatments. If you have not had success with other treatments, or if you have abnormally large hemorrhoids, your doctor may suggest surgery to remove your hemorrhoids.There are a few different surgical options, and they may be performed in an outpatient setting or may require hospitalization, depending on the surgical technique and severity of your hemorrhoids. Surgical procedures do run the risk of prolonged bleeding, infection, and leaking stool, though long-term adverse effects are very rare.Hemorrhoidectomy — this procedure is the surgical removal hemorrhoids and the tissue around hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoidectomies are the most effective way to get rid of hemorrhoids that do not respond to other treatments.Stapled hemorrhoidectomy/hemorrhoidopexy — this procedure involves surgically stapling the hemorrhoid to cut off blood flow to the affected area. This option is considered to be less painful than a hemorrhoidectomy, but it often results in hemorrhoid recurrence and rectal prolapse.