 In order to cross most state lines with your dog, you must have what is called a Certificate of Veterinary Inspection (CVI). This certificate ensures that your dog doesn’t have any diseases that can be spread to other animals.There are a few states that don’t require a CVI for dogs: California, Georgia (unless the dog is for sale), Main (unless being transferred to a new owner), Montana (unless transferring ownership), Texas (unless the dog arrives by air), Washington State (unless the pet is being commercially imported).
A CVI states that a veterinarian has not observed any symptoms of contagious disease. It only lasts for 30 days., There are 21 states with some form of law against leaving pets in cars. One state (Pennsylvania) has a bill waiting to pass. A “hot car” law generally disallows pets to be left unattended inside vehicles in a way that appears to endanger their lives.These states are: Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin., In some states, police and humane officers are allowed to break into a car if they see an unattended pet. In others, both police and civilians are allowed to break in. In still others, there are variations on this law, such as permitting someone to break into a car only after the authorities have been alerted.Only police and humane officers are allowed to break into cars in Arizona, California, Delaware, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont, and Washington.
Anyone is allowed to break into cars for a pet in Tennessee and Wisconsin.
 If you leave your dog in a car and you are caught in the act, you risk conviction by a judge. You may be issued a misdemeanor, a fine, or an infraction. In New Hampshire, you can even be convicted of a felony if you repeat the offense.