 At a pause in the conversation, look at her in the eye. Smile at her and ask her if she would like to hold hands.


Tell her something like "I really want to hold you hand", or "Would it be ok if I held your hand?" Or something like "Would you like to hold my hand?"
The fact that you are asking her rather than just doing it shows your girlfriend how much you respect her. Society often tells us that men have to make the first move, so she may have really wanted to hold your hand this whole time! , If you feel assured of your relationship and your girlfriend has been giving off positive body language, you may not have to ask her to hold hands.


One way that you can do this is to move your hand closer to hers, which works best if you are sitting at a table. If she keeps her hand in the same spot or moves it closer to yours, then she probably wants to hold hands.
If she takes it off the table, then you should take that as a sign that she does not want to hold hands., You can also offer your hand to her. If you are walking together, hold your hand out to her to take. If you are sitting across from each other an a table, turn your hand over so it is palm-up. This is a non-verbal invitation for her to hold hands with you. It is a good middle ground between asking verbally and just taking her hand.
 If you are feeling bold and are getting signs that your girlfriend wants to hold hands, you can simply take her hand. One way to do this is to look her in the eyes, place your hands in hers, and smile. Although you didn't ask her, this way of holding hands is very personal and romantic.
 You're probably totally psyched that you're holding hands for the first time. But one important thing to do is to keep on acting as you normally do. Even though you probably paused the conversation by asking her to hold hands, start talking again, either about what you were talking about before or a new subject. You don't want to just start holding her hand and go silent on her! , As awesome as holding hands is, it can't go on forever. There's no rule about when it's time to stop holding hands, but sometimes your hands get sweaty, or you both have to go through a doorway and you can't keep holding hands. Know that even though you asked her to hold hands, you don't have to ask her to stop.


If you are worried about being too abrupt, give her hand a little squeeze and then let go. This is a nice way of letting her know that you enjoyed it, but it's time to let go.
If you want, after you let go you can even say something like "I love holding your hand", or "I've been wanting to do that for a long time". This is a sweet thing to say and she'll love it!

