 Before you apply foundation, you should make sure it matches your skin tone. Always test foundation in natural light, rather than in store lighting, so you can be sure it is a perfect match. You should also test the shade on the side of your face, between your nose and the side of your cheek.Try to test three samples of foundation that range from lighter to darker shades. Select the shade that seems to disappear into your skin.
Do not test foundation on your wrist, your hand, or your arm. The skin on your face is a different tone and color than other areas of your body.;
, Matte foundation is ideal for oily skin, as it will not appear too shiny or glossy. Avoid foundation with a radiant or semi-matte finish, as these types can make your skin appear more oily or greasy. You can find matte foundation in a liquid or powder form.A liquid matte foundation may be ideal for a light, every day look. You may opt for a powder matte foundation for full coverage of your face, such as for a night out or events where you may be photographed., You should always make sure the foundation is suitable for oily skin before you use it. The product should contain no oil-based products and be long lasting. This will ensure your makeup does not get too oily or greasy throughout the day and that it stays put, with minimal touch ups.Read the label on the foundation and check for these properties. You may also ask a salesperson at the makeup counter to help you choose a foundation that is oil-free, long lasting, and suitable for your skin tone.
 To ensure your foundation looks good, you will need to start with a clean base before you apply any make up. For oily skin, try using a cleansing brush to ensure your skin as clean and even as it can be. Run the cleansing brush over your skin before you wash your face to remove any oily areas and to make applying makeup easier.You can buy a cleansing brush, such as a Clarisonic cleansing brush, at your local drugstore or online.
 If you do not want to use a cleansing brush, you can try washing your face with an exfoliating cleanser. This will ensure your skin is clean and ready for foundation. Go for a cleanser that is made for oily skin and that will help to exfoliate your skin, removing dead skin cells.If you really want to prime your skin well, you may opt for using a cleansing brush as well as an exfoliating cleanser. Create a skin care routine where you use a cleansing brush, followed by an exfoliating cleanser to prep your skin for makeup.
 Though you may think you can skip a moisturizer if you have oily skin, this can in fact dehydrate your skin and lead to more oil production on the surface of your skin. You should look for a water-based moisturizer that is made for oily skin, as a moisturizer that contains oil will just lead to a greater buildup of oil.You may also look for a water-based moisturizer that contains sunscreen with SPF 15 or higher. This will ensure your skin is well-moisturized and protected from the sun.
 Start by blotting any oily patches or spots on your skin. This may be mostly in your T-zone area, such as your forehead, nose, and chin. Removing any oily spots before you apply the foundation will ensure it goes on smooth and appears matte on your skin.Use blotting papers or a clean tissue to lightly dab at these oily areas. You can find oil blotting papers at your drugstore or online.
 You may benefit from using a makeup primer on your face before you apply any foundation. Look for a primer that is make for oily skin, such as a shine control primer. Use clean fingers or a makeup brush to apply the primer on your face. This will help to even out your skin tone and prep your skin for foundation.Avoid primers that contain luminizing properties or primers that are advertised as ultra-hydrating. These types of primers can cause your skin to appear more oily.
 You can then apply the foundation by dabbing it on with a brush or clean fingertips. You may use your fingertips or a makeup sponge if the foundation is liquid based. A clean makeup brush may be used if you are applying a powder foundation.Dab the foundation on any oily areas on your face. Blend the foundation by dabbing or stippling it on. Avoid sweeping the foundation on the oily areas, as this can end up making them appear more oily.
 You can also mask any oily areas on your skin by applying a translucent setting powder after you have applied foundation. Go for a translucent setting powder, rather than a radiant or shiny powder, as this will help to cover up any oily spots. Use a makeup brush to dab the powder on any oily areas.If you notice you have applied too much powder on your face, use a makeup sponge to remove some of the powder. Blot the areas with the sponge or a blotting paper to remove any extra powder.
 If you notice your skin tends to get oily throughout the day, especially when you wear foundation, you may put blotting papers in your bag. Check your makeup throughout the day and use the blotting papers to remove any oil on your skin. If you use the right foundation for your skin and prime it properly, you should have less oily areas on your skin throughout the day or night.Dab the area gently with the blotting paper to remove the oil. Avoid sweeping or rubbing the area with the blotting paper so you do not ruin your foundation.

