 Place the rice flour, potato starch, water, and salt in a bowl. Whisk them together until they become glue-like paste., Choose a large, microwavable plate and plastic wrap. Stretch the plastic wrap across the top of the plate until the plastic wrap is tight over the plate., Tip the bowl over so the mixture rests on the plastic wrap. As long as the wrapping is tight, the rice paper paste will sit upon it. Tilt the plate so that the paste spreads into a smooth, even coating about about seven inches (17.78 cm) across.A spoon can be used to help spread the paper paste.
 Place the entire plate and wrapping in a microwave. Heat the paste on a high heat setting for 45 seconds. The amount of time you need may vary depending on your microwave, but this approximates to 40-50 seconds for a 500 W microwave., Undo the plastic wrapping from the plate, leaving the wrap itself intact with the rice paper on it. You may instead hold the plate upside down, but the plate will be hot and wearing oven mitts can make removing the rice paper too difficult., Attempt to lift up the edges of the rice paper. As the paper cools, the edges may lift a little by themselves. Move slowly, continuing to lift one edge of the paper even if it starts to tear. Flip the rice paper upside down before you add filling., To make a spring roll, place your choice of fillings, including raw vegetables, tofu, pork, and chicken, on the bottom third of the paper. Place the bottom of the rice paper over the filling, then continue to wrap the roll upwards as you keep the filling tight inside the paper.Fried spring rolls can be made by dropping the rolls into boiling oil until golden brown.
 Place the rice paper in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Once they are made and exposed to the air, they will absorb moisture. Store paper that will be used soon, such as premade spring rolls, by wrapping them in a damp towel and then plastic wrap before refrigeration to keep them soft., When fresh rice paper has been sealed properly and refrigerated, it can last a few days. Refrigeration will cause the paper to harden, so before using leftover rice paper, dip it in lukewarm water and let it set on a plate. Paper that doesn’t soften to your liking can be thrown out or chopped up into noodles.