 Go to a safe place, away from where you were stung, before treating any sting. Assess where and how many times you were stung.Leave the area quickly and calmly.;
, Carefully, use a fingernail or credit-card to scrape the stinger out of your skin. Avoid pulling the stinger out with tweezers, as this may release more venom.Stingers are usually barbed which is why they stick in the skin.
Wasps will not leave any stingers in your skin.
 Clean the wound gently with soap and water. Doing this will remove any potential bacteria and lower the risk of infection.Wash the area gently to avoid further agitation of the sting.
 Apply over-the-counter antihistamine creams to the affected area. Using a simple cold compress or putting ice on the area can bring relief as well.Avoid scratching the area, even if it itches. Scratching will only further irritate the sting.
Put an over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream or ointment on the site twice a day for a few days. If the area is very itchy or swollen, take an oral antihistamine such as Benadryl or Zyrtec. Don't use both oral and topical antihistamines together.
For any pain, try using painkillers such as ibuprofen, aspirin, or acetaminophen.
Soak in cool water. Add a tablespoon of baking soda for every quart of water., Expect swelling, itchiness, or pain for a normal reaction to an insect sting. Severe reactions will bring about symptoms such as wheezing, nausea, hives, or difficulty swallowing or breathing.A normal reaction will be annoying but not life threatening.
A severe reaction will require emergency services.
 Monitor the sting for signs that it may be worsening. Report to your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms becoming worse or if you think the area is becoming infected.Signs of infection include: increased redness, swelling or pain, blisters or drainage from the site, or redness spreading or streaking from the sting site.
Pay special attention for stings on the neck or mouth. Swelling here may cause suffocation. Seek immediate medical attention if this happens.

