 Martial arts, which first became popular in the United States after World War 2, come in a staggering array of styles, with origins in nearly any country you can think of, each with a different set of standards, moves, and principles to master. However, nearly all of them rank among the best exercise you can get in terms of calorie burning.


Many martial arts, like wrestling and karate, provide an intense whole body workout; others, such as judo (the sporting form of jujitsu) and aikido, are less intense and should be supplemented with other types of exercise.
No matter which you choose, if you can handle extra exercise, it will provide benefits. This is why boxers, for example, also train with aerobic exercise and weightlifting, rather than just footwork and punching.
 There are practically as many types of martial art as there are other sports combined. All of them provide a good workout, so learn a bit more about the ones that sound interesting to you by doing research and visiting classes. Most instructors don't mind letting you sit in on a class; some even offer a free class to new students.


In east Asia, martial arts can be roughly divided between “internal” and “external,” or “soft” and “hard” martial arts. Internal arts, such as ba gua, favor circular motions and techniques that redirect force; external arts like karate favor angular motion and the direct application of force.
Europe is the birthplace of modern wrestling, kickboxing, and fencing, but also of a number of other, lesser-known martial arts, such as pankration (a Greek art) and bataireacht (Irish stick fighting).
Brazil is known for a groundwork-heavy variation of traditional Japanese jujitsu, called Brazilian jujitsu, that has become very popular in recent years due to its effectiveness in cage fighting and general self-defense. Brazil is also the home of capoeira, a flashy mix of dance and martial arts that relies on acrobatic body movements.
India, Russia, Israel, Indonesia, the Philippines, and many other countries also have their own unique martial arts to offer.
 Martial arts are almost exclusively taught in classes, because they require complex and precise physical movements that take a lot of repetition and practice to master. You might find yourself thinking you want to get into a relatively exotic fighting art, like the Malaysian art of tomoi, but then discover that there are no tomoi teachers in your area. It's important to find a martial art you can practice locally.


Check your local listings online or in the yellow pages for teachers offering classes in the styles you'd like to try.
Ask around local colleges or community colleges to find out about community education programs they might offer.
Again, test the waters before you commit. Don't pay for more than one session up front, and see if you can sit in on a class for free first. Paying for a month of lessons before you know what you're in for is a bad idea.
 Different martial arts emphasize different things. Modern military martial art forms, such as Israeli Krav Maga, emphasize quick, crippling or lethal moves at close range, whereas older styles may focus on using weapons such as staves and swords that aren't commonly seen anymore. Still others, such as boxing, wrestling, and judo, are almost entirely centered on sporting competition. Whatever the case with your chosen art, remember: you're there to work out first and foremost. Try to settle on a martial art that provides you with a good, vigorous workout, and offers enough training sessions for you to get regular exercise.

