 With your griddle warm, caked-on bits of grime should come off more easily during cleaning. Turn your griddle to the appropriate setting. Different griddles are meant to be cleaned at different temperatures. Different griddle soaps, likewise, are intended for use at different ideal temperatures. Check both your griddle’s user manual and the griddle soap you obtained to determine what temperature you should set your griddle to.It will be easier to clean your griddle when you’ve just used it, before it’s cooled, than it will be to try and clean the griddle after the bits of whatever you’ve been cooking have caked onto its surface.;
, In a small bowl or bucket, combine griddle soap with warm water. Your griddle soap might have specific directions regarding the proportions of water and soap should be mixed. For instance, perhaps your soap will come in a single packet that must be mixed with two cups of water.Do not submerge your griddle entirely in water and soap. Doing so could damage the electronics inside your griddle.
 After dipping your sponge or cleaning implement into the warm, soapy water you’ve prepared, use it to loosen and remove as much gunk as possible. Use a back-and-forth or up-and-down scrubbing motion when scrubbing your griddle. You could move from top to bottom, or from bottom to top. If you’re scrubbing your griddle with an up-and-down motion, you could move from right to left or from left to right as you scrub.Attach the drip tray if your griddle does not have one permanently attached. Place a bowl or small container beneath the drip tray’s drain to catch the water you use to scrub the griddle.
Dip your sponge or griddle brush into the water frequently during the cleaning process. This ensures the griddle receives a steady application of soapy water.
If a moderate level of force is not removing gunk from the griddle, apply pressure more firmly when scrubbing.
 For instance, if your griddle is not getting clean with a thin griddle sponge, use a thicker griddle sponge. If your griddle sponges have proven ineffective, try a griddle brush. If the griddle brush proves ineffective, try a griddle scraper.Sometimes alternating between different cleaning instruments produces the best result. For instance, you might use a griddle brush to loosen material that has caked onto the griddle, then scrape it off with a griddle scraper.

