 When you're sitting in a chair, you should be sitting on the two points below your pelvis, often referred to as the "sitting bones." Most people sit on their tail bone, which is poor posture and can lead to limited hip mobility.If you have trouble sitting correctly, place a rolled towel or blanket behind you to prop up your pelvis so you don't put undue pressure on your hips.
 When you sit with your legs extended in front of you, it helps you work on your posture so you don't have to prop up your pelvis to rest properly on your sitting bones. If you collapse onto your tail bone when you sit, this can be a good stretch to try.Sitting on a hard floor typically is best, although you may want to sit on an exercise mat, or a folded towel, for a little cushioning.
Try long sitting with both legs extended out in front of you, as well as with one leg tucked in.
 Sitting in a chair for a long period of time is a relatively unnatural position for humans, and can cause hip mobility issues. You can help lessen the damage by sitting in different positions.A cross-legged position or a kneeling position are natural resting positions for humans, as is a squat. While you may not be able to squat in your chair, it may be possible for you to get into one of the other positions as you work.
Another position that may not be possible in your chair, but that you can do in the floor, is side sitting. One leg is externally rotated and the other is internally rotated, so that you have one foot on the opposite thigh with the other foot trailing behind you. If you try side sitting, switch legs periodically so both hips get the benefit of this position.
 Sitting for long periods of time weakens the muscles in your legs and hips. If you have a desk job but you want to maintain hip mobility, spending time standing while you work rather than sitting in a chair all day may be your best option.It isn't necessary to invest in an expensive standing work station to stand while you work. You can simply put your computer on a stack of hardcover books, a sturdy box, or a milk crate. If you use a laptop, make sure it's able to ventilate properly.

