 Rather than resisting the child, allow them to guide you to their intended destination. They could be using memories of your past actions to tell you they want something. For example, if they pull you toward the fridge or food cabinet, they could want something to eat. After you open the door, you're left with the process of elimination. Show them different foods they can eat and see how they react., Before children learn to speak, they point toward things in in general directions that relate to their crying. Follow the direction of their finger. Like arm-tugging, pointing could indicate something the child wants. For example, if they point toward the toy chest, they probably want something to play with., By the age of one, many children have mastered a limited vocabulary of simple words. While they're crying, listen for these words. They might be trying to communicate what they want. For example, if they yell or whine, “No!” while you try to help them with their puzzle, they might be seeking independence. If, after searching the room, they say “Teddy,” maybe they're looking for the stuffed animal you just put in the toy chest., At first, toddlers' use of gestures and non-verbal sounds is limited. Imitate what the child does, but teach them to use their gestures and/or sounds in different contexts. This will help them to communicate their feelings and desires without crying.For example, if the child only points at something they want, like a toy or a snack, teach them to point at whatever triggered their unhappiness. If they stub their toe on the coffee table, they can point to it to explain that it's the reason they're in pain.
 Toddlers are sponges for language-learning, so this is the best time to expand their vocabulary. Start with words and phrases you use often. These words and phrases will be familiar to the child and easy for them to understand.Some good choices include “happy,” “sad,” “mad,” and “tired.” Use these words in the correct context to help the child to understand them. This will make asking what's wrong much easier as time passes. For example:If you yawn and lie down on the couch, look at the child and say, “Tired.”
If you're watching a movie scene that includes someone yelling, point to that character and say, “Mad.”

, It can sometimes be difficult for a parent to understand baby talk. If your child is still not able to express themselves fully with words, there are other ways of communicating with them.

Use visuals, and have your child point to what they want or need. You can hold up objects or use images on a picture that they can gesture towards.
Some babies can learn basic hand signs before they are able to speak. You can teach your child a few signs to help them express what they want.

