 If you can't come to accept and embrace a same-sex marriage, it's important to at least learn how to be polite and nice about it. For instance, if you interfere too much and try to end the relationship, you can damage your relationship with those involved. Trying to make or influence the couple's decisions will simply cause arguments, friction, and pass you off as controlling and narrow minded.
 You might not like the outcome, but it's not your life. Let the same-sex couple find happiness and faults by themselves. Don't try to teach them yourself. In fact, the success of the relationship may surprise you.
 Some methods for objecting to something you disagree with can do more harm than good. Don't charge in with no thought of the repercussions of your actions. You could make the situation worse.


For example, if the couple has children, you may feel that this is not an ideal environment for the children. But there is no way to change the situation after the fact, without causing the children far greater harm. A child who already knows and loves two parents of the same sex will not benefit in any way from being separated from one or both of them. This is a situation in which, even if the marriage ended, it would do more harm than good.
If your personal beliefs do not agree with same-sex relationships, don't pretend you agree but don't introduce or pursue the subject. As it's wrong to lie and put up masks with people, it's also not right to stir up trouble or pick at wounds. If you know that you are never going to totally be accepting of the marriage, then don't bring it up!

, Don't show them any hatred or disgust. Instead, show them love and open arms. This situation is probably hard enough to lay out on the table, so the couple will need all the support they can get. Do not sit in judgment of their actions, or feel you have to accept it.


Consider telling the couple, "I am so happy that your are happy." This doesn't bring your negative feelings about same-sex marriage into the conversation but is an honest expression of your feelings as well.
 If you can't find it in yourself to be supportive, stay away until you feel that you can be civil. This may mean staying away from a same-sex couple completely or just cooling off until you can control what comes out of your mouth.


If you are finding it hard to accept the marriage, it's a sensible idea to keep your distance until you do. Otherwise you may end up saying or doing something you will later regret. Give yourself the time and space to work on your problem without forcing it on the happy couple.

