 After becoming more aware of yourself, your personality, and your identity, you can begin to look at pragmatic, real time changes that you want to make in your life. Using your journal, make a list of short term goals that you can begin changing in the near future and long term goals that may take more time and effort to realize.


Only you know what you want your life to be and only you have the power to make choices to create change in your life for the better.
 One of the best ways you can change for the better is to get your physical health in order. If your body feels better then so will your mind. Make goals to get into shape. Start a workout plan where you run, walk, or do some kind of physical activity three to five times a week. Add in strength training to make yourself stronger. Also try eating better to help with your overall health.


If you smoke, try to quit. It is bad for your health and the health of those around you. Incorporate things into your routine that will help you quit, such as nicotine patches, gums, lozenges, vapor cigarettes, or support groups., If you are not happy with your personal style or physical appearance, make plans to make it evolve. Adopt a new style of clothing or change your hair to better suit your identity and how you feel about yourself. Start wearing things that make you happy and feel more comfortable in your skin. Wear fun accessories that add a bit of your personality into your everyday appearance.


These can be small or gradual changes if you are not ready to change all at once. Do what feels right for you. , Your personal living conditions can easily be changed with some effort. If you are prone to messiness, try cleaning your space, your room, or your home more often. Having a clean living area generally makes you feel better and more in control of your life. Try to implement more cleaning into your routine because maintaining a more organized and clean living space can help you feel better and make your life better. If you are tired of your old designs or living area, try decorating your space, home, or room in a fashion that you feel more comfortable with. Add new pillows, change the color of paint, or rearrange your furniture to make your area feel more like you.


Your environment does have an effect on your overall well being and can be a creative outlet to express the change you are feeling towards your life.
Try becoming more eco-friendly or reducing your carbon footprint. Use less electricity by turning off lights, use less water in the shower, or try to be less wasteful in your living spaces. Start a recycle bin in your house or carpool to work. This is an easy way that you can improve your living conditions but also help the environment as well. , Feeling connected to others can help you get in touch with others and yourself, as well as be a helpful tool in learning about life and how you want to change yourself for the better. Volunteer at a soup kitchen, a homeless shelter, an animal refuge, or a food co-op. Most places require a small time commitment, sometimes as little as an hour a week or as you have time.


Volunteering to help a cause you believe in is a great way to boost your self worth and strengthen your feelings of empowerment, since you are actively involved in helping others., If you want to make your life better, start cultivating new hobbies or doing the things you love. Take an art or dance class, start music lessons, or enroll in a class about birds. Read more books or go somewhere you have always wanted to explore. It doesn't matter what it is as long as it is something that you want to do.


Nurturing your sense of self will help you develop motivation to continue to strive to change your life for the better. 