 The acquisitions phase will determine which assets need to be purchased or otherwise made available. This part of the strategy will also include financial planning which details how much funding is made available for the acquisitions and where the funding will come from.This phase may also include replacement assets.
Cost to benefit analysis should be calculated before acquiring or leasing an asset.
Only assets that have already been evaluated as being necessary should be acquired.
For example, your organization might want to expand and acquiring a new facility could be part of your acquisitions planning phase.
 The operational phase of the strategic asset management plan will account for existing assets and their functions in your organization. This will allow you to get a better idea of the exact role of the asset, how secure it is, who is accountable for it and how well it is performing.


Any operational costs should be considered during this phase.
If any training is required in relation to the asset it should be factored into this phase of the strategy.
For example, an industrial water filter will have a certain cost attached to its function over time. Including this operational cost will let you compare it to other costs in order to make a good strategy for its management.
 All assets will require maintenance over time to continue serving your organization as well as they can. This phase of your strategic asset management plan will allow you to plan for the future maintenance of your assets. This phase will also detail what level of maintenance they will receive and who will be responsible for that maintenance.Keep in mind that all of a company's assets are important for carrying out the strategic plan. The physical assets that your organization owns will all require some type of maintenance to improve your chances of success.
Details of planned future maintenance operations should be included in this phase.
Include projected costs of maintenance over time.
For example your company may own an older facility. It can be expected than that maintenance costs will likely continue to rise. These rising costs will factor into the organization's decision regarding the future of the facility.
 Not all assets will be deemed important or valuable enough to continue holding. These assets requiring disposal will need to be included in your strategic asset management plan, as well as any tax consequences that may result from the disposition. You should also include the details of the disposal process including how it will be disposed of and the amount of costs incurred during the disposal process.Include the reasons for disposal.
List the methods of disposal.
If the asset is being sold list the value that it could generate.
All assets should have a disposal plan that details when they are to be disposed of and when.
For example, your organization might have recently acquired a new shipping vessel. Even though it is new, you should have a planned retire date for the ship based on projected operational and maintenance costs compared to how critical the ship is to your company's functions.
 Holding assets, maintaining them, or even disposing of old assets will require funding. During the funding phase of your strategic asset management plan you will need to detail where the funding for each asset is coming from, how much each one is receiving, what the funds are specifically being used for and whether or not they are recurring.


Consider the cost of the asset over its entire lifetime.
Consider costs of disposal as well as any funds generated from the sale of disposed assets.
 The risk management phase of your strategic asset management plan will detail the potential threats to your assets and their level of priority to your organization. Losses include down time, customer relations, poor press, and other factors that may damage value. A risk management plan should detail any potential risks to assets, how likely they might be, and what to do should the potential risk come to pass.


Keep in mind that all of a company's assets, whether they are physical, financial, human, information or intangible, will have different risks associated with each of them. You will need to address all of these risks.
Funding should be made available for the replacement of essential assets in case of an emergency.
Plans to quickly acquire key assets in the event of their loss can be included in your risk assessment.
For example, there may be a low risk that your company's generator will stop working as long as it is properly maintained. However, should it fail to be maintained, having a plan in place can help minimize loss.

