 When you have decided to change the way you behave in class, it is an important first step to inform your friends. If you explain your reasons for wanting to make this big change, your friends will support you. In addition, this will give them a heads up that you’ll be acting differently towards them, and that way they won’t be offended., If your friends keep talking you and you feel forced to respond, explain that you do not want to get in trouble anymore for talking during class. Make it clear that your studies are important to you, and that you would be happy to talk later., If somebody continually disrespects your request, change seats. If you have assigned seating, ask your teacher after class if you can move desks. Tell your teacher that you are becoming distracted in your current spot., If things you would like to say to your friends keep coming up during class, consider writing them down! It can be a fun idea to start an “open journal” with a few of your friends. An open journal is a journal that a few people share and pass between them. This can be a lot of fun, and it also helps you to communicate without breaking the rules in class., If you talk a lot because you are angry or upset with others, learn to control how you respond. The next time somebody says something rude, simply stay quiet and nod toward the teacher to indicate that you are trying to pay attention. Raise your hand and speak to the teacher if the other person does not stop. If the situation is delicate and you would prefer not to make a scene, speak to your teacher after class instead.
 Another aspect of being quiet in class involves turning off or silencing your cell phone. Remember to do this before class begins. Notifications and other audio sounds coming from your cell phone can be a huge distraction to your teacher, classmates, and even yourself. Furthermore, putting your phone away and refraining from texting, games, or social media during class is another way to be "quiet" and pay closer attention to what you're learning.