 One of the immediate ways to kill bed bugs is to steam them out. They cannot survive the steam, so any that you can see, you can steam. Use a handheld steamer to blow steam at the bugs. However, be warned. This solution will only kill the ones you can see, not ones buried down in crevices. Bed bugs like to hide., Strip your bed of its bedding, and store it in a double trash bag. Vacuum your mattress and box springs as best you can, including underneath both.Dealing with your mattress first is the most immediate thing you can do. Since bed bugs bite at night, you need to clear your sleeping area of bed bugs if possible by vacuuming and encasing the mattress, then isolate the bed from more bed bugs.
 The encasement should be one that is meant to keep out bed bugs. It should also be strong enough to not rip., Cover both your mattress and box springs with individual encasements. Bed bugs cannot move in and out of these casings, stopping the ones inside from biting you. The ones inside will eventually die, and the ones outside will have lost a place to hide. You should keep it on for a year., If your cover becomes torn, throw it out, and replace it. Bed bugs can move through small openings., Wash your bedding in very hot water, rinse it in hot water, as well. Then dry it on a hot setting. The hot water should kill any bed bugs in the bedding.Be sure to discard the bags the bedding was in outside, so the bed bugs aren't in your house.
 Set the bags in the sun on a hot afternoon. The heat should kill any bed bugs inside., If your room is cluttered, make sure you clean up. Clutter provides places for bed bugs to hide, so by removing the items, you reduce their chances of surviving., You can suck up a good number of bed bugs just by vacuuming thoroughly. Make sure to take the vacuum bag or contents outside once you are done vacuuming., Interceptors go under the feet of your bed. They're designed to keep bed bugs from crawling up into your bed. Commercial ones create a little moat that traps bed bugs before they can reach the bed post., If your bed touches the wall or furniture, bed bugs can still crawl in.