 Cardio workouts can help you achieve an hourglass figure by slimming down your midsection and providing you with toned and lean legs. Cardio also helps to keep your heart healthy and allows more oxygen to reach your muscles, so it's great for your overall fitness and health. Cardio is one of the best thing you can do to burn calories, helping you to maintain a healthy body weight, which is important for achieving your ideal pin-up girl look.


Running, cycling, dancing, step aerobics and swimming (to name but a few) are all great cardiovascular workouts, which will help you to trim the fat and tone as you go.

Interval training is one of the best exercise options if you're short on gym time but still want an effective calorie-busting workout - warm up on the treadmill for five minutes, exert yourself at full speed for 45 seconds, then slow down to recover for 90 seconds. Repeat this ten times, then cool down for another five minutes. Remember to stretch afterwards to loosen the muscles.Ideally, you should be doing 30 minutes of cardio five times a week.
 Hourglass figures require a sexy booty, so rather than trying to slim down your butt, you should be focusing on getting it firm and toned. Think along the lines of Beyonce, Jennifer Lopez and Nicki Minaj, whose rounded rear-ends perfectly offset their tiny waists. You should be doing lots of glute-friendly exercises which lift and round the butt, such as lunges, squats and leg curls.



Lunges are performed by starting with your feet shoulder-width apart, then stepping forward with your right foot into a lunge position, bending both knees until they form 90 degree angles. Your front knee should not extend over the toes and and your back knee should not touch the floor. Step back into your starting position, then repeat with the other leg. To make this exercise more intense, hold a dumbbell in each hand and keep your arms straight by your sides.Squats are performed by standing with the legs a shoulder-width apart, with the toes pointed outwards at 45 degree angles. Resting most of your weight on your heels, slowly lower your body straight down into a squatting position until your thighs are parallel with the floor. Return to a standing position, and repeat.Do leg curls by standing with your feet a shoulder-width apart, holding on to a bar or placing your hands on the wall for support. Curl your right leg backwards, as far as it will go, trying to touch your heel to your butt. Return to a standing position and repeat with the other leg. You can use ankle weights to increase resistance and the intensity of the exercise. You can also use the leg curl machine at the gym to perform this exercise., Toned, shapely legs that you can show off in pencil skirts and swimwear are the perfect complement to an hour-glass waist. Toned legs look great in heels and will help you to put a strut in your step! Remember that you want to maintain a hip size that is significantly larger than your waist, so don't focus too much on slimming down your thighs - just try to get them firm and fabulous! Lateral step-ups, side lunges and Pilates exercises specific to the legs are great for this.


Lateral step-ups are performed using a step that's about 12–18 inches (30.5–45.7 cm) in height. Stand with the step on your right-hand side and place your right foot on the step. Lean your weight onto your right foot and spring up and over the step, replacing your right foot with your left. Continue to spring over the steps, alternating sides.Side lunges are similar to front lunges and are great for working the thighs. They are performed by placing your feet a hip-width apart and raising your arms in front of you, til they are parallel, at shoulder height. With your right foot, take a huge step out to the side, lowering your body into a lunge position. Your right knee should be at a 90 degree angle and should not extend over your toes. Hold this position for a moment, then return to standing and repeat with the other leg.Pilates is a fantastic form of exercise for sculpting and shaping the legs, and you can see results in just a few short weeks. If you're already familiar with pilates, think about introducing Cadillac and reformer workouts into your routine, to truly add definition to your legs!

, Curves are fantastic, but having a little extra meat on your bones can lead to unwanted wobbly bits which you may wish to avoid. Exercises which shape your upper body - particularly the arms and shoulders - are an important part of any hourglass-focused workout routine, as they will help to bust any excess flab. Just think of how well your toned arms and shoulders would complement an hourglass figure in a strapless, waist-cinching gown! Bench dips, shoulder presses and arm circles are all good options.


A bench dip is performed using an exercise step or kitchen chair. Sit up straight on the edge of the bench or chair, extending your legs in front of you. Firmly grip the edge of the bench or chair and slowly slide your body off the bench, lowering yourself towards the floor. Keep your back straight, and keep lowering until your arms from a 90 degree angle. Push your body back to the original starting position and repeat.
A shoulder press is performed by holding a dumbbell in each hand and lifting the weights so they are at shoulder-level, with your elbows bent underneath. Slowly straighten your arms, lifting the dumbbells above your head. Don't lock your elbows. Hold the dumbbells above your head for a second or two, then slowly lower them back to the starting position and repeat.
Arm circles are easy exercises that can be performed anywhere. Th perform arm circles, stand with your feet about a shoulder-width apart and extend your arms straight out to the sides, so they're in line with your shoulders. Begin rotating your arms forward in small, circular motions, without moving your wrists or elbows. After about 20 circles, change direction and begin rotating your arms backwards. You can increase the intensity of this exercise by holding dumbbells as you do it.
 Hourglass figures aren't just about tiny waists and curvaceous butts, they're also famous for their fuller chests. Although too much cardio exercise can actually reduce breast size through weight-loss, there are some muscle training exercises you can do to build up the pectoral muscles beneath the breast tissue - giving the impression of a fuller chest while helping boobs to stay firm and perky. The best chest exercises for this include push-ups bench presses and the dumbbell fly.


To do push-ups, lie face-down on a solid floor, keep your legs together and prop your feet up on your toes and the balls of your feet. Place your hands palms-down on the floor, approximately a shoulder width apart. Raise yourself up, using just the strength in your arms, until both arms are fully extended. Slowly lower your body down again until your elbows form a 90-degree angle. Raise yourself back up into the extended arm position and repeat.
To do bench presses, you will need a barbell and an exercise bench. Place the barbell with the weights of your choice on a bench rack and lie flat on the exercise bench underneath it. Reach up and grasp the bar with your hands spaced about a shoulder-width apart. Slowly lift the bar off the rack, positioning the bar directly above the middle of your chest and extending your arms. Slowly lower the bar down to your chest, bending your elbows out to the sides. Press the bar back up to the starting position, and repeat.To perform a dumbbell fly, lie on your back and extend your arms directly above you, holding a dumbbell in each hand. Bend your elbows slightly and lower your arms out to the sides until your body forms a "T" shape. Hold the position for a moment, then slowly raise your arms to the starting position and repeat.
 Reducing the size of your waist is perhaps the most important part of achieving an hourglass figure. To do this you will need to combine weight loss with targeted core workouts. Be careful though - many traditional core exercises - including those often practiced as part of pilates workouts - can actually bulk up the core muscles causing the waist to flatten out and become wider. This is the last thing you want when aiming for an hourglass figure! Instead, you should do core exercises which focus on the lateral and oblique muscle groups, in order to tighten and trim the waist. Side crunches, side planks and pull-ups are good options for targeting these muscles.


To do a side crunch, lie with your back on the floor, put your hands behind your head and lift your knees in the air, bent at a 90 degree angle. Raise your head and shoulders slightly off the floor and bend upper body sideways to the right. Imagine that you are trying to touch your right hip with your right elbow. Remember to keep your lower back and hips firmly in place as you perform the exercise. Return to the starting position and repeat on the other side.
To do a side plank, lie on your right side on the floor, with your feet stacked on top of one another. Use your right elbow to prop yourself up - your forearm should be flat on the floor, perpendicular to your body, and your right elbow should be directly underneath your right shoulder. Your entire body should form a straight, diagonal line from your head to your feet. Hold this pose for 30 seconds (if you can!), keeping your abdominal muscles and glutes tight. Repeat on our left side.
To perform pull-ups, you will need an exercise bar. Grasp the overhead bar with your fingers facing towards you - this is a difficult pull-up position but is best for exercising the lateral muscles. Pull your body up towards the bar, until your chin is slightly above it. Hold for a second or two, if possible, then slowly lower yourself back to the starting position. Try to avoid extending your arms completely as this will keep your muscles engaged. Repeat.

