 Check out hipster girls like Cory Kennedy, Willa Holland, Leigh Lezark, Agyness Deyn, Peaches and Pixie Geldof, the Jagger girls, Keith Richard's girls, Alice Dellal, Dree Hemingway, and Erin Wasson. See which hipster role model most appeals to you, and follow up on her trends, from what she wears to where she's partying, or what she's eating.


If you have a close friend who is a hipster, check out what she wears, reads, and listens to -- just don't be obvious about it. Hipsters don't want to be worshipped.
 Check out some fashion-themed websites to see which styles appeal to you the most. Though not every style on the sites is made for hipsters, you can pick and choose whatever suits your look.
 Checking out some cool magazines and books can help you get a better sense of your own hipster style. Try subscribing to a few magazines and picking up a few fashion-centric books to get a better sense of the style you want to achieve. Here are some magazines and books to try:


Magazines: NYLON, Dazed & Confused, Elle, Paper, POP! Magazine, and British Vogue
Books: the three books from NYLON magazine, Pretty, Street, and Play, and Misshapes, a book by a DJ trio that features the cool outfits people wear at clubs.
 Many hipsters are artists or at least have a creative side. If you don't have a creative interest yet, then you should find out what you enjoy, whether it's photography, drawing, painting, writing, playing an instrument or even DJing. Whatever you like, get to know the specialists in that field.


Enjoy photography? Know and love photographers like Ryan McGinley, Dash Snow, and Ellen von Unwerth.
If you enjoy writing, read the classics and try getting into poetry. Get inspired by the work on Jack Kerouac, Ken Kesey, Sylvia Plath, J.D. Salinger, Haruki Murakami, Chuck Palahniuk, Bret Easton Ellis, Dave Eggers, William S. Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg, and Chuck Klosterman.
If you like art, check out the work of Georgia O'Keefe, Alice Neel, Pablo Picasso, and Andy Warhol.
 Listening to indie, underground, and even classic music is a big part of being a hipster. To be a hipster, you can't listen only to what's popular, but have to be able to recognize cool music with the potential to make it big -- at which point you'll have to ditch it completely. You can't just listen to the music on your LP player or iPod -- to be a true teenage hipster, you'll have to make an effort to go to concerts, whether the venue is the basement of a tiny cafe or a larger (though not too large) arena. Here are some bands to check out if you want to get into the female teenage hipster groove:


Daft Punk
Wild Child
Justice
Panda Bear
Ratattat
Yeah Yeah Yeahs
The xx
The Vaccines
The Kooks
Animal Collective
Bright Eyes
Deathcab for Cutie
Vampire Weekend
Minus the Bear
Friendly Fires
Milky Chance
Imagine Dragons
Bastille

, If you want to learn how to be a hipster, they you have to not only be familiar with hipster fashion and music, but you also have to be aware of hipsters in films and TV shows. And remember never to refer to films as "movies" -- that's not a very hipster thing to do. Here are some films and shows to be familiar with:


Hipster films from the last decade: 500 Days of Summer, Garden State, Blue Valentine, Juno, The Royal Tenenbaums, Little Miss Sunshine, Amelie, Tiny Furniture, Lars and the Real Girl, Drive, Away We Go, Greenberg
Older hipster films: The Shine, Reality Bites, Clerks, Kicking and Screaming, With nail and I, The Rocky Horror Picture Show.
TV shows: Girls, Portlandia, Workaholics, Bored to Death

