 If your ruptured cyst is complex, that means it’s more severe and should be treated medically. Depending on the severity of the pain, your doctor might prescribe a pain medication for you. This can include an oral analgesic.Your doctor may suggest oral acetaminophen or morphine sulfate, or another similar medication.
 If your symptoms are severe enough, your doctor may admit you to the hospital. In the hospital, you may be administered pain medication for the abdominal pain via an IV.If your bleeding is severe, the doctor may give you fluids or blood through an IV.
 Small complex cysts can be removed from a laparoscopy. In a laparoscopy, the surgeon will make a small cut on your belly where a microscope is inserted. He then will remove the cyst through cuts in your skin.The cuts will be stitched up afterwards. Your doctor will give you instructions on how to care for the stitches.
This procedure involves less pain and a quicker recovery time. Usually, women can go home that same day or the next.
 For more severe complex cysts, your doctor may suggest a laparotomy. A laparotomy is used if the cyst is large or potentially cancerous. A larger cut is made to the belly during this procedure, and the entire cyst or the ovary may be removed.This procedure may require a few days in the hospital.
The cut is then either stitched or stapled together. Your doctor will provide care instructions for your stitches or staples.
After the surgery, your doctor may order imaging tests to check that the bleeding in the ruptured cyst has stopped.
The doctor sends the cyst or ovary to a lab to check for cancer. If the cyst is cancerous, your doctor will call you in to discuss a cancer treatment plan.
 If you have had recurring ruptured cysts, your doctor may devise a treatment that helps reduce the recurrence of future cysts. This may be suggested after a severe ruptured cyst or after multiple ruptured cysts.This treatment commonly involves oral contraceptives to suppress ovulation.
 If you have multiple cysts, your doctor may advise close monitoring of your other cysts. This means you will need to be aware of symptoms of a ruptured cyst.