 Pre-teen children will be especially interested in depicting perspective, foreshortening, and other spatial information. They will begin to draw horizon lines, overlapping objects, and exacting detail. Assign them spatial sequences, such as drawing an object from three different angles. Arrange neutral-colored geometric shapes near one another so they can practice shading.Let them arrange objects in piles and draw them.
 Basic anatomical proportion is one of the hardest things to learn. People tend to see the head as bigger than it is, the eyes as being bigger and higher in the face. Teach children basic anatomical proportions of the face, then give them mirrors and have them draw themselves. Let them take turns posing for one another, and have them draw quick sketches.
 Around age 9, children have a strong desire to draw realistically. They may become frustrated by drawings that do not look "right." They may decide they are bad artist. To head off this crisis of confidence, make it clear to them that drawing is a skill that takes practice. Tell them that when they are frustrated it is because they are moving up a level. If they think they are a bad artist, that is because they have learned to see things they couldn't see before.Children around age 11 may wish to give up on drawing. Teaching them age-appropriate skills and encouraging them to try new methods will help them stay motivated.
Enlarge the child's concept of art. One way to head off the decline of a child's artistic practice is to teach them other forms. Drawing abstractions, comics, or design can rekindle the confidence of a child who is stuck on realism.
 Children who have been observing shapes and attempting to draw realistically for a while are ready to unlearn some of the things they have learned, so long as they are not shamed for wrong answers. Bring them to a tree, or pass around pieces of wood, and explain that they are going to observe all the colors in bark. Set them the challenge of drawing a tree without using the color brown, but rather by blending different colored markers to get a real woody color.

