 Before continuing on you will need to know what version of Windows you are running. In order to see this information follow these steps:


For Windows 8, open a file explorer window. On the left-hand side of the window you should see “This PC.” Right-click it and then hit “Properties.” A new window should open, and under the subheading “System,” and to the right of “System type,” it should say 32- or 64-bit. Remember this for the next step.
For Windows 7, click the Start orb and right-click “Computer,” and then click “Properties.” A new window should open. Under the subheading “System,” and to the right of System type, it should say 32- or 64-bit. Remember this for the next step.
For Windows XP, click Start and right-click “My Computer,” and then click “Properties.” A new window will pop up with the General tab already selected. To the right of the Windows logo, under the System subheading, you should see Microsoft Windows XP. If there is nothing else next to it. You are running a 32-bit version of Windows XP. If it says 64 next to it, you are running 64-bit version of windows. Remember this for the next step.
 Open any Internet browser on your PC, and navigate to the 7-Zip download page. There are basically two different download options (32-bit and 64-bit) based on the type of processor your PC is using.


If you are running a 32 bit version of Windows, the second option from the top will be for you. Click the blue “Download” button to the left of “.msi” to continue. Once finished, follow the step-by-step install instructions on the screen.
If you are running a 64 bit version of Windows, the second option from the top will be for you. Click the blue “Download” button to the left of “.msi” to continue. Once finished follow the step-by-step install instructions on the screen.
 Locate the file or folder you wish to zip and right-click on it. A context menu should appear.


In order to select more than one file to zip, press and hold the Ctrl button on the keyboard while clicking each file. Please note however that in order to use this, the files or folders need to be located in the same folder.
, From the new menu, select “Add to “Folder.zip.” A small icon should appear in the same window with an identical file or folder name, but it will have a “Z” on the icon. This means that the file or folder is zipped and ready to go.


Please note that if there is no “Z” on the folder icon that is OK. By default, the icon may have a small zipper going down the right-hand side.

