 Remove any trash inside or outside the building. Remove any items that are damaged or that you will be replacing (flooring, cabinets, appliances, light fixtures, toilets, water heaters, etc.) Outside work may include trimming any dead trees or bushes and removing garage doors, fencing, sheds, decks, and siding. , If the property needs new roofing, this should be done before you begin working on any of the interior repairs. You do not want any water leaking into the structure. Slab or block-and-beam foundation repairs must be made at this time as well. Fixing exterior issues first will draw less attention to the property while it is being rehabbed. , Exterior doors and windows should be addressed once the foundation is finished. This will protect your property from weather and the intrusion of animals. New windows and doors will also make the property look less like a construction site.


Count the number of doors and windows you will need, and take measurements before you purchase the items. Measure very carefully.
New entry doors are a nice way to change the look of a property and add value. , Plumbing repairs may include water heaters, tubs and showers, toilets, and water/gas lines. You may need a new HVAC system or repairs to the existing one. The electrical system can be worked on during this time as well. Be careful if installing an outdoor air-conditioning unit before someone is occupying the property full time. You do not want it to get stolen.
 You can either install new sheet rock or repair the existing sheet rock. It is cheaper to repair existing sheet rock. Once you are finished with the sheet rock, you can work on the wall and ceiling texture. , Protect the floor with plastic or canvas and use painter's masking tape to protect the areas you don't want painted. Windows and hinges should be covered with tape as well. Chalk or apply spackling to the trim and baseboards before you start painting. Use a primer on the walls before applying the paint.


Walls should be cleaned before you start painting. Some painters lightly sand and clean a wall again after the primer is applied.
Paint the walls using a V- or W-shaped stroke and avoid using a straight up-and-down motion. ,


Lighting is a great way to change the look of a property and is relatively inexpensive compared to other repairs.
Flooring may include vinyl or ceramic tile, hardwood, carpet, or laminate. The flooring is installed later in the rehab process to avoid getting paint on the floor and to avoid damage from workers going in and out of the house. Because you want your floors to look fresh when you're finished, you might consider doing the bulk of the interior work before installing flooring. At the very least, try to protect new flooring from heavy foot traffic during the inside work.
 Once everything is done, go through and examine all of the work that has been done. You may need to touch up paint or do some last-minute adjustments to the plumbing, HVAC, or electrical systems. You should also thoroughly clean the property. A final inspection is a good idea as well.
 Begin working at the front, because this is what people will see first. Fences, patios, decks, sidewalks, porches, and driveways should be taken care of first. Once those items are finished, add soil for planting flowers, bushes, etc. The back yard should be addressed last. Determine how much sun your property gets before you buy plants. If there are many trees present, get plants that do not require a lot of sunlight.
Speak to someone at a garden center about your ideas, and ask for suggestions about the type of plants that will work best for your property.
Consider how much time your landscaping will require. If you do not have a lot of time to devote to the yard, look for low-maintenance options.
If your windows are low, plant low-growing shrubs, trees and ground cover instead of taller plants. You do not want to obscure the view.

