 Select a variety of science, math, and computer courses while you’re still in high school. As a drafter, you’ll need to make precise calculations and use complex software and these courses can get the ball rolling in your chosen career path.Take the following types of classes to develop your skills as a drafter:Math classes including algebra, geometry, calculus and statistics
Art classes such as drawing
Computer classes in computer-assisted drafting and design (CADD)
Shop classes, to learn how machines work;
, Many professional drafters focus on specific types of projects they want to do. Think about the types of projects that interest you and select a specialization or do more general drafting from this. This can help you better select courses during your degree program. Consider any of the following specialities:Architectural draftsmen work on building and construction projects.
Civil drafters prepare plans that focus on engineering projects such as bridges and highways.
Electrical drafters create wiring diagrams for places such as power plants or factories.
Electronics drafters produce diagrams for wiring of electronics devices.
Mechanical drafters make plans for machinery and mechanical tools.
 Once you’ve graduated from high school, attend a two-year technical school or community college that offers a drafting program. Enroll in classes that will give you both theoretical and practical knowledge as well as offer hands-on experience drafting. Focus on classes that will enhance your chosen drafting specialty. Select from any of the following types of classes as you pursue your associate’s degree in drafting:Blueprint reading
Basic-, architectural-, and landscape drafting
Measuring and calculating
Computer-aided drafting and design
Manufacturing mathematics
Tolerancing

, Ask local businesses, organizations, and groups if they need help constructing or fixing things. Activities such as designing and building sets for plays or cleaning a large machine can give you practical insight into building plans or how machines work., Contact local architects, construction and manufacturing companies, and technology firms. Inquire if they are looking for a drafting intern in one of their departments. Consider sending letters of intent and a resume to companies as well. Interning with professionals who use drafters or are drafters can build on your coursework and give you practical know-how to get a job.

Find out the name of a specific supervisor at each company if you can. Ask professors if they know someone who might supervise you on being a drafter with their company.
 Look for possibilities to gain practical knowledge during summer and winter break. Apply for jobs such as doing construction or manufacturing work. You could also work with computers or electrics in a factory. These can give you hands-on experience that translate into more complex and detailed plans and make you stand out from other drafting applicants on the job market., Consider expanding your education beyond your associate’s degree with a bachelor’s degree. Most four-year colleges and universities don’t offer drafting degrees, but they do have courses that complement your drafting education. Transfer to a college or university to gain more specialized education that can build on your drafting degree and make you potentially more attractive to employers.Select courses in subjects such as engineering, architecture, and mathematics. These can help you better understand and translate the needs and wishes of architects and engineers into your plans.
 Maximize your education and employment experience by getting certified as a professional drafter. Organizations such as the American Design Drafting Association offer certification programs for drafters. The certification exams test your knowledge of drawing, geometric designs, tolerancing and basic drafting principles. Getting your certification isn’t required, but it can further demonstrate your knowledge and proficiency in your field.Recognize that you may require a certain amount of professional experience before you can take a certification exam.
 Many certifications last for three years and require renewal through another test that changes over time.Take continuing education classes throughout your career to stay on top of the latest professional developments. Attending these courses can ensure that you pass the renewal certification test and are attractive to your current or potential employer., Become a member of a local or national drafting organization once you’ve had at least five years of experience as a professional drafter.Being a member of these professional organizations puts you in a network with other drafters who may know about new job opportunities or continuing education classes that interest you.