 Musical chairs is played by walking around chairs to music. When the music is turned off the players find a chair to sit down in. You want music that has a good beat for walking. Using upbeat, party music will create a festive environment encouraging the players to have fun. Make a playlist of songs or pick an entire album of party music to use because the game may last more than one song if you have lots of players.


You need to have one person be in control of the music for each round of musical chairs that you play. This person will be responsible for starting and stopping the music.;
, Musical chairs is a game that needs a lot of space in order to play it. Make sure you have a wide open space in a room or outside to easily play the game. You need enough space to have chairs set up in a circle and room for the players to walk around the outside of them., To play musical chairs, you need to have chairs or seats set up in a circle. You should start with one less chair than the amount of players playing. So for example, if there are 5 people playing, you should have 4 chairs in a circle.Set up the chairs with the seat of the chair facing the outside of the circle.
If you don’t have chairs, you can use stools, carpet squares, or pillows instead.
 As soon as the music starts playing, the players walk in a circle around the chairs. You can choose whether to go clockwise or counterclockwise, but all players should go the same direction following the person in front of them.


Players should walk at a comfortable pace around the chairs without slowing down.
 After some time, the teacher, or host should stop the music. When the music stops, each player needs to find a chair to sit down in. There will be one player left without a chair to sit in because there is one less chair than players., The player that didn’t find a chair to sit it is out of the game. They can help run the music, or just watch the fun and wait to see who ends up as the winner.
 After the person who didn’t find a chair leaves the game, you need to remove one chair to play another round. Start another round by playing the music and having the players walk around the chairs again.
 After each round of musical chairs, remove a chair, keeping 1 less chair the players in the circle. The last round will be 2 players and one chair. The player who sits in the chair this round is the winner., One fun variation on musical chairs is to play it by having players find specific chairs to sit in. Before playing, have the players use a nametag to put their name on a chair. Like traditional musical chairs, they walk around the chairs when the music plays, but when it stops, the players have to try and find the chair with their name on it to sit in. The last person to find and sit in their chair is out. Remove their chair and start again to play the next round.


For this version you will have the same number of chairs as players each round.
 You can make regular musical chairs more interesting by adding different rules to each round you play. For example, you might have the person who gets out become the music player after round 1, and then after round 2 the person who doesn’t find a chair gets to call out a color and anyone wearing it has to be out.This is a fun way to have a game go more quickly when you have a lot of players.
You can come up with lots of different rules to try out.
 You can make musical chairs even more fun by having the players travel around the chairs in a different fashion each round. Having the players skip or crawl around the chairs will add another element of skill to the game. Make a list of different ways the players can travel around the chairs, and you can pick a different one each round.Run
Skip
Hop on one foot
Dance
Gallop
Walk on your tippy toes

