 This is crucial for not undoing the improvements you are undertaking with the moisturizing and exfoliating products, as well as not aggravating the damage that already exists.Wear gloves (rubber, latex) when using products with irritants. This is a good idea for daily tasks such as dish-washing, house cleaning, and any physical labor.
Select gloves that have cotton linings inside to improve the gentleness on your hands.
Be particularly mindful of wearing gloves to protect your hands from exposure during the winter months when the air is typically drier.
 Damage from exposure to the sun can aggravate your condition.


Avoid mixing the sunscreen with other products on your hands for the duration of your excursion.
Make sure the SPF (sun protection factor) number on the sunscreen you are using is adequate for conditions you are experiencing.
Use the cleaning methods, especially the soaps, above to thoroughly clean off the sunscreen after use before you switch back to your regular cleansing routine.
 Unless you already know you have a more severe condition, like eczema, you might ask to your dermatologist for recommendations on specific products you can use to accelerate your hands' skin improvement, healing, and protection.Ask your dermatologist for suggestions on creams and ointments that you can use on a daily basis.
If you are using products at night, see if your dermatologist has any ideas about what else you might use, or change about your application technique if you are not seeing results.
Consider bringing any home-made products by your dermatologist for confirmation on their correctness.
 Find a few ways to add a little moisture to the air in your home without compromising other health factors. This is more important during the winter.Use a humidifier. These machines will pump moisture directly from a water source into the air.
A bowl of water near your heaters will also draw moisture into the air.
 Similar to the recommendation of not washing with hot water, you should avoid washing with hot water in other places to avoid it affecting your hands.


Find a "luke-warm" setting to adjust your bath/shower to instead.
Consider applying bathing oils to your hands before you enter the bath/shower, and then moisturizer afterwards.
 Placing your chosen moisturizing products and exfoliate products at your sinks will encourage their use.If you wash up at multiple locations, try to have multiple bottles/pumps of soap, moisturizer, and exfoliate at each sink.
You can keep a large bottle of product at your primary wash location, and smaller bottles at others.

