 The purpose of a tenant reference letter is to inform a potential landlord about your tenant. For that reason, you should go through your records and check if you had any problems, such as the following:


Timely rent. Was the tenant ever late with rent? If so, did they promptly pay or did you need to pester them?
Complaints. Did another tenant complain about excessive noise or a pet?
Tidiness. When you walked through the apartment, was it kept in neat condition? Did they notify you about repairs that were needed? You might need to enter the apartment, in which case you should give your tenant proper notice.
 Also, they might challenge its accuracy and claim they lost out on the place because of your reference. For this reason, you should decline to write a landlord reference if it can’t be mostly positive.


Be honest with the tenant. Say, “I don’t think I can write a positive letter. Can you ask a previous landlord?”
Also avoid lying in your reference letter. You might think this is a good way to get rid of a bad tenant. However, the future landlord might sue you for misrepresentation.
 Open a blank word processing document and set the font to Times New Roman 12 point or something similar. Your letter should be organized like a standard business letter.


Use letterhead if you have it, and leave sufficient space up top.
Use “To Whom It May Concern” as the salutation unless you know who you are addressing.
 Identify how long the tenant has rented from you and any other information your tenant wants included in the letter. You should also explain why you recommend the tenant.


For example, you might write, “I recommend Alice Jones as a tenant. Ms. Jones started renting from me on June 1, 2014 in Jonesport, Maine. Ms. Jones has been an excellent tenant, and she’s never been late with rent. Because she has been so easy to rent to, I would rent to her again.”
Remember not to go overboard with praise. A landlord might think that you are trying to get rid of a problem tenant. Instead, use a neutral tone throughout the letter., Few tenants are perfect, so it wouldn’t be surprising if a tenant was late with the rent once or twice or had a complaint about excessive noise. You can identify any problems with your tenant, and then explain how they corrected the problem.


For example, you can write, “During the past three years, only one tenant has complained about Ms. Jones’ dog, about a month after she moved in. However, after speaking to Ms. Jones, she took her dog to a trainer, and I’ve never had another complaint since.”

, In your final paragraph, tell the future landlord how to contact you. Include your email address and telephone number.For example, you can write, “Please call with questions. I can be reached at home at 111-1111 or by email at happy_landlord@email.com.”

, Type “Sincerely” and leave several blank lines before typing your name. Sign your letter using an ink pen.
 Give them a chance to review the letter before you send it off. If there’s negative information in the letter, they might decide not to use it. Make a copy of the letter before mailing it.

