 As an immediate solution for bleeding gums, you can apply a cold compress to the area.This helps to slow the blood flow to the area, resulting in less blood loss.
Make a cold compress by wrapping an ice cube in a clean piece of paper towel. Hold it against the bleeding gum, applying gentle pressure.;
, Bleeding gums are often caused by using a toothbrush whose bristles are too hard, or by brushing your gums too vigorously.Although you might think that harder brushing will result in cleaner teeth, this is actually not the case. Brushing too hard can damage tooth enamel (the protective surface on teeth) and irritate sensitive gum tissue, causing redness, swelling and bleeding.
Buy a toothbrush with soft nylon bristles that have blunted (rather than pointed) ends. When brushing, use a gentle circular motion to brush all sides of the teeth, almost as if massaging the teeth. Brushing your teeth vertically starting from the gum line and moving over the tooth surface removes the highest percentage of bacteria compared to other movements. Most people tend to use a vigorous back-and-forth motion, which is incorrect. This can lead to gum recession and erosion, which can make your teeth look longer and stained.
It's a good idea to invest in an electric toothbrush with a rotating and oscillating head. These toothbrushes are gentler on teeth and gums, but still more effective at removing plaque. Look for toothbrushes that are approved by the American Dental Association.For more information on the correct method of brushing your teeth, go to this article.
 Flossing is an essential part of maintaining good oral hygiene and should be done at least once a day.However, many people make the mistake of "snapping" the floss between the teeth, which can irritate the gums and cause inflammation and bleeding.
It's important to be gentle while you floss. Slowly and carefully slide the floss between your teeth, following the curve of each tooth.Hold the floss so that it forms a U-shape around the tooth, slide the floss below the gum line, then move it firmly up and down to remove plaque.
Even though it can be a little awkward, don't forget the teeth at the back.
Even though it can be a little awkward, don't forget the teeth at the back. For more information on how to floss correctly, see here.
You can also use an oral irrigation device (known as a "water pick") which attaches to the tap in your bathroom to shoot a small but forceful jet of water at your gum line, helping to clear debris. Buying a professional water pick is also a good choice if you have dental implants, bridges, or even periodontitis.
 Using mouthwash is a great way to freshen breath and eliminate bacteria from the mouth. However, alcohol-based mouthwashes are very drying, which can be irritating for swollen gums and cause them to bleed.Instead of alcohol-based mouthwashes, rinse out your mouth with hydrogen peroxide or salt water. These will keep your mouth clean and fresh, without irritating the gums.