 Sometimes, you need more than just a pick me up. If you feel you are spending too much feeling sad, depressed, melancholic, or despondent, it might be time to consider seeing a doctor.Here are some symptoms of anxiety and depression:


Consistent feelings of sadness or emptiness
Feelings of hopeless or helplessness
Insomnia
Loss or increase of appetite
Restlessness or irritability

, If you have symptoms of depression or anxiety, you should first talk to your primary care physician. He can help diagnose you if something is physically wrong, and talk to you if he feels you may need to seek professional psychological help.
 You can talk to your doctor about medication to help improve your mood. You can take smaller doses to help pick you up.


This can be a temporary solution, so do not feel this might be a life-long prescription., There are a number of herbal or natural supplements that help make you feel better mentally.Some of the most common include:


Kava -- Recommended dosage is around 300 mg daily. However, studies have shown the Kava root can damage your liver. Talk to your doctor before taking this (or any other) supplement.Passionflower -- Passionflower is often mixed with other herbs to help anxiety. Side-effects include drowsiness or dizziness. It often comes in 1000mg tablets and is recommended to be taken once a day.Fish Oil - Omega 3 found in fish oil can help the heart and brain. The recommended dosage is around 1.6mg per day.Valerian Root --This perennial flower root can help reduce anxiety and depression and is sold as an herbal supplement. Recommended dosages vary, but large dosage can result in headache and nausea. Magnesium - Doctors recommend 125-300mg magnesium supplements daily to treat depression or anxiety.All B-vitamins -- All B-vitamins, especially folic acid, have links to anxiety and depression. While you can take B vitamins in a supplemental forms, you can also supplement this vitamin in your diet. Foods rich in B vitamins include pork, poultry, eggs, fish, and whole cereals (wheat bread, brown rice, wheat germ, and oatmeal.) 