 This not only means physical rest, but mental rest as well. Try avoiding activities that take too much extra strain on the brain, such as texting and reading.;
, Triggers, such as the original injury, are things that aggravate the brain, and therefore cause a bigger headache. Some common examples are noise, light, physical activity, mental activity, driving or concentrating. Try to find these triggers and avoid them. For example, if noise causes a bigger headache, wear earplugs or find a quiet environment.
 These can be found in health food stores.
 If these medicines are taken all the time, they cause rebound headaches that are only worse. This is because the body becomes adapted and dependent on the medicine. It will be difficult, but try to only take medicines a third of the time, such as ten days per month.
 The human brain is mostly fat and water. Aim to drink at least 2-3 large water bottles a day. Keeping fluid levels up will help regulate concussions headaches.
 The brain also has lots of glucose, and these levels need to be kept up in order to heal faster and lessen concussion headaches. Even eating a granola bar or a piece of fruit every two hours will significantly help.
 The brain needs time to recharge and will do this faster with breaks. For example, work for 20 minutes and then take a 10 minute break.
 There may be a lot of pain in the neck that is restricting blood flow to the brain. Try using a hot pack on your neck to ease the tension.
 Find massage therapists, physiotherapists, osteopaths or acupuncture.


If symptoms persist, you may need a chiropractor to stretch your neck muscles and the tendons behind the ears after that you need to figure out how to finish stretching your tendons and neck muscles; you may need speech therapy at home and physical therapy, it your brain has been significantly injured. Ensure you finish any course of therapy adjusting your neck bones and neck muscles at home too; this treatment should help you sleep.
You may need a orthopedic doctor to prescribe a muscle relaxant like Tizanidine or pain medication like Gabapentin and Trama-dol.
You may need a neurologist to prescribe pain medication.
Sadly, with concussions, it can be nearly impossible to get rid of headaches. Headaches may also take many months to go away. These methods will help reduce the pain, but will not get rid of it completely if you are suffering from Post-Concussion Syndrome.
You can use a blood vessel dilator like garlic, propranolol or vitamin E to get the medicine to work and you could take Cocoa Extract to improve your blood vessel flexibility and circulation.
You may be able to adjust your skull bones by putting one hand on the chin and one hand on the back of the head and putting pressure on the offending bone but it is an extremely slow process.
 Most of these medicines are not proven, but may help in the long run.
 Concussions take a long time to heal. The key is to be patient and keep in mind that it will heal. Take care of yourself first and foremost. Stay positive.

