 Mountain pose is a great introductory pose that you can do with kids with ADHD. Set up a yoga mat in an open space in your home and open the yoga session with Mountain pose to help the child focus on the practice.To show the child how to do Mountain Pose, stand straight with your feet together. Raise and spread your toes so they are flat on the mat. Straighten your legs without locking at the knees.
Ground down by pushing through your big toes and raise your head, keeping your face forward and your head level. Place your hands by your sides with your palms open to the front the room.
Hold Mountain pose for ten deep inhales and exhales. You may have the child count the breaths with you to keep them focused.;
, Roaring Lion pose is an easy yoga pose that can help your child loosen up and have fun on the mat. The idea is to roar like a lion in the jungle in this pose, making the most ferocious face you can muster.To do this pose with the child, kneel on the yoga mat with your bum resting on your calves. Place your hands on your knees and sit up straight.
Then, open your mouth and close your eyes. Extend your tongue out and down, wrinkling your nose. Inhale and then as you breathe out, release a “ROARRRR” sound.
Repeat this sound five times, for five breaths total. It can be fun to do this pose in front of a mirror, as you get to roar at your own reflection.
 Tree pose is good for focus and concentration. It is also a good challenge for children with ADHD to stay focused enough to maintain their balance.Begin by standing with your palms together with your thumbs at your sternum. Keep your palms together and slowly raise your hands over your head. Then, lower them back down to the starting position. Repeat this several times, synchronizing your inhalation with an upward motion and your exhalation with a downward motion.
Add on the balancing component by focusing on an unmoving spot on the floor four feet away from you. Then, raise your right leg and place your right foot against your left calf, with your bent leg facing the right side.
Hold this pose for five breaths and then release. Switch to the other side, lifting your left foot and placing it against your right calf.
 This pose can help the child become more aware of their body movements and feel more grounded. They may also enjoy the sensation of “flying” on the ground.To do Superman Pose, lie down on your stomach with your arms stretched overhead and your legs straight behind you. Start by inhaling and lifting your arms off the ground. Then, exhale and place your arms back on the ground. Do the same with your legs, lifting and lowering your legs with your breathe.
Once the child seems comfortable with lifting and lowering their limbs, you can try the full posture. Inhale and lift both your arms and legs off the ground. You should feel like you’re flying like a superhero. Then, exhale and lower your limbs. Repeat this pose for four to five full breaths.
 This pose is good for centering the child and allowing them to have more control over the movement of their body. This is a good pose to also help your child relax, especially if they seem to be getting agitated or hyper.Start by lying on your back with your arms by your sides and your palms face down. Bend your knees and place your feet flat on the ground. They should be hip width apart and close enough that you can touch your heels with your hands.
Inhale as you press firmly into your feet and hands. Lift your hips off the ground like the raising of a drawbridge. Then, exhale as you lower your hips down to the ground.
Repeat this pose for four to five breaths. Once you are done, hug your knees to your chest for five to ten breaths.
 This pose is great for concluding a yoga session or as a last yoga pose before bed. You can teach the child to go into this pose if they start to feel overwhelmed or hyper, as it can be very calming and relaxing.To do Child’s Pose, kneel down and sit on your feet with your knees separated. You may allow your knees to form a wide “v” shape on the mat. Inhale and place your forehead on the ground in front of your knees, curving your spine. Extend your arms forward and breathe deeply in this pose for two to five minutes.
Come out of the pose slowly, lifting your arms and head. Sit back on your feet and take a few cleansing breathes to end your practice.

