 If you can fit everything inside a duffel bag, those are lightweight and work super well, but sometimes your best option is a suitcase if you're going to be gone a little longer. Make sure to choose a light one, preferably weather-proof and with 4 wheels, but everyone prefers different things.


Remember, your bag needs to look and be light. Otherwise, if your bag is too big, the airport staff may make you weigh it or check it- the entire thing you want to avoid. Airport staff do this because big bags will take up more space in the overhead cabin, which uses up everyone's space, as well as being hard to lift up and put back down.;
, These would be your phone, boarding pass, ticket and passport. Put all of those in a separate compartment or bag so they don't get lost., Do you really need all this stuff? Be as simple as possible.  If you are going on a ten day trip, for example, don't pack in ten shirts. Pack around 6-7 shirts. Usually, a t-shirt doesn't start going dirty until the second or third day. Perhaps buy a light dress to wear on your holiday. It won't take up as much room, and lightweight dresses are really cute.

Pack a minimal number of shoes. The weight limit for carry-on suitcases is normally extremely low, and shoes use up a lot of that weight allowance, as well as space in your bag.
Wear your heaviest clothes on the plane, so that all your light clothes will fit in your bag.
 Airplanes can make you feel like you're coming down with the cold, which, if you're on an airplane, you most likely are. If you do, bring some Airborne with you. They come in tablet forms or little packets of the powder. Just drop it in some water then drink it, it will make you feel better.


If you tend to get motion sickness, bring anti-diarrhea and anti-nausea pills.
 You can also stuff socks into your shoes to save some room. Tuck your underwear in between the gaps of all your clothes. If your clothes are all rolled and folded tidily, you can easily put your underwear in between the gaps. This will also make it easier later when unpacking., Only bring liquids and gels under 3 oz., put them all in a 1 quart bag, and 1 bag per person. Bring a little bottle of lotion and a little thing of moisturizer (your skin will surely get dry from all the recycled air) and hand sanitizer (planes aren't exactly the cleanest things on earth).


If you wear makeup: put it all in the 1 quart bag. Only bring a bit though, and you still have to follow the 3 oz. rule. Try not to bring too much.
 Don't bring too many books or tons of heavy supplies. Consider a music player or your phone, and a book or e-reader.
 Most airlines allow a bag to go in the overhead bin, as well as a bag to store under the seat in front of you that you can use the whole flight. This smaller bag is called a personal item and is usually a purse or backpack. So make sure to fill this with all the heavy stuff, since they almost never make you weigh your personal item because it is not put in the overhead. If you want to bring along a book or your iPod on the plane to entertain you, go right ahead! Just make sure to put it in your personal item, since that's the only thing you can use well in flight!, They won't let you bring a bottle of it with you through security, but items that you buy past security are considered safe. Water will keep you hydrated.

