 Almost anything could be discouraging you from writing whether it is mental, emotional or physical. When you begin to write, jot down the thoughts that come to your mind even if they aren't related to what you need to write about. This exercise is known as free or random association will give you a clue towards what the problem is. Here are some common reasons to why people have trouble writing and some suggestions on how to overcome the hurdle.


Not in the Mood: Take interest in what you write. Are you putting off your writing project because the topic seems boring? If you are allowed to write on other topics, then switch to a topic that interests you more. Otherwise, try to find some source of inspiration to overcome your boredom. For example, you could try to relate to the topic personally by thinking about how you, your friend or a family member have been affected by it.
Feeling Disconnected: Don't feel isolated. Build a connection between yourself, the topic you are writing about and the reader. Perhaps you can imagine somebody you care about or wish to impress reading the article while you are writing it. This will make your experience as a writer feel more interactive.
Lack of Preparation: Come up with ideas. Brainstorm to develop ideas to use in your writing. Jot down the main ideas that you want to express so you can refer to your notes whenever you get stuck. You should also plan out the structure of your project so you know how you will build interest for the reader during the introduction, present and interlink each idea in the body, and finally summarize and conclude the project based on what was discussed.
Anxiety: Be less self-conscious. Don't worry about failing as a writer. Most great writers have found success by loving what they do instead of worrying about how others will respond. You may have deadlines to meet and restrictive guidelines to follow, but you must think of writing as something enjoyable rather than torturous. There is no need to try to be a perfectionist. Think of writing as a process that is creative and easy to do instead of just worrying about the end result.
Exhaustion: Relax. Take proper and regular breaks that do not involve writing. For example, don't chat on the Internet or write emails to friends during your break. Instead, go for a walk outside or maybe freshen up with a shower or cup of tea. Your mind needs rest just like any other part of your body.
Distractions: Focus on the task at hand. Find a quiet place to develop your writing skills without distractions. Turn off your cell phone if you are getting a lot of unnecessary calls.
Feeling uncomfortable or too comfortable: Work with proper posture. Position yourself in a firm yet relaxed posture while working on your writing project. For example, you should not be sitting on a stool with no backrest, but at the same time you should not be lying on a bed either, because then you will start to feel lazy.
Personal Problems: Deal with problems outside work. This is 1 of the most difficult causes of writer's block to overcome because personal problems such as domestic violence or rejection from a loved one are difficult to control or ignore. Try to think about positive changes that will make your life better. Many writers have become successful by using writing as a way to escape from personal problems and give themselves hope during difficult times.;
