 Some of the most well known sites for generating bingo cards are OSRIC, Print-Bingo, and Bingobaker. Feel free to use whichever site suits your needs best. Some sites require you to register to use their tools and others charge a membership fee. However, there are numerous sites that will allow you to use their bingo card generator for free and without entering any personal information., There are specific generators which specialize in picture bingo cards, while others will only accept words which can be typed in from your keyboard., The first box which will appear on the generator will be something like "Card Title." Click on the text box and type in the name of your bingo card. This could be something like "Adam's Bingo Card" or "Volunteer Fire Department Bingo Tournament."After you type in the name, you will find a box entitled something like "Word List." Click on the box and type in your list of words/numbers/symbols. Each of the words/numbers/symbols should be separated by a comma. The bingo card generator will then randomly assort these items into separate boxes.
For example: "bat,bird,turtle,deer,hippo,dog,cat,bear,lion,.....etc." You can also do the same with numbers (3,5,17,24,56,78,....etc.) and/or symbols ($,&,*,%,@,....etc.).
If you wish you can also create combinations of words, numbers and symbols. For example: "bat,turtle,67,%,&,76,48,#,hippo,tiger,....etc."

, On many bingo cards there is traditionally a "free space," one where the person playing gets to place a chip down before the game begins. The bingo card generator will first ask you whether or not you want a free space on your bingo card. Click on either "Yes" or "No."The generator will then ask you to fill in the text of the free space. This could be something simple such as "Free Space" or something more complicated. You can choose from any number of letters, symbols, and/or numbers found on your keyboard.
You will then have to decide where you want the free space to be located. There are generally two options, either "Center" or "Random." Most of the time free spaces are placed in the center of a bingo card.
 Bingo cards are traditionally 5 X 5 blocks. However, you can increase/decrease these numbers based on the amount of words you have, the type of bingo game you play, etc. You can even make bingo cards with elongated rectangles rather than the normal squares if you decide to do so.The generator will ask you to write in the number of squares you want your bingo card to have lengthwise. Click on the box and insert a number.
The generator will ask you to write in the number of squares you want your bingo card to have height-wise. Click on the box and insert a number.
Multiply these numbers together. You should have the same amount of words (assuming you don't have a free space) as the product of these numbers multiplied together. If you don't, you will have to either adjust the number of squares on your bingo card, or add/subtract words from your list.
 The generator will first ask you to write the number of cards you wish to print. Simply click on the box and insert a number. Then click on "Generate Bingo Cards." The generator will link with your printer. When your computer pulls up your print box, make sure to change the position of your sheets to "Landscape Style."Since bingo cards get pretty beat up over the course of numerous games, it is best to print the cards out on card stock rather than traditional printer paper.
You should also consider getting your cards laminated. Companies like FedEx and UPS offer pay-for laminating services. You may also have a local laminator near you.

