 If you have extra fat to burn, sixty minutes of moderate to high intensity cardio two to three times a week can help you slim down without necessarily building muscle in your calves. Here are some great exercises to do:









Taking long walks on flat roads
Endurance running in a flat area
Swimming
Biking on flat surfaces or on an exercise bike without a high-resistance setting
Using the elliptical;
, If your problem is that your calves lack definition, weight training can help you slim down over all. Muscle burns more calories than fat. Doing weight training with small weights may be able to help you build muscle and lose weight without becoming bulky. If you have already toned calves, then building muscle may not be your goal.
 Use your body weight as resistance. Stand with your feet hip distance apart, put your hands on your hips, and bend down at the knees, so you're toning your calves and thighs. For added effect for your calves, try to lean your weight into your heels, not your toes, so you'll be burning fat more and toning those calves less. Hold each squat for 2-3 seconds and come up again, standing straight. Do 10-15 squats at a time.








Adding extra weight when squatting can add bulk to calves.
For added balance, extend both arms directly in front of you with your palms facing the floor, parallel to the floor.
In conjunction with the proper exercise routine, this will help you reduce calorie and fat intake and increase positive muscle development.
 To do a calf raise, simply stand with your legs hip's distance apart and hold on to a surface like a chair or a table with your hands. Then, lift up your legs so you're just standing on your toes and the balls of your feet, lifting your heels in the air. Hold each calf raise for at least one second before coming back down on your heels, feeling your calves getting toned. Do a series of 20 calf raises at a time.
 To do the soccer kick, simply stand in front of a surface that is elevated about as much as a soccer ball. Put your hands on your hips and then kick one foot so that the toe is touching the surface of the area, or the "ball," while the other foot is about a foot's length behind it. Then, kick so that the feet switch positions, with the other foot pointed at the other surface while the other is on the ground. Repeat this quickly, so you're not pausing in between kicks, and feel the burn in your calves.
 If you have toned calves already, then doing exercises that build resistance against your calves will make them even bigger. You should avoid any activity that makes your calves burn as they feel an increased pressure. Here are some activities that you should avoid unless you want to make those calves even bigger:Walking or running on hills. Though walking and running builds resistance against your calves, you shouldn't avoid these activities all together, but you should try to walk or run in a flat area whenever you can.
Climbing. Take it easy on the stair climber, walking up stairs, or even rock climbing.
Jumping rope. Jumping up and down on your toes is a great cardiovascular exercise, but it will also make for larger calves.
Calf raises. This is a quick way to increase the size of your calves if you already have toned legs.
Sprinting. Sprinters run on their toes, and this will bulk up those calves.

