 Abstract words are concepts or feelings that are vague and general, such as “happy”, “love”, “liberty”, “freedom”, and “hate”. Though these are interesting words, they are often too general and universal to carry a lot of punch. Concrete words describe a subject with sensory details, using descriptions that can be seen or felt. Concrete words often have a stronger impact on a reader because they paint a more detailed picture of what the poem is about.For example, you may have a line in your poem that contains abstract words: “She feels happy in the morning.” Adjust the line so you are using an object or scene that creates feelings of happiness. “Her smile is as wide as a sunflower early in the morning.” The line now contains concrete words that paint a clearer picture in the reader’s mind.
 Avoid weak verbs in your poetry, as this will only make your poems feel generic and lacking in personality. Action verbs will add energy to your poetry and help you create more detailed descriptions of your subject. Action verbs like “reveal”, “illuminate”, “compose”, and “define” can be used to replace weak verbs like “show”, “realize”, “discover”, “write”, and “note”.You should also try to always use strong adjectives in your poetry. Strong adjectives can help your poetry stand out and show that you are paying close attention to your use of language. Strong adjectives are different from base adjectives, as they emphasize the idea of “very”. For example, a basic adjective would be “ugly” and a strong adjective would be “awful” or “hideous”.
Often, weak descriptions contain adjectives that do not call on the senses or have any sensory detail. For example, "the dress was a light color" is difficult to picture as it does not have any sensory descriptions or strong adjectives. In contrast, "the dress was milky blue" uses sensory detail and strong, interesting adjectives that create an image in the reader's mind.
Look at a list of strong adjectives and use adjectives on the list to replace any weak adjectives your find in your poetry.
 It can be tempting to fall into cliches or familiar phrases and descriptions, especially because we tend to use cliches all the time in common speech. But cliches are often a sign of weak writing and should be avoided at all costs. Using cliches like “happy as a clam” or “blind as a bat” in your poetry will likely cause the reader to call into question your engagement with your subject matter and gloss over your writing.You can read lists of cliches so you can recognize them when you see them in your poetry. A good rule to recognizing a cliche is, if you have heard the phrase before or it feels familiar to you, it is likely a cliche. Replace any cliches you find with more nuanced and unique descriptions, as this will likely strengthen your poetry.
 Counter cliche, sentimental descriptions by going for the unusual or the unfamiliar in your poetry. Don’t be afraid to insert strange descriptors and interesting language in your poems, as this will help you avoid boring your reader.


One way to do this is to try to replace any familiar images in your poetry with the strangest images you can think of. Rather than say, “My mother wakes me up in the morning”, you may say, “My mother tickles the bottoms of my feet until I squeal.” The second description is more vivid and injects the unfamiliar into the typical image of being woken up for school in the morning.

