 In order to effectively brush your dog, you’ll want it to be lifted up off the ground. It may work to set it on your kitchen table or counter. Alternatively, you may want to invest in a grooming table (available at pet stores and online).It is a good idea to spread out any grooming tools you may need (such as a brush and silk scarf) before you begin.
Most grooming tables have a place to secure your dog’s neck, which can be helpful if your dog likes to squirm.
Never leave your dog unattended on the table.;
, Using either a hard rubber brush or a mitt with rubber nubs, carefully brush your dog’s fur to remove any shedding hair. Moving in one direction, carefully run the brush over your dog's body, starting at the neck and ending near the tail. Be sure to brush your dog all over their body.Your shorthaired dachshund only needs to be brushed 1-2 times per week.
Hard rubber brushes and mitts with rubber nibs are both available at most pet stores.
Consult a salesperson if you are not sure which brush to choose.
 After you have brushed your dog’s fur, you can gently rub it with a silk scarf. This gives the fur a luminous shine, and usually feels pleasant for the dog., Some dogs are afraid of the bath. You can help your dog associate the bath with positive experience with a few tricks.Start by placing your dog in the bathtub without water. Do this multiple times in the days prior to a bath.
Bathe it in minimal water. Work up to pouring water over it (especially over its face) as it becomes more comfortable.
Whenever you bathe your dog, offer it a treat.
 Dachshunds produce a special hair oil that helps to insulate them from the elements. Bathing your shorthaired dachshund too often will remove this oil. Unless your dog is covered in dirt, only bathe your dachshund around once a month., Dogs are sensitive to water temperature, just like people. Fill your tub with warm (but not too hot) water. You will want the water to come up no higher than your dog’s tummy.


If your dog is small enough, you may be able to use the sink.
You can also use a baby pool in the yard when it's a hot day.
 Pour out about a quarter-size dollop of shampoo, lather it in your hands, and begin applying to your dog. Many dogs enjoy being bathed. If yours does not, ask a friend to help keep it stable and calm as you apply and lather the shampoo.You can use dog shampoo or baby shampoo.
Be sure to lather their back, belly, and the top of their head.
Avoid getting soap in their eyes or ears.
Do not use your fingernails to shampoo. It can scratch your dog’s skin.
 Carefully pour water over your dog’s fur to remove all the suds. If your bathtub has a detachable showerhead, this will work great. Otherwise, a bucket or other container will work.Be careful not to let any soap flow into your dog’s eyes.
Rinse your dog’s face last, and many dogs do not enjoy this.
 Using a warm, fluffy towel carefully remove any excess water from your dog. You may also want to stand back and allow your dog to “shake.” If the sound does not bother your dog, you can also apply heat from a hair dryer on its lowest setting., You can wipe away any tear build up as often as every day, or as needed.Colloidal silver (available at health food stores) is product recommended for this purpose. Dap some colloidal silver onto a cotton ball and wipe this near your dog’s eyes.
You can also purchase commercial products for this (such as NaturVet) at most pet stores.
Apply a bit of coconut oil to this area to prevent skin irritation.
 Your dachshund’s ears are very sensitive, so take special care not to get soap or water in them. Instead, moisten the corner of a soft washcloth with warm water and use this to clean their ears.Place your non-dominant hand on the back of your dachshund’s neck to stabilize it.
Then, with the warm washcloth in your dominant hand, gently wipe inside the ear.
There is no need to try and penetrate the ear. A surface cleaning around the edge is sufficient.
Do this every time you bathe your dog.
 Dental hygiene is an important aspect of your dachshund’s health. You can purchase a dog toothbrush and dog toothpaste from most pet stores. Before you try brushing your dog’s teeth, make sure that your dog is comfortable with your hand in their mouth.


Place your dachshund on your lap facing away from you.
Peel their lips back with your non-dominant hand.
Holding the toothbrush in your dominant hand, begin brushing the front teeth.
Next, use your non-dominant hand to open your dachshund’s mouth.
Holding the toothbrush in your dominant hand, brush the back teeth and molars.
 Clipping your dog’s nails is another important part of regular grooming. You can purchase dog nail clippers at most pet stores.Identify the “quick.” (A dark area inside the nail that contains blood vessels.)
Place your dachshund on your lap facing away from you.
Hold your dog’s paw firmly in your non-dominant hand.
Slide each claw through the small hole in the nail clippers (above the quick).
Squeeze the nail clipper.
You may want to lie your dachshund on its side to trim the back paws.

