 When looking into neck pain, one of the first things doctors will examine is your lifestyle and everyday habits.


Issues with posture, stress, sleeping habits, or balance can lead to neck and other body pain. Look at when your neck hurts the most. Make a list of things you do everyday-sleeping, sitting, working-and look for things you do that may be major contributors to your pain.
 Having a good posture keeps your spine properly aligned and takes pressure off of your neck.


Use your core muscles to hold up your spine and neck when you stand or sit.
Avoid releasing the abdominal muscles and "collapsing" the spine. This will take significant strain off the spine and neck muscles.
 Increasing the strength and flexibility of your core and neck muscles can make them more able to deal with strain.


Try some light exercises, such as smooth, slow shoulder rolls. This can help release tension in the upper shoulders and neck.
Stretch daily. Stretch your neck by slowly tilting your head towards your shoulder to one side, holding for twenty seconds, then slowly repeating on the other side. Be sure to practice smooth, slow motions-quick jerks can result in strained or torn ligaments and tendons.



If you spend a lot of time on the phone, switch to speaker-especially if you are in the habit of holding the phone between your head and shoulder. This posture can put a lot of repetitive strain on the neck.
Avoid carrying bags or heavy objects over your shoulder with a strap. This can cause strain and tension in the shoulder and neck muscles.
If you spend a lot of time at a desk, adjust your chair or computer so that the monitor is at eye level to reduce repetitive strain on the neck.
Take frequent breaks for moving and stretching. Get up, walk around, bend and touch your toes. Being sedentary for long periods of time puts lots of strain on the neck and back. .
 Stress and the tension it creates can cause a lot of pain in the neck and shoulders.


Get plenty of exercise and look at reducing stressors in your life.Take a short time each day to simply relax and breathe. Small stress reducers can help alleviate tension and pain. Even a few minutes of deep breathing or meditation can greatly reduce tension caused by stress.
 Practicing yoga or doing other daily stretching exercises can go a long way toward alleviating the aches and pains brought on by daily strain and stress.


Simple yoga poses focused on relaxation and spine movement are great for reducing physical strain as well as stress.Find a reliable yoga website for some easy poses that can help with neck pain and tension. , Sleeping in awkward positions can lead to neck pain. Examine how you sleep to determine if a change is needed.


Be sure that your body is aligned with your head and neck.
Use a small pillow under your head to avoid over-elevation and curvature of the neck.
Try sleeping on your back using small pillows under your thighs to help elevate your spine. Use a cervical pillow to support your neck and head. Cervical, or orthopedic pillows have contours that keep the neck supported and the head in alignment with the spine.