 Garden hoses measure from 10 feet (3 meters) to over 100 feet (30 meters) in length.


Determine how far you will need the water to reach to decide on the length you need.
Get a standard size of 25 feet (7.6 meters), 50 feet (15 meters), 75 feet (22.8 meters), or 100 feet (30 meters), unless you have distant watering needs.;
, Most hoses are 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) in diameter and can provide about 9 gallons (34 liters) of water per minute.


Get a thicker hose to deliver more water. They can be 5/8 inches (1.6 cm) or even 3/4 inches (1.9 cm) in diameter. The thicker the hose, the less water pressure you lose over distance.
 Most garden hoses are vinyl or rubber.


Choose a vinyl hose if you live in a mild climate and have only light watering to do. Vinyl often costs less.
Choose a rubber hose for more durability and to handle extreme weather conditions. They are heavier and may cost more.
Look for a hose that is reinforced with several layers if you need extra resilience. If your yard has a lot of equipment, furniture or sharp objects that you may drag the hose over, the right garden hose might be one with a mesh covering on the outer layer, which can help protect against snags and punctures.
 A standard hose that is reliable, easy to use, and 50 feet (15 meters) in length will cost between $25 and $50. You can find a less expensive hose for around $10, or a more expensive hose for up to $100, if that is what you need.
 Water pressure is controlled from the hose with a nozzle attached to the end. The nozzle can be twisted to produce a fine spray or a strong stream of water. For the most flexibility in your watering, choose an adjustable nozzle.


Choose a brass nozzle if you want something less prone to leaks or damage.
Choose a plastic nozzle if you want something that tightens onto the hose easily and creates less wear and tear on the hose.



Roll the hose up and hang it on a reel to store it when you are not using the hose.
Choose a wall mounted reel, or a cart or wagon style that can move through the yard with you.
 Some consumer groups and testing agencies have detected carcinogens in some of the recycled materials used to make garden hoses.


Prevent bacterial growth with antimicrobial protection if you have children who will drink from the hose, or you are using the hose to fill up a swimming pool for kids.
 Made with a 6-ply construction and a reinforced cord, this is a power hose that has foam inner layers in order to maintain flexibility. It costs about $18, and if you do not use it for commercial purposes, you will never have to replace it.
 Constructed of rubber, including a rubber covering that is resistant to abrasions, this hose offers a high burst strength and can be used with extremely hot water.
 A sprinkler hose can be left on the ground in one place, and provide a light watering, through a series of holes, to the surrounding garden or lawn. A soaker hose lays on the ground or just beneath the ground, and allows water to saturate the soil.

