 Place it on the stove top and click the heat to medium-high.;
, It is best to do this quickly, before the skillet becomes too hot.


Alternatively, you could also wait until after you add the chorizo to the skillet before turning on the heat.
Adding the chorizo after the skillet becomes too hot will increase the likelihood of one side burning.
 The links should start to brown.


Turn frequently, using tongs, as you fry the chorizo links to prevent one side from burning. Both sides of each link should be equally browned.
 Turn the heat down to medium-low and add 1/2 cup (125 ml) of water.


Add the water carefully to prevent it from splashing. Keep your face and any bare skin along your arms away from the top of the skillet, since the hot steam that will rise after you add the water could cause minor burns.
 Cover the skillet and simmer for 12 minutes.


When finished, the chorizo will be brown all the way through.






Check the internal temperature by sticking an instant-read meat thermometer into the center of the thickest link. When done, the temperature should be at least 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius).
 A grill can be covered with nonstick cooking spray or nonstick aluminum foil.


Nonstick aluminum foil creates the least amount of mess, but the grill marks will not be as dark. If you do use foil, poke a series of holes into the foil using a fork to allow heat to vent through.
Nonstick cooking spray is another alternative that works well at preventing the links from sticking to the grate too severely.
 Regardless of whether you use charcoal or gas, the grill needs to be at a relatively low heat.


Preheat a gas grill to medium-low.
If using a charcoal grill, create a low pile of charcoal and distribute it evenly around the bottom of the grill. After lighting the grill, allow the flame to burn down until white ash begins to form over the coals.
Do not use a high heat. Using a high heat will singe the chorizo, causing it to burn on the outside while it is still cold and undercooked inside.
 Close the lid and grill the links for 15 to 20 minutes, or until browned and cooked through.


Frequently turn the chorizo links using tongs. This ensures even cooking.






Closing the lid prevents the majority of "flare-ups." The fire can flare up when exposed to too much oxygen.






When done, the chorizo should have an internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius). Check this by sticking an instant-read meat thermometer into the center of one of the links.
 Give the broiler 5 to 10 minutes to reach its ideal temperature.


Most broilers only have one setting, but some have a "high" setting and a "low" setting. If your broiler has two settings, use "high."

, Space them apart evenly to ensure even cooking.


Coating broiler pan with nonstick spray is unnecessary, and you should not cover it with aluminum foil. A broiler pan has a rack inside that is designed to hold the meat above the bottom of the pan, preventing it from sitting inside its drippings as it heats. As such, you should not cover the rack in anything that will prevent the oil from dripping away.
If you do not have a broiler pan, you can use a baking pan lined with aluminum foil, but this is far from ideal. If you do this, carefully monitor the chorizo as it boils to make sure that you do not see too much steam or other signs that the fat in the chorizo has become too hot.
 Position the pan so that it is 7 to 9 inches (18 to 23 cm) below the top heating element of the oven.


The broiler in an oven only uses the top heating element. The bottom heat source is not used.
 The chorizo should be well browned and the internal temperature should be at least 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius).


Turn the links every 4 minutes using tongs to ensure even cooking and even browning.






Check the internal temperature by sticking an instant-read meat thermometer into the center of the thickest chorizo link.



Paella is a traditional Spanish dish consisting of rice and a variety of other small, finely chopped ingredients. These ingredients can range from green vegetables and beans to snails. The spiciness of chorizo works well in accompaniment with the other spices found in paella, especially for non-traditional mixed paella.
 Stir-fry chorizo, chopping it coarsely as you cook it, before adding it to scrambled eggs, frittatas, and omelets.


Chopped tomato, chopped bell peppers, and Serrano ham complement the taste of chorizo and eggs, as well.
 Chorizo that has been stir-fried and coarsely chopped can give a kick to many lentil-based soups, bean dishes, and cooked peas. It also works well as a substitution in casserole or pizza recipes that call for sausage.
 As a pork-product, chorizo is complemented by the taste of apples.


Slice t he chorizo and fry it in oil until it crisps up. Add a small amount of apple cider to the pan and simmer the contents until the cider thickens and becomes the consistency of syrup., Cut the links into thirds or halves and simmer in red wine for several minutes.


Serve chorizo braised in red wine with red grapes.
