 Because of the security holes regularly discovered and exploited, the program sees many updates and it’s very easy to neglect installing the latest version. Because it’s such a security risk even if properly updated, the best response is to simply disable Java from your system entirely. If you know that you need Java on your computer, make sure to disable the plug-in in your browser to help keep your files and system safe. You might also consider using the best antivirus program available to help keep your information safe.;
, Instead of disabling it, consider taking the time to correctly configure it: a correctly set up firewall is an effective tool against unwanted or unknown incoming network connections. This makes it very useful against threats like worms, which use un-patched security holes in applications and system services connected to the network to infect your computer.  Fortunately, it is very simple to correctly configure the Windows firewall. Simply select the correct answer from the choices of work, home, or public network when the option pops up (this tends to happen whenever you connect to a new network for the first time). Simply choosing the appropriate option helps ensure that unknown incoming network connections are blocked.
 While being careful about what links you click on and what sites you visit is a good idea, caution alone will not protect your computer from the latest vulnerabilities. Virus protection for your PC is an important addition to security that will help protect it against all threats, so consider using the best antivirus software you can find. Use antivirus software that rapidly adapts to the newest risks and helps keep your computer safe.
 Think of updates as improvements: software updates are typically released in order to fix known security risks, among other issues. Not installing the update leaves your system vulnerable to threats.  Consider allowing Windows Update to either install updates automatically, or to notify you of updates (which you should then install as soon as possible).
 The vast majority of system infections come from users installing untrusted and questionable software. If you’re contemplating installing a new program, take the time to investigate it beforehand: look around for reviews and ensure that you’re installing the software from its official website, not a third party site (it’s too easy for someone to upload malware instead of the program you’re interested in). If you ever do click on a download link anywhere other than the official website, make sure that the link hasn’t directed you to a different webpage.  Something else to watch out for is executables that install third-party software. These programs might contain a screen halfway through the install process that looks like a user agreement, but is actually the agreement to installing a random toolbar, for example. Third-party installations such as these can (and usually do) contain malware.
 If you use a single username and password combination for your various online accounts, you are putting yourself at risk. A single security leak at any one of those websites could mean that ALL of your accounts are at risk. If your username is your email address (or you use the same password for your email, too), then the situation is even more dire because now potential attackers can access your private email address (and use it to gain access to anything it’s linked to). Always use a unique password, at the very least, and make the password a secure one: consider using a password with both upper and lowercase letters, numbers, and special characters (such as @ * or!).
