 At this stage, your baby is ready for other varieties of fruit purees. You can also start feeding her sweet potato, avocado or vegetable purees together with the fruits you gave her when she was younger. Your baby is now ready for slightly solid foods so when pureeing, you don’t have to blend the fruits well. Some of the fruit can be only slightly mashed, but the majority of the fruit should be pureed.

You can also begin to combine different fruits at this stage, such as avocado and banana.
Begin to feed your baby one-fourth to one-half of a cup twice a day.
 Avocados are rich in omega-3 nutrients, which can help your baby’s brain development. Look for avocados that are firm but give slightly when you squeeze them. Under ripe avocados are hard and will not give at all when you squeeze them.

To make avocado puree, slice the avocado in the middle and run the knife or just press the knife gently along the length of the fruit. You will encounter the pit in the middle while doing this. Once you have sliced the avocado, twist the two cheeks and pull apart. You will see the pit in the middle stuck to one avocado cheek. Just stick the blade of a large knife against the pit and once stuck, slowly twist so the pit “gives” and releases.
Once the pit is removed, scoop out the avocado and transfer to a clean bowl. Gently mash the fruit using a potato masher or fork until mashed but leave a few bits and pieces whole so your baby can practice chewing the avocado. Since the avocado is soft, your baby won’t have a hard time mashing the pieces inside her mouth with her gu
A tasty combination is avocado and banana.
 Plums are similar to peaches but are slightly more fibrous, so its better to give a 6 to 8 month old plums because younger children could choke on the fibers. Plums can be used to aid digestion and fight constipation. Ripe plums should give slightly when you squeeze them. Apricots are tangy and can give your baby’s taste buds a variety. They are prepared in the same way as plums.

To make plum (or apricot) puree, was the plums; one plum gives about 5 ounces of fruit puree. Bring a pot of water to a boil. Once boiling, place the plums inside the pot of boiling water and leave to steep for 45 seconds. After that, take out the plums using a slotted spoon to drain the hot water. Transfer the plums to a bowl filled with water and ice to stop the cooking process.
Once the plums are cooled down, peel the fruits using a paring knife or just with your fingers. Cut and make an incision along the diameter of the fruit, working your way around the pit inside (plums have a hard pit in their middle). Twist the plums so it “gives” and then open them. You will see the pit in the middle stuck to one side of the fruit. Using a spoon or a knife, twist the pit around until it pops out of the fruit.
Next, cut the plums into small cubes and place in the food processor and blend well. Make sure that the fruit is well pureed for your 6-8 month old baby. You’d want to puree plums well even at this stage because these fruits are fibrous and you want to cut up all of the fibers.
 Apricots are tangy and can give your baby’s taste buds variety. You prepare apricot purees i, Blueberries are tart and tangy, which means that they work well as a puree when added to other fruit purees, such as banana, apple or mango purees. Look for a bunch of blueberries that have a uniform color; avoid blueberries with any discolorations.

To make a blueberry puree, wash blueberries (and red berries) thoroughly with clean running water. Let dry a bit by sieving them in a colander. There’s no need to peel blueberries, so just place them inside the blender or food processor and blitz, rather than blend. Mix the pureed blueberries with bananas, or apples and throw in a tablespoon or two of yogurt in the puree. There’s no need to thin out the consistency further with added water; just the pure fruit puree will do.

