 A great way to deal with your anxiety is to critically examine your strengths and challenges when it comes to your job and promotion. While identifying strengths will boost your confidence, identifying challenges will help you know where you need improvement.


Make a list of your strengths. List things you know you’re good at, won awards for, or things others have complimented you for.
Consider your challenges. This is a great time to critically assess where you need some work. Common challenges may include how you interact with coworkers, your organizational approach, or the way you manage time.
When listing strengths and challenges, think about prior performance evaluations and conversations with supervisors.;
, The first step in mastering your new position is to gain a complete understanding of the job you’ll be assuming. Without this information, you won’t be able to set priorities for your new job or put together a plan of action.


Learn about how you will be evaluated. For instance, does your boss expect certain productivity levels, milestones, or growth?
Speak with the person who previously held the job, if possible. They may have insight that can help you understand the job. Say something like “John, can you tell me about some of the challenges or opportunities I might face in this position?” This will work best if that person has been promoted, too.
Ask for any appropriate records or documents associated with the position. For instance, if you’re being promoted to general manager of a fast food restaurant, take some time to look at your cash flow and income statements. You may see problems or possibilities where the previous GM did not.Understand that this will take time. Don't expect to have completely mastered and understood your new position after a month.
 Before assuming your new position, you need to spend time devising a plan and setting priorities. Without putting together a plan of action, you’ll feel unfocused and anxious about your new job.


Think about short-term goals and what you need to do on your first day or during the first month after your promotion. This may include hiring new staff or reorganizing a division or department.
Think about long-term goals, such as boosting efficiency and productivity.
Set personal goals and priorities. For instance, you may look into additional certifications that you can acquire to help you succeed in your new role and move up in the company. Or you may want to take some courses that help you develop skills important in leadership, such as communication or negotiation., Use a planner to keep track of everything you need to do. Having things down in writing will help you stay organized and clear your mind of all the little tasks you want to try and complete. This way, you can be sure you won't forget to do something, and you can focus on what you're working on in the moment instead of trying to remember all the other things you'll need to do.

Use your planner to break large tasks down into smaller, more manageable tasks. For instance, if you have a presentation at the end of the week, schedule time each day to work on a different section so that the deadline doesn't sneak up on you, leaving you stressed and unprepared.
 Confidence is one of the keys to overcoming anxiety and excelling at whatever you do. Without confidence, you’ll second guess yourself and fear failure. Becoming confident in your new role will take time — it requires you to become familiar with the job and master your responsibilities — so in the meantime, it's important to esteem yourself and remember that you are capable.


Reflect on your abilities and think about why you’ve been selected for a promotion. Ask yourself, “Why would management pick me for this position if I was not capable?”
Think about your experience, education, and people skills. These are assets that make you a valuable employee., In order to excel at your career, you need to manage any stress associated with your job. Fortunately, there are a variety of relaxation methods you can embrace to deal with your stress and anxieties.


Practice yoga.
Use breathing exercises. For example, when you find yourself becoming stressed or anxious, inhale deeply and slowly exhale while counting to ten.
Make time to exercise. Whether it's yoga or running or just taking a walk around the block, any form of exercise can help you deal with stress. Exercise boosts your endorphins, can be a form of meditation, increases confidence, and improves mood.Eat healthy. When people are stressed, they often reach for comfort foods to help them feel better. This often leads to overeating and guilt and, if you binge on something sweet, the drastic rise and drop in insulin could cause serious mood swings. Eat healthy, well-balanced meals, and never skip a meal because you think you're too busy.
Embrace mindfulness and live in the moment. To do this, focus on present tasks and keep everything in perspective. By doing this, you'll keep your stresses in perspective and will effectively manage anxiety.