 Start the process by clicking the Get Dropbox Basic option.


A password-protected account will give you access to upload your files and choose who gets permission to see them.
Register using your full name and an email that you will always have access to. (You do not want to lose access as you can have your files backed up virtually forever.);
, Once you have registered, you should install Dropbox on the computers you will want to have easier access on. (This bypasses needing to sign into the service to upload or access the cloud.)

, After installing Dropbox you can begin creating folders to upload your school documents to. Create a folder and name it "University" or "School" to indicate it will be the folder that will carry all school related documents, folders, pictures , etc.
 After creating that folder, you may want to create sub-folders within it and label each by different semesters, such as "Fall 2016." to have organization between your documents for each school semester and year.


To create a folder within a folder, click the main folder and then repeat the folder creation process.
Try creating folders within each semester's folder for each different class to keep everything organized.
 You can now begin uploading documents to Dropbox in an organized fashion.


To upload a file click the "Upload" button thats next to the "New Folder" button and then click "Choose files" on the following pop up screen.
Find the file you would like to upload and have access to and begin uploading it.
 Now that you have uploaded your file(s) you can provide permission to others to view them.


To grant access to a folder or file, hover over the folder or file and click the share button that is displayed and enter the email of the person you wish to share with.
Once a folder is shared, those with permission will be able to view the contents of that entire folder. If you choose to allow access to only one file you must make sure that you have shared just that file.
Sharing your documents also gives you the ability to authorize editing which another user could change and edit files you have given access to. You can choose to allow that user to view only.

