 Each player rolls two dice during his turn. Each number in the dice roll indicates how many points each checker can move. Each move is separate and the two dice roll numbers should not be added together., Checkers always move in one direction, from the opposing player's home board, crossing the two outer boards, and into the moving player's home board. Checkers can never go backwards, only forward. The movement of the checkers resembles a horseshoe., Checkers can only move to open points on the board. Open points either have no checkers on them, have the player's checkers on them, or have just one of the opponent's checkers on them. A player cannot move his checkers into a point that has two or more of the opponent's checkers on it because that point is temporarily "claimed" by the opponent., Players should try to keep their checkers safe from their opponents. To keep your checkers safe, you should try to move them so each point has at least two checkers on it. If you have just one checker on a point, your opponent can land on it and take your checker out of the game (a point with one checker is called a blot). You'll have to start that checker over from the home board., If a player rolls doubles, then he gets to move the number on the dice four separate times. So, if you roll two 3s, you can move any checker 3 spaces 4 separate times. You can also dive the spaces among different checkers., Once a player has all of the checkers in his or her home board, then he can begin to "remove" them from the game. This is called "bearing the checkers off the board." To bear off checkers, you have to roll the dice to get the points the checkers are on.For example, if you have two checkers on your 5-point, and you roll a 5 and a 3, you can remove one checker completely from the 5-point, and then either move the other checker on the 5-point 3 points over, to the 2-point, or move another checker on the home board. If you don't roll the number of the points the checkers are on, you can move them closer to the 1-point, but you still have to roll a 1 to get them off the board completely.

