 Your physical condition has an impact your mental state and emotional attitude.Take a long look at your day-to-day routine. Decide if adjusting your daily patterns of sleep, physical activity, or dietary habits could be beneficial for your improving your attitude.
 Daily exercise and physical activity, when carried out each morning, can help you expend excess energy. This will make you less edgy and more agreeable throughout the day. Exercise releases endorphins, which lead to feelings of happiness and overall well-being. Also, daily exercise can help you improve your body-image. This also leads to higher levels of self-esteem and self-worth.Walking, jogging or running in the morning are all great ways to engage in physical activities and lower your overall stress.
 Even minor or mundane social interactions have a positive impact on people’s mental health. Try to engage with other people throughout the day. This will improve your attitude and mental outlook.Social interactions naturally impact the release of serotonin in the human brain. Serotonin will affect an improvement in your mood and overall happiness., Humans derive vitamin D from exposure to sunlight. A lack of vitamin D can cause fatigue, negativity and poor mental attitude in some people. Even 15 minutes a day in the sun or under a sun-lamp can have positive effects on your mental state., It is hard to stay positive and have a cheery disposition if you are not eating right. Studies show that people with better dietary habits tend to see improvements in their overall mental attitude. Conversely, individuals who have poor dietary habits tend to be quicker to anger, less approachable and more irritable. Try eating healthier to see if it has any impact on your mental or emotional attitude.Make sure you include a wide variety of foods from all the relevant food groups in your diet, including meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, dairy and wheats.
B-12, which is in a variety of red meats and leafy green vegetables, has shown a positive relationship to overall happiness and mental health., Studies have affirmed that spending time around animals can lower your overall stress levels. This can improve your emotional and mental state. Even brief periods of interaction with animals can improve your attitude.
 Stress can build throughout the day, negatively impacting your mental attitude towards the world around you. As such, it can be helpful to engage in meditation or relaxation practices each evening to help you unwind., Too much sleep or a lack of sleep has the ability to negatively impact your mental state and emotional outlook. Set a daily sleep routine and try to stick to it. Most researchers agree that 7 to 8 hours of sleep a night is ideal for an average adult. You should see positive improvements in your attitude if you keep a stable and healthy sleeping routine each night.