 If you want your sugar daddy to keep wanting you, then you should stay mysterious. If you have to go, don't always tell him where you're going. If you don't respond to his calls for a day, don't go into a big explanation about what you were doing -- you were just busy living your own life. Don't tell him about every little thing on your mind and don't go into detail about your deepest wishes and needs. You can reveal a little bit about yourself at a time, but always leave him wanting more.


Don't give him a planner with your schedule on it. Let him wonder about all of the things you're up to when you're not with him.
 Sugar daddies are looking for women that they can have a good time with. They're not shelling out cash to be with a woman who is negative or always whining and complaining. If you tend to have negative thoughts, try to keep those to a minimum when you're around your sugar daddy and save them for your real friends. Keep things light and positive by laughing often and talking about the things that make you happy and the things that you're excited about instead of the things that get you down.


Whenever you catch yourself saying something negative, counter your statement by making three positive comments.
Try to laugh as much as you can. Sugar daddies want women who are having a good time.
If you're having an emotional day or feel like crying, don't dump all of your emotions on your sugar daddy. Call up a good friend instead.
 If you want to keep your sugar daddy, then you should keep things fresh by always keeping him on his toes. Don't do the same thing every weekend, even if you always go out to an expensive restaurant. Instead, mix things up by asking him to take you boating, give you a tennis lesson, or whisk you away on an expensive vacation.


If you do the same things together all the time, your sugar daddy may begin to get bored with you. Make sure you do one new thing together at least once every week or two.
Keep things exciting in the bedroom too. Use your time with your sugar daddy as an opportunity to try out some of your new moves.
 The quickest way to turn off your sugar daddy is to make him feel like you're ready to shack up and sign a marriage certificate. He's with you because you're fun, adventurous, and exciting -- not because you love making home-cooked meals or ironing his shirts. Avoid sleeping over, spending too much time with him, or taking on any wifely tasks if you can, or a red flag will go up immediately, and he'll want to end the relationship.


As soon as you can tell he feels uncomfortable that you're getting too close, just pull back.
Don't call him your boyfriend, and don't make jokes about your wedding, either.
Don't introduce him to your friends or family unless that's really what he wants, or things will begin to feel too serious for him.
Avoid talking about anything too far in the future, unless you're just planning your next vacation.
 If you really just want to benefit from the riches of a sugar daddy, then don't get too attached to him. He's not your boyfriend or long-term material -- he's someone who you have a good time with, a man who provides you with the financial benefits that make your life easier and more fun. Don't start planning your wedding, coming up with your kids' names, or scheduling your life around his busy schedule. Remain who you are, keep pursuing your own interests, and you'll avoid getting hurt.


Don't contact him all the time when you're not together. Just plan your once-or-twice-weekly meetings and let him know when you're on your way.
Don't spend your time apart wondering what he's up to, or when you'll see him again.
Don't ask him about other women in his life, or get jealous if he even mentions another woman's name.
 If you've been with your sugar daddy for a long time, you may be wondering if it's time to break it off. There are a few good reasons for doing this: you may see that he's too attached to you, you may worry that you're too attached to him, or you may both just be bored with each other. Another reason for moving on is that either you or your sugar daddy have found someone who you really like, or even love, and want to pursue a relationship with that person.


Once it's over, it's over. Be clear and calm about ending the relationship and try to end things on a good note. If all you wanted was a sugar daddy, you'll be able to find another one in no time.
If the sugar daddy rejected you, don't get hurt. It happens all the time -- sugar daddies tend to get bored and want to move on, and it probably has nothing to do with you.

