 To get the best ingredients for your tasting, try to purchase artisan chocolates and high-quality cheese. Consider buying your cheese from a cheese counter, so you can ask questions about pairings and get helpful suggestions. For chocolate, look for chocolates with few, but high-quality, ingredients.


You may be able to find quality local chocolate. You can also ask local chocolate makers for cheese pairing recommendations.;
, Once you've selected your chocolates and cheeses, cut them into bite-sized pieces. Let them set out at room temperature for 30 to 40 minutes before tasting them. This will help you taste the flavors and appreciate their aromas.This is especially important if you're offering chocolate truffles which can be very firm.
 While you can just set out a variety of chocolates and cheeses, it may be helpful to organize the pairings. This will help you guide the tasting and prevent taste buds from being overwhelmed. You could order the pairings from mild to medium in flavor or from subtle to bold in intensity.For example, you could start with goat cheese and milk chocolate for a mild pairing.
 To start the tasting, try one pairing of chocolate and cheese. Taste the cheese first and then taste the chocolate. Discuss what you enjoy about the pairing and mention any flavors you pick up on. You can also talk about the texture, color, and finish of the pairing.Offer a palate cleanser, so your guests can really taste a variety of flavors. Set out crackers, water, or grapes to eat in between bites of cheese and chocolate.
 If you're unsure what chocolates pair well with a cheese, try it with dark chocolate. Ensure that you're using a chocolate that is 55 to 60% cocoa solids. The high-cocoa content usually works with almost any cheese, but it tastes great with complex aged cheeses like:Parmigiano reggiano
Blue cheese
Aged gouda

, Since milk chocolate is quite creamy, pair it with other soft, creamy cheeses to round out the buttery flavor. You can use fresh cheeses that haven't been aged along with high-quality milk chocolate that doesn't contain many preservatives. Pair milk chocolate with:Ricotta
Fromage blanc
Cream cheese
Goat cheese

, White chocolate is usually creamy and a sweeter than most dark or milk chocolates. This makes it a great choice to taste along with other creamy cheeses that also have a hint of sweetness. You can try most semi-soft cheeses like:Swiss cheese
Emmental
Gouda
Fontina

, If you'll be serving chocolate barks or truffles that have fruit or nuts, you can easily taste them with different styles of cheeses. If you want a contrast in texture, pair them with semi-soft cheeses (like brie or soft blue cheese). Or you could build on the complexity of flavors by tasting them with sharp or aged cheeses like:Aged jack
Aged cheddar
Aged gouda

, If you don't want to try something too adventurous, start by making cheesecakes. You can easily make a white chocolate cheesecake that uses basic cream cheese and high-quality white chocolate. Or swap out the cream cheese with camembert or brie. Dark chocolate also works well with cheesecakes.You can also bake cheesecakes using Quark, which is similar to yogurt or softened cream cheese.
 You're probably familiar with fondue, thick melted chocolate or cheese that's served with foods to dip. Try dipping strawberries, blackberries or blueberries in dark chocolate. Let the berries set and dip them into melted cheese to serve. Or you can serve the chocolate covered berries with cubed hard cheese, like cheddar or gouda.If you want to melt the cheese, try etorki cheese. It melts easily and has a sharp flavor that pairs well with fresh fruit.
 Poached pears with a chocolate syrup is a classic. But if you'd like to introduce a daring flavor, melt Gorgonzola cheese into the chocolate syrup. Pour the chocolate cheese syrup over poached pears and serve them while they're warm.If you can, try to find Gorgonzola dolce which is slightly softer and creamy than traditional Gorgonzola.
 For a really impressive dessert, get a small wheel of brie and cover it with chocolate hazelnut spread. Wrap thawed puff pastry around the brie, so it's completely encased. Bake the brie and serve it warm along with crackers, toast points, or berries.For a similar pastry, make puff pastries using brie, raspberries, and dark chocolate.

