 Don’t wear clothes that will limit your mobility. Wear shorts and a tighter t-shirt. Wear shoes with excellent grips or shoes designed for rock climbing. Many people like to wear gloves with grips on them. This will save you from building up calluses and will improve your performance overall.


If you don't want to wear gloves, be sure to use rock climbing chalk. This fine powder sticks to your hands and adds more to your gripping power.
 Take your time. Warm up your muscles before you start climbing. Run in place. Try climbing just a few steps up and then lower yourself back down. This will tell your muscles that you’re ready to climb. Do your stretches too., Climbing is just as much mental as it is physical and knowing where you will go beforehand will help improve your climb. Think of the wall like a maze with the floor as your starting point and the top of the wall as the finish line. Trace a path from hold to hold with your eyes and then follow that path., Start slow. Take your time. Don’t push yourself far beyond your limits. Start with easier climbs first. Only after you’ve mastered these, should you advance to more difficult walls. Ask staff members for advice on routes to take, walls to climb, and techniques to try. They’ve been on these walls a lot longer than you and are a great repository of knowledge.
 When you find good rests or places that you can easily hold onto, take a minute to catch your breath. You know it is a good resting place, if you feel comfortable hanging one limb off the wall. Learning how to rest is an important part of developing good technique.


This is also a good time to reassess your route. If you found one part of the course more difficult than you originally thought, you may choose to take a moment and trace out a new path. This is what you would do when rock climbing outdoors, so practice this indoors.
 People who are afraid of heights tend to look down, which triggers their anxiety. Beginners who aren’t afraid of heights tend to keep their eyes fixed on the top of the wall. This leads them to overestimate their abilities and to not concentrate on their next hold, which can have disastrous effects.


Start off slowly if you are afraid of heights. Only go as high as you are comfortable, and slowly work on going a bit higher each climb. Remember that you are completely safe. The weakest piece of equipment (the carabiner)can support almost 2,500 lbs if used properly and about 1,000 lbs if not. Falling injuries are rare in a gym., Most rock climbers tell you not to overreach. Sometimes, you might feel the need to reach beyond your normal radius. Avoid this whenever possible. Reach for the closest rock. Secure your foot in a comfortable position. This will maximize your own safety and ensure that you make it to the top.
 Beginners tend to overcompensate with one or the other. Keep your body over your legs as much as possible and use your arms to guide yourself up. The goal here is to minimize the amount of effort placed on one muscle group. This is how you strain muscles. By using both parts of your body and paying close attention to how you use these muscles, you’ll be a much more efficient climber.
 A rock climber's worst enemy — indoors or outdoors — is overconfidence. You might think that you are an advanced climber and that you can take chances. Don’t do it. Make sure you are always secured to the rock face. There are thousands of factors to consider with each grip and foothold. You never know if you’ll need to adjust at the last second or not.

