 The ideal time to divide perennial plants is in early spring or late fall. These are times when the plants are in dormant stages, and this will minimize shock to the plant and improve root growth.It’s also important to divide perennials during periods of dormancy because this will ensure they're not blooming. Avoid dividing rose bushes when they're in bloom.
Dividing roses is less popular than propagating by cuttings because it’s more difficult and time consuming. Dividing requires you to uproot an established plant, cut it in half, and replant the two halves.
 To propagate roses by division, you'll need a healthy and established rose plant, as well as some garden tools and equipment, such as:


Sharp and sterilized knife or razor
Shovel or spade
Gardening gloves
Two large buckets
Damp newspaper
A prepared garden plot
Fertile soil

, To make sure that your divided rose bushes will thrive and produce healthy flowers, choose a healthy and established plant to divide. A healthy plant will:Have plenty of leaves
Have leaves that are distributed evenly around the plant
Produce lots of flowers

, To minimize shock to the plant before you uproot and divide it, water the bush thoroughly. This will also help to loosen the soil around the roots, making it easier to remove the plant from the ground without damaging the roots.
 With the shovel, start digging into the ground in the area around the rose bush. You need to dig up the plant, but must avoid digging into and damaging the roots. Once you’ve cleared the area around the plant, use your hands to brush away soil and expose the roots.


When the roots are exposed and the area around the plant has been dug up, carefully pull the plant up from the ground.
 Lay the rose bush on the ground or place it into a wheelbarrow. With a sterilized pruning saw or knife, divide the plant into two equal halves by cutting the roots down the middle of the plant.


To sterilize your cutting tool, heat the metal with fire until it’s red hot, or boil it for 30 minutes in water.
 Once the plant has been divided, place each half into a bucket and transfer the buckets to a shady place to protect them while you prepare the garden plot. To keep the plants moist, cover them with damp newspaper.


Ideally, you want to keep the humidity around 50 percent to keep the plants moist without soaking them too much., In the area where you removed the original rose bush, replace the soil you dug up with fertile soil or organic matter to make sure there are plenty of nutrients in the garden bed for the new plants. Use your hands or a spade to mix in the new soil and spread it around the garden bed.


Good organic matter to add to the soil include aged compost or manure.
 Dig two holes in the garden bed you’ve prepared to the same depth as the original plant. Make the holes about 24 inches (60 cm) apart. Plant the individual rose bushes in the holes and cover the roots with soil. Pack the soil around the roots with your hands.


Water the plants thoroughly.
Keep the rose bushes moist during the first year that they're establishing themselves.