 When you are discharged, you should receive documents that list the medications you're taking (with prescriptions) and follow-up appointment dates. Remind your parent or guardian to keep these in a folder and file them away safely for easy reference. Have them mark all appointment dates and when you need to take your medicines on a calendar that will be seen frequently (on a bulletin board, on the refrigerator).;
, It's possible that you will leave the hospital wearing a head bandage covering the incision area and remaining stitches. Before going home, have your parent or guardian ask a nurse or specialist how and when to change the bandage if they'll be doing it themselves, or make sure an in-home visit is arranged with a nurse who will do the changing. Also ask for supplies--most hospitals will provide you with enough bandaging material for the first couple of changes.


If your hair has been shaven or has fallen out because of treatment, don't worry. It should all grow back, and your scars can usually be covered up by even just 1 inch of new hair.
In the meantime, you can wear your favorite hat, headband, or scarf to cover up the bare areas.
 Depending on the home care guidelines given to you before leaving the hospital, you will be allowed varying amounts of activity once returning home. But it is important that your parent or guardian watch over you as much as possible, since head swelling after the surgery can make you weak, have poor coordination, and poor balance., Brain surgery places a lot of stress on the brain, which could make you have seizures during recovery.Tell your parent or guardian if you have a seizure for the first time, are having more seizures than usual, or have seizures that appear different from usual, it’s safest to call 9-1-1. You can have trouble with breathing too, in which case calling 9-1-1 is recommended as well.Have your parent or guardian ask the doctor before your discharge about support for dealing with seizures. You will most likely be taking medication to prevent them, but it's best to be prepared just in case.
 Make sure your parent or guardian is on the lookout for the following symptoms: memory problems, confusion, broken speech, trouble urinating or controlling urination or bowel movements, hallucinations, trouble hearing or seeing, upset stomach or vomiting, bleeding problems, fainting or seizures, ongoing or worsening headaches, weakness in the arms or legs, fever higher than 100.5º F (38º C), a stiff neck, sensitivity to light, feeling tired all the time, or a red, swollen or painful calf.Keep a list of emergency numbers to call near the phone or on the refrigerator.
 After most brain surgeries, over time it will be healthy for you to get a good amount of exercise for getting back in shape after your time spent in bed at the hospital. Most friendly playing and sports are safe, but be careful to avoid dangerous playground activities, and especially any sports with a risk of head injury: wrestling, rugby, boxing, and "extreme" or contact sports.Your doctor should let you know when you can start to increase your activity level, and what activities you can do at each stage of healing. You will likely also be referred for some form of physical therapy to help you gain strength.
Have your parent or guardian talk to your doctor about participating in medium-contact sports, such as baseball, softball, basketball, or soccer.
Don’t go swimming until all stitches or staples are removed from the surgery area.Have an adult supervise you while swimming for one year after surgery, since being in the water can cause epileptic seizures., Recovery from brain surgery can take several years, and in the process you will be given many records of your various treatments. Have your parent or guardian keep all these in one easily accessible place such as a large file folder or file box, since you’ll need to use them regularly.


If you are a brain tumor surgery patient, you should receive a Summary of Cancer Treatment, which includes comprehensive information on the type of cancer, surgeries, follow up treatments such as radiation therapy and chemotherapy, post-operative complications, and medications.