 Vegan, plant-based diets are inherently cholesterol-free given that they lack animal or animal-derived foods which are usually a high source of cholesterol (e.g. meat, egg yolk, dairy fats.) Look up vegan dessert recipes for guaranteed cholesterol-free options. Visit the One Green Planet website at http://www.onegreenplanet.org/tag/vegan-dessert-recipes for a large assortment of recipes including cake, cookies, dessert squares, and pudding., Fruit is an excellent, cholesterol-friendly choice for dessert. Visit your local grocer or farmer's market to buy fresh fruit to eat as it is (e.g. clementines), or add to a fruit salad (e.g cherries and melon). Fruit can also be baked, roasted, grilled, frozen, or cooked with few extra ingredients to make desserts such as:


Baked pears
Applesauce
Grilled pineapple
Chocolate covered frozen bananas

, Certain types of nuts have cholesterol fighting properties. These nuts include macadamia nuts, almonds, cashews, walnuts, and pine nuts. Given their high fat content, it is better to consume them in moderation (approximately an ounce a day)., To really indulge in cholesterol-friendly, vegan desserts, visit a vegan bakery to buy a plant-based treat. Vegan-friendly diet choices are rising in popularity, and with more people aiming to move away from meat and milk ingredients, and vegan businesses are on the rise as a result. To find a vegan bakery near you, visit VegGuide.org, a community-based website listing veg-friendly eateries around the world., To help you stick to vegan dessert choices, download apps that support the lifestyle. Apps can provide vegan recipes, help you search for vegan-friendly businesses, or help you identify vegan products. Some good apps to start with include:


Food Monster by One Green Planet, a free app for both Android and iPhone that provides over 500 free vegan recipes.Happy Cow, an app for both Android and iPhone that outlines vegetarian and vegan eateries, stores, or bakeries near you.Is It Vegan?, a free app that allows you to scan the UPC bar code on the package of any food or beverage product to see if it’s vegan., When ordering dessert at a restaurant or cafe that isn't specifically vegan, ask your server about the dessert ingredients. To determine if there are any cholesterol-friendly options available, inquire about what dessert options contain butter, cream, or eggs, all of which should be avoided.

