 For a long time, doctors and scientists were unwilling to draw a link between diet and acne. Now, doctors and scientists are beginning to reevaluate the evidence.It turns out that many studies support the hypothesis that what you eat affects how much acne you have and how bad it gets, although diet isn't the only culprit.Try eating a low-glycemic diet. That means going for the whole grains, beans, and veggies before you reach for the white bread, pasta, and sugar. Low-glycemic foods take longer for the body to absorb and are usually healthier.Several studies have found that people who eat low-glycemic diets have a lower incidence of acne.Low-glycemic-load diets not only improve the health of your skin, but also help you lose weight.Cut back on dairy. Studies suggest that the amount of dairy you consume does have an effect on acne.While it's unreasonable to think that completely cutting milk and yogurt out of your diet will magically cure you of acne, the evidence suggests that dairy does make your acne worse, possibly because of the hormones present in milk., Studies around the world have linked toxins like tobacco and alcohol to acne.And it's little wonder: smoking and drinking aren't exactly wonderful for your health. If you're a regular smoker and drinker with cystic acne, consider cutting down on these habits if you're serious about seeing a reduction in acne and an uptick in overall health.
 Scientists aren't exactly sure why, but they do know that stress will cause acne to get worse.Perhaps especially in males, an increase in stress has also been linked to worsening of the severity of acne.While stress is notoriously difficult to control, just realizing that stress may contribute to acne can give you pause the next time you start tearing your hair out over a bad grade or a bad date.


Try to carve out time for exercising. Scientists think that regular exercise can help reduce acne by regulating hormones, bringing more oxygen to your cells, and boosting your immune system, not to mention reducing stress.If nothing else, try walking at least 30 minutes a day.
 Increased sleep may help improve acne by limiting the amount of stress the body experiences. Scientists believe that stress can increase about 15% for each hour of sleep you lose during any given night.And, as we know, the more stress, the worse the acne. One study focusing on acne patients in Korea found that lack of sleep correlated significantly with an aggravation in acne., If you're trying to reduce the amount of sugar you take in, cut out all the sugary drinks (sports drinks, cola, sweet teas, juices) and reach for that H2O instead. Drinking more water will help your body's blood flow and assist it removing waste material caused by metabolism.