 Stay away from things that can trigger either nausea or vomiting. Clear out strong odors and smoke by opening a window. Otherwise, try going out into the fresh air.;
, Heat can contribute to nausea, especially if your body starts to overheat. Try a cold compress to cool your forehead. Avoid heat and humidity if possible.


Heat exhaustion can cause nausea, and is usually accompanied by other symptoms, such as dizziness, headache, profuse sweating, fatigue, and others.Get out of the heat and into a cool room.
 Try to sleep through your nausea. This can also help you handle stress, anxiety and muscle strain, which can cause nausea. Rest and relax as much as you can.
 Movement can increase the feeling of nausea. Keep your body as still as possible. Try lying down in a dark, quiet room.
 Stick with unspiced, lean foods that are gentle on your stomach.These include foods such as whole grain crackers, rice or sesame crackers, brown rice, toasted whole-grain bread, or chicken without the skin. You can also try chicken broth or vegetable broth.


Eat small amounts of food to start.
Spicy or fatty foods can worsen nausea. Many people experience worsening nausea with tomatoes, acidic foods (like orange juice, pickles), chocolate, ice cream and eggs.
 The BRAT diet consists of bananas, rice, applesauce and dry toast. This is often recommended for nausea., Make sure you drink as much water as you can. Dehydration can make you feel worse. For nausea, room temperature water is generally best tolerated.


Sip the water slowly. Drinking water too fast can make your stomach feel unsettled.
 The University of Connecticut conducted a study which indicated that controlled, deep breathing can help relieve nausea.Other studies have indicated that breathing can help control nausea after surgery.Try this exercise adapted from the University of Missouri at Kansas City:Lie flat on your back. Use pillows under your knees and neck to make sure you are comfortable.
Put your hands palms down on your stomach, right below the rib cage. Place the fingers of your hands together so you can feel them separate and know you are doing the exercise correctly.
Take a long, slow deep breath by expanding your belly, breathing like a baby breathes. This ensures that you are using your diaphragm to breathe rather than your rib cage. The diaphragm creates suction that pulls more air into your lungs than can be achieved by expanding the rib cage. Your fingers should separate as they lie on your belly.
Breathe in this manner for at least 5 minutes.

