 Don't bother to invite people if they don't appeal to you or you have no intention of growing close with them. Choosing good guests may enable you to be a better host. Consider also how well the guests will get along with each other. Try not to invite people that you know won't mesh well, or that have a history of winding up at each other's throats.;
, It is important to know when to expect your guest/s. Make sure to give them plenty of advance notice – at least a week, and even more if the occasion is very important. Assume that they will also need to work around their own schedules. Don't tell them to come "sometime" if you really want them to show up. Tell them specifically when to come so that it feels more like an invitation. A range of times is also okay, but it should be no longer than a few hours.


If your guests show up late, try to make them feel welcome. Do not sulk for the rest of the evening, or you may compound the problem. Just continue laughing and ignore the fact they were late.
Telling your guests in advance is just a matter of courtesy. If they know what to expect, it will be much easier for them to plan their schedules around it.
 When you decide on the food you will be serving, consider your guests' food concerns. Always contact them beforehand and ask if they have any allergies or food specifications. Inviting a vegetarian over for dinner and preparing a roast would be embarrassing for both of you. Be sure to cook something that you're comfortable cooking.


Don't just say, "Do you have any preference for the meal?" Instead, ask your guests to name specifics. Say, "I'm planning the meal for Friday night. Do you have any allergies or food restrictions that I need to be aware of?"
Don't go out of your way to prepare a main course which takes days to make. A good guest will appreciate any decent meal that tastes good.
 Before your guests arrive, tidy up the space to convey that you care. If they arrive in a messy household, it shows you do not care for your surroundings, and it may make them feel less welcome in your home. Put away toys, tools, and clutter. Remove allergens by vacuuming carpets, rugs, and upholstered furniture.


If you have a dog that tends to greet, bark at or jump on guests when they come through the door, put it in another room. Some people are scared of dogs and intimidated even by their approach. Some are allergic.
If you have pets, find out beforehand whether your guests have any fears or allergies. If they are allergic, give them a heads up so they can take medication to help better handle the situation.
 Once your guests arrive, open the door and show them where to put their things. Show them the bathroom on the way in before taking them to the living room and offering them a seat. Never leave them hanging at the front door; don't expect them to follow you if you don't say anything. If you still have things to prepare, engage with your guests whilst organizing what you have left. By now, you should have finished tidying the area, so that you have only the food to finish.


Have your family or a housemate engage the guests so that you can finish preparing the rest of the food. Keep finger food on the coffee table in the living room to whet everyone's appetites.
Ask your guests if they would like a drink. Offer them at least two options – whatever you think is most suitable for the event. The options could range between coffee, tea, water, beer, and wine.
 Don't rush. Move casually otherwise you will let your guests think they have become a burden for you.
 After you have finished dinner and are eating dessert, offer your guest something to wash down the meal. Depending on the mood and energy of the gathering, consider coffee, tea, or an alcoholic digestif. Sit and talk on the couch with a drink.
 Talk about things that they want to talk about. Ask questions about their work, their travels, their families. Don't complain about how your child was sick all week or how you are having family issues. Show interest in what your guest has to say. Build on the conversation and let it flow.


Business can be a good subject, but be careful with whom you bring it up. Many people like to separate their work from their social lives. Take cues from your guests, and don't try to force any topic.
 If they want to leave, ask them to stay a bit longer since you have enjoyed their company. Tell them it has been a lovely time, and you are keen to see them again. If you noticed that they enjoyed part of the meal in particular, consider giving a portion of it to them. Tell them you won't need it; say that it's a pleasure to see someone enjoy your food.

