 It may sound strange, but an egg can do wonders for your hair. The yolk nourishes your hair by adding moisture so that it doesn't look dull. The white clarifies your hair by helping to remove any buildup. The egg also has protein in it, which strengthens your hair. The result is hair that looks very shiny after just one treatment. Here's how to do it:


Beat one egg in a small bowl.
Wet your hair.
Pour the egg over your head. Use a wide-tooth comb to comb it to the tips of your hair.
Let it sit in your hair for at least 15 minutes.
Shampoo your hair as normal. Rinse with cold water for maximum shine.;
, Apple cider vinegar is quickly catching on as an all-natural hair conditioner and gloss booster. It balances your hair's pH level, clarifies your strands and leaves your hair feeling soft. Once your hair dries, it will no longer smell like vinegar. Follow these steps to make an ACV treatment:Shampoo your hair as usual, but skip the conditioner.
Pour a mixture of 1 tablespoon ACV and 1 tablespoon water over your head. Comb it through to your tips. Very long hair ma require 2 or 3 tablespoons.
Let it sit for five minutes, then rinse your hair with cold water at the end of your shower.
 Avocado has natural fats that nourish your hair and add shine. Using a ripe avocado will make it easier to spread the mixture into your hair.Try an avocado mask when your hair is dry and in need of a moisturizing boost.


Mash an avocado until smooth. You can also use a blender to process it.
Wet your hair.
Spread the avocado from your roots to your tips.
Let it sit in your hair for at least 15 minutes.
Shampoo your hair as normal. Rinse with cold water.
 Honey attracts moisture and has clarifying properties. This combination makes it perfect for adding shine to dull hair. Raw honey is the most nourishing, but any type of honey works fine. To make a honey mask,Mix 1/4 cup honey and 1/4 cup warm water.
Wet your hair.
Comb the mixture into your hair.
Let it sit for 15 minutes or more.
Shampoo your hair as normal. Rinse with cold water.
 If your hair isn't shiny because it's dry, dull and frizzy, a deep conditioning treatment should put things right. You can get a store-bought deep conditioner or make your own using coconut or olive oil. Once a week, follow these steps to deep condition your hair:


Wet your hair.
Comb 1 to 3 tablespoons of coconut oil or olive oil from your roots to your tips. Cover your hair with a shower cap or plastic wrap.
Let it sit for up to 30 minutes.
Shampoo your hair. You may need to wash it two or three times to remove the oily residue. Rinse with cold water.

