 Ask your friends, family, and coworkers if they have a dentist that they can confidently recommend. Explain that you are looking for effective, affordable dental care. Just like everything else, different dentists have different prices. When you are looking for a dentist, you should consider their qualifications, their reputation, and their pricing.Gather as much information as possible about your prospective dentist. Look at their website or call the office to find out if they accept insurance plans from your provider.;
, After you have chosen a dentist to try, phone the office and ask for a free initial consultation. Most dentists are willing to provide this service. During the consultation, you want to make sure that the dentist is competent, the office is clean, and the dentist thoroughly explains the procedure you need. This is also the right time to ask about costs.Get a clear estimate of how much the work proposed will cost. The office should be able to tell you how much of the cost your insurance will cover. This is a great time to ask if they have a sliding scale for payments, or offer any type of first time patient discounts.
 Don't be afraid to repeat this process with a second dentist's office. It might turn out that the work you need is actually less extensive than was originally suggested. Or you might find an office willing to do the work at a reduced cost. No one loves going to the dentist, but in this case, it is worth your time to do some extra research.


You also want to make sure you find a dentist who makes you feel relaxed and confident that you will get the desired results. There should be a friendly atmosphere between the doctor and patient.
 Contact your local universities to find out if they have a student dental clinic. Often times, dental students will perform procedures on patients to get clinical experience. The school will charge a lot less than your typical dentist's office.Students will be supervised while they perform your procedures, so you will still be receiving professional-level care at a dental school.
 There are several reputable non-profit organizations that offer free dental care. Typically, these services are offered to those with income below a certain level, so be prepared to show your financial information. Search online, contact your state’s dental association, or reach out to your local branch of United Way., Many dental providers will allow you to use a payment plan to cover your treatments. This is good because you don't have to provide the full amount of money upfront; however, it is important to find out all of the details of the payment plan.For example, find out the interest rate on the payments. You should also ask about the penalties for late payments.

