 In order to adapt to a change in a business environment, you need to be able to anticipate how the change will impact you, your work, and the workplace environment. The impact could range from very small to very large. The impact will depend on the scope of the change, what sorts of adjustments you will have to make, and how quickly the change will be implemented. Anticipating how this change will impact you will help you to manage your expectations and to adapt effectively.


There may not be much that you will need to change. Some changes in the workplace will impact you more than others. Other changes will require you to make incremental adjustments over time in order to fully adapt. For example, a change in payroll policies may not affect you if you work in sales.
 In the business world, some changes require companies and teams to undergo major overhauls. These policies may change how the company handles clients, impacts sales, or changes the leadership of the organization.You may or may not need to research the policy to fully understand it. It can be very useful to research the change that your organization is going to make to see whether other businesses have made similar changes. For example, the change might be in management styles and the structure of your executive team. You could search online for other companies who have made that same change to see how they responded to it.


While situations are always different, seeing how similar changes have impacted businesses is a helpful way to understand how your business may respond. It can also help you to understand the scope of the change.
 Ideally, your management will have open lines of communication and be receptive to hearing questions and concerns about the new change that is being made. You should talk with your manager or supervisor if you have questions about the change, especially about what sort of changes that you will individually have to make and its impact.


For instance, you could say, “John, I’ve been looking into the new policy about filling insurance claims. I want to make sure that I fully understand it before it goes into effect. Could you tell me a little more about how the claims are evaluated?”

, If you work in a business environment where other members of your team have to adapt to the same change, you can talk to them about the steps that they are taking. They may have suggestions to offer you about how you can adapt to the change. You can ask them how they have adapted and whether they are struggling with it and could use support.


Avoid gossiping or talking negatively about the change and the people who suggested or implemented it. You want your mindset to remain positive, otherwise you may struggle to adapt to the change.

