 Use a chisel and hammer or putty knife to pry the door stop and molding away from the frame. Start at the bottom of the frame and work your way up.


Take care not to damage the stop as you remove it from the frame. Place the claw end of the hammer on the side of each nail to support even removal.
Remove any remaining finishing nails left in the molding.;
, Door shims are used to correct and level doors with the frame so that the door is squared, or even, between both sides of the frame. These must be removed in order to adjust the warped door frame.
 Gently hammer the frame in the direction necessary to level out both sides of the frame.


Make sure the door is closed while you straighten the frame. This will help you measure whether the door is even or planed with the frame.
Use a small, thick piece of wood to cover the area you are hammering. This will evenly distribute the blows from the mallet and prevent damage to the frame. The wood can also be used as a wedge if you have trouble hammering in a particular direction. , As you straighten the frame, measure the door gaps to see whether the door is evenly flush on both sides of the frame, from top to bottom.Remember that a warped frame is only an immediate problem if it prevents the door from closing properly, or allows a large gap in between the edge of the door and the frame.
A warped door frame can suggest a moisture problem. Double check for rotting wood on or near the frame.
 Replace the door shims that were removed prior to further tighten the corrections made to the frame. Don’t fully tighten shims until you are satisfied with the correction.


Use new door shims if the older door shims were damaged.
Shims come in a variety of materials, including wood, plastic or metal. Wooden shims are the most commonly used shims and are versatile thanks to their ability to be trimmed. Use plastic shims on any exterior doors as they are resistant to rotting.
Make sure you place a pair of shims at hinge height of the door, on both sides of the frame. This helps the door stay tightly secured, as much of the weight of the door is transferred to the frame at these heights. Use a spirit level to make sure the shims are level. Use as many shims as necessary to ensure the frame is installed level on its entire length.
Open and close the door several times to test the security of the door. If the door still seems to be uneven with the frame, adjust the frame and shims as necessary to level out the door.
Always re-nail places where you added shims.
 If you used new door shims during correction, score the excess with a utility knife and snap it off.
 If the door frame is far too warped for correcting (such as through large scale water damage), you will have to replace it. Once the molding and screws are removed, use a crowbar to slowly pry the frame from the wall. Start at the bottom and work your way up. Once the frame is nearly removed, remove it from the top plate by pulling it away from the door with your hands. Remove any shims you encounter along the way.


You may need to gently move the frame back and forth to nudge the frame loose from the top plate.
 If you are only replacing one side of the door frame, you may leave the top plate and healthy side of the door frame.


The door will have to be removed from the door frame if you are replacing the part of the frame containing the hinges.
 If replacing just one part of the frame, cut a piece of timber of your choosing to size.


Weather-treated pieces of 2x4 timber are the most commonly used type of wood used for door frames. These are available in several standard sizes at DIY stores such as Home Depot and Lowes.
Never use pressure-treated materials as they will twist once they dry out.
The most common heights for doors are 80”, 84”, and 96” in height. The width of common doors range from 18” to 36” wide. Ask an expert at a hardware store if you have any questions specific to your project. They can help you choose and cut any parts you will need for the repair.
 The top plate may need a modified notch for fitting the placement of the new frame. Set the frame where it will be placed and mark the measurement for the notch in the top plate using a pencil. Cut the notch using a multitool and chisel.


A multitool is an electric tool that comes with a variety of heads that fulfill different tasks, ranging from cutting and sanding wood to drilling holes.
 Place the shims 100 mm from the top and bottom of the frame, and where the door hinges will be placed. If the previous shims are still usable and in good condition, you may use those. Otherwise, shims can be purchased from hardware stores or home made from timber.


Use a spirit level to make sure the shims are level. Use as many shims as necessary to ensure the frame is installed levelly on its entire length.
 Slide the frame into place. Make sure it is in the notch and level against the shims. Hammer two nails through the frame at each shim, securing the frame and shims in place against the wall stud.


Don’t immediately hammer the nails all the way. Leave some wiggle room in case you need to make an adjustment.
 Use this opportunity to make sure the frame is flush to the drywall or finished wall material. If flush and level, use a nail punch to set the nails in place. If you have them, use a compressor and a finish nail gun instead.


Reinstall the door to the frame at this point if you removed it earlier.
 Take care to ensure both are flush and level.