 You can choose a summer or winter squash type of squash. Summer and winter squashes are actually in most grocery stores year round. Summer squashes may be occasionally referred to as zucchini. Select a type of squash that works best for your recipe.


Most winter squashes have a longer shelf life, so they may be a good option if you're making food for the week. Different types of winter squashes have different textures that would make them harder or easier to sauté. Hubbard squash is frequently sautéed, and butternut squash tends to be less stringy. This can make it easier to cut and sauté.Summer squashes are often referred to as zucchini. Romanesco zucchini and pattypan squash are frequently sautéed in recipes, but other kinds of summer squash can also be sautéed.Whatever type of squash you use, make sure you get enough. If you're making a side dish or meal for a big family, you will need more squash. You may only need a single squash if you're making a meal for yourself.;
, The spices you choose depend on the type of squash you're sautéing. They also depend on your personal preferences. Select a range of spices to use before you begin cooking your squash.A summer squash would go well with cloves, curry powder, marjoram, nutmeg, rosemary, or sage.
A winter squash may go well with cinnamon, ginger, onion, or nutmeg.
 You can sauté your squash in olive oil or butter. You can also use a combination of the two. Which one you choose depends on your taste.Butter will give your squash a sweeter taste. For a sweeter squash, use butter. However, if you want a sweeter taste without as much calories or cholesterol, you can use half butter and half olive oil.
If you would rather have a more savory taste, olive oil may be a better option.
 Adding meat to your sautéd squash can give it a richer, heartier taste. If you're making a meal, consider cooking your squash with a few pieces of bacon, sliced into one-inch strips. You can also add diced onions to add a savory taste to your squash., Before you cook any vegetable, it's important to wash it. This will remove any contaminants or harmful chemicals. Before washing the vegetable, make sure to wash your hands first. Wash them for about 20 seconds using soap and water.Wash your squash under running water. Rub any dirt or debris off of the squash as you wash it.
Do not use any soap to wash your squash. You simply need to wash it using water.
 You should cut your squash into small cubes to cook it. How big or small the cubes are depend on your personal preference. Thinner, smaller cubes may cook faster than larger, thicker ones.If you're working with winter squash, peel your squash first using a vegetable peeler. It's hard to work with un-peeled squash. You also may want to microwave the squash for 3 minute before cutting it into cubes. Winter squash is tougher, and this can make it easier to cut., Turn the burner on medium-high heat. Spend a few minutes allowing your butter or olive oil to heat up. You want the squash to sizzle slightly when it makes contact with the butter and oil.However, if you're cooking squash with bacon, add the bacon first. Bacon should start on a cold pan without any olive or butter. If the bacon produces enough grease, you may not have to add butter or olive oil when you add your squash.
 Place the meat or onions into the skillet. If you're using bacon, cook until it's crispy. For onions, cook them until they're crisp and tender as well., Take your cubed squash and place it into the heated pan. Be careful. Butter and olive oil may spit off the pan when squash is added. It's a good idea to wear an apron for your own safety., Stir the squash on occasion as it cooks to make sure it cooks evenly throughout. It should take about 8 minutes for the squash to adequately cook. It may take more or less, however, depending on the precise strength of your pan. Therefore, keep an eye on the squash as it cooks. Cook the squash until it's tender., Once the squash is cooked, you can stir in your spices. You can add about a tablespoon or teaspoon of each spice, depending on how strong you want the flavor. You should also add salt to taste., Your squash should not be ready to eat. Remove the squash from the heat and serve it. You may want to wait a few minutes before eating your squash, as it may be hot.

