 Natural consequences mean refraining from intervening and letting the child face the negative consequences that stem from their misbehavior. This method works for allowing children to learn from their own mistakes, and make wiser choices through trial-and-error experience. However, this method should not be used when the natural consequences of misbehavior are very serious or dangerous.To give some examples, this approach would be inappropriate if a child was:


reaching for something hot or scalding
refusing to wear a seatbelt
crossing the road without looking
playing near electrical wires

, In order for natural consequences to be effective, it is important to explain what the consequence of a misbehavior will be first. If your child does not respond to your warning about the consequence, then allow the consequence to occur.For example, you might say, “If you go outside without your hat, then you will be cold.” Then, allow your child to go outside without a hat (as long as it is not dangerously cold).
Or, you might say, “If you leave that toy in the yard, then it will be ruined by the rain.” Then, allow the toy to remain outside and get ruined.
Or, “If you keep cheating at this game, then your sister won’t want to play anymore.” Then allow your child to keep cheating and cause your other child to stop playing.
Or, “If you spend all of your allowance today, then you will not have any money later in the week.” Then, allow your child to unwisely spend his allowance.
 Even without assistance, many children will remember the natural consequence of a misbehavior and refrain from repeating it in the future. But it helps to verbalize what you want a child to take-away from the situation. By articulating the natural consequence using, many children will remember it better. For example, try saying:


“I see you were cold without a hat. I hope you decide to wear one next time.”
“Your toy needs to be thrown away. Hopefully in the future you’ll listen when I tell you to bring it indoors.”
“Your sister doesn’t want to play this game with you anymore. Maybe you will follow the rules next time.”
“You don’t have enough allowance to visit the store. Try spending it more wisely next week.”

