 When it comes to fried foods, there are many options chefs and home cooks have for their oil or fat choices. Picking a heart-healthy fat can help improve the nutrition of your fried foods.


Be careful with your oil choice. Whatever you choose should have a high smoke point. Some oils (like olive oil) can actually burn and have an off taste which isn't good.
Choose heart-healthy oils with a high smoke point like: peanut oil, soybean oil and canola oil.Avoid oils like lard, duck fat or palm oil as these are sources of saturated fats.;
, Making sure your frying oil is the right temperature is one of the best ways at reducing how much of that fat is actually absorbed into your foods.If you do not heat the frying oil to the correct temperature, your food needs to stay in the fryer longer, allowing the batter to absorb more oil. This means your final product will be higher in fat.Use a frying thermometer clipped to the side of your pot or pan. This will allow you to measure the temperature and keep an eye on it. Also be sure to maintain the correct temperature throughout the entire cooking process. Note that each food or recipe will require a different frying temperature.
Also, do not crowd the pan with a lot of food as this drastically lowers the frying oil temperature.
Keep your oil clean as well — especially if you fry foods often. Sometimes leftover particles remain in the oil and burn. This can taint the flavor of new foods that you fry.
 Battering foods for frying makes for a very tasty, crispy, crunchy crust. But it can also pack a lot of calories.Be smart about the types of batter you use.


Most traditional batter recipes do give a great crust to fried foods; however, they notoriously absorb a lot of oil.Try gluten-free ingredients in your batter (since gluten is an oil-absorbing compound). Try bread in cornmeal or rice flour to reduce oil absorption.Add some carbonation to your batter. Using carbonated liquids (like seltzer water) or leaveners (like baking soda) produces gas bubbles in the batter and discourages oil absorption as well., It's important not only to fry foods correctly, but make sure you do not allow excess oil absorption after the foods are fully cooked.


Use a slotted spoon or mesh strainer to scoop foods out of the hot oil. The holes in these items allow the hot oil to drain off and away from the foods.Allow foods to cool on a wire rack, paper towels or newspaper. This helps the excess oil get absorbed and be pulled away from the foods.If you allow foods to sit in the oil, they'll continue to absorb oil as they cool.
 Although a homemade french fry or potato chip is definitely delicious, add extra nutrition to your fried foods by frying more nutrient dense items.


Try frying more vegetables instead of of the typical white potato. They'll offer a little more nutrition. For example, instead of making french fries, make fried zucchini sticks or beet chips instead.
If you're really in the mood for potatoes — french fries or chips — try using sweet potatoes instead. They're significantly higher in Vitamin C and A compared to regular white potatoes.Also choose to fry leaner cuts of meat. Go for chicken breast over chicken wings or drumsticks. Or fry shrimp or other seafood for another option for lean protein.
 Onion rings are one of the most popular battered foods. And although it is a vegetable, onion rings can rack up a lot of calories per serving.Instead of your typical breading or batter for onion rings, choose to bread your onion rings in finely ground high fiber cereal. Bran flakes are a great option.
Also skip the initial dredging in flour and go straight into an egg wash. After your onion rings are coated, dip them into the ground cereal to coat.
Skip the frying of your rings and opt for a lower calorie option by baking them. Bake until they are golden brown and crispy.
 You can also make a healthier fried chicken as well. Like onion rings, take advantage of the oven and other types of breading to lower the calorie level of this high calorie item.Regular corn flakes when crushed offer a really great alternative to the traditional battered fried chicken. Slightly crush (do not completely grind) the corn flakes.
Again, skip the flour dredge and dip your chicken right into an egg wash followed by the crushed corn flakes. Make sure each piece of chicken is fully coated.
Bake in the oven instead of frying to help lower the calories. Bake until the chicken is fully cooked through.
 If you're in the mood for fried fish, try baking your fish instead. Like the onion rings and chicken, baking the fish offers you a lower calorie option.


Another great option for breading is crispy rice cereal or puffed rice cereal. Crush the cereal slightly — do not crush too fine.
Coat your pieces of fish in an egg wash and then roll into the crushed rice cereal. Make sure the fish is completely coated in the cereal.
Instead of baking your fish directly on a baking sheet or pan, place your fish onto a wire rack (sit over a backing sheet). This allows the hot air to fully circulate around the fish keeping the bottom crunchy as well.
Bake at a high heat until thoroughly cooked through and golden brown.
 Although many tempura recipes offer a variety of vegetables, the batter can attract a lot of oil and therefore calories.Use a unique Japanese ingredient to mimic tempura at home.


Start your tempura with a variety of vegetables. Slice into strips, wedges or florets for easy handling.
Toss vegetables in whole wheat flour. Toss around to shake off any excess. Then dip the flour-coated vegetables in an egg wash to help the batter stick.
Instead of traditional breadcrumbs or crushed cereal, try using panko breadcrumbs. These breadcrumbs are bigger, airier and add a ton of crunch to foods. Toss the egg coated veggies into the panko and coat thoroughly.
Bake the vegetables until they are golden brown and crispy. You may want to stir them halfway through to help promote even browning.
 It's great to plan ahead to include a higher calorie item like fried foods. But don't plan to skip meals so you can overindulge later in the day.


Skipping meals is never a good idea. It doesn't help weight loss, it doesn't help save calories and it usually comes with some side effects. Many people have increased fatigue, increased hunger and a slower metabolism.If you skip a meal or snack prior to going out to eat, you may end up being overly hungry at the meal where your fried foods are. It'll be much harder to stick to an appropriate portion size if you're too hungry.
 If you're craving a fried item, go ahead and have it. But be smart about the other choices you make during your meal.


Fried foods are high in calories and high in fat. Keep your calories more minimal by having a healthy side dish with your fried item. Don't go for a fried appetizer, a fried main dish and a fried side dish.
If you have the option choose a lower calorie side. Instead of a fish and chips, go for the fried fish and a side of coleslaw or fruit salad.
You can also do a healthier entree and go for a more indulgent fried side. Go for the entree salad with grilled salmon and split a side a fries with a friend or family member.
 Occasionally splurging on an indulgent treat like a fried item is OK. It's just important to keep your indulgence to the appropriate portion size so you don't blow your whole calorie budget.


If you're ordering fried fish, fried shrimp or fried chicken, stick to an appropriate portion size for protein foods. Have a piece about the size of a deck of cards (or 1 drumstick or thigh for chicken) or a 3 – 4 oz piece.If you're going to a Japanese restaurant for vegetable tempura, again stick to an appropriate serving. Just because they're vegetables, doesn't mean you can over do it. Stick to 1 cup of fried vegetables per serving.Some restaurants now even offer fried pastas or breads — like fried macaroni and cheese balls. Stick to a 1 oz serving or about 1/2 cup of these.Fried fruit isn't a common item; however, if you encounter — especially in dessert form — stick to 1/2 cup serving., One bite of a favorite fried item and you're most likely already thinking about having a second bite. Manage your hunger so you have more control over how much you eat.When you're overly hungry it's hard to control your portions or food choices. If you know you'll be ordering a fried item at your meal (or making them at home) try to tame your hunger so you can stick to appropriate portion sizes.Have a small snack an hour or two prior to your meal. This helps satisfy hunger and allow you to make rational decisions at meal times.
You can also try drinking a large glass of water or unsweetened tea to help fill your stomach up with a no calorie fluid. Thirst and hunger mechanisms are poorly differentiated by the brain, so staying well hydrated helps with satiety and overeating.

