 Even if you have SAD, you can always learn more about it. Look online for information by searching with the key terms “Social Anxiety Disorder” or “Social Phobia.” Focus on reliable websites linked to charity or medical organizations. Gaining this knowledge will allow you see how your individual experiences connect with the broader picture.


As you research, look for areas of SAD treatment that you could like to help with. For example, would you like to focus your efforts on spreading the word about how SAD can impact children or older adults?

, If you have SAD, you may feel uncomfortable participating in an awareness campaign with heavy social interactions. Or, you could enjoy only certain types of interactions. If, for example, you would like to avoid going door-to-door, you might consider making telephone calls instead.
 If you aren’t interested in an involved fundraising campaign, you can always send money to anxiety awareness organizations via one-time or recurring payments. This is a quick, simple way to fund the research and information process. In some situations, you may be able to stipulate that your donation goes to a specific area, such as the creation of promotional materials., Consider agreeing to participate in one of the many studies offered by legitimate non-profit mental health agencies. This research is critical to fostering understanding about the reach and implications of SAD. Some studies cover mental health in general while others focus more specifically on Social Phobia.


Read all documentation carefully, including privacy statements. Don't be afraid to ask for more time to consider whether you should participate. Some research studies are more invasive than others. Some also offer compensation while others do not.
Some studies are linked to online groups, such as MoodNetwork. This is a network that focuses on mood disorders and links patients with medical researchers. It allows for a quick, online sign-up process., Raising awareness isn’t just about the broader public, it can also be sharing information with others directly affected by SAD. Support groups meet all over the world and the schedules vary from once a month to every day for multiple months. Find a group by searching online for “Social Phobia support groups” or “Social Anxiety Disorder support groups.”Some groups require more overt participation than others. Make sure that you talk to the group leader or do some background research online before attending so you know what to expect.

