 This page contains all of the different editing controls. A menu to the right of the playback area allows you to add videos, images, audio, full screen text, and transition effects.


Alternately, you can press “Upload” and then “Edit” under the “Video Editor” header in the lower right.
The YouTube Editor draws from the uploaded videos on your account.
 Adding multiple videos to the timeline will merge them into a single video when finalizing the project.


Alternately, you can add videos to the timeline by pressing the “+” icon that displays in the top right corner of a clip while hovering the cursor.
You can reorder the videos by clicking and dragging them within the timeline.
Clicking the “x” in the upper right corner of a video in the timeline will remove it.
 Press the camera icon to the right of the video playback area to open the images tab. Press “Add Photos” to upload or click and drag existing photos into your video timeline.


You can adjust the length of time the image will display by selecting it in the timeline and clicking and dragging the the bars on either side. The default length is 4 seconds.
 Press the arrow icon to open the transition tab. Click and drag the desired effect between two video clips on the timeline.


"Crossfade" or "Crossblur" will give a more standard video transition by removing an abrupt cut. You can also pick a transition shape, like the "Heart" to invoke a more specific feeling.
You can adjust the speed of a transition effect by selecting it in the timeline and clicking and dragging the bars on either side.
 Press the “a” icon to add a full screen text title to your video. Click and drag the desired title style into the video timeline. Select it in the timeline to edit the text, color, font, and formatting.


You can adjust how long the text title displays by selecting it in the timeline and clicking and dragging the bars on either side.
 This button appears wherever the playback cursor is in the timeline. Clicking the icon will split the video at the current timestamp.


Any of the media types (video, image, transition, text) can be clipped.
You can adjust the length of a video or clip by selecting it in the timeline and clicking and dragging the the bars on either side.
 Use this to fine tune and organize your clips into a cohesive full video.


You can also remove unwanted clips by selecting them in the timeline and pressing ‘x” in the upper right corner of the clip.
 Press the music icon to open the audio tab. Click and drag items from YouTube’s music library to the audio timeline located below the video timeline. If you want to use only the audio from one of your videos, you can do so by clicking and dragging the video to the audio timeline.
Just like the video timeline, audio clips can be rearranged, adjusted and removed.
You can select an audio clip to adjust its volume, balance, treble, and bass.
 Clicking on a video clip in the timeline changes the menu to the right of the playback area. The new options will only affect the selected video clip: “Quick Fixes”, “Filters”, “Text”, and “Audio”.


You can click the ‘x’ in the upper right corner of any tab to deselect the video and revert the menu to the right of the playback area to the project editing menu.
You can view the adjustments by selecting “Preview effects side-by-side with original video”.
 In this tab you can have YouTube automatically adjust the lighting, color, contrast, zoom, or stabilization by clicking the checkbox next to the corresponding option. You can also enable slow motion by selecting a speed from the dropdown menu and rotate the video using the rotation buttons.


Brightness, contrast, and stabilize can also be adjusted using the sliders on the same tab.
 You can apply multiple filters simultaneously. Click to toggle a filter on or off.


Looking for a vintage feel? Try the "Old Fashioned" or "Sepia" filters. To instill a more hand-drawn look, try the "Sketch" or "Cartoon" filters.
 Enter your text into the text area and select “Enable text” in the tab to activate the overlay. You can adjust aspects like font, formatting, positioning, and opacity from this tab as well.


This text will appear on top of the selected video clip as it plays. The various position settings can determine where in the window it shows, while font, size, and color will affect how the text looks.
 Use the sliders to adjust the volume, balance, treble, and bass of the selected video. This will only affect the sound of the selected video clip, not the audio track created in the audio timeline.
 This will compiles all of your edits and uploads the completed product.


You may want to playback and preview your edits in full before pressing the "Create Video" button. Once pressed the project will be uploaded to your account.

