 It can be difficult to actively pursue a passionate attitude, especially if you have a packed schedule and a list of commitments. Set aside time, maybe one hour a day or fifteen minutes a day, to be creative. During this allotted time, shut your door, turn off your phone, and focus on being creative. This will ensure that you actually focus on being more creative and passionate, on your own or with others.It may help to put down “creative time” in your day planner or your iCalendar so you get a notification every day reminding you that it’s time to be creative, even for a few minutes a day.
 In the fashion world, an inspiration board is called a “mood board”. Create your own inspiration or mood board to get inspired to be creative. An inspiration board can be especially helpful if you are stuck on a problem or issue and are trying to come up with interesting solutions or ideas, such as “what is my passion?” or “how can I cultivate more passion in my life?”To make an inspiration board, write the question you are trying to solve in the middle of a large poster board. Then, create a collage of images, words, articles, poems, and other visual inspirations, like graphs or charts, around the question. This will allow you to map out possible inspirations around the question and get you excited and motivated about answering the question.
You can continue to add to the inspiration board as you find more ideas or visual elements. Over time, you may have a more complete picture of how you can answer a question or find a solution to a problem.
 A free write is a technique used in writing courses to help individuals brainstorm and develop their writing voice. Free-writing can also be a great exercise for identifying your feelings, ideas, impressions, and thoughts on a particular subject or prompt. You do not need to show anyone the free write or share them with anyone, as the free write can also act as a mini journal entry or a personal reflection. Free writes are usually timed, around four to five minutes per prompt and the writer is encouraged to write for the entire duration of the free write, keeping their pen on the page and focusing only on the prompt.If you are focusing on developing passion in your life, for example, you may have the prompt: “I can develop passion in my life by…” or “Some ways to develop a more passionate attitude include…”
Free writes can also be useful creative exercises, where you tackle a prompt that gives you the space to play around with your writing voice and access your creative abilities, if only for five minutes at a time. A list of creative writing prompts can be found here: http://www.writersdigest.com/prompts.
You can also integrate free writes into your daily life by using a possible issue or problem as a prompt. Writing through the issue or problem can allow you to develop your ideas and thoughts in a positive and proactive way.
 If you are stuck in a familiar spiral of passionless ideas and solutions, it may be time to call a brainstorm session with a partner or a team. This could be at work, with your work partner or your work team, or this could be at home with your romantic partner or your family.You can brainstorm ideas using the clustering technique, where you write the main idea or problem in the center and draw lines from the main idea to possible solutions, creating a cluster of possible solutions.
You can also pose a question to your audience and then have everyone toss out ideas, which you can write down in a list format. Once you have several ideas listed, you may then have everyone brainstorm on one to three ideas that seem viable and useful.
 Maybe you struggle with making your passionate ideas real and visualizing them as more than just an idea on a list. Be active with your ideas by drawing them out, especially if they are abstract. You can also use legos, modelling clay, or even cardboard to build an example of your idea. This will allow you to really see your ideas and demonstrate them easily to others.For example, you may struggle with how to answer the question, “How can I cultivate a more passionate attitude in my life?” After brainstorming or free writing, you may come up with one option: “Pursue a hobby, like guitar”. You may then draw out yourself playing guitar or learning how to play with a band. Or you may make a model of you playing guitar out of clay or cardboard.
 Sometimes, passion is best found in the words of others, particularly thinkers and speakers who focus on a certain subject or idea with passion and enthusiasm. You may search online for inspirational talks on a certain issue or problem you are struggling with or a well informed discussion by a passionate speaker on a subject that you would like to know more about.You can find inspirational talks online through TEDtalks on a variety of subjects and issues. Many TEDtalks are no longer than 20-30 minutes long and provide a quick dose of passion and excitement around an idea or concept.

