 If you have moderate or severe asthma, your doctor should be able to prescribe a peak flow meter. This device takes a measurement of how fast the air moves out of your lungs. Your doctor should also be able to give you a peak flow chart, which allows you to record your peak flow readings. Insert or copy the chart into your asthma diary. This is a great, inexpensive way to monitor symptoms in people 5 years and older.


If you have mild asthma, you could monitor your symptoms in your diary instead of peak flow readings.;
, If you are using a peak flow meter to monitor your asthma, you should recording your peak flow readings in your diary. Start by taking a peak flow reading:Align the arrow with the zero on the scale.
Stand up tall or sit up straight.
Take a long, deep breath.
Put your mouth tightly around the mouthpiece.
Blow out as hard and as fast as you can for a second.
Observe the number on the scale and write it down.
Do it again two more times.
 After obtaining three peak flow readings, record the highest number in your diary. This is your peak flow reading for the morning or the evening. You should record your peak flow once or twice a day.
 Over the course of a two-week period when your asthma feels relatively stable, record your peak flow every morning and evening. You should take a reading prior to using your bronchodilator and then again afterwards. At the end of the two week period, review the readings in your diary and find the highest number. This is your personal best., If you know your best reading, you can continuously monitor your peak flow readings relative to your best reading. You should record your daily peak flow readings by tracking them in relation to three zones in your diary:The green zone means your peak flow reading is eighty to one hundred percent of your best peak flow reading. The green zone means everything is good. You can relax and enjoy the day.
If you recorded a peak flow reading between fifty and seventy-nine percent of your best peak flow reading, you are in the yellow zone. The yellow zone means you should take precautions. You should follow the specific directions that your doctor prescribed for when things get worse or your “backup plan.” This could mean taking additional medications.
If you recorded a peak flow reading of less than fifty percent of your best reading, you are in the red zone. You should use your inhaler and call your doctor immediately.
 When you go for your doctor’s checkup or to the hospital, bring your peak flow diary. When they ask you about your symptoms, you can share your peak flow readings so they have a sense of your recent asthma experience.