 This will be the base of your pom pom.You won't see it in the end, but it would be a good idea to use a color that closely matches your fabric. If you don't have any felt on hand, you can also use thin cardboard or thick, stick fabric.

Your pom pom will be a little bigger than your felt circle. If you want a different-sized pom pom, then adjust the circle accordingly.
The circle doesn't have to be perfect, but try to make it as even as possible.
 You will need 20 to 30 circles to make a dome-shaped pom pom.If you want a full, round pom pom, you will need 40 to 60 circles. You can use all one type of fabric, or experiment with different colors, patterns, and textures.Save time by stacking several pieces of fabric together. This way, you won't have to cut or trace as much. You should be able to cut through 3 to 5 layers of fabric at once., If you are using different types of fabric, it might be a good idea to keep them organized in separate stacks., Make sure that you are pinching from the wrong side of the fabric so that the right side is on the inside of the cone-flower. This way, the right side will be visible on the finished pom pom., Shift your fingers to reveal the pointed top of the cone-flower. Use a hot glue gun to make a small drop of glue on the tip.Because of how close you are working to you fingers, it would be a good idea to use a low-temp hot glue gun rather than a high-temp one.
 Make sure that the cone is in the middle of the felt circle and standing straight up.Work quickly so that the glue does not set., Work your way in tight rings around the first flower that you glued. The closer together you glue the cones, the fuller your pom pom will be. You should be able to fit 20 to 30 cone-shaped flowers on one side of the felt.Try to point the cone-flowers sideways as you get closer to the edges.
 Your pom pom is done once the felt circle is filled. It will be dome-shaped. If you want a round pom pom, simply flip the pom pom over and continue scrunching and gluing fabric circles to the other side of the felt circle.

Glue down a loop of ribbon before you add your last cone-flower. This way, you can hang your pom pom.