 You should always keep in mind that it’s not what you like, but what you have researched and know that your visitors/customers will like. Just because you like the name or think it sounds good does not mean everyone else is going to like it.


Run potential names by others in your organization. For example, if your website will sell goods, ask your sales managers. If you have a blog, ask other bloggers.
If you have a small website, ask family members or friends what they think of your potential names.
Hire a marketing or consulting firm to give you feedback or recommendations for names.
 Another way of researching potential names is to run an internet search to see what other people have. By exploring the internet and seeing what your competitors or even non-related businesses have chosen, you’ll get a lot of ideas.


Search for websites that are in the same business as you. For example, if you sell tools online, look for other tool websites.
Take a look at the names of the top 100, 500, or even 1000 websites. By doing this, you’ll get an idea of what the most successful websites have in common.
Use your search as an opportunity to rule out names that are already taken, or names that are very like those used by other companies., Be very careful not to register domain names that include trademarked names. Thus, you should search to see if your website does not violate someone’s trademark.


Stay away from domain names in which part of the name is trademarked. You might wind up having to give up your domain name (and the brand you’ve built around it.)
Even if you believe your domain name is untouchable by a business that has trademarked a name, do not take the chance. The cost of litigation is extremely high.
Search for trademarks at: https://www.uspto.gov/trademarks-application-process/search-trademark-database., The extension you pick is very important, as it provides information about the type of business or website you are running. At the same time, the public has varying conceptions about different extensions. While most people trust “.com” extensions, they may be wary of “.biz” extensions.


The most popular and often preferred extension is the .com extension. Roughly 75% of websites have it.
Many web experts advise that if the .com is too expensive or is taken, you should probably try the .net or .org extensions – whichever is more appropriate. The .org extension is best used for nonprofit organizations. The .net extension is often used by companies that offer internet services.
Other popular extensions include .info .biz, and .us. The .info extension is best used for websites that offer information to the public, the .biz extension is best used for businesses, and the .us extension should be used by companies located in the United States.
Stay away from obscure extensions like .cheap or .camera., Once you’ve got an idea of what you want your name to be, you should make a list of a variants. By doing this, you’ll be able to experiment with different names that might be similar but could be more memorable.


Try simple changes in your name. For example, if your site will be called "MikesTools.com", you should also consider buying "MikeTools.com" and "MikeTool.com.”
Try changing the subject of your name. For example, if the name of your company is Mike's Tools, you may want to consider domain names that target what you sell. For example, try "buyhammers.com.”, Domain name generators will ask you to input a keyword and then will generate available names. While you may not like any of the names generated, they’ll provide you with ideas.


Use Wordoid. While this is not a domain name generator, you can input a word and it will provide you with new or similar words.
Experiment with DomainHole. This is a domain name generator that help you create new domain names based off a keyword you supply.
Other popular sites that may help you come up with ideas for your domain name include: Name Mesh, Dot-o-mator, NameStation, and Domainr.