 If you want to get a guy to notice you, you'll want to look and feel your best. Make sure that you look and feel healthy. If you do, you'll feel more confident, and confidence is attractive.Consider your diet, exercise habits, sleep schedule, and stress levels. If something is off with your physical health, work on getting well before you try to get a guy to notice you., Research has shown that men may view women as more attractive if they possess admirable personality traits.Do your best to show him your positive traits when you are around him. Show him that you are kind, honest, thoughtful, funny, and positive.
 When you want a guy to notice you, you may be tempted to wear your sexiest outfits, but don’t. It is important to dress in a casual way when you are first getting to know him. Otherwise, he might feel like you are trying to get his attention and feel pressured.Stick to jeans, t-shirts, and sneakers when you are first getting to know him. Wear clothes that flatter you and show your personality, but nothing that is skin tight or too revealing.
If you wear makeup, keep it simple. A little foundation, mascara, and lip gloss is fine.
If you feel comfortable doing so, you can dress in a way that shows off a little bit of your assets, without coming across as over-the-top. You can accomplish this by wearing a top that is a bit short and shows off some of your back when you bend over, wearing shorts now and then, or by wearing a top that shows a bit of cleavage. Most importantly, wear what makes you feel comfortable.
 Try not to let on that you are interested in anything more than friendship when you are first getting to know a guy. Treat him like a friend and don’t flirt too much when you are first getting to know him. If you come on too strong in the beginning, he may feel pressured and avoid being around you., Showing that you are interested in knowing things about him will grab his attention more than only telling him all about yourself. Make sure that your questions are not too personal to start. You can ask him about his hobbies, his family, and his interests. Steer clear of topics that might produce a negative response, such as politics, religion, or former girlfriends., As you work on getting him to notice you, make sure that you do a little flirting along the way. Just make sure that you are not too obvious. Try to keep him wondering if you are into him or just being friendly. For example, you might casually touch him on the arm now and then to get his attention or giggle when he cracks a joke.Some other flirtatious moves you might try include:



Gazing into his eyes. A lingering gaze can let him know you are interested and it may also increase his affection for you. Try gazing into your guy’s eyes for a few minutes and then slowly turn your gaze elsewhere. Or, if a long gaze does not seem appropriate yet, try checking in with your guy with frequent, quick glances.Directing your body towards him. Making sure that your body is facing him and even mirroring the position of his body can send positive signals his way.Make sure that you are facing him when he is talking to you and try adopting the same pose as he does.

Smiling at him. Smiling will let him know you are interested, but to all else it might just seem like you are being friendly.Try to keep your smile as natural and relaxed as possible. Don’t force it or smile in a way that is unusual for you.

