 Check all documents related to your property, including your deeds as well as any active leases or mortgages, to determine whether you have water or mineral rights in your property.Since most real estate in the U.S. is transferred as a fee simple estate, in which the purchaser has complete ownership of the land both above and below the surface, you may have rights to any water or minerals below your land as well.
However, water and mineral rights can be severed from surface rights, so it also is possible that someone else owns those rights – especially if you recently purchased the land.
An existing deed or lease for mineral or water rights could seriously impact your surface land rights if the mineral or water is extracted.
Water and mineral rights can be exceedingly complex, so if you run into problems or have questions, consider consulting an attorney with experience in mineral or water law.
 If you receive an eminent domain notice from a government agency, you have the right to contest the taking by requesting a hearing and having additional appraisals conducted to ensure you're getting fair compensation.An experienced attorney can help you protect your land rights if you're faced with an eminent domain proceeding.
You have the right to object to the government's exercise of eminent domain. Challenges questioning the government's use typically are unsuccessful as long as the judge considers the government's use proper.
However, you may be able to successfully argue that the government's use can be satisfied by taking less of your land than was originally requested.
 States and counties provide the opportunity to put your property into a conservation trust, or create a conservation easement, which will protect and conserve the land in virtually the same condition, restricting exploitation and development.Depending on the complexity of the easement you want to create and the size of your land, a conservation trust or easement could take several months up to a year to finalize, so make sure you plan ahead.
You must complete research and documents related to your land's legal description, deeds, surveys, and assessments of mineral and water rights in your land.
Creating a conservation easement often includes property tax benefits, and also may offer significant savings on estate taxes after your death.

