 Your treadmill is completely flat, while most outdoor running surfaces are not. To help prepare your body for the difference, you can practice by running on an incline on your treadmill.An incline of 1-2% closely simulates running outdoors.
Program your treadmill so that it adjusts incline throughout your run, if the treadmill you use has this feature available.;
, Since a treadmill's surface is smooth and cushioned, you may not have given much thought to your running shoes. However, you need a quality pair of running shoes with grippy soles capable of navigating uneven terrain. Choose a pair specifically for pavement or trail running, depending on what you plan to do.Pay attention to the cushioning and shock absorption available as well as the soles.
If you've never bought a pair of outdoor running shoes before, it is recommended that you go to a running specialty store and get a knowledgeable associate to assist you.
An associate can observe your running style and help you choose shoes based on whether you are a pronator (meaning you roll the foot inward) or a heel striker (you strike the ground first with the heel), or if have weak ankles or other issues.
 If you ran outdoors in the past, you can probably make the switch from treadmill running fairly quickly. However, after running on a treadmill for an extended period of time, you need to give your body time to adjust.If you've never run outside before, start with a short outdoor run every other week instead of every week. Try this for a month, then increase to twice a week.
 You don't necessarily have to do an entire run either outdoors or indoors. One way to increase the amount of time you run outdoors gradually is to do a small portion of your run outdoors and the rest of it on your treadmill.For example, if you run 5 miles (8.0 km) a day, you could do a quarter of that distance outside, and the rest of it inside. Gradually increase the distance that you run outside.
Keep track of your time. Your pace will be different outside than it will be on a treadmill.
 If you want to switch totally from treadmill running to outdoor running, it may take you a couple of months. Keep this in mind if you want to start running outdoors because of a change in the weather.For example, if you run indoors during cold months and outdoors during warm months, anticipate when it's going to start to get warmer. Find the warmest day on any given week and run outside for a little while. That way you can get the most out of the warm weather.
 Outdoor running places greater demands on your hamstrings and quads than treadmill running. When running on a treadmill, you get assistance from the motor so your muscles don't work as hard.Look for dynamic stretches and exercises, such as squats and lunges, that focus on strengthening these muscle groups.
Start these exercises before you start making your transition to outdoor running to help reduce your risk of injury as you transition to running outside.
Make sure you cool down and stretch thoroughly after running outside, keeping in mind that your hamstrings and quads are getting worked more than they usually are when you run on the treadmill.
 When switching from treadmill to outdoor running, you may want to shorten the length of your stride. This will give you a more stable base while you adapt to uneven terrain. Once you are used to running outside, you can lengthen your stride., There are variables outside, such as wind, humidity, temperature, that will affect your pace. These variables combined with the uneven terrain may mean that you cannot run as fast outside as you can indoors on a treadmill.You'll fare better if you don't try to run at the same pace outside as you did on the treadmill. Pay attention to your breathing and your heart rate, as well as how your muscles feel.
Don't get discouraged if you feel your outdoor running performance is poor compared to your treadmill running performance. Once you get adjusted to outdoor running, your pace will improve.
 When you run on a treadmill, your pace is regulated by the motor in the treadmill. If you were able to program intervals, you may already have experience walking and then running, but when outdoors you have to regulate your own pace.Walk breaks can help strengthen your leg muscles as well as get your feet used to the uneven terrain.
A walk break also is helpful if you encounter an incline much steeper than anything you've ever attempted on a treadmill.
 When you run on a treadmill in a climate-controlled space, you don't have to give much thought to your attire. However, when running outdoors, you may have to buy new running gear to protect yourself from the elements.Choose lightweight layers so you can take something off if you get overheated during your run. If you have exposed skin, make sure you wear sunscreen.
Wear a hat or visor to shield your eyes from the sun and also keep your hair out of your face.
Secure identification, cash or a card, and other essentials on your person. Items shaking in your pockets as you run will be distracting, and could fall out.
 When you ran on a treadmill, you may have passed your time by zoning out on the television, or listening to an audio book or podcast. While you can listen to music or another audio recording while you run outside, you still need to remain alert.Not only do you need to keep an eye on the terrain so you don't trip on anything, you also need to watch for other runners, cyclists, and pedestrians, as well as cars if you're running alongside a road.
On your first few outdoor runs, it's best to minimize distractions so you can focus on your route and your running. Pay attention to your body and notice the differences between outdoor running and treadmill running.
 While running on a treadmill, you may have measured your peak performance based on the speed at which you were going. When running outdoors, pay attention to how you feel and how hard you're breathing.Use a heart rate monitor to keep track of the intensity of your workout.
The workout your body gets is reflected by the length of time you work at a certain level of intensity – not by how far you go during that time.
Looking at the level of intensity of your effort rather than how far you go also takes into account other variables outdoors, such as wind resistance, which can affect your pacing.
 Because outdoor running places more demands on your body than treadmill running, you don't want to go too far too fast. You can begin with a 1-mile (1.6-km) route, and repeat it once you are more comfortable running outside. Work up to longer routes, such as 3 miles (4.8 km)., Treadmills are cushioned and absorb some of the shock of the impact of your feet on the surface. Roads are not this forgiving. Trails composed of dirt or gravel give you a softer surface.Look for running trails in nearby parks. If you're running on a trail, especially at night, you might want to find a buddy to run with you – even if the trail is relatively well lit.
It might help to walk through the trail before you run it, especially if you've never seen it before, so you know what to expect.
 Especially if you're just starting to make the transition from treadmill running to outdoor running, try to plan circular routes. If you simply go in one direction, you might find yourself unable to get back due to injury or fatigue.When running outdoors, expect to get tired more quickly. Map a route in which you maintain a relatively short distance from the place where you started.
 There are a number of apps available for smartphones that you can use for your outdoor running program. Many include GPS tracking and other tools to help you map your route and track your progress.Since many of these apps are available for free (or at least offer a free trial), you can try several to figure out which would work best for you.

