 Your feet should be about a shoulder's width apart. Bring both hands up to approximately waist height. Make sure they are a few inches in front of you and keep your palms facing the ground.


Bending your knees and lowering your body allows you to balance yourself better.
Remember to breathe slowly and evenly.Avoid the tendency to hold your breath in an effort to move silently, because it will end up having the opposite effect.;
, After you’ve carefully shifted your weight to your right leg, slowly raise your left foot. Use your right leg to maintain your balance as you lift your foot as slowly as you possibly can.Once you’ve raised your left leg so that your knee is approximately at waist level, stop.
Continue using your right leg and the placement of your hands to help you balance on one foot.
 Do this as slowly as your balance will allow. Keep extending until your left foot is hovering over the ground at approximately a stride’s length in front of you.As you steadily extend your left foot forward, gradually begin shifting some of the weight from your right leg to your left.
When you begin shifting your weight to your left leg in mid-air, your right leg will require a little more effort and muscle control to keep you balanced.
 Using slow, measured movements, start lowering your foot to the ground. Continue to slowly shift a little more weight from the right to the left leg. Point your left toes slightly downward in anticipation of making contact with the ground.Keep your knees loose through the entire process and try as hard as you can not to stiffen them.
Maintain balance and control by allowing your body weight to sink and be carried by deeply flexed knees.
 No other toe should be touching the ground yet. Once you’ve steadied yourself, shift a little more weight to the left, controlling your balance with the pinky toe and your right leg., You will start with the smallest toes first. As your slowly and silently put down another toe, shift a little more of your weight to the left.


Continue shifting your weight and controlling your balance as you touch down the other left toes, ending with your big toe.All of your left toes should be touching the ground at this point. No other part of your foot should be on the ground.
 You are now in mid-stride, with your weight evenly distributed to the left toes and right leg. Start shifting more weight to your left toes while you simultaneously begin to flex your right foot forward, bringing your heel off the ground in preparation of the next stride.


Try to keep your movements as controlled as possible while you’re in mid-stride.
 As you raise your right leg, simultaneously start to slowly roll your left foot down from the toes to put weight on the ball of your left foot. Continue to lower until your heel is finally touching the ground.You are now halfway through the next stride. Almost all of your weight should now be shifted onto your left side, with your right leg in mid-air.
This is the hardest part, since it requires the most balance and muscle control.
 Keep extending until your right foot is hovering over the ground at approximately a stride’s length in front of you. Move as slowly as you can.As you gradually extend your right foot forward, begin shifting some of the weight from your left leg to your right.
Maintain muscle control and balance as you shift your weight.
 Touch down first with your right pinky toe. Slowly begin touching your other toes to the ground, going from smallest to largest. As you bring your toes down, transfer more weight to your right foot.


You should now be balanced evenly. Your right foot is forward with only the toes touching the ground. Your left foot is back, with your toes and heel on the ground.
Hands should still be facing with the palms down, a few inches in front of you, at about waist height.
 Be as silent as possible and keep using the same method of moving from one tip toe to the next, shifting your weight back and forth and maintaining your balance as you do so.


This was the most common ninja style of stealth walking. The goal was to move as slowly and silently as possible.It is called “Shinobi-ashi” which means “quiet feet.”