 Since you are sending an envelope from Great Britain to an international recipient, you should still position the address per Great Britain’s requirements. This means that the address should be positioned in the bottom left corner on the front of the envelope. When positioning the first line, be sure to plan ahead so that you leave enough room for the several lines of text, including a line for the country. You should also plan to leave a margin of about 1/2 an inch (1.3 cm) around the entire address., While some countries prefer that the address is centered, both in placement on the envelope and the alignment of the text, you still want to stick with Great Britain’s conventions for formatting. In Great Britain the correct format is for all of the address lines to be aligned against the left address margin., International mail has a long journey, so you want to make sure the address remains clear in order for it to be processed properly. When handwriting the address, use a pen with permanent ink in a color that is clear against the color of the envelope. Do not use pencil or anything that could be easily smudged or rubbed off during processing. If you are printing an address label, choose a font that is easy to read and use a color that stands out against the label. For both handwritten and printed addresses, size the text so it can be ready easily, with a text size comparable to a font size of 10 - 15., Be sure to include their first name and surname, spelling each correctly. Because it is international mail you should include a title with the name even for close friends and family members. If you are sending the envelope to a person at a specific organization, you should include the name of the organization in a separate line underneath their name. Some country-specific things to remember when writing out the name:Remember some countries use alternative titles (e.g., Herr or M. vs. Mr., Sra or Mme vs. Mrs., Mlle vs. Miss, etc.).
When addressing mail to France or Monaco, write the recipient’s surname in CAPITAL letters (e.g., M. Robert MARIN).
 If the place you are mailing the envelope to has an official building number or property name, like “U.S. Embassy” or “Paris-Sorbonne University,” include this underneath the recipient’s name and drop the street name and property number to the next line. If the property does not have a full name, simply include the property number and the name of the street. Keep the following in mind when writing the street address for other countries:For most countries outside of the United States, Canada, UK, Australia, and New Zealand, the house number is written after the street name (e.g., “Rue du Diamant 215” instead of “215 Rue du Diamant).
If you don't know the correct order for the country you are sending the envelope to, you can look it up on the Royal Mail website: http://www.royalmail.com/personal/international-delivery/country-guides


, There are three types of localities: the double dependent locality, the dependent locality, and the post town. For most international mail, the address is only required to have the post town and postcode included, this time on the same line. If you need or want to include other locality elements, such as the state or province, they should go above the post town and postcode line, which should always be the second to last line for international mail. The post town and any letters in the postcode (if applicable) should all be written in capital letters, with other locality information written in normal case. Keep the following in mind when writing these elements for other countries:Some countries like Germany require the postcode to come before the post town.
Countries like Portugal require the province to be included in brackets after the post town.
Australia and the United States require the state abbreviation to be inserted between the post town and postcode.
For a full list of country-specific requirements for post towns and postcodes, look it up on the Royal Mail website: http://www.royalmail.com/personal/international-delivery/country-guides


, As a requirement for international mail, the destination country must be included on the last line of the address. For all countries, this must be written in in capital letters. This line should not contain any other information and needs to be spelled correctly. Do not abbreviate the country. For example, write out “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA” instead of “U.S.” or “USA.”, In case the envelope needs to be sent back to you, a return address should be included with all international mail. It is not a requirement, but international mail is complicated, and sometimes mail is returned even if you include all of the address elements correctly. Since you are sending the mail from Great Britain, follow the convention of including the return address on the back of the envelope (the side with the flap). Position the return address in the center of the envelope with the text left aligned. You need to include all of the same elements as the front address, except the first line here should read “Return Address.” Be sure to also include your country in all capital letters as the last line in the return address., Postage is always required to send any envelope in the mail, but there are sometimes special requirements for sending international mail, like customs labels. The appropriate amount of postage depends on the size and weight of the envelope or parcel you are sending, with larger, heavier packages costing more money. Include the postage on the front of the envelope in the top right corner so that the mail carrier can read the address and confirm the shipping was paid for at the same time.


If you are not sure how much postage you need for international mail, or you want to check if a customs label is needed, look it up on the Royal Mail website: http://www.royalmail.com/personal/uk-delivery/stamps


