 The days of writing a single résumé and submitting it to a wide range of employers are long gone. You must continually change your resume to meet the expectations of each hiring manager for every position for which you apply. At the same time, it must also be an entirely honest document., Objectives are rarely read by employers. Sometimes they are even viewed to be an annoying filler. Instead of creating an objective, let your skills and experiences drive your resume.The layout of your resume should reflect importance. Put the most critical information first. Spend the most space talking about job-related skills and experiences. Keep any accountable results that directly relate to the job you desire., To keep your resume readable, avoid complicated designs and fonts. You may have to upload your resume to an applicant tracking system and sometimes more complex elements can’t be deciphered. This means your painstakingly-crafted resume won’t be seen by anyone at all.When keeping it simple, also keep it short. Don’t allow your resume to go longer than one or two pages. Recruiters will often become bored and stop reading early on., After your updated resume sits for a few days, reread it. Check for errors, typos, and formatting issues. Allowing it to sit unchecked for a period is vital; if you reread instantly after completion, you’ll often miss apparent mistakes. Let someone you trust read over your resume and give feedback. The more people you have reading your resume, the better chance you have at catching a mistake. One simple mistake could cost you an offer.Always remove any controversial or unnecessary information. This includes, but is not limited to, political stance, sexual orientation, or religious beliefs., By understanding how headhunters operate, you can make yourself easy prey. The best way to start is by searching for a local headhunting company in your area and contacting them. A simple phone call and introduction will allow them to insert you into their database of appropriate candidates., Social media is everything these days. Recruiters are constantly looking for good profiles and will reach out to candidates directly. Treat your online profiles just like a resume by keeping them current and updated. , Recruiters often attend professional networking events to meet clients and candidates. If you want to be found, you have to show up and take part. Don’t limit yourself only to recruiting workshops. Check local newspapers and recruiting sites for networking opportunities and open houses at local companies. Getting yourself out there helps to keep you relevant and your network expanding.Be visible and build your professional network. By being visible, you are more likely to make connections as people begin to associate your name with your work. Making connections will allow you to be headhunted. Purchase a simple pack of business cards and hand them out everywhere you go. Out for lunch? Leave a business card. Meeting an acquaintance? Leave a business card. The more you give out, the more likely you are to be discovered., Once you’ve found a headhunter, you may want to determine if they are useful to you, rather than signing on to the first one you find. Complete a list of objectives and questions. Be upfront in communicating your needs and don’t hesitate to ask questions.


When thinking of objectives, analyze your endgame. Determine your ideal job, salary, hours, field, and commute time. Knowing your “needs” “wants” and “do not wants” will help you communicate.In the list of questions, don’t be afraid to get into the nitty gritty. You want to be able to determine if this is the right person to be working with you. Ask about their credentials, placement success, any charges or fees, and their background.Never forget to listen to your gut. If the headhunter feels off, they probably are. If they are asking for money or endless amounts of your time, it is likely a scam.
 Whether it’s a message board you’ve found through a search engine, or it is attached to a career or networking site, check it. Headhunters often make posts regarding open positions and qualifying candidates. Sometimes headhunters will trade information and resumes.Even if you are unable to partake in the conversation, you may be able to find insider information that can help you pick or find the right headhunter.


Try checking recruiting, university alma mater or professional union websites for discussion boards., Recruiter directories are exactly what they sound like; directories where recruiters are able to register their own personal and business profiles, to help find candidates. Watch these sites regularly but don’t hesitate to contact a headhunter directly to start building rapport.Too many membership fees? If you’ve hit roadblocks in the finances department because of sites requiring payment to view, try your local library. Many libraries allow free access to recruiter websites., Once you’ve spent a few years working in your industry, you’ll have developed your own small network. Use this to your advantage. Call any mentors or bosses and ask them for a referral. Many headhunters will know the higher-ups in a particular field, since they will have years of experience.If there is a recruiter in your network, keep them in your pocket. Even when a headhunter doesn’t have a position for you, one can always come up. Help keep yourself in the forefront of their mind by referring candidates for positions that you are unsuitable for. Keep in mind, only refer trustworthy and quality candidates to prevent this tactic from backfiring and ruining your reputation., Sign up for any and every career website you can find, but be prepared to pay any associated fees. Many recruiters will frequent job sites to look for candidates. These sites will also have an overwhelming amount of traffic and profile. Pay a small amount of cash to cover membership fees.This will give your profile perks and allow you stand out against various competition with features like priority listing in search results.
 To open the advanced search on LinkedIn, make sure you are logged in. Then click the plus icon within the magnifying glass on the search bar., In the “Title” field, begin entering recruiter-related terms. For example, try searching “diversity OR employee referral OR recruiting OR recruitment OR staffing OR talent”. Keep in mind, the “OR” will separate the terms, so any new term should have an “OR” between it and the last term. The longer your search the better, as it will pull up any related profiles.If you have any local terms or slang used for recruiters, be sure to enter those as well.
 The “Industry” field allows you to search for people in a specific industry or area. Most recruiters select either “Staffing and Selection” or “Human Resources” for themselves. For extra coverage, also select “Other Industry Terms”. This will allow you to view any recruiters that go by their own categories., The “Relationship” field determines how the search network relates to you. If you select “1st connections” only people you know will be searched. “2nd connections” will search through your connection’s connections. Select all the possible options to ensure the network search is as wide as possible., Once you see the “Keyword” field, you want to type in any field-related terms. This allows you to search for recruiters who may not list that they are headhunters on their profile, but who work in your industry. This is where you want to enter in any key terms directly related to your career. For example, if you work in the banking sector, enter “bank OR banking OR accounting OR finance”. Again, the more terms you can enter, the better your result will be., Once you’re ready, hit the “Search” button. This will search LinkedIn using all your terms and selections. Now simply look through the results to find and contact your headhunters.

