 You will need to order a replacement screen for your iPod. Replacement screens can be ordered online for about $20 USD. Make sure to order the display for the 5th Generation iPod with Video, or the display will not work.
 Make sure that the iPod is turned off and locked with the Hold switch toggled on before opening your iPod. This will ensure that you don't accidentally turn it on while working on it.
 Use an iPod opening tool or a flathead screwdriver to gently by the front casing from the back. You will need to disengage the tabs around the edge of the iPod.


Don't completely separate the two halves when you disengage all of the tabs. There are ribbons connecting the two halves that could get damaged if you pull it apart.
 You will see a small, brown latch holding a ribbon cable in place in one of the corners. Use tweezers to lift the latch so that you can slide the ribbon cable out.


Don't pull the latch too hard, or you may accidentally separate the logic board, which will render your iPod essentially unusable.
 At this point you should have one cable connecting the two halves of your iPod. This cable connects the headphone jack to your logic board. Lift the hard drive up to reveal the brown connector. Use your fingernail or opening tool to lift the latch on the connector and release the cable. Pull the cable out with your fingers and your iPod halves will now be completely separated.
 Lift the hard drive up from the top of the iPod, and remove the ribbon cable that attaches it to the circuitry. You may need to use your opening tool to release the hinge on the motherboard connector cable. releasing it from the hard drive.
 On the each side of the iPod, you should see several small screws. Remove these with a Phillips screwdriver and set the screws somewhere you won't lose them.


Once the screws are removed, work the metal framework free. There will be a little resistance, as the framework is usually lightly glued to keep it in place.
The framework houses the logic board, front display, and click wheel. Lift it completely out of the front panel.
 On the logic board, you will see another ribbon cable connected. This cable attaches to the display. Flip the tab up that holds the ribbon in place. Gently wiggle the display free from the framework, and lightly pull it out. The ribbon cable will come with it.
 Now that the display is separated, you can install your new screen. Insert the new screen's cable into the logic board and close the tab to secure it. Follow the previous steps in reverse to reattach all of your components and close up your iPod.


You will likely need to perform a restore once your iPod has been put back together. See the first method in this article for details on how to restore your iPod.