 Switch to a gentle cleanser when dealing with peeling skin. Some soaps can actually be fairly abrasive, and using them now can dry out the skin and cause further irritation.Opt for a creamy, liquid soap. Bars of soap tend to be the most abrasive option, followed by clear liquid cleansers.
Rinse with warm water, then gently work the cleanser or soap into the skin. Rinse it away with more warm water when finished.
Use warm water, especially during the initial rinse and wash. Cold water won't be as effective at removing flakes of skin, but hot water can dry the skin too much and may cause additional discomfort. If your skin is especially itchy, you can use cool water during the second rinse to help soothe it.;
, Use an exfoliator while you're taking a shower or bath, immediately after you finish washing the skin. Good exfoliators will assist you in the task of actually removing any currently flaky, peeling skin.


There are physical and chemical exfoliators. Physical exfoliators use tiny beads or granules to strip flaking skin away, while chemical exfoliators remove the skin using certain enzymes.For the sake of removing peeling skin, chemical exfoliators are safer. Physical exfoliators may tear the skin and cause infection if you aren't careful.
Chemical exfoliators with fruit enzymes, like papaya or pineapple, are your best choice. If you do opt for a physical exfoliator, choose one with smooth beads instead of harsh granules.
 After you finish exfoliating, stand or sit in the warm steam of the shower for several minutes.


Intense steam, like the kind you'd find in a sauna, can actually be bad for peeling skin. Small amounts of heated mist from the shower are beneficial, though, since it infuses moisture back into your otherwise dry skin.
After spending a few minutes in the steam, you can exit the shower and dry off. Pat your skin with a soft towel but do not scrub yourself dry.
 You should apply moisturizing creams or lotions immediately after your shower. Your skin is still moist at this point, and applying lotions now will help hold some of that moisture in place.


Everyone's skin is different, but if you aren't sure which product works best for you, consider trying a moisturizing cream containing hyaluronic acid. This chemical is known to attract and bind moisture to the skin.
 External skin care is important, but you'll need to keep your skin hydrated internally, too. To accomplish that task, drink more fluids on a daily basis.


A general rule of thumb is to drink eight 8-oz (250-ml) glasses of water or other non-caffeinated, non-alcoholic fluids daily.
When dealing with peeling skin, however, you should consider increasing your intake of fluids to ten 8-oz (250-ml) glasses daily., It might seem tempting to pick or pull away peeling skin, but doing so interferes with the body's natural healing process and may increase your risk of developing an infection.


If you're dealing with huge flakes of peeling skin and you're worried about accidentally catching and tearing it away, you can cut away the already dead flakes. Use clean nail scissors and carefully trim away the dead portion only.
 Exposure to direct sunlight can weaken your skin further and complicate the problem. This is true regardless of whether your skin is peeling due to a sunburn or due to dryness.


Apply sunscreen over any exposed skin when you know you'll have to be out in the sun.
Cover as much skin as possible with hats and clothing before stepping outside. Focus especially on the areas that are already damaged and peeling.
 Aloe vera is a relatively well-known treatment for irritated skin, and you can find aloe vera gel in most pharmacies. Gently massage the gel into the affected skin. Let it dry completely, then rinse the area with warm water to remove any sticky residue.


You can apply aloe vera gel two or three times each day.
This plant-based product can reduce inflammation, irritation, and itching. As a result, your skin will feel more comfortable and less stressed, allowing it to heal more effectively.
 Oatmeal is another well-known treatment for itchy, flaky skin. You can soak in an oatmeal bath or apply an oatmeal-based scrub.


To prepare an oatmeal bath, mix 1 cup (250 ml) of oatmeal into a bathtub filled with warm water. Soak in the bath for roughly 30 minutes, then rinse with clean water.
To prepare an oatmeal scrub, soften 1/4 cup (60 ml) of rolled oats with a little warm water. Gently massage the moist oats over the affected skin, then rinse it all away with clean water.
 Soak a clean washcloth in a small dish of ice-cold whole milk. Lay the washcloth directly over the patch of peeling skin and leave it in place for 10 minutes.Milk contains lipids that can rehydrate and plump up damaged, flaking skin. The cold temperature and lactic acid in the milk can soothe the skin and strip away some of the flakes.
 Certain oils contain fatty acids that can moisturize dry, peeling skin. Massaging the skin with one of these beneficial oils can lock in moisture just as effectively as any hydrating cream could.


Two of your best options are olive oil and coconut oil. You could also try grape seed oil, sesame oil, castor oil, or almond oil.
Microwave 1/4 cup (60 ml) of oil for 5 to 10 seconds in the microwave. It should be warm but not hot. Generously rub the oil over the flaky skin, and repeat the procedure up to three times each day.
 Lemon juice alone has the ability to work as a gentle chemical exfoliator. By combining the lemon juice with sugar, you can transform it into an exfoliator that works both chemically and physically to strip away peeling skin.


Mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) of sugar with the juice of one lemon half. Stir the ingredients together until a thick paste forms.
If desired, you can also enhance the scrub with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of honey and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of olive oil, but doing so is not necessary.
Gently rub the scrub over the affected skin using small, circular motions. After letting it sit for several minutes, rinse it away with cold water.
 Cucumbers have a high water content, so they can help hydrate and cool irritated, flaky skin. They also contain vitamin C, which can assist your skin's natural ability to heal itself.


Grate one cucumber into paste-like shreds. Carefully apply the grated cucumber to the skin and leave it in place for 15 to 20 minutes. Rinse with warm water when finished.
You can apply cucumber to the affected skin twice daily for one or two weeks, or until the skin heals.
 Certain fruits can be grated or mashed and applied to peeling skin as gentle moisturizers. Bananas, apples, and papayas are among the most effective.Mash one banana into 1/4 cup (60 ml) of yogurt until a lumpy cream forms. Apply the cream to peeling skin and let it sit for 5 minutes before rinsing with clean water.
Grate one apple into paste-like shreds and apply the shreds directly to the affected skin. Rinse with clean water after 5 minutes.
Mash a papaya and spread the fruit directly over the affected area. Tie a clean cotton cloth over the treated area to hold the papaya paste in place for at least 30 minutes. After it dries, rinse it away with clean water.
 Rub honey directly over the patchy, peeling skin, using just enough to coat the skin with a light layer. Let the honey sit for 10 to 20 minutes before rinsing it away with lukewarm water.


Honey is a combination of different nectars, so it can contain a variety of beneficial elements, including fructose, water, oil, glucose, enzymes, and various nutrients.
As a result, honey works well as a natural moisturizer. There is also some belief that honey contains natural antibacterial properties, so it may help reduce the risk of infection associated with torn skin.
 When applied in small amounts, apple cider vinegar can be used as a chemical exfoliator.


Rub a very small amount directly into the peeling skin. Consider covering the area with clean cotton cloth to prevent the vinegar from rubbing off.
Allow the vinegar to sit on the skin overnight, then wash it away with lukewarm water in the morning.
Only apply vinegar once or twice a week. Using it too often could result in further irritation.

