 There are a number of questionable sources of stock tips available to investors.Many of the penny stock newsletters are actually advertisements funded by companies with low-priced stocks. Read the disclaimers that usually accompany these publications.
Focus on factual information about a company and ignore those who promote stocks without mentioning profitability or the value of assets.
 Before investing in a stock determine how much the stock is or should be worth. Focus on the following points:


The value of the company assets versus liabilities. This can be tricky because not all companies are as scrupulous about providing a full description of net worth.
Dividends, or payments from the company to its shareholders. Most penny-stock companies are not going to pay a lot, but the payment of even a few dividends would normally suggest that the company is at least turning a profit.
The market volatility of the stock. Has the stock risen and fallen dramatically in the last several months? If so, why? Has there been questionable leadership, or are they tied to a commodity or service that has fallen out of favor? An intelligent reading of the volatility can help identify value while also considering the risk involved in an investment.
The vision of the company. Especially for a new firm attempting to raise capital through a stock issue, companies must demonstrate that they have a vision, a plan for the future. Who will the customers be, and how will they grow in number? How will the company use the money raised by this stock sale? , Because penny stocks can be so volatile, you may need to trade them in a hurry. In particular, if you have purchased shares which subsequently double or triple in value in a matter of weeks, you'll have to consider selling them quickly before the market reconsiders. You may be inclined to sit back and enjoy the ride, but unless you predicted this kind of swing based upon your estimate of the company's actual value, the stock could easily become over-valued and due for a crash. 