 The ideal yarn for this project is medium, worsted weight, cotton yarn. Do not use wool or acrylic yarn. You will need the 6 colors of the rainbow as well as a neutral color for under the rainbow, such as black or white.


For a traditional rainbow, consider: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple.
For a brighter rainbow, consider: hot pink, neon orange, light yellow, spring green, bright/sky blue, and bright purple.
 Make 3 chain stitches. Next, skip the first chain stitch, and make 6 half double crochets in the second chain stitch. Fasten the yarn off and do not turn your work.


Do not turn your work for the following rows.
Fasten the yarn off at the end of each row, and leave a small tail so that you can weave it in.
 Start with 2 chain stitches. Make 2 half double crochets in each of the 6 stitches. You will have a total of 12 stitches.
 Begin with 2 chain stitches. Next, make 2 half double crochets in the same stitch followed by 1 half double crochet in the next stitch. Repeat the previous 3 stitches (2 hdc in the same stitch, 1 hdc) 6 times for a total of 18 stitches.
 Start with 2 chain stitches. Make 2 half double crochets in the same stitch, then 2 half double crochets. Repeat the last 4 stitches (2 hdc in the same stitch, 2 hdc) 6 times for a total of 24 stitches.
 Begin with 2 chain stitches. Next, do 2 half double crochets in the same stitch, followed by 3 half double crochets. Repeat the last 5 stitches (2 hdc in the same stitch, 3 hdc) 6 times for a total of 30 stitches.
 Start with 2 chain stitches. Make 2 half double crochets followed by 2 half double crochets in the same stitch. Follow up with 4 half double crochets. Repeat the last 6 stitches (2 hdc in the same stitch, 4 hdc) 6 times for a total of 36 stitches.
 Begin with 2 chain stitches. Next, do 2 half double crochets in the same stitch. Follow up with 5 half double crochets. Repeat the last 7 stitches (2 hdc in the same stitch, 5 hdc) 6 times for a total of 42 stitches.
 After you have finished each row, you fastened the yarn off, and cut it, leaving a short tail. Thread the first tail through your needle, and weave it back into the rainbow. Pull the needle out, and repeat with the remaining tails.