 All are delicious, but you can choose a vanilla by description or try different varieties until you find your favorite.


Madagascar Bourbon: has a sweet aroma and delicate flavor; this is the most common vanilla found in stores
Tahitian: has a floral aroma and fruity flavor
Mexican: full bodied, rich, and smoky; may be too strong for some.;
, You might be tempted to splurge on a fancy bean for your sugar, but you don't need to. Splurging will be worth it for baking, but Grade B beans will be perfect for extracts and sugars. The drier bean means you’ll have a less watery flavor to your sugar or extract., It actually suggests that the beans were picked at exactly the right time in their development for full flavor.
 The whiteness might suggest that the beans have been out in the air for some time, but it doesn't affect the taste of the beans at all.
 Scrape the beans out of the pod using the back of the knife.
 Pour 2 cups of granulated sugar into a container that has an air-tight lid, then bury the seeds and empty vanilla pod in the sugar. Use your fingers to spread the beans throughout the sugar to ensure even flavor.
 The longer you set the ingredients sit together, the stronger the vanilla flavor will be in the sugar.
 The ideal environment for any vanilla product is cool, dark, and dry. If you have a closet or pantry in your kitchen, that's a good choice. As long as it's stored properly, the vanilla in your sugar won't go bad, and you can store your vanilla sugar indefinitely.


Don't refrigerate vanilla products, as the cold can encourage the growth of a mold specific to vanilla beans.
 While it can't replace the strong flavor of vanilla extract, your sugar can add a subtle kick of flavor to many of your favorite dishes.


Spread it over cut fruits for a light snack
Add depth of flavor to your vanilla cake
Substitute it for regular sugar in any baking recipe you think would benefit from vanilla
Sprinkle it on top of cookies or muffins
Sweeten coffee or tea with it
Sprinkle it over regular or French toast at breakfast

