 Every person over the age of 6 months should get a flu shot every year, usually in the early fall before flu season begins.There are a few different flu shots available, so ask your doctor or pharmacist which vaccine is right for you. Get your flu shot at a doctor’s office, clinic, pharmacy, college health center, or even in some schools and workplaces.


Last year’s shot won’t protect you from this year’s flu - get a shot every year.
Talk to your doctor before getting the shot if you’re allergic to eggs, have ever had Guillain-Barré Syndrome, or are not feeling well the day you are supposed to get the shot.;
, Wash your hands any time you cough, sneeze, or blow your nose, after using the restroom, before eating or preparing food, after caring for someone who is sick, after changing a diaper, and after touching garbage. Use proper hand washing technique:Wet your hands with clean, running water (hot or cold). Turn off the water tap, then apply soap to your hands.
Rub your hands together to lather up the soap. Lather the backs of your hands, between your fingers, up to your elbows, and underneath your fingernails. Scrub your hands for at least 20 seconds, then rinse the soap off under clean, running water.
Dry your hands using a clean towel or an air dryer.
 If you don’t have access to soap or clean, running water, use hand sanitizer at times when you would otherwise wash your hands. Your hand sanitizer should be made of at least 60% alcohol. Place some sanitizer in the palm of your hand and rub your hands together, rubbing the product over your whole hands and fingers until your hands feel dry.Hand sanitizers are not as good at removing germs as washing your hands. Wash your hands whenever you have the option.
Hand sanitizers don’t work well if your hands are greasy or visibly dirty.
Keep hand sanitizer out of reach of children – do not let children swallow it.
 Avoid touching your face, eyes, mouth, or nose unless you wash your hands first. Illness is spread easily this way. Carry a small bottle of hand sanitizer in your purse, briefcase, or backpack to use first if you need to touch your face.
 Sneeze and cough into a tissue, then throw the tissue away. This is cleaner than sneezing into your hands, and can help prevent the spread of flu.If you don’t have a tissue with you, sneeze or cough into the crook of your elbow.

