 Probate can be avoided if the property or possessions you own are also owned by another individual, usually a spouse, with a right of survivorship.


Take title with someone else so that joint ownership exists. Then, when one of the owners dies, the title simply passes on to the other owner — no probate involved!

, There are several ways that you can establish joint ownership of property. Note that if you already own property, you will have to file new deeds to change the type of ownership of the property. You will need to determine which is appropriate for your situation and property.Joint tenancy with right of survivorship.In joint tenancy, two or more people own the same real property. Then, when one of the owners dies, ownership of the property transfers to one or more of the sole survivors through the right of survivorship.Tenancy by its entirety. This is exactly like joint tenancy, except only for married couples (and in some states, same-sex couples).Community property with right of survivorship. Community property is any property obtained during a marriage (with a few exceptions such as gifts or inheritances that are kept separate from joint accounts).Married citizens of certain states can invoke community property with the right of survivorship, in which all property is transferred to one spouse upon the death of the other.States without community property laws usually have laws that allow for the surviving spouse to inherit at least one third to one half of the deceased’s property; this prevents someone from disinheriting a spouse upon his or her death.Common Law property. States are not community property states operate under common law rules. In general, this mean that if one spouse’s name is on a deed, he or she can determine the person to whom that property passes. If both spouses’ names are on a deed, the surviving spouse usually assumes full ownership upon the death of the other spouse.Tenancy in common. This is somewhat unusual in most deeds, but this allows someone who is married to pass their portion of ownership in a property to someone other than his or her spouse. For example, if a husband and wife share half ownership of a property with tenancy in common and the husband dies, he can leave his half of the home’s ownership to his adult son instead of having his wife own the house 100%, which happens with joint tenancy., If you are part of a same-sex couple and you live in a state where same-sex marriage is not legal, you will not be able to hold property jointly either as tenants by the entirety or as community property. However, all other ways to avoid probate are equally applicable regardless of who you want to give your property to.


Typically, if you would like to leave property to your partner but anticipate problems due to your marriage status, you should execute a will.
Although probate can take time, it is needed in some situations and same-sex couples should utilize the right to designate exactly who they want their property to go to through a will.

