 If you want to be successful in any craft, you have to learn from the masters. R&B singing is no different. If you want to be an R&B singer, listen to some records by the iconic artists in the field.Little Richard, Sam Cooke, Ray Charles, and James Brown are all legendary R&B singers.
If you want to listen to something slightly more modern, try Alicia Keys, Mariah Carey, or John Legend.;
, There is really no secret to becoming successful in any art. It simply takes a lot of practice. If you want to become a good R&B singer, you need to make time each day to practice.Find a chunk of time when you can work in practice time. Think about a time of day where you're not usually busy. Do you find you frequently have free time after dinner? If so, you could set aside an hour of practice then.
When you're first starting out, simply try to hit the right notes and remember your lyrics. As you continue to practice, you can try things like adding variation to songs, putting emotion in your voice, and incorporating riffs.
 Most R&B artists are able to convey emotion in their voice. If you want to be a good R&B singer, work on making your singing emotionally resonate.Think about the emotion behind the song you're singing. Is the song happy? Is it sad? Melancholy? Anxious? Try to convey this emotion with your voice.
It can be hard to figure out how to sing with emotion, especially if you've never tried before. One simple trick is to change your expression when you sing. If you adopt, say, a sad appearance, your voice may naturally sound sadder. Conversely, you can smile to make a song sound sadder.
Also, try to think thoughts that produce the emotion you're feeling. For example, if you're singing a sad song, try to remember moments in your life when you felt sad.
 Master a few classics before you move on to original or newer material. Learning to sing a few standards will help teach you the basics of R&B singing.Try to learn a few simple jazz classics. Sing songs like "God Bless This Child" by Billie Holiday, "Summertime" by Ella Fitzgerald, and "Mistry" by Errol Garner.
You can also try some more contemporary R&B songs. For example, try "One Sweet Day" by Mariah Carey, "Fallin" by Alicia Keys, and "Unbreak my Heart" by Toni Braxton.
 You will do a better job singing a song that speaks to you personally. You should understand the lyrics of a variety of R&B standards. Select songs for your repertoire that you can relate to. This can make your renditions more meaningful.You can read lyrics to R&B songs online. Read one line at a time and pause to consider what the artist means. Are they singing about heartbreak, loss, love, triumph?
Choose a song you can relate to. If you've just gone through heartbreak yourself, you can pick a song about the loss of love. If you've overcome a difficulty in your life, pick a song about triumphing over adversity.
Keep in mind, you can try to write your own lyrics and set them to music. Start off by writing an emotional poem that speaks to you personally. From there, try to find a beat and rhythm to go with your poem.
 Vocal riffs are embellishments added by a singer during a song. These are extra melodic notes meant to enhance a certain moment or line in a song. Many R&B singers add riffs to their songs, so you should practice adding your own as you sing.Listen for riffs when you play R&B records. Try to figure out when and where they're most effective. You may notice many R&B singers use the same riffs over and over again. You usually only need a few good riffs, which you can incorporate into a variety of songs.
You can try to add riffs at a moment in a song you want to emphasize. For example, you can add a few riffs during the emotional highlight of the song, or a moment that you find particularly poignant.
Make sure not to overdo it with riffs. If you had several long riffs in a song, or add riffs too often, you may sound like you're parodying R&B music.
 Many R&B singers alter the lyrics of songs as they sing. Singers may even embellish or change the lyrics in their own songs. Embellishment can help you hone your style as an R&B singer. However, you need to know when embellishment is and is not appropriate.You should never embellish the first few lyrics of a song You want to make sure your audience recognizes the song, so sing the first lyrics as they were originally written.
You can start to embellish when you hit the second verse. You may want to alter the lyrics slightly to suit your mood. You can also change the melody slightly. For example, you could sing a traditionally high note a little lower.
 This is important to be successful in any kind of singing. R&B singing is no exception. Record yourself singing your song and then play it back to yourself. See where you can improve.You do not need fancy recording equipment. Most cell phones will be efficient. Keep your face about 5 inches from your phone when you record. Record in a quiet environment.
Be a tough critic. Figure out which notes you need to hit better. Think about whether your singing is emotionally resonate enough. Consider whether you need to better remember your lyrics.
 If you've never sung before, professional voice lessons can help. It can be difficult to evaluate your own voice, as the sound you hear is slightly different than what others hear.A voice teacher can give you more objective feedback.


You can find a voice teacher online. You can also look in your local yellow pages, or ask other signers you know.
If you can't afford voice lessons, you may be able to find cheap or free lessons online.
 If you would like to record your songs seriously, see if you can find a producer willing to work with you. You may have to pay a fee, but a good producer is vital to a successful R&B singer.You don't have to break the bank finding a producer. Go on YouTube and SoundCloud and listen to independent artists. Contact the producer and ask if he or she would work with you. If you have any recordings of yourself, you can send these to them.
You may be able to get produced long distance. If you send producers your recordings, they can tweak them for you to improve the sound.
 You want to build your skill by performing in front of an audience. Look for opportunities to sing in your area. Sign up for local talent shows. Sing at karaoke night. Sing at a local charity, fair, or festival. Any chance you have to see how others respond to your singing is a great way to improve your voice and performance.

