 You have knowledge and experience under your belt that you can now use as a guide to best determine what you want out of life. Create a long-term roadmap of where you want to be by what age based on what you have already accomplished.


If you want to be working at Company X by age 27, married by age 32, and living in Country Y by age 40, write this down. This is a way to get excited about your upcoming prospects and to give you an informal, low-stakes way to think of how to achieve your goals.
 Do this by making a list of what you are nervous about in reaching this new milestone age. Seeing these fears clearly laid out can put you at ease, for they are no longer abstract concepts floating about in your mind: they are delineated and materialized, and you can actively target each one as need be.The list could include items as varied as “I should have been more adventurous in the past” to “I am afraid I will no longer have the vitality of younger people” to “I am scared that job opportunities will be scarcer now.”

, Whatever your anxiety is, get to the root of it and brainstorm potential solutions. A clearly articulated list of solutions can be a source of relief and can promote positive thinking about your new milestone age.


Perhaps you are unenthusiastic about turning 50, but it's not really the 50 that bothers you, it's that recurring back pain that you see just getting worse and worse. In that case, jot down all potential remedies: perhaps there are preventative physical therapy exercises that you can do, or maybe there is a different sitting posture or a new pair of orthopedic shoes you could try., After all, it could be that you’re more enthusiastic than nervous about reaching a new milestone age. If you just want to optimize that excitement, making a list of what you are looking forward to at this new age can be positively reinforcing.
 Perhaps you have not achieved all you would have wanted to by this point. Maybe you would have liked to have started a career by age 25 but unforeseen circumstances delayed that prospect. Allow yourself time to briefly mourn this situation, but then readjust. Forget the old goal, set a new one, and work towards achieving it.

