 For each of these conditions, the key to dealing with the hair loss is treating the underlying illness. It is unlikely that hair loss will be the only symptom of the condition.


For instance those with skin infections of whatever sort (bacterial folliculitis, demodectic mange, and ringworm) are likely to be itchy, whilst a cat with Cushing's disease will be thirsty.;
, When your cat has this condition, his skin becomes heavily infected with bacteria which grow down the hair shaft into the root, which can cause a good deal of damage. This damaged hair is then accidentally licked away when the cat grooms himself.Treatment may require sedation of the cat so that he can be bathed with a medicinal shampoo in order to decrease the numbers of bacteria on the skin surface. The cat may also be given a course of oral antibiotics for four to six weeks. A broad spectrum antibiotic such as amoxicillin is generally prescribed.
 The demodex mange mite likes to live near your cat’s hair shafts. This mite can cause damage to the hair, which causes it to shed easily. When a cat's hair sheds easily, it can result in bald spots.


Use caution when treating demodectic mange, as some treatments are toxic to cats. Topical treatments like lime sulfur dips and 1% selenium sulphide shampoos can be effective and are safe for cats. Follow the directions listed on the container.
 This condition leads to a symmetrical hair loss that happens all at once. Telogen defluxion is generally triggered by a stressful event, like pregnancy, lactation, severe illness, or surgery. The hair loss tends to happen about a month after the stress.


No treatment is needed for this condition because the skin is not damaged and so the hairs grow back on their own once the stressful event has passed.
 Ringworm is not a worm but a fungal parasite called microsporum canis, which grows down a cat’s hair shaft. The cat’s body will recognize that hair shaft as damaged, and the hair will fall out.


Treatment includes clipping your cat’s hair short to reduce contamination from shed hairs, and an oral medication such a griseofulvin, ketoconazole, or itraconazole.
Griseofulvin acts by stopping fungal cell division.Absorption of the drug is enhanced by fat, and the medication is best given with a knob of butter. A typical dose is 125 mg twice daily for an average-sized cat.
 Hyperadrenocorticism, which is also known as Cushing's disease, is extremely rare in cats. It occurs when a cat’s body produces too much natural cortisol. This makes the cat hungry and thirsty, and physical changes take place such as a potbelly, thin skin, and hair loss.Treatment involves giving a daily capsule containing trilostane which inhibits the glands that produce cortisol.

