 Before you start tiling, make sure that whatever surface will be supporting the tiles will be strong and structurally sound. You don't want to do all this beautiful tile work just to have to tear it down in two years! This means checking the wall studs if you're putting the tile on a wall, the subfloor and floor joists if you're tiling a floor, or the counter base and tile backing if you're tiling a countertop.


Look for signs of mold and rot. This will usually be obvious, with seriously discolored wood or a surface which is soft and gives way under pressure.
You'll also want to look for cracks in the surface that you're tiling. Small cracks may be normal but big cracks might need to be dealt with before you can continue.;
, If you don't have a solid surface to put your tiles on, you'll need to add one. Cement board or drywall is best, as these can handle the moisture of the tiling process. Plywood should be absolutely avoided, since the wood will warp with the added moisture and it will also be less waterproof, even after tiling.


Cover any joints. Make sure that joints between cement boards or drywall are bridged with fiber mesh tape. You do not want the panels to move individual once your tile is up, since this will cause the tiles to crack.
 With your surface prepared, you'll want to create even lines that you can follow when setting your tiles. For glass tiles, using a laser level will be the easiest option. These can be purchased fairly cheaply and will project a straight line onto your surface that you can follow with your tiles. Just set it to level and then project the line where you want the tiles to go.


A laser level is handy because it will continue to be available even after you lay down your mortar. You can use a chalk line to line up your tiles but it's easy to accidentally cover it.
Getting a level line is important because walls, ceilings, and other surfaces in your home are often not as straight as they look. A wall, for example, can be taller in one spot than it is in another.
 Dry fit your tiles before putting up any mortar to make sure that you like your pattern and that you know how the different tiles or sheets properly fit together. Lay out a couple to get an idea and then get ready for the fun to start!

, You will use thin set mortar to attach the tiles to the wall or other tiling surface. You'll need to mix the mortar according to the package instructions, but generally you want to start with the powder and add water very gradually. When the mortar has a consistency like peanut butter, you've got the right amount of water. Mix only what you can spread in 20 minutes. Let the mortar sit for 10 minutes, stir it up again and then it's ready to use.
 Spread the mortar using a notched trowel in a roughly 3'x3' space. Spread the mortar out and then use the trowel to create straight, parallel lines in the mortar. These will help the tiles adhere to the wall. You might want to do a test tile first, however, in order to make sure that your mortar is the right consistency. Place a tile down and them pull it back off: when you set the tile on the mortar, if the mortar comes up between the tiles so that it is even with the face of the tile, then your mortar is too thick or maybe wet. If you see lines of mortar on the back of your tile when you pull it up, then your mortar is too dry or the bed of mortar is too thin.


Talk to your local hardware store about the trowel size that they would recommend for your particular project. Usually, glass tiles come in sheets and trowel with smaller notches will be needed. However, if you are using larger glass tiles that are not in a sheet, the average 3/8" trowel will probably be better.
 With the mortar in place, you can start setting out your tiles or tile sheets. Simply press them firmly into the mortar; push it solidly against the surface but remember that it's not toothpaste. You don't want to push the tile so that you disturb the mortar. You just want to get the tile to stick. Try to start in a corner or against a wall, to cut down on the amount of cutting and sizing that you need to do. Insert tile spacers between the tiles or tile sheets as you go.


If you are using tile sheets, you can cut the sheets as needed to create a sheet of any size or shape for your project. You can also cut out the middle of a sheet in order to make space for outlets. Simply use a utility knife to cut the mesh backing.
 You will likely have a space that does not perfectly fit the tiles that you have, create a need for only a portion of a tile. In order to fill these gaps, you will need to cut the tiles to size. You will need to use a wet saw with a blade designed for glass in order to cut glass tiles. Be very careful and keep your fingers as far away from the blade as possible.


The old rule of "measure twice, cut once" is your friend here. Be very sure about how much tile tile you need before you cut it.
 Once you've got all of your tiles in place, you can remove your tile spacers. If you mixed your mortar correctly, the tiles should now stay in place.
 You will now want to let the mortar thoroughly cure before you do the grout. This usually takes around 24 hours. Make sure that the area is well ventilated and that moisture is kept to a minimum.
 There are two main types of grout: sanded and unsanded grout. Sanded grout is used when the gaps between tiles are larger than 3mm. Unsanded grout is used when the gaps between tiles are smaller than that. Measure the gaps between your tiles to find out which grout is best for your project.


Glass tiles almost always come in sheets these days and these sheets tend to have very small gaps between the tiles, meaning you will probably want unsanded grout.
It is important to choose the right grout for your project because not doing so will cause cracks (and all the problems that come with them) in your tiles.
There is also technically epoxy grout, which you can use, but it is more expensive and difficult to apply if you do not have experience applying grout.
 Mix your grout according to the instructions on the packaging, making sure to also mix in any additives you want. It should have a consistency like smooth peanut butter. Make sure that you mix no more than what you can spread in 20 minutes. This will keep the grout from drying out. You should only work on small areas at a time, finishing one section before continuing on to the next, so plan on mixing many small batches of grout.


You can get grout additives that make it more mold resistant or water resistant, as well as additives that do things like giving the grout a color.
 Grab a grout float and get ready to spread! Working in only a small area at a time (again, what you can cover in 20 minutes), spread the grout onto the tiles. Hold the float at a 45 degree angle and criss-cross the gaps between the tiles. You do not want to move the float parallel or perpendicular to any tiles, since this will push the grout out of the gaps.
 Use the float to remove the major excess grout and then let the grout begin to cure. Wait roughly 20 minutes, or whatever time is recommended in the instructions for your specific product, so that the majority of the grout can set enough for you to remove the excess that is on the tiles.
 Get a large bucket of sink-full of water and a large sponge. Get the sponge wet and then wring out the excess water, so that it is only damp. You want to have as little water on the sponge as possible. Now, wipe all along the tiled area to clean off the excess grout. Do not press very hard or you will remove the grout between the tile. Rinse and wring your sponge frequently, keeping it as clean as you can. Get new, cleaner water as needed.
 Once you have grouted all of the tiled area, allow the grout to cure. You should follow the instructions for your specific product but generally three hours are needed to cure grout properly (as many as 24-48 hours may be needed, however). Make sure that the area is well ventilated and that moisture is kept to an absolute minimum.
 Once your grout has cured, you will want to seal your grout. This step is often skipped but you should not skip it if at all possible. Sealing your grout will be very important in keeping it from getting moldy or stained. Find an appropriate grout sealant at your local hardware store and apply it according to the included instructions.


Usually, the sealant will be wax-like and is applied using a rag. Rub it in circular motions along the grout lines to apply.
Grout will need to be resealed roughly every 6 months and should at least be resealed once a year.
 If you need to, you can apply caulk as needed around your new tiles. This may be useful at the corners and along the seams, such as if you have applied a short backsplash along a wall. Simply caulk the line, shape the caulk by running your finger down the line, and let it set.

