 Free patterns for Minecraft character heads are available online, or you can choose to make your own on your computer. Once you have the right pattern, save the pattern files to a thumb drive.


To search for a pattern, go to your favorite search engine and type in adequate search terms like "Minecraft Steve head pattern" or "Creeper head PDF."
A few popular—and free—patterns can be found here:

Steve head: http://www.stevelange.net/2011/10/24/making-your-own-minecraft-steve-head-from-pdfs/

Creeper head: http://stlmotherhood.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/CREEPER-Mask-and-sides.pdf

Enderman head: http://pixelpapercraft.com/papercraft/50904699f7e521e71f00003c/life-size-enderman-head



Alternatively, you can use any high-resolution image of the desired character's head and enlarge all five sides to a size of 11-inches by 11-inches (28-cm by 28-cm).;
, Take the saved pattern to copy shop and print off all five sides of the head.


If you have a large printer with plenty of ink at home, you might be able print the pattern yourself. For most people, however, your local copy shop is a better option.
Print the patterns in poster setting with a tile scale of 100% and an overlap of 0.005 inches (0.0127 mm). The pattern will need to be printed on 11-inch by 17-inch (28-cm by 43-cm) paper., You'll need a cardboard box shaped as an 11-inch (28-cm) cube.


You can either buy an 11-inch (28-cm) cubical box or trim down a larger box so until all three dimensions (length, width, height) are 11 inches (28 cm) long.
Tape the bottom of the box closed, if necessary.
Fold the flaps on the top side into the box to create an opening. If the flaps threaten to fall back down when the box is inverted, tape them to the inside of the box.
 Turn the box upside-down so that the closed bottom is now the top. Coat the new top with spray adhesive or glue from a standard glue stick, then carefully press the hair portion of the pattern onto the box.


Note that you will need to trim off any excess white paper from the pattern image before adhering the image to the box.
There will probably be some overlap onto the sides of the box. You can hold this overlap down with additional glue or clear tape.
 Work around all four sides of the box, gluing the rest of the head portion on one side at a time.


As with the hair, you will need to trim away any excess white paper before gluing the pattern images to the side of the box.
Use spray adhesive or a standard glue stick to adhere the pattern pieces to the box.
Make sure that the pattern pieces match up appropriately. In other words, the back image of the head should lie on the opposite side of the box as the face image, the left side image should be to the left of the face, and the right side image should be to the right of the face.
 Use a box cutter or utility knife to cut out the two square eyes at the front of the face image. This will create eye holes for the wearer to see through.


At this point, the head portion of the costume should be finished and read to wear.
 Minecraft Steve wears an aqua t-shirt and standard blue jeans.A light blue t-shirt could also work if you are unable to find an aqua shirt.
Tuck the shirt into the jeans around the right front side. Leave it un-tucked on the left side and in the back.
 The game character wears dark gray shoes, so if you have gray or black sneakers, those would be your best choice for this costume.
 Use scissors to cut out enough squares to cover the arms, legs, and torso of the costume wearer's body.s


You'll need to use four to five different shades of green.
The exact number of felt squares you'll need will vary depending on the size of the wearer. For a small boy's costume, you will need approximately 30 sheets of 8-inch by 11-inch (20-cm by 28-cm) felt.
Try to keep the consistently sized. Cut them out so that they are approximately 3 inches (7.6 cm) to 4 inches (10 cm) in length/width.
 Glue the squares of green felt onto a green sweatshirt and green sweatpants. Use a hot glue gun for best results.


If you are unable to find a green sweat suit, opt for a gray or black one.
Arrange the squares side by side and randomize the pattern as well as possible.
Only apply a small dab of glue to all four corners of each square before sticking it to the material.
 Green sneakers are hard to come by, but gray or black shoes will work adequately well for this costume.
 Endermen are entirely black, so the body of the costume should consist of a long-sleeve black t-shirt, black pants, and black shoes.


Endermen also have notable long arms, so you could mimic this effect by wearing an oversized long-sleeve shirt with arms that extend well below your waist.
 Endermen are often seen carrying blocks in the game, so you can enhance the costume by carrying around a small cubical box or block.


Consider painting the block to look like dirt, grass, gravel, sand, or TNT.
Alternatively, you can carry around a fake flower. Endermen can carry tulips, orchids, dandelions, poppies, and other flowers in the game, making this another worthwhile accessory for your costume.
 You should be able to find free patterns for the player's diamond sword and diamond pickaxe online, but you may also be able to create them on your computer. Save the pattern to a thumb drive once you find the right one.


Go to your favorite search engine and try searching along the lines of "free Minecraft pickaxe pattern" or "diamond sword costume printable."
You can find free printable patterns here:

Diamond Pickaxe: http://kerryannmorgan.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Minecraft-pickaxe-template-pdf.pdf

Diamond sword blade: http://kerryannmorgan.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/diamond-sword-template-1-pdf.pdf

Diamond sword handle: http://kerryannmorgan.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/minecraft-diamond-sword-2-pdf.pdf



Another option is to find high-resolution images of the diamond pickaxe and/or diamond sword and enlarge them on your computer until they are roughly 11 inches (28 cm) wide by 17 inches (43 cm) long.
 Print the patterns onto 11-inch by 17-inch (28-cm by 43-cm) paper.If your home printer is capable of printing onto paper that large, you can print the patterns out at home. Consider using heavy cardstock or photograph paper to maximize the image quality.
Another option would be to take the files to your local copy shop and print them out there. The image quality will be better, and if you're already going there to print out the patterns for the costume head, you can get these patterns printed out during the same trip.
 Use scissors to cut around the images in the pattern.


Trim off as much excess blank space as possible.
You should cut around the images, but you do not need to worry about cutting around every block during this step. The only place you need to be precise at are the edges where separate pieces (the blade image and the handle image) will join together. Open edges can be roughly cut.
 Lightly coat the back of each pattern image with spray adhesive, then firmly press the image onto foam core board. Allow the glue to dry.


A standard glue stick can be used instead of spray adhesive if desired.
Use foam core board instead of using craft foam board. Foam core board is stiffer and more durable, making it ideal for use with costume accessories.
Arrange the separate pieces of each tool onto the foam board in the proper order. In other words, the handle of each tool must be centered and connected to the blade of the corresponding tool. If necessary, use a metal L-ruler to match the angle of the handle to the angle of the blade.
 Use a utility knife to cut round the entire perimeter of each tool. Once the tool is cut, it should be ready to use for your costume.


During this step, you will need to make precise cuts around each block of the perimeter.
Place the foam onto a hard garage floor or cutting board before cutting out the pieces. You will need to apply enough pressure for the knife to cut cleanly through both the paper and foam.

