 You might change your mind about shifting up based on this, or you might come away even more convinced that it's the right choice. Consider:


Do you understand the concepts in the next grade? For instance, if you readily understand the Quadratic Formula, maybe you can skip pre-algebra.
Getting a hold of a textbook or tutoring book can give a sense of what is involved.;
, If you can teach yourself, this is a sign that maybe you can move up. But also consider asking for assistance from teachers or parents. Doing so will make it clear what level you are actually able to work at.


Be sure to review the whole textbook! Especially in American textbooks, the first several chapters are usually review from last year. Do not read two chapters, find it exactly what you are working on now, and then assume you are ready to skip.
 Will you be able to handle a grade promotion? Skipping a grade can drastically alter your social life. You will be younger than most of your classmates, and your maturity level may not be the same as theirs. This can also play out in your later school career in ways you have not considered. For example:


After graduation, would you still be a legal minor? If so, how will that affect what you do after high school? The military, many universities, and employers will often not accept minors.
Using a grade promotion to escape a bad social situation may not pan out. If you are having social issues in one grade, they may actually be worse going into a higher grade.
Will you be missing out on extracurricular activities? School is not just about academics--there is also sports, drama club, school dances, yearbook, clubs, marching band, the prom and other activities you may miss out on if you move ahead. These elements of school are often just as important as the classes.
 You need to be making all A's, preferably high ones. By demonstrating you are consistently showing competence, you are more likely to prove your case. Letting your grades slip or not turning in homework may count against you in a grade promotion consideration. Do not slack off because you are bored.
 Demonstrating that you are a knowledgeable learner and a superior student will help your teachers see you are ready for a higher challenge. Be sure to ask questions that demonstrate your higher understanding, but do not be rude, disruptive, or sarcastic.
, It would be bad to not be adequately prepared.
 The reason for this is that you may change your mind after you see some of the challenges in your current grade. Often the first few weeks are essentially review, and then as new concepts are introduced, suddenly the class is much more interesting.
 Rushing through studies can be wasteful if you don't lead a balanced life and enjoy being a student and a teen. Do some deep soul searching as to why this is so important to you and where you see yourself in five and ten years time.
 You will not be able to skip a grade without the approval of your guardian and the school. Also, if your school has a handbook the policies should be very clear.


You may not be able to skip due to something as simple as a required health or gym class. It may not be worth working extremely hard just to not be able to graduate early anyway.
Going ahead a grade may be most successful in a transitional year. For instance, if you are moving into a new school system or from elementary school to middle school.
 Just keep trying and eventually you may succeed.
 For gifted or students with an unusual ability, often schools can make an accommodation through these methods. This is particularly useful to meet academic needs if you are highly skilled in a particular area. This may include:

On-line classes.
Taking a class through a local community college, university, or trade school.
An independent study: self-directed learning (with the oversight of a teacher) of a particular field of interest.
Internships. Some high schools offer credit for internships at local businesses, or non-profit organizations. For example, perhaps you can intern at a local community center, real estate office, an animal shelter, historical site, or library.
 Many home schooled students are able to skip one or more years of school because of being able to control how quickly they advance because you are moving at your pace, not the pace of your peers.

