 Fentanyl is a powerful drug, and coming off of it takes time and support. If you have been using fentanyl regularly, do not attempt to get off fentanyl on your own, as you may experience serious withdrawal side effects.Your doctor will come up with a schedule for you to gradually decrease your dosage.;
, Your doctor will prescribe you patches in lower doses than the patches you have. Use these patches. Do not attempt to lower your dose by cutting your patches in halves or quarters. Fentanyl patches may release their medicine faster when cut, which could cause overdose and heart failure.Almost all fentanyl patches are "reservoir" patches, meaning the medication is pooled inside and will release quickly when the patch is cut.
Do not cut matrix system patches. Some users believe it can be done, but the manufacturer warns against it, and no studies recommend it.Cutting a patch may also damage its sticking power, which could cause it to come off while you sleep and interfere with its effectiveness.
 Your doctor will likely give you a schedule that cuts your dosage over time. This may take weeks or months, depending on the nature of your pain and the length of your fentanyl usage. For example, if you take a 50mcg patch, you might switch to a 25mcg after two weeks, then a 12mcg two weeks later.
 Your doctor may prescribe you other medication to help you come down from fentanyl. This might be pain medication to help with breakout pain, such as Vicodin. You might also be prescribed anti-anxiety medication to help control shaking and other withdrawal symptoms. Use these as prescribed.
 When you apply your last 12mcg patch, leave it on until it falls off. Even if you've been changing them every 72 hours, leave the very last patch on until it comes off on its own. Because the medicine is weakest when your patch is oldest, it will let you down more gently than if you were to suddenly remove the patch.
 Fentanyl is physically addictive, and can become psychologically addictive. Prepare for serious withdrawal symptoms as you reduce your dose. Take time off from work if you are employed. The first 48 hours after the fentanyl leaves your system are the worst, and that after that time the withdrawal will have peaked and symptoms will begin to subside. Make sure you have your doctor's number on hand so you can consult with her if any symptoms begin to worry you.


Prepare a comfortable nest for yourself for the worst of it. Launder your softest clothing, rent movies, and prepare the foods that you can eat even when you are nauseated from pain.
Have friends and family around for support if possible.
Go online and join a forum for current and former fentanyl patients. Forums with users across the globe are a great resource for sleepless nights brought on by withdrawal.
As the withdrawal symptoms lessen, light exercise will help keep you centered. Take a walk around the block. Do yoga exercises or stretch at home, or in class if you feel up to it.
 If you experience worrisome side effects after you are off fentanyl, contact your doctor immediately. Hallucinations, chest pain, fainting, mood swings, difficulty walking, speaking, or urinating, rapid weight gain, and spitting blood are all considered worrisome symptoms. If you think you may have had a seizure, call an ambulance and go immediately to urgent care.Other side effects may include increased sweating, increased heart rate, anxiety, restlessness, and stomach pain.

