 As an employee, you don't have the same sort of power that your bosses do when it comes to making big, structural changes to your company in an effort to stop workplace theft. However, this doesn't mean you can't be an immense help. If you see, hear, or otherwise observe anything that makes you think theft is taking place, talk to a supervisor immediately. Don't stay silent — keep in mind, according to many workplace's rules, allowing another employee to steal can mean implicating yourself in the crime.


At many workplaces, especially ones where there is a major gulf between low-level employees and the management staff or where the employees are unhappy with their jobs, there may be a "culture of silence" surrounding the act of workplace theft — that is, thieving employees expect others to cover for them and may use bullying or shunning to punish employees who speak out. In this case, don't ruin your relationship with your fellow employees by going directly to a boss while you're at work. Instead, contact your boss via email, over the phone, or with one of the anonymous methods below.
 Unfortunately, at some workplaces, it may be ill-advised to earn yourself a reputation as the sort of person who reports workplace theft. In this case, try to report the theft anonymously. This way, the management can deal with the theft, but other employees won't be able to trace your actions back to you.


Options you may want to consider include:

Slipping an anonymous note under your boss's door
Writing information on an anonymous feedback card
Sending your boss an email from a "throwaway" email account (one that you make and use only once)
Meeting your boss outside of work to discuss the problem



, If you see an opportunity to document an act of workplace theft with your own notes, pictures, or video footage, you may do so, but be careful. If the employee committing the theft notices you documenting him, he'll probably stop immediately and won't act out around you again, potentially making it harder for you to prove that he's stolen in the long run. In a worst-case scenario, you may even find yourself labeled a "snitch" and have your relationship with the other employees damaged.


Note that, often, it's enough to make a mental note of when and where the theft occurred and who was involved. If your boss considers you to be trustworthy and your information matches discrepancies in your employer's records, your boss may have enough information to act on even without pictures, videos, or other extra evidence.
 Employees have a duty to talk to their employers if and when they have information relating to workplace theft. However, they should not accuse other employees of theft when there isn't any sort of conclusive evidence to support their claims. In addition, even if there is evidence that an employee has been stealing, they should not attempt to humiliate the thief in front of other employees or customers.


Not only can these sorts of unsupported accusations be very embarrassing if they're proven wrong, but they can also have a negative effect on company morale by promoting a feeling that employees are subject to "witch hunts" at a moment's notice.

