 Your stairways should be clear of debris.If you have young children, they might be in the bad habit of leaving their toys strewn about. This is especially dangerous near staircases, where the possibility that you trip or slip on a toy could lead to a tumble down the stairs and end up with a concussion or broken bones.


Use stair gates.If you have little kids running about the house, they might not negotiate stairs as carefully as they should (or at all). Stair gates are low (about one meter high) gates that can extend up to two meters to corral an area off in order to keep pets and young children away. If you want to keep your kids or pets away from the stairs, place a stair gate in front of them in order to deprive them access to the stairs.
Adding carpet to the stairs to prevent slips.
Ensure handrails are present to steady yourself when using stairs.
 Immediately replace any bulbs that blow, and ensure the lighting illuminates the floors all over the house.


Don’t get in the bad habit of walking about your home at night with the lights off when you wake to check on your child or go to the bathroom.
 Always have a spotter hold the ladder steady when you’re climbing it. If you’re changing an overhead light, have a spotter and only stand on a step ladder or chair that doesn’t have wheels to minimize potential movement.
 Avoid this by immediately cleaning up spills with paper towels or damp rags. This is especially common around the kitchen where drinks are most likely to be spilled.


Prevent spills by drinking out of water bottles and giving children spill-proof cups. Keep cups away from the edge of the table. Move cups and other dishes to the sink when not in use.
 Dirt and grass may seem soft when compared to, say, concrete, but a fall on either can still produce a concussion. The impact of a fall on woodchips or sand, however, is distributed far better than a similar fall on dirt or grass.


In addition to installing woodchips or sand beneath your own home playset, take your children only to playgrounds where the equipment is installed above soft terrain.
If your child attends a school where the playground is on dirt or grass, talk with the principal about having some woodchips or sand installed.

