 These measurements are going to tell you what shape of face you have so you can match your face to the best jewelry that complements that shape. You will need a flexible tape measure and something to pull back your hair (like hair clips or a hair tie). It helps to look in a mirror while you are taking measurements.Tie back your hair so that it is out of your face. If you are using clips you can clip your hair to the back or top of your head.
Measure your hairline (in inches or centimeters). With your tape measure, place one end at your left front temple (just below the hairline), and the other end at your right temple. Write down that number.
Measure your cheekbones (in inches or centimeters). With your tape measure, place one end at the top of your left cheekbone (just above the apple of your cheek), and the other end at the top of your right cheekbone. Write down that number.
Measure your jawline (in inches or centimeters). With your tape measure, place one end at the left edge of your jawline (just below your earlobe), and the other edge of your right jawline. Write down that number.
Measure the vertical length of your face (in inches or centimeters). With your tape measure, place one end at the bottom of your chin (at the very tip), and the other end at the very top of your forehead (right at your hairline or widows peak). Write down that number.
 Now you can use the numbers from your measurements to figure out which shape best matches your face. Stand in front of a mirror, read the shape descriptions, and choose the one that best matches your shape and measurements.Round faces are close to a perfect circle. The face is symmetrical across all quadrants; it is not longer than it is wider, nor wider than it is longer. A celebrity example of someone with a round face is Penelope Cruz.Oval faces are one and a half times longer than they are wide. They are closer to a vertical circle.A celebrity example of someone with an oval face is Beyoncé Knowles.Square faces show their shape in the jawline. People with square faces have the same width jawline and hairline.A celebrity example of someone with a square face is Angelina Jolie.Heart shaped faces are widest at the cheekbone and have a narrow forehead and jawline.A celebrity example of someone with a heart-shaped face is Jennifer Garner.Diamond shaped faces have a narrow chin with a wider forehead and temples.A celebrity example of someone with a diamond-shaped face is Halle Berry., Now that you know the shape of your face and the different types of jewelry you can adorn your facial area with, you can match them together with confidence.Round faces match with jewelry that offsets the round shape of the face. Long necklaces that hang low on the chest are good options. Long, angled earrings will also complement the round face. Earrings shapes like rectangles and trapezoids are good options.Oval faces are versatile. This shape can wear almost any style of necklace or earrings. Hoop and chandelier earrings are particularly flattering.Square faces should wear necklaces with pendants or trinkets at the bottom of them to draw attention away from the angular jawline. Pendants with curved shapes are good options. Large hoop or chandelier earrings will complement the face shape.Heart shaped faces look best with a choker or short necklaces to add roundness to the narrow chin. Triangle or heart shaped dangled earrings will be flattering for this face shape.Diamond shaped faces should opt for choker necklaces and short hoops. They add length to the narrow chin.