


Although classic cars requiring mechanical repair remain, today's cars operate using computerized and electronic systems.
Automotive technicians must know a lot about how the various parts of an automobile work together.;
, An auto mechanic needs reading, math and computer skills.


Automotive technicians need reading skills for studying manuals to learn to repair certain problems.
Technicians must also be comfortable working with computers and with basic electronics.
 Training programs are often recommended due to the increasing complexity in the field.


A formal program provides classroom instruction and hands-on training.
Some high schools have auto service technician programs. Automotive Youth Education Service (AYES) programs provide invaluable experience. These programs are based upon a partnership between high school programs and automotive manufacturers.
Many automotive technician programs provided through technical schools are certified by the National Automotive Technicians Education Foundation (NATEF).
Some training and continuing education programs are offered through automobile manufacturers.
An increasing number of community colleges are offering associates degrees for auto service technicians.



You are eligible to test for certification after completion of an automotive education program and one year of experience as an auto technician or after two years of experience working as an auto technician.
ASE certification for automotive technicians is available for: electrical systems, brakes, steering and suspension, heat and air conditioning systems, engine repair, manual drive train and axles, automatic transmission/transaxles and engine performance.
A Master Automobile Technician passes all eight examinations.



Auto mechanics should have good reasoning and analytical skills to diagnose problems.
Diagnosing requires testing components until a problem can be isolated. Diagnostic and testing equipment may include on-board or hand-held computers.



In a routine inspection, auto service technicians may lubricate engine parts or repair and replace worn parts, such as belts, hose and plugs.



Many technicians provide their own hand tools, which include wrenches, screwdrivers and pliers.
Common auto power tools include pneumatic wrenches, lathes and grinding machines and welding equipment.



On the average, it takes 2-5 years to become a fully qualified auto service technician.
Specialties may require an additional 1-2 years of training and experience.



Automotive technicians may specialize in certain kinds of repairs, such as brakes, heat and air or transmissions.

