 There are powerful hormones at work in the early stages of a relationship, which could explain why you might feel like you are falling too hard for your new love interest. Instead of fighting against these feelings, try to enjoy the early stages of your relationship.If you find yourself feeling overwhelmed by your emotions, talk to a close friend or parent about how you are feeling. Discussing your feeling might help you to cope with them a little better. You can also write about how you are feeling if you’d rather not tell anyone about it.
 If you have had issues with becoming too attached too soon in a relationship before, then you might have high anxiety about relationships. One way to help yourself is to use relaxation techniques to manage your stress and anxiety about the relationship. For example, instead of calling or texting your new love interest several times, you can try:



Meditation.

Progressive muscle relaxation.

Yoga.
 Early in a relationship, you may eat less, have trouble sleeping, or develop other unhealthy self-care habits. However, this can be bad for your overall health and these behaviors may amplify your emotions. To ensure that you are feeling your best, make sure that you take good care of yourself.



Get enough rest. Try to sleep for eight hours every night.

Eat healthy meals. Eat nutritious food, such a fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.

Exercise. Aim for about 30 minutes of moderate exercise five days per week, such as a walk or a bike ride.
 If you have always had a hard time with relationships because you fall too hard too fast, then you might want to seek some help to develop healthier relationships. Some people have problems forming secure attachments due to issues that started in childhood.Try talking to a therapist or school counselor if your romantic relationships tend to overtake your life and affect you in negative ways. For example, if your grades start to fall every time you have a new relationship or if you stop caring for yourself in other ways (not eating, not sleeping), then you may need to address these issues.

