 Remember the first rule of convincing other people you're amazing: you have to believe it yourself. The quickest way to communicate this to other people is through body language. Stand tall, keep your chin parallel to the ground, arch your shoulders slightly back, and look straight ahead. Make a few seconds of eye contact with each person you pass, and hold someone's gaze when you're talking to him or her. Don't walk quickly down the halls, be sure to pause and socialize with people. Most importantly, don't forget to smile!;
, The hot girl isn't "playing" hard to get, she is hard to get.You're talking to everyone, meeting new people, and having fun. Remember, this is more about who you are than what other people think of you. Hot girls just act like themselves instead of playing games or figuring out "popularity secrets.


Speak and at a reasonable volume. Mumbling or speaking too softly indicates that you're unsure of yourself.
If you tend to be shy, fake it until you make it. After a while, you'll notice that your confidence stops feeling forced and starts feeling like a natural extension of your personality.
Ignore gossips and rumor about people, and walk on like nothing ever happened. Avoid getting into tacky confrontations with anybody. If they have a problem, it's their issue, not yours., The most confident people are those who are able to make others feel good without acting jealous. If you're really trying to get someone's attention, pay him or her a genuine compliment. Pick something you know he or she is proud of, or that other people don't usually notice about him or her. Deliver it with a smile and with your voice slightly lower in tone than usual.
 Flirting doesn't have to mean putting yourself way out there or making big, grand gestures. If you do it right, it can actually manage to draw people in and make them more interested in you without them even realizing why it's happening. Try these things:


Let people catch you looking at them. For instance, if you're glancing at a guy across the classroom, keep throwing small, quick glances his way until he looks up and notices you. Smile a bit, then look away.
If you're talking to a person one-on-one, drop your voice to a whisper as if you're discussing a "secret." It doesn't have to be a real secret—the point is that if you're speaking more softly, he or she will have to lean in closer to hear you. If you play this right, it can lead to leaning close enough to whisper in the other person's ear.
"Accidentally" bump into or brush up against people. Don't bowl over them completely, but do brush the edge of your arm against someone else's arm, or don't avoid a slight touch if you're leaning across someone to reach something.
Smile. Research has actually shown that a simple, open lipped smile is the most effective form of flirting there is., Confidence, and hotness, relies on your ability to be yourself. If you want to do something, like a sport, activity, or club, go do it, even if others don't seem as interested. There is little that is hotter than a self-possessed, self-assured woman who takes control of her life. You'll be happier, and you'll exude the sort of confident "edge" that makes you glow attractively.


Who cares if something is "weird" or not typically hot. Most people admire courage and self-confidence above any specific activity.In many ways, "hotness" is subjective -- what one person thinks is hot another may not. The only way to succeed is to just be yourself and be happy.