 Two strands should be in one color, and the other two strands should be another color. For this pattern, approximately 65 inches (165 cm) of thread will produce a 6-inch (15.2 cm) bracelet. Adjust for size accordingly.
 Lay out all four threads evenly. Grab the middle of the bunch (make sure it's the middle by seeing if the bottom threads line up). Pinch the threads about two inches down from the center point with your other hand, so that the bundle looks like one thread. Make a loop with the bundle, then pull the rounded center of the bundle through the center. You should have a small loop of thread above the knot, and eight threads coming down from the knot.
 Use masking tape to attach the small threads coming out of the knot to a table or counter, or put a safety pin through the knot and attach it to the top of your jeans (while sitting down). A secured knot will make it easy for you to keep consistent tension as you make your bracelet.
 For this design, the thread colors will need to be in a certain pattern before you start. Alternate them so that the first and second colors run 1212 2121 across. Your two middle threads should be the same color; your two outside threads should be the same color, and the opposite color of the middle threads.
 For this pattern, you'll need to know the difference between a forward and a backward knot. Basically, a forward knot is when you use a thread to tie a cross knot on a thread to the right. A backward knot is when you use a thread to tie a cross knot on a thread to the left.


Starting with the thread on the far right, tie three backward knots. Take the thread on the far right, and loop it over and under the thread next to it on the left. Pull the end of the far-right thread through the loop. Then pull the far-right thread vertically, or perpendicular to your leg or the table, while pulling the second-right thread horizontally, or parallel to your leg or the table. The thread that was on the far right will now be second to the right. Using this same thread, tie backward knots on the next two threads. Stop when the thread that was on the far right is in the middle, with three threads to the right of it.
Starting with the thread on the far left, tie three forward knots. Take the thread on the far left, and loop it over and under the thread next to it on the right. Pull the end of the far-left thread through the loop. Then pull the far-left thread vertically, or perpendicular to your leg or the table, while pulling the second-left thread horizontally, or parallel to your leg or the table. The thread that was on the far left will now be second to the left. Using this same thread, tie forward knots on the next two threads. Stop when the thread that was on the far left is in the middle, with three threads to the left of it. Your color pattern should now be 2121 1212.
 The second round will be just like the first, only with the opposite colors. Start on the right and tie three backward knots; then tie three forward knots starting on the left. Your color pattern at the end will be back to 1212 2121.
 With the thread that's second to the right, tie a forward knot over the far-right strand. With the thread that's second to the left, tie a backward knot over the far-left strand. Your color pattern should now be 2112 2112.
 With the thread that's now second to the right, tie two backward knots over the two strands to the left. With the thread that's now the second to the left, tie two forward knots over the two strands to the right. Your color pattern should now be 2121 1212.
 With the thread that's now second to the right, tie a forward knot over the far-right thread. With the thread that's now second to the left, tie a backward knot over the far-left thread. The color pattern is now 1221 1221.
 With the thread that's second to the right, make two backward knots over the two threads to the left. With the thread that's second to the left, make two forward knots over the two threads to the right. You should be able to see the heart pattern clearly now. Your color pattern after this step should be 1212 2121.
 Keep tying until you have about a 2-inch (5 cm) tail of untied thread or have finished the heart closest to that length. Separate the threads into two groups of four, on the right and left, and braid into two tails. (To braid with four strands, simply hold two threads together and treat it like one strand when braiding.) Tie off each braid with an overhand knot about 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) away from the end.
 Draw one of the braids you just finished through the loop above your top knot, then tie it to the other braid in a double knot. Your friend should be able to remove it at the end of the day with one hand.

