 Open all the windows in your parents room. If weather permits. You don't need to open the windows if it is freezing cold outside. This will allow it to air out a bit, taking away any musty smells. You can use marine and aquatic fragrances for your help. These, marine and aquatic fragrances to cover the must and dusty smell. Moreover, these fragrances make you calm to some extent by making your breath and mood relaxed when you smell them.;
, Make sure that you wash them all in the appropriate water temperature, or else some of them will shrink. Use lukewarm water for washing.The only thing that will accomplish is getting your parents upset with you.
 You can use plain dish soap for this. Just add plenty of hot water. Dip a rag in the soapy water, and wring it out. A special type of sponge is also available. When the sponge is wet it is proved as best stain cleaner and 'mild' scrubber. Then just scrub. Just don't scrub so hard that you peel off any paint.
 Put on the sheets, then a few blankets. On top, put a pretty cover blanket. Tuck in all the blankets, except the one on top. Cover all of the pillows, and place them underneath the top blanket.Be sure to smooth out any wrinkles.
 Clean all glass surfaces. And glass holders, too.Get some window cleaner, and some paper towels. Spray the cleaner on the glass surfaces, and wipe clean with the paper towels. Close the windows to wash them, then open them again.
 Use specific wood cleaner, as any other cleaners may damage the finish.
 This is really easy step if you have a dishwasher. You can start a load, and then unload and reload in between cleaning.
 Sweep up all the dirt you can before mopping. You can probably use the same soapy type of water that was used to scrub the walls.
 Wash the mirror, sink, toilet, and bathtub. Change the towels, etc. Don't forget to sweep the floor!

, Pick up any small items first, though. You probably don't want to suck up the dogs chew toy or the cats rubber mouse. Besides making the pets mad, you just might ruin the vacuum cleaner.
 The vacuum, the window and wood cleaner, the mop, broom, and anything else still left out.
 Use something that your parents really like. Skip this step if they have any allergies.
 Cut a piece of paper in the shape of a heart, and write a short note, summing up everything you did.
, that will get your parents extremely impressed!

