 La ultima muñeca is traditionally the last doll that a girl receives. The doll is usually made from porcelain and designed to look like the Quinceañera – although you can use any material that is convenient. You can commission the doll from a store, or you can ask someone in the family to hand-make it. After turning fifteen, so the tradition goes, the birthday girl will be too old to play with dolls anymore. As part of the ritual, she passes the doll on to a sister or other younger family member., Consider giving your Quinceañera a theme such as "masquerade" or "renaissance"; in this case, choose decorations to match that theme. Even if your party is not specifically themed, make sure that the decorations do not clash with the colors of the dresses and outfits. Decorations can be as simple as table center decorations, and as extravagant as balloons, streamers, and lights.


Choose music according to personal taste, but avoid music with profanity or cursing if there will be young children and elderly people at the party. Consider hiring a DJ to play music, announce the birthday girl’s entrance, and generally keep the party lively.
 If you are planning your own Quinceañera party, ask your parents for help with arranging traditional and appropriate refreshments. The food can include anything that you like, although a more formal celebration will nod to traditional by preparing classic cultural delicacies. Your parents may be very useful for knowing what is commonly served, what will be popular, what the right portions are, etc. Ask your parents about whether or not alcoholic drinks will be served.


Consider the dietary needs of your guests. Make a list of special diets: take into account whether anyone is vegetarian or vegan; allergic to anything; diabetic; or forbidden from certain foods for religious reasons.
 Your invitations can be traditional or modern so long as you include the who, what, when, where, and why of the party. Consider including a schedule of the night; the names of the fourteen couples, as well as the names of the godparents and other people who helped make the party possible; and a few words dedicated to someone dearly departed. Make or order the invitations 3-4 months ahead of the actual party date. The quicker you have those cards in hand, the quicker the outer envelope can be addressed. Send out invitations six-eight weeks before the Quinceañera (to those close by) and around ten weeks (for those guests not so close by).


Keep the invitations consistent: try to make or order all of the stationary from the same place, around the same time.
Invitations now often consist of pictures of the birthday girl, sometimes in her Quinceañera dress. Consider taking these photos, but do not feel the need to conform to the norm.
 Reply cards usually include a box or space where each guest can indicate how many people they are bringing. It is considered rude to set a "due date" for the return of the reply card. If you want to reduce paper waste or you feel that a reply card is too much work, simply write “RSVP to ” at the end of the invitation.
 The birthday girl should write the notes by hand. To add a fun twist, send a picture card including a memorable picture from the Quinceañera. Send out thank you notes within a month after the Quinceañera – any longer may seem rude or unappreciative.
 This is your day to shine! Whatever happens on the day of the Quinceañera, don't let it distract you from having a fantastic fifteenth birthday party.

