 If you feel frightened by any of the hallucinations you have while entering a WILD, or if your dreams are frequently nightmares, you may be too fearful to take control of your dream and may instead wake yourself up. Train yourself in confidence while you train for lucid dreaming. Recite affirmations such as "I am safe in my dreams" or "I choose my own dreams." When you practice reality checks, remind yourself that you are safe: you are either safely awake, or safely dreaming.


If you run into something frightening as you fall asleep or dream, remind yourself that you are a trained dreamer.
Wake yourself up if you want. If you are in an out-of-control bad dream and your techniques aren't working, wake yourself up. Similarly, if you are too frightened by sleep paralysis, wake yourself up. Wiggle your toes and fingers, and try coughing, blinking, and making small movements., The visual and auditory hallucinations that occur when you are falling asleep lucidly can be captivating, distracting, and even frightening. You may find you wake yourself up by paying too much attention to flashing or swirling colors, sounds you hear, or phantom presences. Practice detachment as you fall asleep. When you see or hear something and you aren't fully asleep, give it a mental nod and relax further into your dream., You may find you wake up while attempting a WILD because of twitching, itching, or built up saliva. When attempting a WILD, lie mostly still. Lie in the position you would like to fall asleep in. Lie on your back, or lie the way you normally do when falling asleep. If saliva builds up, swallow it: you do this reflexively when you are asleep.If you have an itchy feeling early in your meditation, gently scratch it. As you progress, you will want to avoid waking yourself up with movements.
To avoid scratching, detach from the feeling. Imagine it is something else. Visualize the itch as a plant rubbing you, for instance.
Don't open your eyes. You may be tempted to check your progress by looking at a clock or looking around the room. Keep your eyes closed. Your "dream eyes" will open on their own., If you have been training for months without a lucid dream, try changing your methods. Adjust your sleep schedule and experiment with different wake up times. Try sleeping without an alarm on days you don't work.. If you have been trying many methods, every day and night, try using just one, or none at all, for a few nights. You may be trying too hard.
 It's easy to get excited in a lucid dream and wake yourself up, or get sucked into the dream's reality and lose lucidity. Focus on a lucid dream once you have it. Engage physically with your surroundings. Pick things up, move things, do physical activities, and look around. Remind yourself that you are lucid every minute or so.If you find yourself doubting, waking up, or losing control, focus on the dream.
The more you engage with the world you find yourself in, the more you can prolong your lucid dream.

