 Some cats love water, but many are actively resistant to baths. Luckily, most cats can keep themselves generally clean with their tongue, but sometimes it does become necessary to give a bath — particularly if she has gotten into something smelly or sticky. Bathing your cat should be the last step at your cat spa. Brush and trim nails before putting your cat in the bath. If your cat enjoys the water, a bath can be a real treat. Fill your tub with 3–5 inches (7.6–12.7 cm) of warm water. Put in a rubber bath mat so your cat doesn't slip., Always use shampoo specifically for cats, because other shampoos can have toxic oils. Use one part shampoo to five parts water. Mix it in a bowl and have it beside you on the floor ready to put on your cat., You will need a sprayer, unbreakable pitcher, or washcloth to wet your cat down and then rinse the shampoo. Make sure you never spray or dump the water directly in your cat’s face. It shouldn’t get in the eyes, ears, or nose, so be careful., Make sure the door to the room where you will be washing the cat is closed. You don’t want to have to chase a wet cat around the house. You also might want to put down a few big towels in the room in case the cat escapes or is particularly agitated in the tub. Have your supplies at hand — shampoo, pitcher, washcloth, or towel — whatever you have decided to use. Carefully pick up your cat and put him in the tub., Soak your cat from the neck down in water using your sprayer, pitcher, or washcloth. Keep at least one hand on your cat at all times to prevent escape. Put a little shampoo on your hand or the washcloth and rub it through your cat's fur, starting at the neck and massaging through to the tail.
 Using your sprayer, pitcher, or washcloth, make sure to get all of the shampoo out. With clean water on a clean washcloth, gently wash your cat’s face, making sure not to get near the eyes, ears, or mouth., Get your cat out of the bath with a large towel wrapped around her. Pat your cat dry. Give your cat a treat for behaving so well.

