 If you're not using it, why have it on? Switch off everything you don't need -- it saves power and it's a lower electricity bill for you! Before you walk out the door, make a quick scan a habit.


Even better, unplug it. Leaving devices plugged in, such as laptop chargers or toasters, can eat up "phantom" energy. Even when an appliance is turned off, it may still use power.;
, Electricity production accounts for more than one-third of U.S. global warming emissions, with the majority generated by coal-fired power plants (which produce approximately 25 percent of total U.S. emissions). In contrast, most renewable energy sources produce little to no global warming emissions. So go for an upgrade now.


Install solar panels or sky lights in your home. The power of the sun will light up your home -- no more unflattering fluorescent lighting on your turf.
Innovative programs around the country now make it possible for all environmentally conscious energy consumers to support renewable energy directly by participating in the "green" power market. Contact your local power company to see if they participate in the program.
Let your local representatives know that this is an issue that you (and your friends and family) care about. With enough pressure, your government will take strides to helping take care of our home that they may not do unprompted.
 Compact fluorescent or LED light bulbs may cost more initially, but they last much, much longer. Two decades could pass before you need to buy a new one.Really.


LEDs (a little more so than CFLs) are much more efficient than incandescent bulbs; the old kind uses a vacuum/filament method that's up to 85% worse for energy-saving. If every home in America made just one switch, the equivalent amount of energy saved would light 3 million homes for the year., Helping the planet isn't just about electricity -- it's about water, too. There are many ways you can help the planet just by changing your habits at home.


Take shorter showers. The average American uses 25,300 gallons (95,770.9 L) of water a year (69.3 gallons daily). An average shower uses about 5 gallons (18.9 L) of water per minute. If you shorten your shower by 2 minutes, you can cut your water use by 10 gallons (37.9 L). You can further reduce your water consumption by turning the water off while soaping.Turn off the water or run it lighter. While you're shaving, washing your hands, or doing dishes, you don't need to run the water all the time. While you're lathering up, turn it off. Your good habits will accumulate to a huge amount of over time.
Wash full loads of laundry and dishes. You'll run your appliances less (and hey, less electricity, too!), consuming less water on a weekly basis.

While you're at it, instead of using your dryer, hang your clothes out on the clothesline to dry.
 When you have windows and fans, why use the air conditioner? If you don't absolutely have to (and most times, you don't), skip the AC. It consumes a lot of unnecessary power.


And if it's winter, bundle up! Lower the thermostat for that excuse to cuddle up in a blanket with a glass of hot cocoa. Your body will adjust in no time.

