 Place your wok or sauté pan on a stove burner set to medium-high heat. Drizzle in canola oil and tilt the pan back and forth until the heated oil lightly coats the bottom of the pan. Add the minced ginger and cut onions. Sauté the ingredients for a few minutes., Insert your cut mushrooms into the pan and stir it with a utensil, like a wooden spoon. Stir the ingredients for a couple of minutes, then add the shredded cabbage, shredded carrots, and the chopped chives., Add salt to taste and the white pepper to the veggie mixture. Continue to stir the mixture to evenly distribute the seasoning. For a spicier flavor in your veggie pot stickers, add a small amount of crushed red pepper., Continue stirring the ingredients until they become soft. Place a suitable colander (strainer) in your sink. Remove your wok or pan from the heat and carefully pour its contents into the colander.Watch out for steam when pouring your ingredients into the colander. Steam can cause burns just as easily as a hot wok or pan.
 Give your colander a shake or two to knock loose any remaining water. Then pour the ingredients into the bowl. Allow them to cool completely., When the ingredients are cool, drizzle the sesame oil over top and add the cilantro. Mix the ingredients thoroughly to distribute them evenly.Taste the seasoning at this point. If you the flavor is a little bland, this is the last chance you’ll have to add a little more seasoning to the potsticker filling.
 Lay out your potsticker skins on a clean, dry surface, like your counter or a cutting board. Place a spoonful of the cooked ingredients into the center of the skin. Fold the outside edges to meet above the ingredients. This should create a dumpling in a half-moon shape.The bottom of your potstickers should be relatively flat. You may need to pinch the ends of skins together with your fingers so they stick together and hold shape.
 Place a medium to large size non-stick pan over medium heat. Coat the bottom of the pan in a thin layer of oil. Place dumplings into the oil so that they are flat with the seam of the skins facing upwards., When the dumplings are brown on the bottom, add ¼ cup (59 ml) of water to the pan. Immediately cover the pan after adding the water. The steam produced by the heated water will cook the potstickers thoroughly., Watch the potstickers carefully while the cook. When the water has completely evaporated, the potstickers are almost done. Look for crispy bottoms on the potstickers. When crispy, remove them from the heat and transfer them to a serving plate.Some stoves may heat pans unevenly. In this case, some potstickers may finish before others.
 Combine the thin soy sauce, rice wine vinegar, sliced scallions, sesame oil, and sambal in a small mixing bowl. Whisk the ingredients together to thoroughly mix the sauce, or improvise a whisk to stir it., Divide the sauce into equal portions in ramekins or sauce dishes. Dip the potstickers into the sauce before eating them, or enjoy the potstickers plain.

Another favorite sauce to try with your potstickers can be made by mixing chili oil (sometimes called rāyu), soy sauce, and vinegar to your preferred taste.Store cooked dumplings in a plastic container in your refrigerator for 3 to 4 days.