 While figuring out what you want to do each day might sound relatively straightforward, this could actually be the most difficult and essential step in learning how to keep a daily schedule. It’s not always easy to figure out your goals and to achieve them. At the same time, what you want to do in the moment may not align with your long-term goals. It’s best to balance these out as much as possible, as opposed to only focusing on one or the other. Set your long-term goals. Do you have a particular job or career you’d like to pursue? Are there certain people you know who you’d like to become better friends with? Maybe you want to make a sports team at your school. Whatever your goals might be, getting them down on paper can make them seem more concrete than if they remain mere images inside your own head.
Make a list of incremental things you can do to start achieving these goals. Plan time every day to do these activities. , It is useful to get advice from others when figuring out your goals. But it’s important to recognize the goals that are actually relevant to your own desires. Your daily schedule may still have obligations that aren’t aligned with your own goals.For example, does your parent want you to become something specific, like a lawyer or a doctor? While such wishes are often associated with parents’ desires for their children to be happy and successful, this career path may not make the child happy and fulfilled. Talking to them about how their desires for you might stifle your independence can be a good first step to becoming more comfortable figuring these things out for yourself. The worst thing you can do is go through life doing what others want you to do and never figuring out what will truly make you happy.
When you determine your own long-term goals, figure out how these fit with the expectations that other people have for you. You may not be able to completely avoid your obligations and other people’s expectations. But you can start to schedule your time to focus more diligently on your own goals.
 There are bound to be items on your daily to-do list that need to be done right away. Other tasks can wait. As you strategize the flow of your daily schedule, block off time for the most immediate tasks.You may have some tasks that are the same every day, while other tasks are a one-time occurrence. You may need to adjust your schedule to accommodate one-time activities. You can even plan for these in your daily schedule. Mark a block of time every day as “flexible” time. This can be used to take care of unforeseen tasks. If you don’t have a task for the day, you can use it to make progress on a personal long-term goal, such as hitting the gym or practicing the guitar.

