 You can have it as a morning treat, as an afternoon snack, or as a late-night treat. There are two main ways to eat pomegranate on its own:


Eat the arils with a spoon, like you would eat a bowl of cereal. You can eat the hard seeds, or spit them out.
You can also cut the pomegranate into large chunks, pick them up, and bite down on the seeds. This is a messier method and will require lots of clean up.

Also, the skin of the pomegranate can be a bit bitter so you should avoid biting into it too much. This method is for people who like a more active eating experience.
 If you don't have time to cook but want to spice up the ordinary foods you eat, there are a few ways you can transform your ordinary meals into exotic taste treats. Here are a few things to try:


Sprinkle the seeds in your morning oatmeal or cereal.
Stir the seeds into your orange juice or apple juice.
Stir the seeds into your black tea for a tangy taste.
Sprinkle them on top of mango cubes and enjoy.
 These seeds can add the right kick to an ordinary soup, and can take your everyday soup to the next level. Here are a few soups that you can make with pomegranate seeds:


Make a pomegranate soup.
Make a vegetarian pomegranate soup.
 Pomegranate seeds will add a bite to a variety of salads, from fruit salads to traditional green salads. Here are a few things to try:


Add pomegranate seeds to a salad of roasted butternut squash, spinach, and feta cheese.
Add pomegranate seeds to a salad of walnuts, goat cheese, and spinach, using a light honey-based dressing.
Make a fruit salad of papaya, pomegranate seeds, and mango. Add some lemon juice for zest.
Make a fruit salad of grapes, pomegranate seeds, and ripe pears.
Make a fruit salad of pomegranate seeds, blueberries, and persimmons.
 Pomegranate can add a unique and tangy taste to a variety of smoothies, alcoholic beverages, and juices. All you have to do is put the seeds in a blender until they are liquified and then pour the liquid through a strainer. Here are a few drinks to try:


Make pomegranate juice (which you can then use to make a pomegranate mojito!).
Prepare for a relaxing evening with a bottle of pomegranate wine.

Create a healthy treat by making a mango smoothie.
 Pomegranate seeds can help add variety and flavor to a number of desserts. Here are a few things to try:


Make lemon bars.

Sprinkle pomegranate seeds over yogurt or ice cream.
Sprinkle them over a chocolate cake. You can sprinkle a few raspberries along with them.

