 Some (though not all) deaf people will communicate using sign language. Most countries have their own national sign languages. They are quite distinct from spoken languages and generally do not follow the same geographic distribution (for example, British Sign Language is very different from ASL).


Sign languages are natural languages, with their own grammar and syntax; for example, the English phrase "I give to you" is one word (or "sign") in American Sign Language (ASL).
 If you are brand new to using sign language, you can begin by learning the letters of the alphabet, as well as your numbers. Knowing these can enable you to start communicating a rudimentary way, and help to get you comfortable signing.

Visit https://www.start-american-sign-language.com/american-sign-language-alphabet_html to practice the alphabet in ASL.
Visit http://www.lifeprint.com/asl101/pages-signs/n/numbers.htm to practice your numbers.
 Learning a few key phrases can help to you to communicate using sign language. Phrases like "please," "thank you," and "hello," can be used in a variety of contexts to communicate friendliness and respect. In ASL, these phrases are signed as follows:

To sign please: place your hand flat against the center of your chest and move it clockwise in a circular motion three times.To sign thank you: touch your fingers to your lips (with your hand flat). Then move your hand forward and down in the direction of the person.To sign hello: touch your hand to your forehead with your palm facing downward. Then raise it away from your forehead (similar to a salute)., If you'd like to become proficient in sign language, you will need to study grammar, understand language structure, and expand your vocabulary. You'll also need to practice quite a bit. Sign language, like any language, require a fair bit of dedication to master.Take a course with a local college, university, or deaf organization.
Join a signing club.
Practice with a deaf friend.
 It is important to remember that not all dead people use sign language. You must confirm that the person uses sign language before you begin a conversation. Start by getting the person's attention. Then sign the word "hello." If the person responds back in sign language, you can proceed with what you want to say.Remember that there are different sign languages. It may be possible that the person you are trying to communicate with uses a different form of sign language than the one you know.
 When you are communicating through sign language, it is important to keep your hands visible. Make sure to keep your hands and body faced in the direction of the person you are talking to.Sign with your hands out in front of you, at about chest level.
If you must turn away for some reason, explain why are doing so and briefly pause the conversation.

