 A kitten's eyes should be clear and bright. They shouldn't be runny, for instance, and they should also be able to focus easily on your finger. If you notice discharge around the eyes, that could indicate a health problem., If you notice the kitten has discharge around its nose, that could indicate that it's sick. Similarly, sneezing and coughing can also indicate sickness, such as an upper respiratory infection caused by a virus., Some unhealthy kittens may have ear mites. To check your kitten out, look in the kitten's ears for coffee-like granules. Also, notice if the kitten seems to be scratching its ears a good deal or shaking its head.The ears should look clean inside and out. Inside, they should be pink, not inflamed or red., Gently lift the edge of the kitten's mouth so you can look at the gums and teeth. The gums should be pink, not red or inflamed. They also shouldn't look white. The teeth should be white., A kitten should have a full belly, but it shouldn't seem swollen or warm, which can indicate worms. Also, you shouldn't be able to feel a kitten's ribs, as kittens tend to be more rotund than older cats.The kitten's body should also look symmetrical., A kitten's body should be smooth. You shouldn't be able to feel any noticeable lumps on the kitten's body. If you do, that could indicate a health issue., The kitten should be free from parasites like fleas and ringworm. Fleas will leave little dark reddish particles. These particles will turn redder when wet. Ringworm will leave bald patches. Also, check for dandruff.You'll most likely find flea dirt at the base of the ears, near the tail, and on the lower end of the back., While this step isn't exactly pleasant, it's important to make sure the kitten doesn't have worms. The rear end should be mostly clean. You shouldn't notice any signs of diarrhea in the fur, for instance.Also, look for cucumber-seed like parasites, which are likely tapeworms., Kittens are a bit clumsy, of course, but the kitten should be able to move in a coordinated fashion. If you notice that it has trouble walking, for instance, that's not a good sign. Head tremors are also not an indicator of good health., If you're there during dinner time, watch the kitten to see how it interacts with food. It should be interested in the food and come over when the food is put out. It should also eat with relish., Of course, every kitten is going to spend time napping. However, when it's awake, it should be fairly playful. Most kittens have two speeds (when they're not eating or going to the bathroom): sleeping and playing., It's always a good idea to have your cat checked out by a vet before taking it home, particularly if you have other animals. The vet can catch things you can't and help you treat them. Plus, they can let you know if the kitten should be quarantined from other animals for a period of time.


If you can't take the kitten to a vet before taking it home, try to do so within 72 hours of adoption.

