 Be sure you have left at least a foot or two of space behind you. Balance your weight between your sitting bones and your tailbone., Lift your sternum, and don’t round your back.
 Lift your legs so that your thighs are at about a 45 degree angle to the floor. Lean back so that your torso, too, is at about a 45 degree angle to the floor. The angle between your torso and your legs will be about 90 degrees. Straighten your legs slowly, taking the bend out of the knees to the degree that is possible for you. , Reach out through your fingers. If you can’t do this, hold on to your thighs or rest your hands lightly on the floor by your hips.


Keep your lower belly flat and firm rather than hardKeep your shoulders in a neutral, retracted position. Don’t hunch your shoulders, but think about moving your shoulder blades back and down., Don’t strain yourself by trying to stay in the pose for too long; stop before you are unable to maintain good form. Try staying in the pose for 1-2 full breaths at first, slowly working up to ten breaths.
 Lower your legs slowly to the ground and return to a sitting position. Use your hands on the floor for extra support.
 This is known as “Half Boat Pose,” and makes your abdominal, hip, and thigh muscles do somewhat less work. Keep your back straight, just as in Full Boat Pose.This may be an appropriate modification during pregnancy., Have your partner place her hands gently on your back and chest while you bring your shoulder blades back and lift your sternum. Your partner isn’t holding you up, but her hands give your body something tangible to push against while lifting your sternum in the pose., Loop the strap around the soles of your feet and hold the ends in your hands. Keep the strap taut as you push your feet firmly against it., Performing this pose near a wall on which you can rest your head may make it easier to practice this pose if you have a sensitive neck., Lower your torso and your legs, so that the angle between them is about 45 degrees. This is known as “Low Boat Pose.”Try alternating, slowly and with control, between Full and Low Boat Poses, without bringing either your feet or your back fully to the ground. Do this 8-10 times for an excellent, dynamic core workout.