






;
, If you are replacing existing cabinets, you may want to use them as a pattern. You may also prefer to create a new layout to better suit your purposes.









Get brochures from the cabinet company. It will tell you what standard sizes are available (this usually means 12" wide at a minimum, with larger cabinets at 3" increments). You want to have them tune up all your sizes, give you a printout so you can make copies, and include them with your bid request.
Also get an idea of your options for finish, styles, materials, and hardware options. In many cases, it is possible to get a custom size to match your needs, but it is always much less costly to use their standard sizes.
Draw a layout of your cabinet plans. It doesn't need to look like something an architect would draw, but it should be enough to give you an idea of how everything will line up and fit together.
Check the cabinet heights, especially for upper cabinets. If you are especially tall or short, check how far up you can comfortably reach. Many upper cabinets are designed to have a space between the tops and a standard height ceiling, while others will extend all the way to the ceiling.
If one of your cabinets will go over your sink or stove, make sure to allow space underneath it for working and to attach lighting or a stove hood.
Check how your range hood will fit with any upper cabinets above the stove.
Most systems have special cabinets to go under the sink, in corners and in other special locations. Learn how these work and incorporate them into your layout.
Check that upper cabinets line up appropriately with lower cabinets, and allow for windows and other features in the wall.
Consider how you use your kitchen (or other workspace). Does your layout make sense for you?

, Make a list. Don't forget screws to screw the cabinets to the walls and shims with which to level the cabinets.









Remove the old cabinets, if there were any. At the back of the cabinets, you will generally find screws or nails holding them to the walls.
Empty the cabinets completely first. It is much easier to work inside them and remove them without loose items rattling around inside.
Remove the doors and shelves before unscrewing the cabinets from the walls. Most shelves simply lift off of pegs. Some may need to be unscrewed or pried off their supports. In either case, it will help to have them out of your way.
Make certain that you support the upper cabinets somehow as you remove the screws that support them. If the upper cabinets are a one-piece unit, you may have to separate them to avoid damaging adjacent walls since there will be no room to turn them as you bring them down.
 It is not necessary to run the flooring under cabinets, but for some flooring materials, it is easiest to do the floor while the cabinets are out. Do not replace baseboards until after the cabinets are installed. If you are installing wood or tile floors, consider the thickness of the floor material when you decide whether it should go under the cabinets.








