 Use a safer example than monsters. Find something your child created or enjoys and take a moment to discuss the difference between imagination and reality.During the day, have your child draw pictures of the monsters he imagines at night. Then, take time to discuss it with him to help demystify the monster.
If your child enjoys drawing special or funny cars then take time and draw a silly one that could never exist and ask your child if they ever saw such a crazy car. Take time to explain how you used your imagination to draw the car. Then explain the same concept to them with the monsters.
 Ignoring, devaluing, or extinguishing your child’s fears about monsters will only let your child believe that something is wrong with her. If you belittle her fear, most likely she will still believe in monsters and will no longer talk to you about it.Refrain from saying things like "Big girls don't believe in monsters," or "Don't be a baby," or "The Boogie Man will get you tonight if you don’t go to sleep." Instead, relate to your child by explaining that you once believed in monsters too, and that eventually she will conquer her fears, too.
Watch movies like Monsters, Inc. or read books such as Happy Monsters that would be helpful in alleviating the fear of monsters. If there is any part of the movie or book scares her take time to discuss it with her.
Role play as monsters. Either you or your child is the monster and have fun with it. Use masks or costumes to make it more real but make sure your child is in complete control and laughing. This should be a fun exercise to give your child a different perspective, not a scary one.
 If you child’s nighttime fear and anxiety of monsters becomes too severe or manifest during the daytime, then it might be time to get a psychological evaluation to better identify and treat your child’s fears.Be clear about the difference between fear and phobia. If your child is only afraid of monsters at night when you turn off the light and shut the door, it is most likely fear. If your child refuses to go into the bedroom or gets anxiety when the sun goes down, it is probably a phobia.
Fears last a couple of weeks or even a few months, but if your child’s fear lasts longer than six months and continues to get worse, don’t ignore the issue or it could damage your child’s psychological development.
Studies have demonstrated that children who have severe nighttime fears often suffer from daytime anxieties, impulsivity, or abnormal attention control. If these fears or anxieties begin to disrupt your child’s normal daily activities, then you should contact your pediatrician or child psychologist.
Be aware that this can happen to a child at any age, even an infant.

