 All Rottweilers have a black base coat on their bodies with distinctive brown markings on their chests, legs, and face. The brown can be a range of colors from a dark mahogany to a red or rusty color, but the black will always be black, never grey or merle, (a mix of colors.) The brown is typically isolated to the dog's paws, the insides of its legs, its chest, its throat and muzzle, and two distinct dots above the eyes.This pattern is so unique to the breed that it is simply called "Rottweiler color," even when found on mixed breed dogs.
The only other breed to have this coloration naturally is the Doberman Pinscher, which also originated in Germany, but the Doberman Pinscher is very lean, long, and tall, as it was bred for running more than for fighting and intimidation.
 The actual size and shape of the markings may vary between individual dogs. For example, some dogs may have an upside-down wishbone-shaped brown mark on their chests, while others may have a butterfly shape, two separate dots on each pectoral, (chest muscle,) or just a shapeless smudge. The important thing to remember is the overall positioning of the markings.Some dogs may also have white markings on them. This is considered a fault by the breed standards, but nonetheless some purebred Rottweilers may have white on the chest, between the shoulders, or on the face or paws.
Sometimes older dogs will develop white in these areas as well. In these cases, the white is not a fault, but simply an effect of aging. The white on older Rottweilers will typically look more grizzled than pure white, however.
 Rarely, Rottweilers can be born albino, all red, or with a "bluish" color. These are considered breed faults, but are not predictable. Albino Rottweilers are all white with pink skin and red eyes, but otherwise conform to the breed's physical characteristics. Keep in mind that these are rare mutations, and a red or blue Rottweiler is most likely a mix.A red Rottweiler conforms to all the breed's physical standards, but is all brown or red instead of having the typical black and red coloration.
A Rottweiler is said to be "blue" when the guard hairs of the coat are a lighter color than the undercoat, resulting in an overall bleaching effect that washes out the entire color.

