 Take one cardboard box for a dozen eggs and tear it into small pieces. The pieces should be about ½-inch (1.27 cm) in size. Smaller pieces make molding your beads easier.One cardboard egg box will make about 40 beads. You can also use other types of cardboard boxes, like cereal or cracker boxes.
 Place your shredded pieces of cardboard in a medium-sized bowl. Then pour some boiling water into the bowl with the cardboard pieces. Let the cardboard and water sit for at least an hour.To save some time, place your water on the stove to boil while you shred the egg box.
 Once the water has cooled, work the soggy box with your hands. Mash and tear the mixture until it is soupy and the larger pieces are broken down. It should have a slightly runny texture when you are done.You can also use an electric blender to save some time.
Be sure to let the water cool before you mash the cardboard. You may seriously burn your fingers if you do not give it enough time.
 Pour the contents of the bowl into a sieve. Be sure to press out as much water as you can. The cardboard should be moist but firm.You should drain the mixture over the sink or into another bowl. Pour the excess water down the drain.
 Squeeze about 4 tablespoons (59.15 ml) of PVA glue into the wet cardboard. Mix in the glue with your hands. Make sure that the glue is completely worked in and that there are not any clumps of cardboard.You can find PVA glue at your local craft store.
 Pull off a small piece of paper mâché and shape it into a ball. You can roll it between your hands or between your hand and a flat surface. Shape the ball for about 30-seconds and be sure to smooth over and cracks. When you are done, the ball should be smooth and round.Repeat this process with the remaining paper mâché.
 Use a toothpick to poke a small hole in the middle of the bead. Then press a chopstick into the small hole created by the toothpick. Gently push the chopstick into the bead until it pokes out of the other side. Pat down and smooth any places where the paper mâché has cracked.Repeat this process for your remaining beads.
 Once you have finished making your holes, leave the beads in a warm place and let them dry overnight. It is important that the beads dry out completely before you do anything else with them. If you want them to dry out a little quicker, consider leaving them near a radiator or a space heater. However, if you dry them out too quickly, the beads may crack and fall apart., After the beads have dried, take a piece of fine-grain sandpaper and smooth the beads. One at a time, take the beads and gently rub them with the sandpaper, removing any bumps or rough spots. Rubbing gently will prevent you from making your beads misshapen.You can find sandpaper at your local hardware store.
 With a small paintbrush, apply a coat of white acrylic paint to the beads. Once that has dried, apply a second coat of acrylic paint in whatever color you want. The white primer coat helps the second coat of paint be more vivid.Repeat for each bead, painting different patterns on each.
You can find acrylic paint at your local craft or art supplies store.
 Place a bead on the end of the chopstick and spray it with adhesive. Then roll the bead in some embossing powder until it is completely covered. Finally, place the bead in front of a heat gun and turn it until the embossing powder melts and the bead is dry.You can find embossing powder and spray adhesive at your local craft store.
If you do not have embossing powder, you can also brush a coat or two of varnish onto each bead. You can find varnish at your local hardware store.
 Insert some PVA glue into the each end of a bead’s holes. Then insert a metal beard core into each hole. The bead cores will help prevent the beads from flaking and wearing out once you insert string into it.You can find bead cores at your local craft store.
 You can now enjoy your paper mache beads for your project.
