 To create an embellished birthday card, you'll need a material that's heavier than standard paper, so cardstock is the best option. You'll also need crafting supplies, such as sequins, pom poms, and ribbons. Have a glue stick or other type of adhesive ready to attach the embellishments to the card as well.


Scrapbooking supplies are ideal for decorating a birthday card. You can find birthday cakes, balloons, flowers, and other shapes that would fit your card well.
If you're attaching heavier items to your card, you may also need a hot glue gun to ensure that your adhesive is strong enough.
 Just as you would with with a homemade card that you’re drawing, you need to fold a piece of paper in half to create the card. However, when you’re making an embellished card, it’s best to use heavier paper that can support the decorative elements you attach. That’s why cardstock works best.You can use crafting scissors with a decorative edge to trim the sides of the cardstock just as you would with paper, but you can also use a circle cutter from the craft store to make a round birthday card with the cardstock.
 Instead of drawing on your card, create a design using sequins, pom poms, ribbons, and your other favorite crafting supplies. Use a glue stick that’s safe for scrapbooking to attach them so the adhesive doesn’t warp the cardstock.You can also use stickers and rubber stamps create a birthday design on your card. They’re especially easy to work with because they don’t require any adhesive, and typically come in a wide variety of shapes and designs.
 In addition to items that you might find at the craft store, you can decorate your card with items that you might have around the house. Pressed or artificial flowers can make pretty decorations for the card, but you can also use buttons, pieces of wrapping paper, and postcards to embellish it.If you’re attaching heavier items to your card, a glue stick probably isn’t strong enough to adhere it. You may want to use a hot glue gun instead. However, keep in mind that a wet glue can often cause paper and cardstock to warp.
Be creative when you’re looking around your house for items to decorate the card. For example, you might cut a cupcake liner in half, glue it the front of the card, and use pom poms or sequins to fill in the top of the cupcake. Complete it by gluing an actual birthday candle to the top., Once you’ve decorated the card, use a marker to write a message on the inside of the card. For a fun touch, you can also add a few decorative embellishments, such as some sequins, stickers, or stamped images.It’s best to use items that are flat to decorate the inside of the card. If you use a three-dimensional item, such as a pom pom, the card may be difficult to close.

