 People who are sabotaging your diet may do so because they feel guilty, do not understand your plight, or miss the "old you", or due to a combination of these. By understanding where they are coming from, you may be able to empathize with them. This will help you find the right words to make your confrontation a successful one.Changing your life may prompt other friends and family to feel like they should be doing the same thing, which makes them feel guilty. This can cause them to either consciously or unconsciously sabotage your diet. Ask them to join you.
People who have never dealt with a weight problem simply do not understand how difficult it is to diet and lose weight. Help them see that your weight is a valid struggle and a serious issue.
Others may miss the food experiences you both once enjoyed together, like dessert at restaurants and boutiques. Reassure them that your diet does not change how you feel about them.;
, Write down what you will say to the person and how you will say it. Remember to use “I” statements instead of “you” statements. Once you have written it down, practice your speech in front of a mirror.Instead of saying, “You are sabotaging my diet and weight loss,” say, “I feel that whenever we hang out, I cannot stick to my diet.”
Keep your speech simple, succinct, and direct.
 Don’t confront the person publicly in front of others. Instead, talk with them privately in a comfortable environment. Also, try not to confront them when they are busy, stressed, or angry. If you do, they are less likely to focus on what you’re saying, and more likely to misinterpret your words.If the saboteur is a colleague, resist the urge to email them instead of talking face-to-face.
Find out when they can sit down and talk, and invite them for a cup of coffee or to your place to address the issue.
If you are dealing with multiple saboteurs, talk with them individually instead of as a group.
 Remember to remain calm and assertive. If just thinking about the confrontation incites feelings of anger or remorse, then you are not ready to confront the person. Also, wait until you have filtered out other issues and emotions that are not relevant to the issue at hand., After you have stated your case, try to find a solution or alternative that will satisfy both of your wants and needs. Let them know how much they mean to you, as well as how much it would mean if you had their full support.For example, “You are my best friend and I want you to help me succeed. This is really hard, so I need your full support. Plus, I think it would be a great way for us to bond and grow our friendship.”

