 Hunger can make it hard for your baby to fall asleep, so feeding your baby near bedtime may help him fall asleep.Try feeding your baby about a half hour before you lay him down.


Do not let your baby to have a bottle in bed because this can cause the bottle to become a security item and make it hard for your baby to sleep without it.It can also increase your child's risk of dental problems, including cavities.;
, Swaddled babies tend to sleep better and longer, so swaddling is a great idea if your baby is having trouble sleeping on her back. To swaddle your baby, you will need a lightweight cotton blanket.First, lay out the blanket and fold over one of the corners.
Then, lay your baby down so that her head is resting on the folded corner.
Next, fold over one edge of the blanket and tuck it under your baby’s arm on the opposite side. Repeat this process on the other side.
Then, take the bottom edge of the diamond and tuck it under the blanket at the baby’s shoulder.
 Rocking your baby in your arms may help to make him feel drowsy and make back-sleeping easier. Try standing or walking around your baby’s room and rock your baby in your arms as you do so.If you have a rocking chair or glider, then you may also rock your baby while sitting down.
 Watch your baby to see when she seems like she is about to fall asleep (drooping eyelids, yawning, etc.). This is the best time to place her in her crib or bassinet. Try not to let your baby fall asleep in your arms or this may become a habit. It is better to lay her down when she is drowsy, but still awake., Shushing may help to soothe your baby right after you lay him down in the crib. Shushing is similar to white noise, which is a helpful sleep aid for some people. If shushing does not seem to work or if you can’t keep it up for very long, then you might try playing some ocean wave sounds or running a fan.You can also try playing some soothing music for your baby. Playing some classical, new age, or jazz music may help your baby calm down and fall asleep., Even if your baby seems to be asleep, you should stay by her crib with your hand on her tummy for a few minutes. This will help to comfort her and ensure that she is asleep before you leave the room. After a few minutes, you can gently remove your hand and quietly exit the room.

