 These clinics offer a wide variety of services, and you may find they have a divorce support group available. However, if they don't, they should be able to tell you where one is in your area.You can use online search tools to find mental health clinics, such as the one provided by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.You can also go through your insurance, as most insurance companies will have a search tool to help you find clinics and doctors in your network.If you still use phone books, you can often find mental health clinics listed in the yellow pages.;
, Many websites have listings for support groups across the country, while others will be focused on your area. You simply put in your address or zip code and the type of support group you are looking for to find listings in your area.Another option is use your newspaper. Sometimes, support groups will be listed in your local newspaper. Your newspaper may even have a section dedicated to support services like the one you are seeking., Professionals in your life can help you find a therapist. Many professionals have the right expertise to point you in the right direction.


Your general doctor is a good place to start. He or she may be able to recommend a support group to you.Discuss it with your therapist. An even better option is asking your therapist, if you have one. Therapists often know of support groups in the area, and they can help you find one that's right for you.Ask your lawyer. Divorce lawyers work with people in your situation all the time. Therefore, it's likely that your lawyer has learned of a support group in the area. Ask them if they know of one that you can join., Many organizations host support groups, including divorce support groups. Contact your local library, for instance, to see if any are hosted at one of the libraries in your area.If you're involved with your church, that's also a good place to start looking for a support group. Many churches host divorce support groups. If yours doesn't, they may know one in the area that does.Also try a nearby university. Many big universities have psychology departments. In turn, those departments often provide counseling, as well as host support groups. If they don't host one of their own, they may be able to point you in the right direction., Friends and family are always a good source of information. You can even ask on social media if you feel comfortable. If not, reach out to friends who have been in your situation, as they are more likely to know of groups in the area. You can also ask friends who are in the health or mental health fields.Try talking to people who have similar values or who think in a similar way to you. That way, you'll be more likely to get a group that fits your needs.
Also, make sure the people you ask know you pretty well. Because they know you, they'll be more likely to help you find a group that's a good fit.
 While an in-person may work best for some people, you may prefer an online group. Online groups offer the benefit of being available when you need them, for instance. Try looking at major mental health websites to find groups for you to join.Some of the major psychology websites have forum areas for support groups. In these forums, you're likely to find areas devoted to different types of support groups. These groups are fairly informal, and you can can come and go as you please.
Don't share personal information online, at least the kind that could be used to steal your identity or that would lead to your house, such as full names or your home address.
 If possible, find out about the group before attending. Each group should have a contact person who you can call and find out more. Have a list of questions prepared to ask.For instance, you can ask when and where the group meets. You can also ask how long the group has been meeting. Another good question to bring up is whether the group accepts new members.You can also ask questions about some of the other considerations in this section.
 One way to get a sense of what a support group does is to ask what a typical meeting is like. That gives the person you're talking to a chance to walk you through a meeting, and it gives you a sense of whether it's what you're looking for or not.For instance, a typical meeting may spend 10 minutes on introductions, 45 minutes on general discussion, and 5 minutes wrapping up. With another group, you might find that they spend 30 minutes with someone speaking about issues related to divorce and 45 minutes on general discussion, including time when you can speak about what's going on in your life.
You can ask if everyone at the meeting is encouraged to speak or if it's just open to those who feel like talking.
You should also ask how long a typical meeting runs. If you only have time for a 45-minute meeting, you don't want to join a group that typically runs 2 hours.
 Ideally, what is said in the group, stays in the group. Different groups will have different confidentiality policies. Be sure to ask about confidentiality when you attend a meeting.Also, ask what measures are in place to protect confidentiality. For instance, maybe the group only uses first names., The size of support groups can vary greatly. The best size for a group is determined by what you want from the group. For instance, do you want a place where you can talk about your feelings or just one where you can feel camaraderie with others in the same situation? The answer to that question may determine whether you choose a small or large group. Also, it depends on whether you feel more comfortable in a larger crowd or a smaller group.For instance, a group of five people may feel too small to you if you're a people person who likes to get to know a wide variety of people.
If you feel the need to talk openly about what you're going through, a group of 20 people may not give you enough of a chance to talk. If you're only meeting for an hour with 50 minutes devoted to taking, that's only 2 1/2 minutes per person if everyone talks.
Nonetheless, a group of 20 may work fine if the main focus of the group is hearing people talk about issues related to divorce.
 The best groups will have a good leader to facilitate the group. A good leader facilitates discussion without hounding people. When attending a meeting, see if people seem like the are comfortable talking and if the leader is able to keep discussion going.That leader may or may not be a mental health professional, but having a professional attend occasionally can help guide the group and discussion., After visiting a group, assess whether it is what you want or not. For instance, you can ask yourself how it made you feel. While a meeting may make you work through some emotions, it should hopefully leave you feeling a little better about yourself. You should also feel comfortable in the group, though it can take a few meetings to really get your bearings. Most importantly, you should feel like the meetings and members are offering you support for what you are going through.After a meeting, spend a few minutes regrouping. Sit in your car for a bit if you have to, but spend a little while thinking or writing about the meeting before going home. Jotting notes down can be helpful, especially if you are trying to compare more than one group.
Focus on what was most helpful and least helpful about the group. What was most and least helpful should be personal to your needs.
For example, maybe what was most helpful was the ability to spend time talking about your feelings. On the other hand, maybe what was least helpful was the leadership wasn't very strong and didn't guide the conversation well. In that case, you may need to find another group that is similar in size but that has stronger leadership, maybe someone who is a professional.
 When going to a support group, you're more likely to attend if it is convenient. If you're finding it hard to choose between two groups, pick the one that's most convenient for you. You'll only get help from the group if you're able to go.For instance, if the group is close to your work, you may find it easy to stop off on the way home.
On the other hand, if it's 30 minutes away, you might find yourself skipping more often.
 What do you want to get out of this group? If you can answer that question, it can help you decide which group is best for you. For instance, your goal may be to improve your life and move forward, or it might be to improve your self-esteem.For instance, your goal may be to help process your feelings. In that case, you may want a group where you can talk more.On the other hand, you may just feel the need to be connected to other people after splitting with your spouse. In that case, you may want a group where talking is less of an emphasis., Group therapy is run by a therapist, while a support groups are often run by non-professionals. While some just provide an opportunity to talk, others will provide you with information that may help you get through this hard time.A support group is just that, support. It's meant to provide you with a group of people who are going or have gone through what you're going through.
Many people find it helpful to have a group like that to talk about what they're going through, especially after their friends get tired of hearing about it.
 Depending on the size of your town, you may not have that many options. Though you may not find your perfect group, pick the one that has the best qualifications for what you need.As an example, if you have two options that you like, one a big group and one a small group, consider what's most important for you. You might pick the small group because you'll have more chances to talk, or you might choose the large one to have a wider variety of perspectives.
Another way to choose is to pick the one that makes you feel the most comfortable. You need to feel at home in the group for it to provide you with the most support.

