 If your surgery is a non-invasive procedure (such as kyphoplasty or vertebroplasty), you may be able to leave the same day. If your back surgery involved anterior or posterior reconstruction, you may need to stay in the hospital for a day or two. While you are in the hospital, your care team will help you to focus on the first four elements of your recovery: eating, walking, urinating, and pain control.After your surgery, you must ease back into eating. Start eating a little bit at a time, making sure you can tolerate food.
Patients who begin walking right after back surgery have been shown to recover more easily. Your care team will help you begin moving around.
After back surgery, urinating can be difficult. Your care team will help ensure that you can urinate effectively and often.
Once you are able to tolerate food, you can begin taking oral pain medication. Communicate with your care team if your pain becomes too much.
Make sure to ask what position is best for you to sleep in.
 Your mobility is going to be limited when you return home after your surgery, so it is best to prepare your living space beforehand. Alternatively, you can ask a friend or relative to prepare your home while you are gone.Move items that you commonly use to areas above waist-level.

Shoes
Food
Medications
Clothing
Toilet Paper


Move anything you could trip over.

Cords
Rugs
Chairs
Toys (for kids or pets)


Make your bedroom safe

Install a nightlight
Keep a phone close to your bed


Secure your bathroom

Use a non-skid mat
Purchase liquid soap (or soap on a rope)
Place all medications within reach
Install a toilet-seat riser



, You will be given a prescription before you leave the hospital, according to the pain management plan you have previously outlined with your doctor. It is important to fill this prescription right away and follow all instructions provided. Additionally, there are some non-pharmacological methods you can use to reduce your pain and heal effectively.These include:


Movement – Try to get up a walk at least 4-6 times per day. This increases blood flow and helps you to heal.
Ice – Place a cold pad (or ice pack) on the site of your incision. This helps to reduce pain and swelling. You can do this as often as you like.
Relaxation – Staying relaxed can help you to heal effectively. Try listening to an audio meditation or soothing music.
Distraction – Sometimes just getting your mind off of the pain can help. Try watching a funny movie or talking with a friend.
 Depending on your specific surgery, you may need to do some rehabilitation, physical therapy, and exercising. You will also need to see your doctor for follow up appointments to discuss your recovery process and address your specific needs. Program these appointments into your calendar, and make arrangements for transportation (if needed). These visits are essential! They will ensure that you are healing properly.