 In general, those who organized the news conference will dictate when journalists are allowed to ask questions. Asking out of turn will increase the likelihood that your question is not addressed, and risk your removal from the conference altogether. In this sense, the speaker and organizers will dictate control over who gets to ask questions, but by following standard protocol, you can increase your chances of getting to ask a question and receiving an answer - neither of which are ever guaranteed.Specific protocol will vary based on the type of conference.
Most commonly, expect to raise your hand and wait for the speaker or a supporting organizer acknowledge that you have a question.;
, It is in your best interest to be patient and polite during all facets of the conference, if only for the sake of developing of professional rapport with the organizers, speaker, and your fellow journalists. Developing the favor of those you're working with, alongside of, or covering will greatly improve that you are called on and receive sincere responses.Even if you strongly disagree with the speaker, or have been offended by their perspectives or behavior, rudeness on your part will all but guarantee that your question will not be taken seriously.
 Though it may seem formal, you should always quickly state your name and employer or media affiliation. Especially if there are people in the room who do not know who you are, this will help solidify your reputation as a journalist, and allow others, including the speaker, to easily follow up with you after the conference.For example, quickly state, “Hello , with .
If you are not a journalist, briefly state the reason you are in attendance. For instance, say something like “Hello , my name is _____, and I’m here today because _______.”

, At formal conferences, consider also quickly thanking the speaker for taking your question. Simply add “Thank you for taking my question” to the end of your introduction., Most importantly, you need to ensure the speaker hears you with absolute clarity. Further, if the conference includes radio or television coverage, speaking loudly and clearly will also help ensure that any microphones being used are able to record your question., Following your introductory statement, your question should only be one or two sentences long. If you have multiple questions, choose the most important and lead with it. Limiting yourself to one specific question increases the chances that you will successfully solicit a meaningful answer.Ask two questions maximum, and only when one is extremely specific and can be answered simply. For instance, you could ask a quick yes-or-no type question and then another that would require the speaker to elaborate.

