 The kit will include all the hardware, fasteners, and float drums that you will require for your project.;
,, Use the hardware as designed, the dock will last 30 or more years if used as directed. Gather all your materials and tools. 2x8 PT SYP lumber for the frame, 2x6 PT SYP decking (or the decking of your choice), Merco Marine Galvanized Wood Dock Hardware, Merco Marine float drums, Merco Marine fasteners. The tools you will need are as follows: square, chalk line, pencil, hammer, tape measure, 2 C-clamps, power saw, pliers, 1/2" drill bit, 1/4" drill bit for float drums, 3/4" socket and wrench, 9/16" open end wrench, power drill. If you have access to air ratchets, it is helpful, especially on big jobs.
 We recommend at least 2" x 8" x length pressure treated lumber. Be selective on your lumber. Lumber that is dried out, bent or warped will make your project much harder.
 Our floats are the best in the industry because they are the best both in the shell polyethylene and polystyrene foam filling. Many float manufacturers claim they are the best. If they sell seconds, they aren't! Merco sells 45+ different sizes of floats. Remember, a float could be in the water and expected to function for the next 30 years. It should also meet or exceed Corps. of Engineers Regulation #36 CFR Part 327.
 We typically build wood frame dock in 20' sections of varying (even) widths. However, you the private homeowner may have trouble finding and transporting 20' lumber. Remember, the two exterior stringers run the entire length of your dock so their length is the same as the dock length. The interior stringers are 3" less than the exterior stringers (interior stringers are placed 2' on center, and 2' o.c. from the side of the dock). End stringers are also placed inside the full-length side stringers, so they measure 3" less than the width of your dock.
 (You can use your floats as a bench.) We use a couple of hot-dipped galvanized nails to hold the frame together. Put nails so the hardware covers them up. This method just makes it easier to hold together while attaching hardware. A nail gun even makes it easier. You will be building the frame right side up so make sure the top of the frame is level (decking will not fit level if they are not).
 Make sure these cross stringers do not interfere with the float drum placement. These would be the same width of the dock. When you nail these in place make sure you maintain the 2' centers. Use your tape measure and square by measuring from corner to corner.
 Use 1 clamp on top and one clamp on bottom to hold the hardware in place. Make sure hardware is tight against the wood.
 (Regular steel bits work better than wood bits and last longer.)

, Make sure the square on the carriage bolt goes in the square of the hardware. If it doesn't, use your pliers and turn the head. ***Do not tighten bolts until later a step***

,, Also attach any male or female single "T" if you are adding fingers to your dock. If you are adding fingers to the end of your dock, Merco has hardware with tabs on both sides of the hardware.
 Make sure they are square and flush to the side stringers. Use a 1/4" drill and drill side stringers for lag bolts.
 Use a 3/8" washer and a 1/2" washer for a larger bearing surface on the float drum. These, as well as all other fasteners should be hot dipped galvanized.
 (After the decking is on, the floats, especially in the water will remain at a more constant temperature and will not swell up. Never put the plug on before attaching to the frame.)

,, Start with the end board on both ends of the dock and temporarily fasten down with a couple of deck screws. If it is an end board at the end of a finger or end of a dock it should be flush with the end stringer. If it is a section that two sections are going to be pinned together, hang those boards over 1 1/4". This will make the gap between the two docks smaller. Although wood decking is still the most commonly used, there are a lot of vinyl and plastics such as Correct Deck (Merco Stocks). Make sure if you use vinyl or plastic the span recommended by the manufacturer is 24" or greater. Some of them will only span 16"

, Lay down boards even with the edge of the side stringer and let excess hang over the other side or 2. Cut boards all to the correct length. (If you use method 1, screw boards down, tighten, using a chalk line, cut all deck boards off to length.)

, If you are using wet pressure treated wood you can hold decking close together. In a few weeks this wood will dry out and you will have a nice space between boards. If you use plastic or vinyl decking, you will have to space between boards. (Do not fasten down boards where you have to tighten down hardware.)

, Drive 3/8" bolts, place on washer, nut and tighten.
 Four nails on top and four nails on the bottom.
 We recommend a nail every 6" top and bottom.
 This is a little work but will be worth it when you put the dock in the water and it doesn't fit together. If you want to skip this, at least put pins in hardware to make sure they fit. Sometimes there is excess galvanizing which needs to be cleaned out with a 25/32" drill bit.

