 The present tense typically is the first tense you'll learn if you're learning Spanish as a new language. In Spanish, the present tense also is used in several different contexts that may seem unnatural to you at first, particularly if your first language is English.For -ar verbs, the present tense endings are -o, -as, -a, -amos, -áis, and -an. For the verb hablar (to speak), present tense conjugation would be "yo hablo" (I speak), "tú hablas" (you speak), "usted/él/ella habla" (you/he/she speaks), "nosotros hablamos" (we speak), "vosotros habláis" (you all speak – this form is used only in Spain), and "ustedes/ellos/ellas hablan" (you all/they speak).
The regular present tense (technically referred to as the "present indicative") also is used in Spanish to talk about habitual actions or ongoing events, where you typically would use the present progressive tense. For example, if a friend called and asked what you were doing, and you were cleaning the kitchen, you would say in English "I am cleaning the kitchen." But in Spanish, you would say "Limpio la cocina" (literally "I clean the kitchen").
Present tense also is used for hypothetical situations, where in English you typically would use either the future tense or the present progressive. For example, if you were at a party and heard someone you dislike might be attending, you might say in English "If John shows up, I will leave" or "If John shows up, I am leaving." But in Spanish, you would say "Si llega Juan, salgo" (literally "if Juan arrives, I leave").
 There are two ways to to talk about something happening in the future in Spanish. The simple future tense that requires you to conjugate the verb is used when you are saying that something will happen in the future, or to indicate that something "might" or "may" happen in the future.Keep in mind that the future tense in Spanish is not a combination of two verbs, as it is in English.
The endings you add to the verb stem for future tense are the same for all three categories of Spanish verbs: -é, -ás, -á, -emos, -éis, and -án. For the verb hablar (to speak), the future tense conjugation would be "yo hablé" (I will speak), "tú hablás" (you will speak), "usted/él/ella hablá" (you/he/she will speak), "nosotros hablemos" (we will speak), "vosotros hobléis" (you all will speak), and "ustedes/ellos/ellas hablán" (you all/they will speak).
 In Spanish, the past, or preterite tense is used when an action was completed at some definite point in the past. If the action is ongoing, or has no specific ending or beginning, you wouldn't speak of it in the past tense.To conjugate -ar verbs in past tense, you add -é, -aste, -ó, -amos, -asteis, or -aron to the verb stem, depending on the subject pronoun.
For example, you would conjugate the verb hablar (to speak) as "yo hablé" (I spoke), "tú hablaste" (you spoke), "usted/él/ella habló" (you/he/she spoke), "nosotros hablamos" (we spoke), "vosotros hablasteis" (you all spoke), or "ustedes/ellos/ellas hablaron" (you all/they spoke).
 Apart from the basic indicative tenses, which you probably will use most often, Spanish has perfect and conditional tenses just as English does. These tenses are used in specific contexts which may differ from the way you would use them in English.Spanish indicative tenses are much more versatile than the same tenses in English. If you're just beginning to learn Spanish, stick to the three main tenses at first. Most of the time, a Spanish speaker will understand what you're saying and what you mean if you stick to the indicative present, past, and future tenses.

