 As you continue the letter, focus on your nanny's positive traits. Focus on the characteristics that were most important and helpful to you as a parent. You do not want to come off as hyperbolic by listing too many traits. However, not enough can make it look like you don't have much to say. Four is a good middle ground.List traits in terms of features and benefits. What positive attributes did your nanny have and how did those attributes help you? A prospective employer is interested in how a job candidate could benefit him or her.For example, don't just say, "Lacey had a lot of patience." Instead, write something like, "Lacey is a tremendously patient person, which was helpful as Charlie has a learning disability. Lacey took the time needed to help Charlie with his homework each night and, as a result, he excelled in school. He earned a B+ in math the semester Lacey worked for us." The trait is Lacey's patience and the benefit is your son's academic success., Many letters of recommendation are somewhat impersonal and removed. However, as a nanny plays the role of a caregiver, your letter should be a little more personalized. Don't be afraid to be somewhat sentimental. Discuss how your nanny made a positive impact on your life. For example, write something like, "Lacey had an immeasurable positive impact on my family's life. During the time she was working with us, my grandmother passed away. Her positive attitude and understanding nature helped me and my family get through a very difficult time.", People are naturally drawn to stories. After writing about your nanny's positive traits for a paragraph, it's a good idea to dedicate the next paragraph to a specific, memorable story.Read over the traits you listed above. Say you claimed your nanny was very hardworking. Can you think of a time she used this trait to help you as a parent? Is there a story you can tell to illustrate this strength?
For example, say your daughter wanted to act in a pageant for school. You had volunteered to make costumes for some of the other children, but had an unexpected obligation come up at work. Your nanny stayed late on a Friday night to help you finish all the costumes you had put off, making jokes and maintaining a positive attitude to keep you calm. This would be a great anecdote to include in order to illustrate your nanny's work ethic.
 Any special skills or impressive achievements should be listed here. This can help set your nanny apart from the bunch during the application process.


Achievements should showcase how your nanny went above and beyond the call of duty. Focus on achievements relevant to the job. It may impress you to know your nanny was an honors student at Brown, but it may not be important to someone looking for someone to watch their kids. Talk about achievements that occurred while your nanny was working with you. For example, something like, "Lacey helped Olivia memorize a William Blake poem for a school contest. She stayed after hours each night to help. Due to Lacey's dedication, Olivia came in second place."Any special skills also warrant mentioning. Maybe your nanny is a highly skilled chef. Maybe she's good at arts and crafts. Any skills that would prove useful to a parent should be listed.
Stay away from jargon, however. For example, if your kids have special dietary needs that your nanny had to keep track of, avoid listing any medications or medical terms. The person reading the letter does not need to know this. He or she only needs to know that your nanny was able to keep track of your kid's diet., It's a good idea to explain why the employment ended. This can help show the potential employer things ended on good terms. It's also an opportunity to express regret at losing your beloved nanny. For example, try something like, "When Lacey moved out of the suburbs and into the city, the weekly commute became too difficult. She decided to seek work closer to her new apartment. While she is very much missed at our home, I am happy that she is moving forward with her life. She would be a valuable attribute to any family."