 You can either write the letter on your computer using the Microsoft Word software application or you can write the letter in an email. If you do not have a computer, you can hand write the letter, but this is not the best option and should only be used if you have absolutely no access to a computer.


If you do not have a computer, you can always go to the library because many libraries have a computer center that is open to the public. Usually all you need is a free library card.
While Microsoft Word is the most commonly used word processing software, some people also use Pages, which is a software application exclusive to Mac computers.
If you hand write the letter, be sure to use good penmanship so that your letter is easy to read.
 Choose the standard paper size, which is 8 1/2 inches by 11 inches. Do not worry about the weight of the paper as long as you use basic printing paper. Usually what you have on hand will work just fine., The top and bottom margins should be between 1 inch and 1 1/4 inches. The right and left margins should be between 1 1/4 inches and 1 1/2 inches.


You can use the default margin settings included in most word processors, which is 1 1/4 inches on all sides (right, left, top, and bottom).
Use an easy to read font, such as Times New Roman, Arial, Verdana, or Cambria, with a font size of 10, 11, or 12. You can select a different easy to read font if you have a preference.
Single space the letter and place an extra line between paragraphs. You should also place an extra line after the address and salutation, however, there are four extra lines after the date.
Your letter should not be more than one page in length.
 Type or write the date you are creating the letter. The month should be spelled out and the day and year should follow: April 2, 2016.
 The address should include the recipients name, organization, street address, city, state, and postal code (Mr. Daniel Allen, Pleasantville Lemon Trees, 55 Fifth Avenue, Pleasantville, NY 10570).


If the address is not available, you can leave it out and move on to the next step.
 Type or write "Dear Coach (last name)." Using this standard salutation, also called the greeting, is good because you want to maintain professionalism.


Although “Dear” is appropriate within the context of a letter, it is not necessarily the best salutation if you choose to send your letter in the body of an email. Email messages tend to be less formal and call for a less formal salutation, such as “Hi Coach (last name).”

, There are many options for the letter closing, but for this scenario, you should use "Sincerely," “Warm regards,” or “Best wishes” to demonstrate your sincerity or positive wishes for the coach and team.
 Anytime you write a letter you should proofread it to be sure that it is free of any errors. When you proofread the letter, read it out loud because you are more likely to identify errors when you speak and hear the words.
 Print out your letter and sign it with both your first and last name. If you are planning to send your letter by email, a handwritten signature will not be easy to add, nor is it necessary.

