 Maybe the most important step to being a jock is being an athlete. Typically jocks are associated with high school and college football, although basketball and wrestling are also common choices. Participate in pick up games at local parks, or organize friends to play together. Ask team coaches to let you work out and practice with a team. Once you know which one suits you best, try out for your school team.


When picking a sport, ask yourself these questions: Which sport do I have the most fun playing?Is my body type right for this? What are my natural physical talents? What are my friends playing?
More sports to consider playing include cheerleading, dance, water polo, volleyball, gymnastics, swimming, diving, softball, rugby, lacrosse, tennis, and golf.;
, After figuring out which sport suits your talents and joys most, go to the school try-outs. Coaches post information about try-out dates and locations, typically in the gym. You can ask coaches or even other athletes for more information about what equipment or special clothing you need to bring. Make sure you come prepared.


Talk with older students who are already on the team for specific information about what exercises or tests will be a part of try-outs.
Most sports are seasonal (i.e. basketball is in winter and football in summer). You can possibly play for multiple teams.
If you don't make the cut for one team, don't be discouraged. You can try out for another sport. Some teams, like Track & Field, commonly accept most applicants. Even if it's not your first choice, it's an excellent way to build yourself up as an athlete and make it more likely you're chosen next season.
 If your school doesn't have the sport you're interested in, or you're not chosen but feel committed to a particular sport, this is a great option. Many cities have organized sports leagues for players of all ages and talent levels. Some are more competitive than others and require traveling greater distances for games. Talk with other jocks as well as coaches to learn more about each league's reputation.


Go to a game just to watch and see if you like the level of competitiveness.
See if your friends are interested in putting together a team. If you have enough people for the sport, it is common for large groups of friends and acquaintances to form their own squad.
 It is often said that practice makes perfect. In order to become a better athlete/jock, you need to consistently put in effort. Learn to acknowledge and hone your strengths while understanding and improving upon your weaknesses. Work with your coach; good coaches will help you excel and find the right position for you in any sport.


Practice is the place to try out different roles on a team to figure out which one suits you best. Each sport has a number of positions with different responsibilities and skill sets; explore your talents as an athlete.
Scrimmages are friendly matches where team members play one another. Use these opportunities to take individual risks as well as develop your awareness of how to work as a team. Generally, scrimmages are not played full force to avoid injury.
 Whether it is football plays or soccer formations, any sport you play will have theories on how to best face an opponent. Take the time to train your brain as much as your body and it will pay off come game time.


Talk with older, more experienced players on the team(s) you join.
Read books on tactics specific to your sport.
Learn the philosophies of athletes famous for their skill and victories.
 Physical strength is one of the main characteristics of jocks. Those who are taller, heavier, and more muscular are most likely to be considered top picks for sports teams.If you join a sports team, you may be working out as a team on a regular basis. Spend time learning different exercises to build the various muscle groups so your whole body becomes stronger.


Athletes need to eat anywhere from 2,500 to 3,500 calories a day.Eat a balanced diet of vegetables, fruit, grains, and protein to build muscle and stay healthy.
Get a gym membership. Part of being a jock is identifying with the sports you play and with working out in general. If you’d like to take your effort beyond what you do on a team, or if your team doesn’t work out together, join a gym and work out alone.
 Even if you are a new player, ask your coach to give you as much active time in games/matches as possible. Make a sincere effort every game and maintain awareness of your teammates so you can work together. Respect your opponents as equals and enjoy yourself. If you win, show humility in your victory, and if you lose, remain gracious in defeat.


The more you improve through training and live games, the more likely you will be selected to play and possibly start (be chosen to play at the beginning of a game).

