 Will it be one story, two, or more? What sort of style will it be? Will it have a basement? Who will be living in this house? What sort of colour themes will your rooms have? You have to consider all this things and more to build a really cool house for your sims.;
, Will your sims have an art studio? A big kitchen? A gym? Think about their skills and wants. Make each room have a different coloured floor. Don't worry if this looks rubbish or you make a mistake, the wood is free so you can keep trying until you get your base floor plan perfect!

, If your house will have more than one floor, then once the first level is done, map out which rooms will be upstairs using the same free wood trick as earlier. Try to make as few mistakes as possible with the walls, because they cost more to build than you will get back for destroying them. If you accidentally delete a wall, you can press Ctrl Z and it will undo your last action.
 You should already have a vague idea of what sort of design you want for the overall look. Try to place the doors and windows around that theme. You can add arches instead of doors for a more open-plan feel, or just cover the place in windows. Don't worry if your doors and windows don't match; you can always enter the style editor, then drag the colour of the one you like to the one you want to change.
 You can choose a design from the wall coverings, or create your own. Try to tile the bathroom and maybe the kitchen area, and decide whether the bedroom will have wall-to-wall carpet or a wood floor; it depends on your preference. Make the styles of both the walls and floor harmonious for each separate room. It will look better in the long run. And don't put down some carpet in a patch of wood floor; it looks ugly and there is a better way of doing it.
 Think about your sims tastes and the overall design of the house, this will help the interior and exterior work together to create a beautiful house. Try to make the furniture match; don't just go for the most expensive items. Make the furniture harmonious with the floor and wall colours, you can always recolour them.
 Your sims need to see at night, and will get negative moodlets if they are in the dark. But make sure you don't add too many lights, because this will add on to your sims bills, and will be bad in the long run.
 These can be used as places for your sims to relax or fish, up their logic or gardening skills. It's generally a place of peace. And a few plants can make you house look beautifully set in the landscape. A few things that you could do would be to place some sun loungers and an outdoor barbecue. Adding a pond means that your sims can fish, and an outdoor chess set helps them to improve their logic. You could add a driveway and a car space if you want.
 Maybe you can add a few paintings, or some potted plants and clock.


And that's it! You have finished your sims 3 house!

