 Dairy products and eggs are both considered complete proteins. If you are a vegetarian and consume these types of animal products, they are an easy way to add healthful complete protein to your diet and significantly improve your overall protein consumption.


Incorporate a wide variety of dairy products – cheese, yogurt, milk and cottage cheese are all fairly high in protein. Plus they contain other beneficial nutrients like calcium and potassium.Eggs are not only a great source of complete protein, but also contain healthy fats and essential minerals to your diet. Try eggs for breakfast or hard boil a few for a quick afternoon snack., Tofu, tempeh and even seitan are also considered complete proteins. They are slightly less processed than meat substitutes but make for a satisfying, protein-rich option.Tofu, tempeh and seitan can be daunting to prepare. Research recipes and tips online or in cookbooks for how to cook these unique ingredients.
Try multiple recipes that use tofu or tempeh. You may not like it at first, but after you try it prepared a few different ways, you may find a few recipes you enjoy.
 Many companies sell meat substitutes made with TVP (textured vegetable protein). Items can include hotdogs, deli meat, cheese, burgers, chicken nuggets and even bacon.


Sample a few meat substitutes. There are a variety of brands and they can be a quick and easy meat replacement.
Remember, these foods are generally highly processed in order to resemble and taste like meat. If you're trying to avoid processed foods or are maintaining a whole foods diet, it would be better to minimize these types of products in your diet.
 Not everyone has the time for a complete meal with adequate protein. Protein supplements come in the form of protein bars and shakes and can add adequate amounts of protein to your diet (especially if you're in a pinch).Choose a supplement that has an adequate amount of protein. Most bars should have at least 10 g of protein while most protein shakes should have at least 15-20 g of protein.There are hundreds of brands of protein supplements. Buy individual samples or bars to try before buying larger quantities.
Ensure to find a supplement that fits in with your overall diet plan. If you're trying to lose or maintain your weight, you might want to find a lower calorie supplement.
 If you're not following a strict vegetarian or vegan diet, you may want to consider adding in meat products like poultry, red meat, fish/shellfish or pork to your diet.


Meat products are wonderful sources of protein. They contain very high amounts of protein and are always 100% complete protein sources.In addition, these types of animal products have high amounts of iron, b vitamins and other nutrients that are essential to a healthy diet., Check out a library book or online resources and educate yourself about proteins and amino acids. This will prepare you for understanding how to choose different foods to include in your diet.


A complete protein contains all of 9 essential amino acids which include histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine. The body cannot make these so they must be supplemented through diet.Learn about different combinations of foods that will provide all of the essential amino acids each day.
Consider purchasing cookbooks or following online blogs for recipes that are designed to give you complete proteins.
 Many times, people who have followed a vegetarian or vegan diet for long periods of time are well-versed in complete proteins and can give you some good advice.


Ask for recipes they enjoy that include complete proteins.
Talk about what struggles you have or what you may not understand and ask for tips and advice.

