 As you begin your journey into snobbery, you must first know that being a snob means being selective. You must have standards about everything, such as how your steak is prepared to which grocery store you shop in. Be picky about your lifestyle because being a snob is to know and be vocal about the best life has to offer.;
, It doesn’t matter exactly what you purchase because everywhere you go the standards for fine living can change. What matters is that your possessions are what other people deem as valuable.Brand name items are an easy way to show status because most people recognize them as expensive and exclusive.
Food, alcohol, cars, and even pets are other options for show status.
Learn to appreciate the finer things in life. Snobbery is also an enjoyment of quality beverages or the classiest art museum around. Not because they necessarily have a large price tag, but because effort and time went into making a good product.
Only buy authentic items. Faux fur, leather, or gems will eventually be spotted and you don’t want to be caught as a fraud., You don’t need to be flashy and loud with your fashion statements. In fact, being obnoxiously plastered in designer labels and logos can be seen as tacky and trying to hard. To be a snob you need to dress better than everyone around you.


Aim for a clean, classic look. Black and white, pearls, diamonds, gold, and silver are all universally recognized as colors and materials of status and wealth. Incorporate these into your wardrobe.
Be careful not to go overboard on accessorizing. Overloading yourself with too much jewelry or customizing your car with undercarriage lights and a spoiler are ways to get attention, but they don’t reflect the tastefulness of being a snob.
Simplicity goes a long way.
Keep yourself groomed. A perfect outfit can be ruined by torn-up nail beds or bad breath. You need to maintain your elite status and bad hygiene is the fastest way to jeopardize it.
 Again, you want to give off an appearance of status and one way is to intentionally spend your time with those who have it. Your goal is to blend in with the elite crowd. Your appearance, manners, and attitude will help, but you have to actually associate yourself with other snobs., Where you shop and eat is important because if you are a snob, then only the absolute best establishments are good enough for you. Being a snob requires an audience to be complete, even if it’s composed of strangers. The exclusive rooftop bar in New York City is a more suitable place to be than the McDonald’s on the corner of Times Square.


Join a country club, attend events with the powerful people in your community, or become a member of a community club with other snobs.
High-end boutiques are a great place to meet women of wealth as well as simultaneously stay on top of the latest fashion trends.
By rubbing elbows with other people of status in their element, you’ll also learn the dos and don’ts of your particular social circle.
 Treat everyone, regardless of their station in life, with respect. Many snobs have a reputation for acting snotty and uppity towards people of a lower class or social status. Though you want to appear to be the smartest and best-dressed, it does not mean that you have to step on other people to rise to the top.


Refer to others by their title and proper names and expect the same. If you don’t receive the same respect back, correct people so that everyone will know how to treat you.
Don’t swear. Vulgar language is not appropriate in most settings and will taint your image of class.
A fake accent is easy to spot, so don’t force yourself to speak unnaturally. However, you should work on using proper grammar and word pronunciation to appear well-educated.
 Expand your knowledge of art, food, music, politics, and language so that you have an education on a variety of topics. This will help you participate in any conversation and appear intelligent, even if you only have a basic understanding of the topic. People of status often have an impressive education background, for example they may have attended an Ivy League school. Even if you have not, being well-read will help you connect with the upper academic echelon.


Learn a new word every day so that you can build a vocabulary that will impress people.
Take up a hobby that’s physical. Tennis, golf, and other games are great ways to socialize with other snobs as well as stay in shape.
 Being a snob does mean spending money on high-quality, big ticket items. However, you only need to spend your money on the best options. Be strategic and have one outstanding car rather than several medium quality cars. Or, spend your money on one expensive, designer little black dress instead of buying a closet full of jeans and t-shirts.At first, you may not own a lot. But remember quality is better than quantity.
Being smart with your money shows that you are picky and that your money is in fact valuable; you refuse to spend your money on anything but the absolute best.

