 Use a large, canvas, water resistant backpack with several compartments and padded shoulder straps. A waist strap will help distribute weight and make the bag easier to carry long distances. Since you won't use this daily, you can buy an inexpensive one from a discount store, military surplus store, dollar store, or even from a local thrift store. Think function over fashion.


Add a luggage tag with your name and contact information to your bag. If possible, add some form of identification inside your bag such as an old employee ID. You may have left behind your handbag.;
, Water is heavy to carry but you will need to have plenty available. You'll also need high calorie snacks. Keep at least one sealed bottle of water in your bag and pack more if you can stand the weight. Make sure it's in a durable container so you can refill it and close it easily.


Pack granola bars, S.O.S. bars, or protein bars that are high in calories and carbohydrates and store well long term. Food is not only necessary for energy, it can be great for morale. Dried fruit is also an excellent option.

Peanut butter (assuming you're not allergic to peanuts) comes in handy tubes, is an excellent source of protein, and does not require refrigeration or cooking.
 Blackouts have shut down many cities, forcing people to walk miles. Cell service can be spotty or nonexistent. Subways can be down and vehicles backed up because of non-working traffic lights. Think ahead! Make a plan! Visit a fabric or athletic store or look online for reflective tape. Buy 1–3 yards (0.9–2.7 m) as you will add it to your backpack and other items if necessary. It's usually sold in rolls and is 1" wide or wider.


Add the reflective tape to the exterior of your backpack. Use fabric glue to attach it if you don't sew.
Attach the reflective tape to the back of the bag and the front straps.
Be generous with the tape. It may make you visible to drivers or emergency workers.
 Choose a coat or poncho made of brightly-colored material, such as yellow, so you'll stand out more. This can protect you from the elements on a long walk, provide shelter, and, when covered in the reflective tape, make you stand out to drivers and other people. You should add reflective tape to your raincoat since wearing it may cover the tape on your backpack.


Pack the folded poncho in your backpack. If it doesn't fold into itself (as many do), you can compress it into a small bag to keep it out of your way.
You can also wrap thick rubber hair bands to compress it. Those will also come in handy to keep long hair out of the way during the emergency. (Hair in the eyes can obstruct vision in addition to being frustrating.)

, You can buy Mylar sheets (so-called space blankets) at hardware or camping supply stores. They are large, lightweight, waterproof and exceptionally thin. They come tightly packed, about the size of an ace bandage, and should be left in their original packaging until you need to use them because they're pretty tricky to refold once you reopen them. Because Mylar reflects heat, it can be used to retain body heat in extreme cold or to reflect away heat in extremely hot conditions.
 A whistle will make more noise with less effort than yelling if you become trapped. The higher pitch will also carry better than your voice.
 In case of an emergency, you may have to run or walk long distances in unpredictable conditions. You don't want to do that in heels or stiff leather work shoes. Your safety may depend on moving quickly and traveling efficiently on foot. Athletic shoes are an absolute must in every person's grab-and-go work kit. Don't use a new pair, as these can cause blisters; pack a pair that is broken in but not worn out, if possible. Even a worn pair is better than wingtips or heels.


Many athletic shoes have reflective trims but you can add more. You should still have some tape left over from the poncho and backpack.
 Pack cotton crew athletic socks that are appropriate for your athletic shoes in terms of thickness. Avoid low cut socks, as they don't protect your heels when walking long distances. Stuff the socks into the shoes so as to conserve space and keep your footgear together.


Women who wear skirts and dresses may benefit from packing knee high athletic socks to provide additional coverage for the legs.
 For the kit, use a quart or gallon size zipping storage bag. Label your bag. You can even add a piece of the reflective tape to make it easier to find if you drop it or are looking for it in a dark pack. Include the following items:


Adhesive bandages: A few of each size will do. Pack mostly the 1" since they work well for blisters. Bandages that are foam instead of fabric offer more protection for blisters and can still be used for other first aid.
Antibiotic first aid ointment.
Benadryl or other antihistamine: emergencies are not a good time to have an allergic reaction.
Epi-pen if you have been given one by your doctor for severe allergies. They're usually willing to write prescriptions for several so you can keep several available.
Prescription medication to last a day or two in a well-labeled container. If your medication changes, you need to update your kit. Be very specific when labeling describe the pill bottle, the dose, and what it treats. Don't forget an asthma inhaler if you are an asthmatic. You may be walking and air quality could be questionable.
Pain killers, such as aspirin. Look in the travel/trial size section of stores for small bottles.
An ace bandage, which is great for rolled ankles or can be used to immobilize a limb.
Latex or vinyl gloves (if you are allergic to latex) are a must. You could be around injured people or need to treat someone with your first aid kit.
Anti-bacterial hand gel for cleaning up.
Washcloth or hand towel: can be used for clean up, wiping a sweaty brow or signaling.
Find a travel/trial size of saline solution (or contact lens wetting solution) and include it in your kit. Flushing eyes may be necessary for contact lens wearers or for anyone in dusty or polluted air. It can also be used to irrigate a wound.
Assorted gauze or other first aid items. You can use additional quart or gallon size plastic storage bags to keep items dry and organized.
 Find at least a small or medium flashlight or headlight and make sure it has fresh batteries. Maglite type flashlights are extremely durable but heavier aluminum flashlights. The larger ones can be used as a defensive weapon should you need it. Decide if you can tolerate the weight and have room. You can go full size (D cell) if you have room and can stand the weight. You won't get a warning on a massive power outage or evacuation.


Look for a small to medium light that takes AA or C batteries. It depends on how much space you have, your needs and how much weight you can tolerate. Lightweight plastic flashlights are great. You don't need to spend a lot but make sure it works.
There are many newer, pocket-sized LED flashlights on the market that are less expensive (check discount), more durable (no bulbs to burn out or break), and produce more light per set of batteries.
 It should include streets and public transportation (subway stop) information. You may be forced to detour, disembark a train early, or take an alternate route -- finding yourself in unfamiliar territory. Always keep a map to find the best way to your destination. Getting lost can add insult to injury. Traffic patterns are often changed and you may find yourself walking through unknown areas. Keep a map with you of the city and note different routes to take out.
 Cell phone service may be down or your phone charge may not last. Consider keeping the numbers of friends or family near work, in between work and home, and someone who could pick you up and offer shelter. Keep the numbers stashed in your kit. Phone traffic may be heavy and connections hard to come by, so don't rely on calling information first. Your memory of numbers may also be strained in a stressful situation, so keep things written down.
 You can get one from your local hardware or paint store and add it to your kit. They only cost a few dollars. If you need one, you really need one. Smoke and debris can be choking during a fire or earthquake. A particle mask can be very helpful.
 There are solar and wind-up chargers available. Others often use a few small batteries and convert the power to give your phone a small charge. Check travel sites, mobile phone supply stores, or airport kiosks.
 Stash cash for public phones, food vending, or any thing else that could come up. Don't keep too much, just a few dollars and quarters. You can often hide it under the sturdy cardboard bottom. You can use this for transportation or to buy food or drink. Don't forget to include several quarters should you need to use a public phone and be able to find one.
 It may provide dual use in case the restroom facilities lack proper supplies. Think of the different things you may encounter on the way home. Every city and its facilities are different.
 Multipurpose tools are available at most sporting goods or camping stores. The one shown here has pliers, which can be very handy. There are too many ways to use one of these to begin to list them all.
 Many local radio stations switch to emergency programming during an emergency. Look for a small, battery operated FM transistor radio for your bag. These can be found in discount stores or electronic stores for minimal investment. All local radio stations will begin emergency broadcasting if there is an emergency in your area. Make sure it has fresh batteries and is turned off before adding it to your bag.
 If you leave a house key, don't add anything to identify it as such. Even better, hang a combination lockbox from your home door (if allowed;) with a spare key in it. These are $30 at a hardware store and also come in handy anytime you or a family member accidentally lock yourself out or if you need to call a neighbor to enter your home when you are away, and you won't need to risk losing a spare stored elsewhere.


An additional advantage is that if you don't carry a spare key in your emergency kit, you can put your address on a luggage/ID tag attached to it. A spare car key could also be helpful depending on your situation (or in a magnetic wheel-well box - these really work!).

