 Hold onto a solid object or get to the floor so that you do not fall. Try to hide under a piece of furniture.
 This is the national standard for earthquake safety in the United States. The alternate advice is to get next to a sturdy piece of furniture so that if a wall falls, it will create a crawl space in which you can survive. This "triangle of life" method, however, is inconsistent with earthquake research and not recommended by the American Red Cross, Structural Engineers Association of Northern California, and Earthquake Country Alliance.
 Use your hands and arms to protect these vital areas from falling objects


Your upper body should also be covered because that is what is holding your neck which is holding your head.
If you have any respiratory disease, make sure that you cover your head with a t-shirt or bandana, until all the debris and dust has settled. Inhaled dirty air is not good for your lungs.
 If it is safe to do so, stay where you are for a minute or two, until you are sure the shaking has stopped.


Remember, aftershocks are possible at any time, and are likely after a big earthquake. Aftershocks can range from being felt by only a few people to knocking down entire cities. They can collapse weakened buildings, especially fragile structures like mobile homes.
 As in the case of fire, it is suggested that you and your family meet in an earthquake-safe location previously designated by your family, such as a nearby baseball diamond or park. Government help should be on the way soon.
 Glass fragments, the smell of gas, or damaged electrical appliances are examples of hazards.


Do not turn electrical devices on or off. Simply switching a light switch could create a spark, which in turn could electrocute you and start a fire. These fires can be more deadly because they are near electrical cords.
 You should check your house or the building you are in for fires or other forms of damage. If you need water to put out a fire, you can get some from a water heater, but be careful, as the water is hot. After you've dealt with any fires, run through the checklist below:


Stay away from structurally damaged areas. Wait until a police officer, a plumber, a firefighter, or relief worker inspects the area and pronounces it safe to enter.
Clean up dangerous spills. Gasoline can be fatal if it explodes or ignites. If you only have paper towels, use several layers of them because gasoline is poisonous and is very hard to wash off. Covering gasoline spills with some shovelfuls of sand is a good idea, but remember to mark the area by placing a sign that says 'Gasoline spill here'.
Do not drink water from the sink since it may be contaminated. The sewage will be damaged in major earthquakes, so do not flush the toilet. Instead, shut off the water system from the main valve (have a plumber do this job for you if you don't know where the main valve is). Make sure that you plug up drains from sinks and bathtubs to prevent any sewage back-flow.
Inspect the chimney for any damage before using your fireplace. Invisible damage in these places can lead to fire.
Inspect utilities.

Check for gas leaks. If you smell gas or hear blowing or hissing noise, open a window and quickly leave the building. Turn off the gas at the outside main valve if you can and call the gas company from your cell phone or from a neighbour's home. Remember, if you turn off the gas for any reason, it must be turned back on by a professional.
Look for electrical system damage. If you see sparks or broken or frayed wires, or if you smell hot insulation, turn off the electricity at the main fuse box or circuit breaker. If you have to step in water to get to the fuse box or circuit breaker, call an electrician first for advice.
Check for sewage and water line damage. If you suspect sewage lines are damaged, avoid using the toilets and call a plumber. If water pipes are damaged, contact the water company and avoid using water from the tap. You can obtain safe water from bottled water or by melting and boiling ice cubes.
 Items inside may fall on you if you open the doors quickly. As you inspect the damage, use caution with glass bottles, which may be cracked and leaking. Use extra caution with alcohol, acids, cleaners, or anything that is toxic to the human body.

