 Wine makes a perfect accompaniment to cheese. It can help bring out its flavors. There are certain types of wines, however, that work better with certain types of cheese than others. This section will give you some tip and ideas on how to most effectively pair wine with cheese., You can also pair them with dry aperitif wines, dry Rosé wines, sparkling wines, and light-bodied reds that have low tannins. Avoid tannic red wines, such as: Bordeaux, Bordeaux blends, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Malbec.


Examples of soft and fresh cheeses include: Brie, Brillat-Savarin, Bûcheron, Burrata, Camembert, Chèvre, Crottin, Feta, Halloumi, Mozzarella, and Ricotta.
Wines that go will with soft and fresh cheeses include: Albariño, Beaujolais, Cava, Chablis, Chardonnay (unoaked), Champagne, Chenin Blanc, Fino sherry, Gewürztraminer, Grüner Veltliner,Lambrusco, Moscato, Pinot Grigio, Pinot Gris, Provençal rosé, Riesling (dry to sweet), Sauvignon Blanc, and White Port.
 You can also pair them with fruity red wines and vintage sparkling wines. Aperitif wines that have a mixture of acidity, fruity undertones, and tannin also work.


Examples of semi-hard and medium-aged cheeses include: Edam, Emmental, Gruyère, Havarti, Jarlsberg, Manchego, Monterey Jack, Tomme d'Alsace, and young Cheddar.
Wines that go well with semi-hard and medium-aged cheeses include: Amontillado sherry, Barbera, Beaujolais, Champagne, Chardonnay, Dolcetto, Gewürztraminer, Merlot, Pinot Blanc, Pinot Noir, red Burgundy, Riesling (off-dry), Tawny Port (young), white Bordeaux, white Burgundy, white Rhône blends, Viognier, vintage Port, and Zinfandel.
 Tannic red wines, and oxidative wines also work. These wines help off-set their strong, often nutty flavors.


Examples of hard, ages cheeses include: Aged Cheddar, Asiago, Cheshire, Comté, aged Gouda, aged Gruyère, Manchego, Parmigiano Reggiano, and Pecorino.
Wines that go well with of hard, ages cheeses include: Aged white Burgundy or Bordeaux, Barbaresco, Barolo, Cabernet Sauvignon, California red blends, Madeira, Nebbiolo, Oloroso sherry, Petite Sirah, red Burgundy, red Bordeaux, red Port, red Rhône blends, Sauternes, sweet Riesling, Tawny Port, white Rhône blends, Viognier, Vin Jaune, vintage Champagne, and Zinfandel.
 This helps create a delightful contrast that brings out the best flavors of both the wine and the cheese. Blue cheeses are instantly recognizable for their blue-veined texture and salty taste.


Examples of blue cheeses include: Bleu d'Auvergne, Cambozola, Gorgonzola, Roquefort, and Stilton.
Wines that go well with blue cheese include: Banyuls, Oloroso sherry, red Port, Recioto, Sauternes, Tawny Port, and Tokaji.
 Because of their strong odor, stinky cheeses such as Époisses, Morbier, and Taleggio need an aromatic wine to help balance them out. Consider pairing such cheeses with any of the following wines: Gewürztraminer, Pinot Noir, Riesling, red Burgundy, or Sauternes.
 When you have a platter filled with different types of cheese, it might be difficult to pick out a wine that works with all the different flavors. Any of the following wines work well with cheese platters. They also pair well with most types of cheeses:


Alsatian Gewürztraminer
Champagne
Riesling, especially off-dry
Sparkling wines, from dry to sweet

