 Onions soak up sulfur from the soil when growing, and when you chop them up, you break open cells in the onion and release enzymes that mix with the sulfur. This creates an invisible gas that causes a burning sensation in your eyes, causing you to tear up without crying.


Chop some onions and linger over them. Some people are more sensitive than others; you may only need to cut a little bit of the onion, or you may need to really linger.
Cooked onions do not produce this effect.
Refrigerated onions and onions doused with water as you cut them will also fail to make your eyes water.
Sweet onions, like Vidalia onions, often don’t produce as strong a watering effect in your eyes as stronger white or yellow onions.;
, You should be careful when doing this; getting toothpaste directly in your eye will sting. However, if you rub a small amount on your lower eyelid, your eyes will try to flush the toothpaste with watering eyes.


You may have to wait a few moments before your eyes respond to your application of toothpaste.
Most common toothpastes should work for the purposes of making your eyes water as most toothpastes contain sodium lauryl sulfate, a known eye irritant.
All natural toothpastes, or toothpastes missing the ingredient sodium lauryl sulfate, may not work as well for making your eyes water., Products that contain peppermint can cause a stinging sensation in the eyes, resulting in you tearing up. Take a small amount and apply it beneath your eye to create a watering effect.


You’ll have to experiment with how much peppermint oil you use. Some individuals will be more sensitive to it than others.
Avoid getting the oil in your eyes, as it can create stinging, redness, and discomfort., Menthol, or compounds that contain menthol, are widely available at drug stores and are generally inexpensive. You can dab small amount of menthol cream below your eyes to cause your eyes to tear up.


You might also make use of a tear stick, which is much like lip balm infused with menthol and camphor to make you tear up. Simply smear a small amount under each eye, and you should feel its effects., The compounds in eucalyptus have an invigorating effect on your body, opening sinuses, refreshing the lungs, and even flushing the eyes. A common stage trick some actors use for watery eyes needed at the beginning of a scene involves other actors blowing eucalyptus vapor gently into their eyes. This might work for you as well!, While this technique won’t make your eyes water for very long, it’s a very effective short term measure. If you can disguise the motion of inserting eye drops or saline solution into your eye from onlookers, when you turn back, the excess solution will make it appear as though your eyes are watering.


Saline solution is a liquid solution formulated to be about the same as the tears that wet your eye making this a safe and practical way of making your eyes look teary.
Saline solution and eye drops can be found at most drug stores.