 The more water the longer it will last at a boil, so, put enough in for 8 minutes. Usually, about 3 inches (7.6 cm) of water from bottom of pan. While water is coming to a boil, wash your hands, use clean tissues to wrap your fingers, and pop all your zits. Yes, pop them. For further understanding for this madness, read in the 'tips'.






;
, DO NOT BURN YOURSELF. Starts about three feet away and slowly get closer. Remember to take deep breaths while you do so because the steam can HURT the back of your throat. Once you get in a comfortable distance, stand bent over the water for 8 minutes. By the time you are down to the last 1 1/2 min. there should be drops of water falling from your face. On average, 5-7 drops total.
 Your problem areas will be showing extremely well. Take your clean towel and pat your face dry. The key is to pat! Rubbing irritates the skin.
 The amount being poured on the cotton ball should equal a dime-quarter. Dab the cotton ball on problem areas (as not to over use the product in one area) then use the cotton ball to spread over entire face. No matter the skin type. Keep watching your skin. The Johnson Baby Oil will make your problem areas stand out even more. Not just acne, but also dry skin.
 To make sure most germs and oil are either killed or gone sing your ABC's. It should take about 20 sec. which is the amount of time it takes for germs to die.
 Now, take a finger from the other hand and place in your new dime-size amount of moisturizer. Take the finger and dab the moisturizer on problem areas only. You should end up with, around, 15-30 dots of moisturizer on your face. Smooth out the moisturizer over entire face. This keeps more moisturizer on the problem areas and less on your real skin, making your skin more even in the long run.Don't use face moisturizers with sunscreen mixed in. Sunscreen can increase acne aggression. So use moisturizers with natural and vitamin rich ingredients. Cetaphil is a great product to use, unscented would be best.
 Until you skin is clear. Then you can determine for yourself how often you choose to do it. Clear skin is easy to maintain and if you over clean skin then it'll lead to damages.
 You are done. Please read the 'tips' and 'warnings' sections for safety reasons!








