 For best results, you should use a soap that’s potent enough to kill whatever bacteria happens to be lingering within the brush. Apply the soap directly to the brush head and let it seep in.Antibacterial hand soap or mild liquid dish detergent can be readily found in most homes and will typically be strong enough to get the job done.
Some dermatologists also recommend using a sulfate shampoo, as it contains compounds that are formulated to cut through oil, dead skin cells and other gunk., Use your fingers to work the soap into a thick lather. Make sure the soap is able to penetrate down to the base of the bristles. Continue scrubbing the brush head until it’s clear of all visible dirt and discoloration.Rubbing the bristles along the palm of your hand while you scrub will create more friction to remove caked-on residue.
Reapply more soap as needed until you’re satisfied with the look of the bristles.
Get in the habit of cleaning your Clarisonic brush after every couple uses., Flush the area where the brush head connects with the handle with soapy water, then rinse. Dip a cotton swab in rubbing alcohol and use it to go over the deep recesses that you can’t reach by hand. Pay special attention to spots where makeup and other substances appear to have settled.An old toothbrush may also be useful for getting down into cracks and crevices., Run the brush head, connector piece and handle under the faucet until the water runs clear. When you’re finished, the Clarisonic should look as good as new!Shake off excess water to prevent hard water deposits from forming on the bristles.
You may not be able to rid your Clarisonic of all discoloration. Don’t worry—the bristle will still be clean, and mild staining won’t affect the brush’s performance., Set the individual pieces aside on a clean, dry towel. When they’ve had a chance to dry, you can put the brush back together and resume regular use.To speed things along, turn on the ventilation fan in your bathroom to get more air circulating through the room.
Don’t attempt to use other means, such as a hair dryer, to accelerate the drying process. This may cause damage to the delicate mechanisms that power the unit.

