 While plenty of great, local restaurants can be discovered just by walking through a city, you can save yourself time and energy by doing research ahead of time. If you have an idea of the budget you’ll be dining on and the city or region you’ll be in, start your research with an online search at a site like Yelp or TripAdvisor.Type in something like “Best local restaurants in Portland,” and check restaurant reviews and menus online.


There are also a number of helpful food and restaurant blogs that can be found with a quick online search. Also check newspaper food reviews, including the Dining and Wine section of The New York Times.
If you have any friends on social media sites who live in the area you’re traveling to, reach out to them.Send a quick message saying, “I’m going to be in (region) for a few days and am looking to eat locally; where can you recommend?”;
, Regardless of where you travel, certain major national and global chains will be ubiquitous. Avoid eating at restaurants that you can find in your hometown; these places will not incorporate local ingredients and dishes.


Chain restaurants are also more likely to be frequented by tourists looking for familiar foods, rather than a local culinary experience.
 Unless fine dining is a deliberate part of your culinary plan, you may also want to skip the well-known, fancy restaurants in a city. Locals often don’t eat at upscale places, but prefer more affordable and authentic meals.If someone you know—or a food critic you enjoy—has eaten at an upscale restaurant in an area you’re traveling, ask them to recommend a similar restaurant that has more authentic regional food and a lower price tag.
 Often the best food that cities or regions have to offer is made during culturally significant events, such as Christmas, the New Year, or a regionally specific holiday. To gain an appreciation for local food, and eat dishes that may not be available throughout the year, you may want to plan your travel during a local or cultural holiday.If you don’t want to travel during a major holiday, you can at least check online and find any local food festivals. Food festivals are a great way to experience a dense amount of local cuisine in one place.
Keep in mind that other aspects of travel—for example, airfare and hotels—may be dramatically more expensive during national holiday seasons.

