 If their tone of voice or pitch goes up, it is often a sign of discomfort due to fear, anxiety or other difficult emotions. This is a telltale sign of lying. It may be a sign that your child feels very uncomfortable and has a sense that they are being forced to lie for some reason., If your child repeats a question that you ask them, they may be trying to buy more time to come up with a lie. For instance, if you ask what they did at school today and they repeat the question, there could be something they do not want to report., If your child avoids responding directly to a simple question, they could be trying to avoid having to lie. For instance, if they bring up a completely different subject in response to the question, they may be trying to avoid responding to the question. If you ask again and they offer a strange answer, it could be a lie., It is important to maintain a trusting, loving relationship with your child to decrease the chances that they will lie to you. You should avoid asking your child directly about the lie or pressuring your child for the truth of what happened. An investigative approach can lead to evasiveness and may not encourage your child to be more truthful.Instead, tell stories that encourage truth telling, such as ‘the boy who cried wolf’, and model the behavior you expect from your child. You can find a version of the children's story, 'the boy who cried wolf', here: https://www.storyarts.org/library/aesops/stories/boy.html

For example, you should avoid using an accusatory tone when asking questions like, "tell me, are you lying right now?"

, In order to assert themselves with siblings, you children will often lie in order to get their way in an argument. If your child is making a statement in disagreement with a sibling, they may be lying in order to win a power struggle.If your child repeatedly says “no” in response to any question about an event or situation, they may be lying.
If your younger child has been fighting with an older sibling, they may be lying in order to assert themselves in the relationship.
 As your children develop, they will evolve in their relationship to lying and the truth. Whereas lying is often very obvious with younger children, it can get more sophisticated as they grow up. In older children, lying is often more accompanied by guilt. Listen and respond in accordance with their age and maturity:If your two-year-old is lying in a disagreement with a sibling, you could try expressing doubt in response to their lie so they know that you see their lie. For instance, if they claim that they did not eat a brownie, you could say, “That’s curious, why do I see chocolate all over your face.”
If your four-year-old is lying, you should use it as an opportunity to explain why lying is not okay in your household.
If your child is between five and eight, they may lie to avoid homework or otherwise reduce the pressures of increasing responsibility at school or at home. You should try to praise good behavior and talk openly about the importance of telling the truth.
If your child is between nine and twelve, you may notice they will experience more guilt when they lie. You should have longer and more open conversations about lying and truthfulness.

