 If you are worried that your loved one’s grief isn’t getting any better, you might encourage them to seek professional help. A grief counselor or therapist has special training to deal with complicated grief.You might say, “I know it can be hard to work through your feelings on your own. I think it would be a great idea if you saw a therapist. It would make me feel so much better to know that you’re talking to someone.”
Signs of complicated grief include getting caught up in “if only” scenarios regarding death, worry incessantly about the future, having angry outbursts, avoiding any reminders of the loss, and engaging in self-destructive behaviors.
 Your loved one may feel like no one else can relate to their grief. It can help for them to attend support groups with others who are recovering from a loss. In these groups, they may share their experiences and listen to those of others.You might ask a doctor or therapist for recommendations to a local grief support group. These might be sponsored by community mental health clinics or spiritual/religious organizations.
 If your loved one is abusing drugs and alcohol in addition to their grief, they may make decisions that jeopardize their own safety or that of others. Plus, even without alcohol and drugs in the mix, complicated grief may involve depressive symptoms such as suicidal thoughts.If you hear your loved one obsessing about their own death, giving treasured items away, or saying “goodbye” to friends and family, they may be at risk of suicide. Contact a local emergency department, their therapist, or call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255., You can extend your support and ensure that your friend is sticking with treatment by offering to join them. This can be especially helpful if they need rides or other logistical assistance, such as help scheduling appointments or picking up medications.You might say, "It's very important to me that you start feeling better. I'm happy to drive you to your therapy appointment."

, Despite your best efforts a friend or family member may reject your recommendations to seek help. It’s very common, particularly for people experiencing complicated grief, to deny any offers of support or help. If this happens, just let your loved one know you are there, and continue to monitor them for any suicidal behaviors.If the behavior continues, you might decide to coordinate an intervention with other family and friends. An intervention helps loved ones share their concerns and offers an ultimatum if the person refuses to get help.

