 Use a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner since, curly hair tends to get dry, especially if you are using a lot of heat styling. Make sure to use special conditioners specially tailored for frizzy/curly hair.






;
, Use a small amount of watered down hair gel (mix the gel with water) or spray gel, then hairspray it up until you know it will hold your curls in. You can also use a leave-in conditioner before-hand to cut some of the crunch from the gel and keep your hair from frizzing. (Curly hair frizzes when it needs moisture.)









Although scrunched, air-dried hair works well, you might want to blow dry if you're in a hurry. You must have a diffuser if you do not want a cloud of frizz. While blow drying, place a section of hair in the bowl and press the bowl to your head. Then turn on the "warm" setting of your blow dryer. Press the cool shot if your head gets too hot. Make sure to turn off the air before you take it away from your head as well. Blow drying like this minimizes frizz.
 Some scene hairstyles have even bangs that go across the forehead, but if you have curly hair, you want "side tapering bangs". When your hair is curly, pin your bangs to the side with a bow, a butterfly clip, or some other clip.
 This will add more flair to your hairstyle.
 Think of a cute color that would compliment your skin tone.
 Red, blue, purple, yellow, orange, etc. Get creative with that. If you have dark hair and don't want to bleach it, look into colored hair extensions.
 It's cute and not very expensive to buy plain hair things and decorate them with random objects. Get creative! Go into the fabrics/craft section of a store and add things like buttons, zipper pulls, ribbons, etc.
 When getting your hair cut, be careful. Take it slow. Maybe start off with some layers, if that works out, then go back and get some more cuts and colors. Take it slow until you love it.
 This way you won't have to style or damage it at all. Streak it, put it in a ponytail, and clip back your bangs.








