 Finding a business's percentage of credit sales will tell you what proportion of their total sales were made as credit sales. This can be calculated by dividing net credit sales by total sales for the period. The result should be expressed as a percentage. It can then be compared to the same value for other companies. This ratio can also be used to assess a company's susceptibility to liquidity issues, as a higher percentage of credit sales means that the company is dependent on its customers' timely payments to maintain its cash flows.For example, if a business had $200,000 in total sales over a period of time and $140,000 of those were credit sales, their percentage of credit sales would be 70 percent. 

This means that a large majority of their sales are made on credit and means little to a business owners on its own. 

However, if combined with a long or increasing collection time, this may be a cause for concern, as the business is exposed to consider liquidity risk.

A manager might respond in this case by extending credit to fewer customers. 


, In some cases, customers may never make payments on sales made on credit. In these cases, the loss is written as the "allowance for bad debts." This account is an expense recorded on the balance sheet and represents the expected proportion of accounts receivable that are likely to go uncollected (even if the accounts in questions are not late yet). To calculate the allowance for bad debts, look at previous periods and compute the percentage of debts that went unpaid. Average them and multiply the result by current accounts receivable to get your allowance for bad debts.The allowance can be set by a variety of different methods, including a pure guess, since it is reconciled at the end of an accounting period.
 Accounts receivable turnover represents how frequently a business is able to collect on its credit sales within a period. Specifically, it is calculated as Net Credit Sales÷Average Accounts Receivable{\displaystyle {\text{Net Credit Sales}}\div {\text{Average Accounts Receivable}}}. The result, which will be a number likely greater than one, will tell you how many times, on average, accounts receivable are collected upon during the period.

A high value indicates that payment for credit sales is collected efficiently, whereas a low value generally means that it does not. Values are judged as relatively high or low within an industry.

Overall, the goal should be to increase this ratio over time. However, a very high ratio may mean that the business is using overly-strict collection policies.For example, if a business had average accounts receivable of $50,000 for the year and $600,000 in net credit sales for the same year, its receivable turnover would be 12. 

This result may be relatively high or low, depending on the industry the business operates in.
 This ratio is calculated as 365÷Accounts Receivable Turnover{\displaystyle 365\div {\text{Accounts Receivable Turnover}}}. The result represents how many days the average credit sale stays in accounts receivable until being paid. This ratio can be analyzed to figure out how liquid a company is versus its historical liquidity or against that of other companies. It can also be used to determine how efficient collections are versus extension of credit.This ratio is simply another expression of accounts receivable turnover. Ideally, the average collection period should be reduced over time by improving collection efficiency. 


