 You can paint each other gifts at a Make-Your-Own-Pottery studio. Consider painting plates which can be mounted on your walls or coffee mugs which you can use each morning. This is a nice, quiet way to spend time together being creative and making something that you can use for years to come. You don’t have to be Picasso either: many places will have paints which are meant to cover an entire item, rather than making a particular image, as well as stamps and stencils so that the activity is accessible at any skill level.
 Plant a tree or other long-living plant together. You can plant it in your yard, in a place which has significant meaning to you, or in a local forest. Consider a coast redwood, which is the tallest living organism. What a testament to your love!


Check with your local parks department to make sure that the plant isn’t invasive. They may even let you put it in a public park.
 Go to a local pick-your-own berry farm and pick berries together. You can enjoy the quiet or talk about your memories together.


When you’ve got enough berries, you can then bake a pie or cobbler. Enjoy it with some ice cream while you watch a movie or sit in front of the fire.
 Try to give each other a box of small gifts. These gifts should all remind you of your partner and the relationship you’ve shared. It should be a sort of summary of how you perceive your relationship, so put a lot of thought and effort into it. Use whatever comes to mind when you think about the significant points of your relationship or what you love about your partner.


Maybe include a rubber duck for when you proposed to her by the pond in the local park, a coffee cup with a print of an art piece from the museum where he took your on your first date, or a drink umbrella for that time you both got caught in the rain and took shelter under an awning.
 Write a short book which you feel summarizes your relationship and how you feel. Any material you want to include or feel appropriate is fine. You can make the books by hand, by filling a blank journal, or you can find a local or online self publisher and get a real book printed.


Fill it with poems that remind you of your partner, pictures of the two of you or places you’ve gone together, things you had share together or describe your feelings about your marriage, a message to your past self about how much your partner mean to you, or a message to your partner or yourself in the future confessing your hopes for what things will be like.

