 When dealing with a crush who makes you jealous, you might wonder if his efforts at jealousy are intentional or accidental--and if you don't ask yourself this question, you probably should. Your crush might flirt with other girls in front of you to get your attention, but it's also possible that he's just a natural flirt who does it without thinking.


This issue typically occurs when the guy in question flirts with you and several other girls. It can be hard to know if he genuinely likes you, or if he's flirting indiscriminately. To figure out if he might like you more than the other girls he flirts with, ask yourself if there's a difference between his flirtation with you and his flirtation with others.
For instance, when you see him in the hallway, pay attention to where his eyes are. If he immediately locks eyes with you, that's probably a good sign. On the other hand, if he's looking at another girl and barely acknowledges you (or doesn't acknowledge you at all), that's probably a bad sign.Try not to assume that a guy who talks endlessly about his girlfriend in front of you is doing so to make you jealous. It's possible that he's genuinely head-over-heels for her and just trying to let you know.Even if he's honestly using his girlfriend to make you jealous and spur romantic feelings in you, the disloyalty and disrespect this behavior demonstrates should be a warning sign telling you to stay away from a potentially toxic mate.;
, If you think your crush really is trying to make you jealous, the best thing you can do is tell him how you feel. There's a decent chance that his actions are caused by insecurity about how you feel. Letting him know that your feelings of attraction are mutual may resolve the problem.This step is easier said than done, of course, and you do face the risk of rejection by following through and telling your crush you want to date him. Even so, clearing the air is the only way to fix the issue before it gets worse.
Wait until the next time you two find yourselves flirting in a private, one-on-one setting, then let him know you're interested in something more. Wait for his response before determining how to approach the topic of jealousy.
 You'll need to deal with the jealousy issue regardless of how your crush responds to your feelings, but the exact method will vary on his reply.


If your crush is interested in dating you, let him know in a casual, joking manner that he needs to save his flirting for you. Try to avoid making him feel guilty, but make it clear that you don't want him flirting with other girls.If your crush is lukewarm or rejects the idea of dating you, politely ask him to tone down the flirting he does with you. Dealing with regular flirtation from a guy who won't commit will only play with your emotions; it isn't healthy for either of you to continue like that., If your crush doesn't change his ways after you tell him your feelings and point out the problem, you're better off cutting ties.Starting a relationship with a guy who can't stop flirting will likely lead to continued frustration and insecurity, which will damage the relationship in the long run.
Continuing a friendship with a one-sided crush is always difficult, but if he's continuing to lead you on when he should know better, the best thing you can do for yourself is move on.

