 Always talk it up as being the best in its category or niche. Find all the positives about your business and put that message out there when you network, advertise, sell, and promote. Your belief in your business helps create the positive realities and people are listening.;
, Ask your current employees what it is about the place that attracted them to it and keeps them with you. Note these reasons and be sure to prioritize their maintenance and even improvement as part of your business planning.
 The larger a business becomes, the less able it is to be flexible with its employees because everyone starts to expect the same standards across the board. This doesn't always result in fairness and it often results in the loss of employees who want their special needs recognized and met but are faced with the bureaucratic red tape of human resources. A small business can often be more creative in the ways it structures the work-life balance for its employees. Work-from-home options, allowing children to come to work when there is a need, providing work for a female employee during maternity leave to be completed in her time and on her own premises, giving time off for a charity mountaineering expedition (and why not sponsor it while you're at it!), etc. – all of these are possibilities which not only can be worked into your workplace environment but if done, will reflect the individuality and desires of your employees. In turn, you grow deep loyalty and desire to remain, and your business begins to create a queue of good talent outside wanting to get in for a piece of this tailored action!

, Money is good when it pays the bills and a few treats. But a raise instead of a happy workplace is not a choice many workers would take. While providing raises, promotions, bonuses, etc., can be a means for improving morale temporarily, employees are happier and more likely to stick with your business in the long-run if they want to come to work every day because it's a good place that respects their skills, recognizes their talents, and makes the most of their abilities.
 Leadership matters to employees. A leader who is visible, spends time with employees, talks to them and shows interest in each person as an individual is a valued leader and one who inspires enthusiasm for a job well done. Have an open door policy; don't set yourself away from others. Always make it known that employees can come and talk to you when needed and leave the door open unless you're busy. Even then, leave a note displaying your open door times for all to see and make yourself available at those times.
 Don't steal the thunder of good employees; honor their achievements and always tell clients that they are getting the "best person in this field in our business" so that both the employee and the client know that you value each of them.
 Tell your employees when they've done a good job. Mentor them when they need to improve but always find their good points at the same time. You wouldn't have hired them if you didn't see their value; always come back to that and praise it, time and time again. Openly praise too, and evenly, so that everyone notes the praise publicly and gets their turn too. If you're not good at doing this, then learn now; you're running a business and your greatest asset is always your employees and their fulfillment.
 Don't be afraid of upskilling your employees. Good employees are up-to-date and unafraid to keep learning. Stagnating employees are those who see new learning with fear and put up barriers to new ideas and a small business cannot afford to carry such people. Always encourage training and be willing to include one trip away now and then as part of the rewards of working for your business.
 Make one of the basic principles of your business that of respect for each other at all times, no matter what level one is working at. Use signage to promote the ideals of respectful communication and weave this into the company culture.
 Have heart-to-heart talks with employees about how they think the business is doing and what ideas they might have for improving any aspects for it. Listen and give feedback when you institute their ideas.
 Have a clear vision of the business culture reflected in your recruitment documentation so that potential employees are inspired and are running to your door to have their talents used well and with respect.
 Whenever it all seems a bit negative and the Goliaths seem overwhelming, come back to the start. What motivated you to begin this business? What motivated you to hire these people? What motivated these people to join with you? What is your business culture and how can you reinvigorate it?

