 Kesha's hair always has that bed-head messy look, as well as a side part with little waves. To achieve this look, tousle your hair and use a brush to make it a bit poofy and frizzy. Don't go over the top with the poof and frizz, though. If you have straight hair, curl it slightly. Go for messier curls - Kesha doesn't have perfect Hollywood curls. If you have thin or hair that doesn't hold curls well, tease your hair back.;
, Kesha always wears gold or glitter, so try something like gold high-top sneakers or sparkly sneakers. If you can't find any, buy a regular pair of high-tops and spray-paint them gold, or cover them with glue and gold glitter.
 In her music video "Tik Tok" she is wearing gold shutter shades, so it's a good idea to grab a pair. They're sold at most accessory stores such as Ardene and Claires, and they're not very expensive, either. Again, if you can't find gold shades, consider spray-painting them gold. If you don't want the shades to block the make-up, consider putting the shades on your head instead of wearing them over your eyes - it would still look just as good.
 Even a baggy shirt or sweatshirt would go perfectly. Tee-shirts look great after they have been slashed-up by a pair of scissors! Make sure that it's black or another dark colour - Kesha doesn't wear pink, after all!

, You could just wear the tights alone, or a gold sequined tight skirt would make it look fabulous. If you can't find any pre-ripped tights, buy some black tights and rip them yourself. Again, this doesn't have to be perfect, so rip them as messily as you want. After all, Kesha's look is messy. Kesha also wears patterned lace tights. The crazier the pattern, the better!

, Kesha's makeup is one of her most recognizable traits. Make sure you're all dressed before doing your makeup, as there is a lot of makeup. Start by lining both your top and bottom eyelids heavily with black eyeliner. You may also want to wing the eyeliner out a bit. Again, if it looks a little sloppy, don't bother to fix it. Then, move the eyeliner down one of your cheeks so it looks like it's dripping down the side of your face (look at the image for ideas). Put on some black or dark coloured eyeshadow for a messy smokey-eye look. Finally, but on some body glitter all over your face - Kesha's face is usually almost the same. Kesha usually keeps her lips a pretty nude colour, so just put on some gloss or sparkly gloss to top off her makeup look. Or, just do a thick line with liquid liner on the top and do a crazy lip color like blue or purple, or pink! And remember, the body glitter doesn't need to be retrained to your face... Kesha wears it all over her body! Don't be afraid to get it on your clothes and in your hair!

