 Select the "View" menu from the top of your screen, then choose "New Guide."

, Select from either Horizontal or Vertical depending on how you want to mirror the image. Click on the corresponding radio button.
 Type in 50% in the "Position" field, and click "OK." You will have a guide line down or across the middle of your image.


The guide line only appears while you're working on your image. It will not appear on your image if you decide to print or save.
 The move tool is located along the left-hand side of your screen. It looks like mouse pointer accompanied by a cross with four arrowheads.
 Whichever part of your image is along the guideline will be your image's "flip point."


Don't worry if you reveal the document's background while positioning your image along the guide line. The blank space will be filled in by the mirrored version of your image.
 The "Marquee" tool is located along the left-hand side of your screen. It looks like a dotted rectangle.
 Starting in one corner of your image, click and drag your mouse to select the entire section that you want to mirror, stopping right along your guide line. Remove your finger from the mouse to release the click and drag.


If you mess up on your Marquee selection, hit Ctrl Z (PC), or ⌘ Command Z (Mac) to undo the selection.
Make sure you have the "Marquee" tool selected before attempting your selection again.
 Click on the "Layer" menu on the top of your screen, select "New," then "Layer via Copy." This will create a copy of your selection and add it as a new layer.


Alternatively, you can create a "Layer via Copy" by pressing Ctrl J (PC), or ⌘ Command J (Mac).
Note the Layers window on the right side of the screen. Photoshop has created a new layer for your selection called "Layer 2."

, Open "Free Transform" again to define a flip point using either Ctrl T (PC), or ⌘ Command T (Mac). The "Free Transform" handles will appear again around the Layer 2 image. Note the red target symbol in the center of the "Free Transform" box.
 Once you get the target close enough to the handle, it will automatically grab onto it.
 Select the "Edit" menu from the top of your screen, then choose "Transform." You will be given options to either flip horizontally or vertically. Make your selection.
 Your image will be mirrored, and your changes will be accepted.

