 Cleaning a sunfish, or any fish, can get messy. Put newspaper down in the area where you will be cleaning the fish. The natural slime of the fish sticks to the newspaper, which helps it stay in place as you clean.Be absolutely sure that the sunfish is dead before you begin cleaning.;
, You can buy a fish scaler to remove the scales. If you don’t have a fish scaler, find a sharp knife with a serrated edge. You can use a knife to remove the scales and carry out the rest of the cleaning process.You can find a fish scaler at places like Bass Pro Shop, or at many supermarkets, like Walmart.
 Use your tool to begin removing the scales. Hold the fish with the hand you won’t be cutting with. Work from the tail to the head as you remove the scales. Slide the knife back and forth repeatedly, from the tail to head. You do not have to cut deeply. Continue to remove the scales until the skin is smooth., Locate the back of the gills on the fish. Insert the knife into this location. Continue to cut until the head comes off completely.The gill slits are located next to the pectoral fin on the side of the fish.
 Insert the knife into the belly of the sunfish. Slide the knife all the way back to the vent. Make sure to avoid the organs as you do this. Once you’ve made the cut, remove all of the organs.The vent will be next to the anal fin, near the back of the belly.
Save any fish roe (eggs) that you may find.
Dispose of the organs when you remove them.
 Use the knife to remove the fins and tail on the sunfish. You don’t have to make any special incisions to do this. Simply make a cut where the fins and tail begin. Dispose of the fins and tail when they have been removed.The fins you should remove are the dorsal fin, pectoral fin, anal fin, and caudal fin. The dorsal fin is located on top of the fish. The pectoral fin is located on the side of the sunfish. The pelvic and anal fins are beneath the fish. The caudal fin is essentially where the tail is., Make an incision behind the gill. Cut from the gill all the way down to the flank, which is along the side of the fish. Do not remove any meat just yet., Use your free hand to hold the fish firmly. Slice forward from the tail fin to the vent. This should be about a 1-2 inch (2.5 – 5 cm) cut. Cut cleanly to the bone., Start the the top of the fish. Slice along the spine of the fish. Cut all the way from the head to the tail. Once you’ve done that, begin to cut the meat away from the ribs., Once you’ve finished filleting the fish, rinse it off in water. Place the fish on ice. Keep it on ice until you are ready to cook it.