 An electroscope is a device that can detect static electricity by using thin metal pieces that separate in the presence of an electrical charge.You can build a very simple electroscope using a few simple household items. You’ll need a glass jar with a plastic lid, aluminum foil, and a drill.
 Cut off a sheet of aluminum foil about 10 inches by 10 inches. The exact dimensions of the piece of foil are not important. Crumple the sheet of foil into a sphere.Try to keep the ball as round as possible.


The size of the ball should be about 2 inches in diameter. Again, exact dimensions are not important, but you don’t want the ball to be too big or too small.
 Take another sheet of foil and twist it into a rod shape that is a little bit less than the length of your jar. You want the aluminum rod to be about 3 inches above the bottom of the jar and stick out about 4 inches above the top of the jar.
 Using another sheet of foil, place the ball and the rod together and wrap the larger sheet around both pieces. Twist the foil around the rod to secure everything tightly in place.
 Using a drill, make a hole in the center of lid that is big enough for the foil rod to slide through. If you do not have a drill on hand, you can use a hammer and a nail to punch a hole through the lid.


Use caution with the drill or hammer. Adult supervision is recommended.
 Slide the foil rod through the hole in the lid with the foil sphere sticking out of the top end of the lid. Tape the rod in place from the bottom and the top. A half inch from the bottom of the rod, make a 90° (right angle) bend.
 Cut out a piece of foil that is around 6 inches by 3 inches. Fold the foil length-wise so that it is now a 3 in by 3 in square. Cut out a triangle shape, with the point of the triangle almost reaching the folded age. Leave the triangles attached at the point by not cutting all the way to the fold.When you are finished cutting you should have two triangles connected by a little bit of foil at the top.


If you cut through the fold, cut a new piece of foil and start again.
 Drape the foil triangles over the rod so that they hang almost touching each other. Screw the lid onto the jar, being careful not to knock the foil triangles off the rod as you do. Keep the electroscope upright.


If the triangles do fall off, simply unscrew the lid and reposition them.
 Rub a balloon against your hair and place it near the sphere at the top of your electroscope. You should see the triangles move apart from each other. As the device comes in contact with static electricity, the two triangles will have opposite charges and will push each other apart. When there is no static electricity, the triangles will sit close to each other.


Wander around your home placing the sphere near different objects to see how charged they are.

