 Help make the new spouse feel welcome and get some points from your parent by planning a family gathering of sorts. Invite all your siblings and step-siblings to attend so that everyone gets an opportunity to meet and break the ice. Remember, just because you are making an effort welcome the new spouse into the family does not mean you are betraying your other parent.Try to reinforce being respectful and polite to your other siblings or children who may be resistant to the new spouse. You might say, “Dad clearly loves her, guys. Let’s try to give her a chance for him. Okay?”
It can especially help if the other divorced parent gives his/her “blessing” about the new marriage. This can help all the rest of the family show more support and respect for the new spouse.
Try to be patient with other family members who take longer to warm up to the new person. They might just need more time.
 A common fear for adult step-children is that they will lose Mom or Dad’s attention to the new partner. Thinking that you won’t get to see your parent as much can cause you to feel resentment towards the spouse.Overcome this barrier to blended adult step-families by scheduling regular alone time with your parent.


Make it a weekly or monthly event to take your parent out to lunch on Sundays or attend a matinee showing at the Cinema the first Friday of every month. That way, you can assure that you spend one-on-one time with your parent just like before the new marriage.
Be sensitive about your parent’s schedule and need to spend time with their new spouse.
 Adult step-children are frequently concerned with how a new marriage affects the financial affairs of their parent or changes their inheritance. This is yet another reason why you may be hesitant to welcome a new spouse into the family.


Instead of harboring resentment for the new spouse, have a direct conversation with your parent about any sensitive concerns you have. You might say, “Mom, I hate to be so forward, but how will your new marriage affect our inheritance?” or “Dad, I understand that spouses are usually in charge of these things, but is it okay if I remain in control of your health care and estate for a while? I just don’t want to overwhelm your new wife with all this responsibility.”