 If you don't really love who you are, then start loving yourself! If you already have a lot of self-confidence, take it up a higher notch (this doesn't mean becoming conceited or self-centered, the point is to value yourself more). To step up your confidence, remind yourself that you are pretty, beautiful, smart, talented, etc. When you wake up, tell yourself how pretty you are. Be thankful for being you. Write yourself little messages such as: "Attitude is everything" and "I am beautiful and I love me" and post them on your mirror to remind you how great you are.;
, No matter what, don't act mean, rude, nasty, or disrespectful. ALWAYS have a sweet, bubbly, and friendly attitude. People will want to be around you because they will feel comfortable around you. Welcome people instead of rejecting them, even if they aren't as friendly and welcoming to you.
 But make sure your smile is pretty and perfect (details on this later on).
 Do this by giving them compliments on their hair, outfit, etc. Be happy and smile when you are around them, and listen to what they have to say. People will definitely appreciate that and will most likely start to LOVE being around you and will admire and notice you.
 This doesn't mean just showering daily and moisturizing. Take it to the next level. Take bubble baths as often as you can instead of showering, so you can fully pamper and beautify your skin. Pampered skin shows itself off. Use a body scrub and body salts to exfoliate and make your skin soft, and use great smelling soaps/body washes. When you finish your bath, put on a very rich moisturizer such as baby oil or body cream for that shine-like finish. It will set into the skin and make it seriously glow.
 Use self-tanners and tanning lotions (Jergens has a great self-tanning lotion) to achieve that bronze, sunkissed glow.
 Your smile can be one of your best assets if taken care of properly. Even with braces, a gap tooth, or teeth out of place, you still have to have the whitest and brightest smile. It can happen! Go to the dentist at least once or twice a year for a cleaning. After they clean your teeth, keep it up so it can stay that way. Brush your teeth two times a day with a mechanical spinning toothbrush. They really deep-clean your teeth and get rid of that disturbing yellow plaque build-up we all know and hate. Also floss, clean your tongue, and use mouthwash.
 Don't wear plain hairstyles, because that WILL NOT make you glow. A nice haircut with layers is nice, and so is a full bang or side bang. If you don't want to cut your hair, then do something different with it - add curls, or wear it super straight. Wear waves and high ponytails. And make sure to have clean, shiny, healthy hair. You WILL NOT glow without clean, shiny hair.
 This is the part where you can do anything you want as long as you apply it right. The only thing is not to wear it too heavily or the real YOU won't be glowing through. Don't hide behind a mask of makeup.

