 While this may seem quite obvious, it is important to be sure you’re treating a bug bite and not something else, like poison ivy. Plus, some symptoms may be similar to other medical conditions, especially if you are allergic to the bug that bit you.The following symptoms are usually found on or near the area of the actual bite: pain, swelling, redness, itching, warmth, hives, and/or small amounts of bleeding. You can experience one, some, all, or even none of these symptoms, depending on how you personally react to the specific bug and bite.The following symptoms are more serious and could indicate there is a life-threatening allergy to the bug bite: coughing, tickling in the throat, tightness in the throat or chest, breathing problems, wheezing, nausea or vomiting, dizziness or fainting, sweating, anxiety, and/or itching and a rash somewhere else on your body other than the bite area., If someone was stung inside the mouth, nose or throat, or is experiencing a possible severe allergic reaction, call 911 or 999 or take the person to the ER right away. People who are suffering in this way may need medical intervention to help them breathe, and will likely need some sort of medication in order to alleviate the symptoms (e.g. epinephrine, corticosteroids, etc.).If the person who was stung has a known allergy to certain bug bites, she may carry an EpiPen (a portable shot which delivers epinephrine) with her. If she has one, follow the instructions on the EpiPen to administer the medication to the person immediately. Instructions on how to use an EpiPen can also be found on their website here.
The person must still see a doctor immediately, even if you have administered a shot of epinephrine.
 If the person who was stung is not having a serious allergic reaction (or wasn’t stung inside his airway) he may be okay temporarily. If he starts to experience any of the following symptoms, he may need to go to the doctor for further treatment.Secondary infections can be caused by itching and causing a break in the skin through which bacteria can enter. The skin is the first layer of defense against infection.
Persistent pain or itching, fever, signs of infection at the bug bite location.
As an example, if this person has an infection, he will most likely need antibiotics in order to fight that infection.

