 Doing anything to make you feel brand new can be helpful. It’s amazing how something so mundane can easily remind a person of their ex. Try to make several changes to feel as if you’re living a much different life than you were before.Change out your playlists. Whether they are for easy-listening or they are your go-to workout songs, make changes so you don’t associate specific tunes with your ex.
Move furniture into different locations. If you were used to the couch and your ex took the recliner, move them to different locations and claim the recliner.
Use different towels in the bathroom. Go for anything different. Size, shape, color, design, texture, change to something foreign.
Load your dishwasher a different way. Put the forks where the knives go. Place the plates horizontal instead of vertical. Make it something completely new to you.
Delete shows from the DVR. This is especially helpful if it’s a show you started watching because your ex liked it.
 The great thing about being single is you now can choose. You can choose the exact opposite of your ex if you’d like. Leave all memories in the past and find the new love of your life. Pick someone who appreciates what your ex did not.Be careful to avoid the rebound. Don’t settle for someone just because you’re used to being in a relationship., Some people see a breakup as a bridge towards improvement. Learn to communicate more effectively. Discover new things about yourself, and how you can improve in the next relationship.You can’t control everything. Use this as a way to get over any control issues you may have. Realize there are some things, no matter how hard you try, that will not be as you wish.
Learn how to forgive. You may be angry, sad, or depressed, but breakups often serve as a great opportunity to find our kindness. You'll be happier when you realize forgiveness, because your ex will no longer occupy your mind with ill feelings.
Express relationship desires more clearly. The result of failure is often analysis and improvement. Figure out what was expressed incorrectly or inefficiently, and learn to tell your future partner precisely what you want in a relationship.
 Keep in mind that a breakup is an emotional injury and it might take longer than a week to be over your ex.Getting over someone is difficult and you will have a lot of emotions to process, so try to be patient. Just remember that if you keep trying, then you will get there.

