 A scene hairstyle is composed of several layers at different lengths. Usually three main layers are used for this hairstyle. Before you cut, plan where you would like the layers of your hairstyle to line up.


To get ideas of cut and color, you may wish to look at pictures online to see which sort of style you prefer. Websites like Tumblr are particularly good sources for images of the scene hairstyle.
Consider your personal preferences but also consider what lengths will emphasize your best features. If you face is too round, for example, you may wish to have the upper layers end around your jawline, to make your face appear more narrow.
Your jaw, chin, shoulders, and collarbone make good points of reference for your cut.
Feel free to infuse your own creativity in how you approach the kind of cut you want. Implement different aspects of different haircuts to create your scene haircut.;
, Understand the basics of scene haircuts and which elements create what kind of look. Scene hair means short, choppy layers but different techniques create different looks so it’s important to know terminology, especially if you’re trying to convey to a professional the kind of look you’re going for.Fringe: the trademark side-swept bangs common for scene haircuts.
Razored: a razor edge is used to skim hair off of your ends by thinning out the strands. It makes the end result appear more messy and lived-in.
Choppy: purposely uneven layers that contrasts the typical straight, bluntly cut layered hairstyle.
”Asian Mullet”: commonly used refer to scene hair. It is a cut divided into two parts where the top of the hair is choppy, short layers and the bottom of the haircut is left long. Be sure to include the length you’d like your layers and the bottom so that you aren’t literally left rocking a mullet.
Teased: sections of your hair are backcombed to create big volume. It is another element of scene hair.
 Don’t be afraid to look at his/her portfolio and to describe in depth the kind of haircut that you want. It is important to be vocal and as descriptive as possible. Use your research, photo references, and previously mentioned terminology to ensure that you are getting your ideal scene hair cut by the stylist.


If you have curly hair, decide whether or not you want to use a straightener everyday to maintain your scene look. If not, make sure that whatever length you decide on works for both curly and straightened hair – that way the length you want isn’t contingent upon daily heat application.
 This is optional, but as we talk about colors, is an important suggestion to offer. Bleaching the hair provides a clean slate for colors and dyes to show up in their brightest hues possible. This should of course be done by a professional if possible to decrease likelihood of hair damage.
 This is a two-step process consisting of: 1) which colors you want your hair to be and 2) what hair sections you want as these colors. Bright, edgy colors typically associated with scene hair include pink, blue, and purple., This gives room for mistakes and allows you to learn what colors you like for your cut and style. It is also less harsh on your hair than permanent dyes so it promotes less damage to you hair. Once you’ve decided on something permanent, go to a colorist to achieve a more permanent version of your look in the least damaging way possible.


You can have the entirety of your hair one color, have the lower section a different color than the upper section, or you can have single strand highlights. Get creative!
Popular scene hair colors for the main section of your hair include bleach blonde and dark brown/black but whatever color you like best is fine.
You can also keep your entire hair your natural color if that is more to your liking.
Natural-colored hair dyes can easily be purchased at grocery stores, while other colors may require you to go to specialty shops. You can always have your hair colored at a salon as well.
 Follow the movement of your layers to act as a guide to applying the dye. If you’re at home and using packaged dye, follow the instructions and timing correctly to ensure your best color result.


Apply petroleum jelly on your hairline, around your ears, and at the base of your neck to keep dye off of your skin.
Wear protective gloves to further prevent staining your skin.
Prevent staining by using a towel over your shoulders.
Do not wash your hair the day of dyeing your hair, to help your scalp keep its oils and its moisture.
Use a water bottle to dampen your hair and promote even coloring.
 Scene styles often require straightening and a great deal of products such as hairspray but this is not healthy for your hair. Straightening can fry your hair, making it weak and prone to breaking. Products such as hairspray and gel are similarly damaging to your hair, as well as the dyes commonly used for scene hairstyles.


Make sure that you regularly condition you hair.
As an extra measure to revitalize your strands, consider deep conditioning your hair once weekly as well.
You can use normal conditioner in the shower but it is also possible to purchase products like hair serums, which can be much more effective and are usually placed after washing but before drying (much like gel).
How often this is required will vary for each person. You may need to condition every day, every other day, once a week, etc. You may need to experiment to find what is best for you.
 If you decided to dye your hair as well, you will want to be sure that you use the correct shampoos for dyed hair and that you re-color your hair as necessary.


How often this needs to be done will vary by person, similar to conditioning of the hair.
If your hair is similar in color to how it was dyed, then you may need to touch up the color less often than if there is a noticeable color difference.
 Colorful extensions can be purchased and placed to give your a hair a multicolored look. These can be woven into your hair or function like clips, hidden by the layering. It depends largely on how nice you want them to look, how permanent you want them to be, and how much money you want to spend.


Woven extensions are usually placed by a hair stylist and cost more money. They are also more of a long-term commitment. Clip on extensions, however, are cheaper and can be switched out whenever you want.
Popular colors for the highlights and extensions include pink, green, blue, and bleach blonde.
 These can be used to give your hair volume and shape. Purchased easily at a grocery or drugstore, there are a large number of different types that are used in different ways. Be sure to check the instructions and labeling to be sure that you are buying the appropriate type for your hair and needs.Hairspray is used after your hair has dried and is sprayed in as you move your hair into the shape you would like it to be. This is good for adding just a little volume. You can also purchase special hairsprays which contain things like glitter, to really step it up.
Gels come in many types but are usually best put in when your hair is wet. This will help the product distribute evenly and avoid that greasy look. Once you’ve got the product in your hair, you can style it however you'd like, usually by blow drying it into the shape you'd prefer.
 Clips, ribbons and other additions can be easily purchased at stores or made yourself at home. Headbands in bright colors look particularly good with scene hairstyles and tiaras are another popular accessory. Additions such as these are a great way to emphasize your personal style.
 Have all of the necessary combs, brushes, clips, razors and scissors nearby. This will save you the trouble of having to reach or look for them while you are trying to cut your hair. Setting them out on a table near where you will be working will significantly help.The better the quality of tools, the better the final product. Hair scissors, specifically, work much better than normal scissors for cutting hair because they are made with sharper blades. Purchase these at local beauty supply stores.
Be sure the razor you are using is sharp and fresh. This will make it easier to cut your hair and reduce the likelihood of damaging it in the process. Be careful of cutting yourself.
 Try to have multiple mirrors so that you can see your head from many different angles. This will help you reach the areas you can't normally see.


Position a mirror in front of you, as well as one or two angled toward your side, if you have more than one large mirror.
A hand mirror or additional large mirror can be placed behind you in order to view the back.
Alternatively, make sure a broom and dustpan are available. A vacuum will pick up the hair great also.
 Cutting hair is messy. Cover yourself, if you want to, to keep your clothes clean. You can use a bathrobe, a bed sheet, a towel, or any other cover as you see fit. You may also wish to cut your hair in a bathroom or kitchen, which will be easier to clean when you are done.
 Using a comb, separate your upper layers of hair from your lower layers, around the level of your ears. Tie this hair up and away, so that you can more easily access the lower layers. You may also wish to divide the lower section of hair into three parts: left, right, and back.Large clips can be used to keep the mass of your hair on top of your head and away from the areas you are cutting. This will help ensure that you do not accidentally cut the upper layers while you are working on the lower layers.
 Using scissors, cut your hair to the intended length of the longest layer. Removing this hair will ensure that you don't waste time layering hair that you don't intend to keep!


Start by taking a small section of hair towards the front and comb through to make sure it is smooth, then place and hold it between your pointer and index fingers, to the place you want to cut.
It is easiest to start higher, then bring your fingers down to the desired length, keeping the hair smooth. Then cut the section.
Take a second section next to the first, as well as a small portion of the cut section, and cut the new section so that it is even with the previous one.
Continue cutting your hair until you have removed the excess from the entire layer. Divide your hair again if necessary.
 Practice on mannequin first if possible! Use your razor to thin and cut your hair. Thinning with this technique will leave the layers of your hair with many different sub-layers. This will help create the “scene” look.Take small sections of your hair and twist this small section into a single strand.
Take a razor and run it down the strand of hair, thinning and cutting it.
The more you do this, the thinner your hair will be. This not only creates layers but also helps existing layers to blend better.Make sure to go slowly and run the razor several times, to avoid cutting the hair too bluntly or too much. Do not press the razor too hard, you just want to press lightly.
Continue twisting and thinning until the lower layers are even along the bottom and at the desired thickness.
 Thin the next layer of hair to the desired thickness and length. This section should be shorter than the layer below it.


Release the upper layers of hair and resection and tie them if you wish to have three or more layers.
Continue to thin and cut it in the same manner as the previous layer.
Be careful not to accidentally cut the lower layers while working on the upper layers.
Continue to a third or fourth layer if you wish to. These layers should be the shortest and also contain less hair than in the previous sections.
 Make sure you cut all areas and that your hair looks even. Cut anything you may have missed until you are happy with how it looks.This is when having access to multiple mirrors will be most useful.