 Stick the end though the disposal, around the blades.


If you see a buildup of food that you can reach with tongs or pliers you should remove the loose materials fist. Removing any loose food will allow you to see better and clear out space. These types of food may be peels from fruits like bananas, fatty strips of meat, or vegetables.
Never place your hands inside a garbage disposal. The blades are sharp, and can easily cut you without the motor running.
 Once you remove any larger debris, you can then inspect the drain again and get ready to plunge. If you see anything that is not food in your disposal be extremely careful when trying to pull it out. Never use your hands. You may find it best to call a plumber.
 Once you’ve removed loose material, you can try running your disposal again to see if it’s unclogged. If the disposal is still clogged, you can use a plunger to pull up stuck material.


If you test the disposal again and hear a low humming sound, that means the blades are unable to turn. When testing, always keep water running so as to lubricate the blades and help break down any grime that may be sticking.
With everything properly turned off again, fill the sink with a few inches of water. You will need a bit of water so the plunger sticks to your sink. Place the plunger over your sink hole and start plunging.
The plunger will hopefully create enough suction to lift any stubborn debris or materials out of the disposal.
 Continue plunging until you feel that nothing else is coming up, then scoop out the material you pulled up.


If the water in your sink drains after plunging, you will have a clear pipe and disposal.
Wait 15 minutes before running the disposal again. If you’ve been running the motor a lot while trying to unclog your drain and disposal, waiting will allow the motor to cool. And overheated motor won’t properly deal with any blockage and could permanently damage your disposer.
 Run some water through the drain and then run the disposal to see if it works again.


Make sure to unclamp the drain line after plunging and before testing.
If your disposal is working again you’re all set.

