 Your wedding party is a big part of your special day. When you introduce them, you want to make sure that they get the recognition that they deserve. Make sure the DJ or MC has a written list of the names of the entire bridal party. If necessary, include a pronunciation guide for the announcer. You don’t want them stumbling over an uncommon name.
Make sure the names are written in the order in which the members of the party will enter.;
, Music is a traditional component of the bridal party entrance. You can use it simply as soft background noise, or as a prominent feature of the announcement. If you are planning a traditional entrance, you might want to pick a popular song for the moment. Some typical choices include:”Walking on Sunshine” by Katrina and the Waves
”The Way You Make Me Feel” by Michael Jackson
”Bittersweet Symphony” by The Verve
”Viva La Vida” by Coldplay
"Waiting for Tonight” by Jennifer Lopez

, Decide what you are going to do between the ceremony and the reception. Many people choose to take formal pictures during this time. Others plan a cocktail hour so that they can mingle with guests. Whatever you do, make sure that you figure out how much time you want to have between the ceremony and the bridal party entrance.Communicate this timeline to the MC. You could say, “The ceremony will end at 5:30, and the cocktail hour will begin. At 6:30, we want the guests to be escorted into the dining room. At 6:40, we would like the bridal party to be announced.”

, Make sure that each member of the bridal party understands where they need to be and when. You don’t want to be missing any members of the party when it’s time for the big announcement. Plan the timeline in advance, and give them clear instructions.You could send an e-mail the week before to everyone in your wedding party. It should give a detailed timeline of the entire wedding day.
You can also remind everyone on the big day. During pictures you could say, “Remember, everyone, we’ll line up to enter the reception right at 6:35.”

, Gather your wedding party near the door where they will enter the reception. Traditionally, they will line up in the order that they entered the ceremony. That means the bridesmaid and groomsmen pairs will enter first, followed by the maid of honor and best man. The newly married couple will be the last to be announced.

If you have a wedding coordinator, you can have them organize the line-up.

