 Getting enough sleep and relaxation are two of the best ways to ensure a happier you this year so aim for seven hours sleep every night and consider devoting at least one or two hours to total relaxation each week, maybe split into 4 half hour sessions.


Yoga techniques are great for this but a simple walk in the countryside, sit down with a great book, or even a soak in the bath with a relaxing bath oil, such as rose or lavender, can provide simple alternatives. Any activity (or lack of) that allows you to forget stressors that you may have and set your mind free for a while is a very positive thing.






If you are short of time but find that it is hard for you to shut off at the end of the day try this simple 10 minute exercise: Find a quiet space in which to relax and make yourself comfortable. Breathe in through your nose to the count of four, hold the breath for four more counts, then breathe out through your mouth for the count of eight. Repeat this exercise six times then allow yourself to breathe naturally for a few minutes. You may like to repeat this process two or three times for deeper relaxation.





;
, Yes, it’s predictable but exercise is so helpful when it comes to both physical and emotional well being.


Getting involved with your local gym or a class that you find fun can also introduce you to other like-minded people, giving you the chance to make new friendships while you boost your system.
Group activities such as dance classes or even a paintball skirmish are great ways to make exercise fun and you will find that taking part in this kind of pastime will give you more energy and leave you glowing! However, exercise doesn’t even have to involve leaving the house if you don’t want it to, if you prefer to exercise at home then as little as 20 minutes of stretches in the morning will make a noticeable difference in your life. Have fun with it!

, This may not be so obvious but studies have shown that altruistic acts can be an extremely effective way to improve your own well being. Great news, as at least two people can benefit from just one act of kindness! This can be anything from a smile at a stranger or a simple ‘Good morning’ to someone on your walk into work, to offering to pick up some supplies for an elderly friend or relative, or even volunteering in your local charity shop if you have the time.
 Having a good spring clean is a great way to clear the mind and a really simple way to feel that you are giving yourself a ‘fresh start’. It is so much easier to relax at home when you’re not constantly thinking about little jobs that need doing, and the truth is that many of these could be tackled in just a day if you could set one aside for that purpose. Try approaching one room at a time and starting by putting all the things that you don’t really use or that you have outgrown into a bag for charity before having a clean round and rearranging what is left to suit more who you are today. If you want to take it a step further, and have the time and money to do so, a lick of paint can completely transform a tired room. When you’re happy with the new look of your rooms, you can then take all of the outdated items down to your local charity shop to really achieve that feel good factor. There are lots of ways to find that ‘happy new you’ this year and these are just a few examples that we hope may help.

