 If you practice in different driving situations, your ability to drive well will increase dramatically.
 This is really helpful. Always think one or two steps ahead of your current action to reduce hesitation while driving. This will help you avoid accidents.
 If there is a person who has the potential to distract you from driving, have them sit in the back and refrain from talking to you.
 One of the worst things you can do while driving is to hesitate. If you choose to move to some area, make sure it is safe and then do so without hesitation. Drivers who hesitate and make jerky moves can make driving conditions hazardous to others around them.
 There are many cases where the weather can pose a problem for drivers. Try to avoid these conditions as much as possible by watching the weather forecast. Practice driving in rainy, snowy, frosty and windy weather conditions within a safe environment, such as an abandoned car park.
 By driving needlessly dangerously, you only show others you do not believe in your driving skills.
 A good driver might overtake while seamlessly passing oncoming traffic with just two smooth flow-motion manoeuvres, while a clumsy driver will make driving straight on a deserted road look dangerous. There's a simple rule: All considerations must be taken before commencing the manoeuvre. Once you decide to do something, do it without hesitation. For example: Overtaking with an oncoming traffic is a hard decision to take. Once you decide on it, other drivers will be willing to slow down or move aside to let you pass, as long as you maintain your speed and heading. Understanding that you don't have the distance or engine power to complete the overtaking and hitting the brakes in the opposite side of the road would only bewilder any oncoming driver, who would be otherwise willing to slow down or get half of their vehicle in the shoulder of the road to let you by.
 Get used to the maximum speed, acceleration, turn radius, overall size and stability of your vehicle. If you're a seasoned 18-wheeler driver, overtaking with only 2 inches (5.1 cm) of lateral distance wouldn't be a problem for you. If you just got your light vehicle driving license (B category in the EU, also known as a 'child's permit'), you need greater distance.
 Never threaten large vehicles with your driving! Professional truck drivers are capable of handling situations that would get a less experienced driver killed. If you have a child's permit, remember those 18-wheelers are very quick in their acceleration and very hard in stopping! When you wait for a left turn and you see a 20-tonne Mercedes Actros coming your way, don't rely on the fact it's going to slow down, or be too clumsy to hit you! These modern tractors are capable of moving at 170 km/h (110 mph) especially when fully laden, and most of them do 0 to 100 faster than your car.









However, a head-on collision between a car and a tractor has never been won by the car hitherto!

