 Drinking lots of water (roughly 8-10 glasses per day) will help you eliminate the different kinds of wastes that can build up and develop into kidney stones. Proper hydration will also help you keep your urine’s PH level balanced, which will reduce the risk of forming phosphate-based kidney stones.


If you have an especially active lifestyle or live in a hot climate, drinking more water will be necessary to stay properly hydrated.;
, Diets high in soda are associated with an increased risk of kidney stones due to their high sugar and phosphate content.
 One of the most common kinds of kidney stone forms when too much calcium or oxalate builds up in the renal system. These are known as calcium-oxalate stones. Calcium is typically found in dark green vegetables, dairy products, and animal protein. Oxalate (or oxalic acid) is a compound that generally comes from plants. Both are healthy in moderation. Keeping your intake of dietary calcium and oxalate balanced will cause the calcium and oxalate to bind to each other in the intestines, reducing the amount of either that the kidneys will absorb.


The most commonly-consumed oxalate-rich foods are chocolate, rhubarb, tea, spinach, strawberries, wheat bran, nuts, and beets.
Don’t restrict your calcium intake too much. Low levels of calcium can also lead to kidney stones.
 Too much sodium in the diet may increase your calcium level to a point where you will run a higher risk of developing kidney stones.


Talk to your doctor to determine an appropriate level of sodium for your diet.
Processed foods such as hot dogs, canned soups, lunchmeats, and fast foods frequently contain high levels of sodium.
 Eating too much animal protein may increase the amount of calcium in your body, as well as uric acid, which can collect in the kidneys and turn into stones. Although overconsumption of animal protein is a greater risk factor for kidney stones in men than in women, it is probably safest to avoid it no matter what.Red meats, organ meats, and shellfish are particularly high-risk forms of animal protein. They contain high levels of purines, which are substances that can increase uric acid content in urine. These foods, along with poultry, also reduce your production of citrate, which can stop stones from forming.
 Obesity is another serious risk factor for developing kidney stones, particularly in women.Calculating your Body Mass Index (or BMI) is a good starting point to determining if you are at a healthy weight for your height.A BMI between 18.5 and 24.9 is considered normal.

