 Most orchids originate from a tropical climate, meaning good air, plenty of light, and 12-hour days (365 days a year). The temperature (depending on the species of orchid) should range between 65 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (18.3 to 23.8 degrees Celsius).


Make sure that there's about a 20 degree F (6.66 degree C) difference between day and night temperatures. This must be implemented as soon as you begin.
 Many orchids enjoy indirect sunlight: direct sunlight cases them to burn, while not enough creates a plant that doesn't flower.


Check your orchid's leaves if you want to diagnose whether it's getting too much light or not enough. Orchid leaves should be a light, even green if healthy. If the leaves are dark green, it means that the orchid isn't getting enough light. If the leaves are yellow, brown, or reddish, it means they're getting too much.Low-light orchids ( Paphiopedilum, Phalaenopsis, and Oncidium) do best if they get northerly or easterly light. Moderate to high-light orchids (Cattleya, Dendrobium, and Vanda) prefer getting westerly or southerly light.
Orchids love being behind curtains or window blinds. This way, they get plenty of light, but the light that they do get is indirect.
 During the summer months, longer days and more heat might necessitate a shorter watering period.


Keep the following genera moist (although not soggy) at all times: Paphiopedilum, Miltonia, Cymbidium, and Odontoglossum.
Keep the following genera moist during active growth, but allow to dry in between waterings otherwise: Cattleya, Oncidium, Brassia, and Dendrobium.
Allow the following genera to dry out in between waterings: Phalaenopsis, Vanda, and Ascocenda.
 Orchids require much more attention than your average plant or flower. The thicker your leaves are, the more likely your plant requires a larger dose of water. If your plant has bulky faux-bulbs, less water is better. Orchids are not resilient in most occasions, but are when it comes to their water intake. Again, they actually deal with a lack of water better than a superfluous amount of water.
 Typically, expect to fertilize your orchid once a month, but rarely more. Fertilize too often and you'll chance burning the roots and hampering flowering; fertilize not often enough and you'll chance hampering the flowering process.
 Because of orchids' natural affinity for humidity, keep the humidity of your growing room — wherever it may be — at about 60% to 80% at all times.
 Each strand of orchid has different caretaking needs and rules. No one orchid is the same; all require a different temperature, lighting situation and watering schedule. So when you choose an orchid plant to grow, you must be flexible when growing orchids.

