 Mix a few drops of mild dishwashing soap into a bowl with club soda or seltzer water. Make sure that the water is room temperature or warmer. If you are worried about spillage, place a towel under the bowel before setting it down.








Club soda or seltzer water can help to remove stubborn spots on gold due to their carbonation.You can also use dishwashing detergent. Just make sure that it is labeled as mild. Harsh detergent can ruin your jewel.;
, Take the chain and immerse it into the bowl. Take your time to avoid damaging the jewelry and to limit any spillage. Move the chain around so that it is not balled up or overlapping overly much. Leave the chain in the bowl between 2-15 minutes. Soak it again, if necessary, to remove particularly stubborn dirt or grime.








You can also place your chain into a metal strainer and then lower the strainer into the bowl until it is submerged. Then, you can remove the chain by simply lifting the strainer. This is a good method to use if you are concerned about dropping the chain., Get out a soft bristled toothbrush. Pull your chain out of the bowl. Dip the toothbrush into the cleaning solution and gently stroke over the chain. Use quick, light strokes and make sure to never scrub heavily. To get in between the chain links, push some of the toothbrush tines into these spaces. Make a clockwise, circular motion and repeat anticlockwise. This ensures the dirt to loosen up or remove altogether.








Going with a medium or hard bristled brush could make it easier for you to scratch your jewelry. It is also best to keep a brush set aside specifically for jewelry cleaning. This is on your own risk since it can spoil the jewel if it is delicate or sensitive., When you are finished running your toothbrush over the chain, place your chain back into the strainer. Then, run some warm water over the chain and strainer. If you feel as if there is a chemical residue on the chain, you may want to move it a bit under the water.
 Place your chain onto a cloth and gently pat it dry. Continue to do so until you can lift it up without feeling wetness or grease. Keep polishing in small motions until the shine is restored. Your jeweler can give you a polishing cloth to use or you can get a simple microfiber cloth.







