 From levels 1-20 you are going to want to train on goblins, preferably in Lumbridge because they can drop some decent items. You are going to want to use your best air spell on them, so buying an air staff is recommended. Armor and food are not really needed for this step as goblins do not really hit very often.;
, Take an earth battlestaff, as the cockroaches are weak to earth spells. You can kill the Cockroach Drones or Cockroach Workers. for their drops, as they drop gems often and rune items, you can quite easily make some money here. Kill these until around level 35

, Buy yourself an Air or Fire battle staff, and lots of either fire or air runes respectively. Food is a must for lower levels, wearing mystic robes is also recommended. Cast Fire Bolt on the Ice Warriors. These warriors also can drop some pretty decent items, including medium clue scrolls. Kills these until around level 41, or farther if you are enjoying the drops.
 Look around for a lot of Ogres. Bring an air battle staff and a little bit of food and cast the best air spell available to you. These drop big bones which can be buried for Prayer experience, along with lots of herb seeds. On level 61 you can switch over to the water spell for a little extra damage. Train on these until about level 65.
 These can be found in Kalphite King's lair, and will auto-aggro towards you. These drops two herbs at a time, as well as a high rate of blue charms. They drop elite and hard clues as well. Train on these until 70., If you can find a large amount of enemies in a square of 3x3, then you can very easily AFK with protection prayers on and autocasting blood barrage to regain health. Some places to use are the Bandits west of Bandit camp (providing you have a zamorak item), the mummies in chaos temples, the zombie monkeys in the Ape Atoll caves, and for the best exp you could go to the Abyss and kill the monsters there.

You could also cast Earth Waves on the monkey guards in Ape Atoll. You can protect from melee from the monkeys, and then recharge your prayer at the altar nearby. If you have soulsplit, you could theoretically stay there for quite a while to kill them.
If you've completed Ritual of the Mahjarrat, you can kill glacors with Fire waves for about 175k experience per hour. Do this until level 81.
 These are level 86, are weak to earth spells, and give 852 experience per kill. They can be very easily killed, so you want to find a world with high respawn rates. Kill these until level 95.


You could switch to metal dragons in the Brimhaven dungeon at level 85 but be sure to bring an anti-dragon shield or antifire potions. You can get 100k experience per hour here, but you will also get dragon bones and potentially the dragon visage.
 These can be found on the final floor of the Polypore dungeon. These drop lots of Ganondermic flakes and polypore sticks, as well as lots of seeds that you can do to make your money back, but you need 95 slayer to kill these.

If you do not have 95 slayer, you can fire wave glacors after Ritual of the Majaharrat to get around 300k exp per hour as well as lots of charms.
 Switch to ancient Magicks and use Blood Barrage in the abyss. Pick a corner in the Abyss and turn auto attack on. The healing effect from the barrage should be enough so you don't need food, but bring food anyway just in case. If you have 94 Prayer, soul split can be helpful too. Do this until level 99.