 Tomboys usually wear loose-fitting shirts and pants in dark or neutral colors--something easy to run around in! Some tomboys prefer to shop in the boys section, but you can wear girl clothes and still be a tomboy. Just keep your clothes casual and sporty.If you have to wear a dress sometimes, don’t worry, you can still be a tomboy at heart!;
, You can cut your hair short, but if you want to keep in longer, try wearing it in a simple ponytail. Avoid elaborate hairstyles, decorative hair clips, and lots of hair products. Remember, tomboys keep their look simple and straightforward., It’s okay to put on a little concealer or some clear lip gloss, but the tomboy look is all about natural simplicity. Keep your makeup as minimal as possible., Tomboys aren’t afraid to get their clothes smudged or their hair messed up. When you get dressed, ask yourself if you’d be okay with getting dirt on your outfit. If you aren’t, your clothes might not be very tomboyish!, You don’t have to be an athlete to be a tomboy, but getting into sports is an easy way to start acting like a tomboy. If you’ve never played before, try a game like soccer or kickball first., Video games are a common male interest, so it’s a good way to get started as a tomboy. If you’ve never played, ask boys you know what their favorite games are. If you already play games, join forums or other online groups for your favorite video game., Lots of tomboys are very outdoorsy. Try hiking, camping, or climbing to cultivate a more rugged, tomboyish persona., Tomboys usually have a more masculine sense of humor--things like belching or physical comedy, and especially being able to take a personal joke. Get used to hearing and responding to these kinds of jokes. Of course, you don’t have to laugh at things you don’t find funny or ignore really insulting jokes!, It will be easier to make friends with guys or other tomboys if you talk like them. Avoid using high-pitched tones or giggling while you speak. Treat the people you’re talking to like you’re just one of them--call them “dude” or “man,” and talk about your common interests., Tomboys are known for staying calm and being confident. Don’t get upset over things like getting dirty or doing badly in a game. Instead, keep your interactions friendly and casual, and don’t be afraid to make your opinion known calmly.If you are being treated badly, it’s okay to speak up and get angry about it!

, A good way to find friends as a tomboy is to go to events that guys and other tomboys would be interested in. Go to sports games (or sports bars if you’re an adult), outdoor events, and gaming stores. If you see someone you want to be friends with, go over to them and talk to them about the event., The most important part of being a tomboy is being honest and confident about yourself. Tomboys aren’t afraid to speak up if they’re upset about something or if they need help, and they aren’t afraid to be honest with themselves. It’s okay to still have girl friends or to sometimes want to wear girly things--the important thing is to be yourself!