 The area in the seat, thighs and hips is the most common place that feels tight, and the place that's easiest to stretch. You can also make your jeans a little longer by stretching them lengthwise.









If you want to stretch the waist or hips, identify a band across the front and back of the seat of the jeans that you will stretch. Choose the waistband or a lower spot, depending on what feels too tight.













If you want to stretch the jeans lengthwise along the inseam, choose a spot extending from the knee to the bottom of the jeans. Plan to stretch an area that doesn't have a lot of wear and tear; for example, you wouldn't want to stretch directly over a hole in the knee. Stretching areas that are already very thin may result in tears. Usually the areas near the calves or ankles are a good place to stretch the inseam.;
, Use a measuring tape to measure their length or width - depending on which way you want to stretch them - before you begin. Measure across the exact place you intend to stretch. This way you'll be able to tell if the stretching technique worked by measuring them again when you're finished.
 Fill a spray bottle with lukewarm water. Spray the areas that you want to stretch with plenty of water. Make sure the water seeps in to cover both the outside and inside of the denim.
 Place your jeans on the floor. If you're stretching the waistband or seat of the jeans, stand on one side of the jeans with both feet on the same pocket. If you're stretching the jeans lengthwise, stand on the dry part of the jeans just above the knee.
 Keeping your feet in place, pick up the side of the fabric opposite to where you are standing. Pull the fabric firmly toward your body. You should be pulling the fabric in the direction you want it to stretch. Repeat this 10 times, then do the same on the opposite leg, or the opposite side of the waist band.









If you're stretching the waistband, leave the jeans unbuttoned. Buttoning them before pulling the fabric can cause it to rip.
Don't pull on the pockets or loops of the jeans. Pulling on these weaker areas can cause rips to occur.
 Determine whether they have stretched at least an inch (2.54 cm) to make them more comfortable. If they have not, try another method.








