 If they’ve experienced a similar situation, they might even be able to offer advice.


For instance, say, “I’m worried about what my parents will think of us,” or “I wonder if my mom and dad will be upset we’re dating.”
Let your partner know that no matter what your parents think, you will still love them and don’t care what their race is. Say, “I won’t let my parents’ opinions affect how I feel for you.”
Don’t let yourself be dissuaded from sharing your situation by the thought that your partner will feel you’re blaming them for your familial problems. Since your partner loves and respects you, they will appreciate your being open and honest with them, even about this difficult issue.;
, If you have friends who also had questions or concerns about your interracial relationship, think about how you broached the subject with them. Did you wait for them to bring it up? Did you ask them directly what they thought?


You could also use your friends’ experiences or the experience of your partner to think about how to approach the topic with your own parents. Talk with them about how they dealt with their parents’ concerns, if there were any.For instance, ask your friends, “Did you have trouble telling your parents about your interracial relationship?”
You can also consider what you already know about your parents' views on race and reasons why they might be against interracial relationships. For example, perhaps your parents have a friend who was in a dysfunctional relationship and their partner happened to be a different race. They might be basing their ideas on this friend's experiences.
 Talk to a trusted friend, family member, therapist, or faith leader in order to accurately gauge your own feelings and comfort level. If you’re comfortable talking to your partner about these issues, you might choose to talk to them as well (or instead).


For instance, you could ask a friend, “How do you know when you’re with the right person?” or “I feel like I don’t quite belong with my partner. Have you ever felt that way in a relationship?” Listen carefully to their answer.
Ask relevant follow-up questions like “Do you think these feelings will pass?”

, Find free time when you and your parents can both devote serious time to talking about interracial dating.


The best time to try talking to your parents is probably during the weekend or evening.
Do not try talking to your parents about interracial dating when they are in the middle of work, or watching a TV program. Mornings are also a bad time to talk to your parents in an extended way (about anything), since you will all probably be rushing about eating breakfast, showering, and making other preparations before school or work.
Don’t bring up interracial dating right after your parents make an inflammatory comment about race, or do anything else that offends you.
 If you talk in public, you might not get a straight answer from them. Usually, talking to your parents directly when you’re at home is the best way to talk to them.


If you can’t talk to them face-to-face, call them at a time when they are at home. You could ask them directly when they will be home so you know when to call. Evening hours from 7:00-9:00 are probably best.
 Share with your parents all the good things about your partner. How do they show you they love you? What do you love about them?


For instance, you could say, “I really love my partner. They are so generous and helpful.”
You might also explain, “Being with my partner is great because they are very intelligent. They always open my eyes to new and interesting things.”
If your partner provided you with a great gift, you might show it to your parents and say “Look at this great gift my partner bought me. I really like it.”
When your parents see that you’re in a loving relationship, they will be pleased and alleviate any concerns they have about interracial dating.
 To find out why your parents feel the way that they do, ask questions about their perspectives on race and interracial relationships. Try to be patient and respectful as you ask these questions. Some questions you might ask include:


What are your thoughts on other races and interracial relationships?
Why do you think about them this way?
Did something happen that caused you to think this way?
What do you think would have to happen to change the way you think about other races and interracial relationships?

, In all cases, listen actively by nodding and making eye contact. Use your pre-talk planning period to think about specific points that your parents might be concerned about. Try to be patient as you answer your parents' questions. These questions may seem offensive, but they are coming from a place of ignorance and fear. Specific questions your parents might have include:


How will you raise children?
Won’t it be more difficult to date someone of a different race than someone of our own?
Are you worried about what others will think?

, When you and your partner begin a relationship, you shouldn’t hide it from your parents (or anyone else).


If you pretend that you aren’t in a relationship when you actually are, your parents might find out from someone else and feel hurt.
Likewise, don’t pretend to your partner that you’ve talked to your parents about them if you really haven’t.
 If your parents disapprove of interracial dating, let them know that you wish they were more open-minded.


Some parents may have legitimate concerns about the cultural compatibility of you and your partner.Listen closely to what your parents have to say and answer thoughtfully.
Ensure your parents that you have and will continue to think about their point of view. Explain to them, “Thank you for your opinion. I appreciate your honesty and I will carefully consider what you’ve said.”
Remind them that every relationship has challenges, and that you and your partner love each other and are willing to work through any issues that arise.
Remind racist parents of all the good things about your partner. Say, for instance, “I care deeply for my partner. Their race does not define them. I’m sorry you can’t see that.”

, Avoid emotional outbursts.It’s okay to be angry or frustrated if your parents are unwilling to accept you dating outside your race. However, it is important to keep the discourse civil. Be patient and avoid yelling, name-calling, and violence.


If you feel your temper rising, breathe in slowly through your nose for three seconds, then exhale through your mouth for five seconds. This simple breathing exercise will help you relax.
Sometimes it’s best to be patient and allow your parents time to process the information that you’re dating outside your race. Excuse yourself or end the conversation politely if you feel it is not productive. You can always come back to the topic with your parents later. Say, “I’m going to excuse myself from this conversation for the moment. Perhaps we can resume at a later time.”

, Your parents might ask, “What will people think about me if you’re in an interracial relationship?”They might also suggest that you should be dating within your own race, or that you’re doing something wrong by dating someone of another race.Stand up against these insinuations and old-fashioned attitudes by reminding them that there are many wonderful people of all races. Explain that the important thing to do when looking for a partner is identifying how the person acts and treats you.


For instance, you could say, “I know and love my partner, and they treat me well. These things are important. My partner’s race is not.”
Don’t let your parents use other people’s attitudes (or their own) to make you feel guilty about your relationship. If they are worried that their friends or neighbors will shame them because of your dating preferences, suggest that they ditch those friends.
Assure your parents that your interracial relationship is not intended to hurt them, and is not an act of rebellion.Say, “My relationship is only intended to enrich my life and the life of my partner. It is not meant as a slight against you.”

