 Before buying a new cymbal, you need to take a look at your existing setup. This will help you determine what kind of cymbal would best fill in your setup. There are 2 aspects in particular you should examine: the types of cymbals you have, and their quality.


Begin by examining your cymbals' quality. If you have inexpensive sheet bronze cymbals - that is, cymbals that were punched from a sheet of metal - you may want to replace your existing cymbals with higher quality ones before expanding your setup. Cast bronze cymbals, which are made by pouring molten metal into a mold, are more expensive but sound much better and last longer. If you want to record your music, having high quality cymbals is a good idea.
Next, examine the types of cymbals that you have. The 2 most basic types are the hi-hats (actually consisting of 2 cymbals, top and bottom) and the ride cymbal. If you don't have either of these, choose this as your new cymbal. The next most useful cymbal is a crash, often of a versatile size such as 16 inches (40 cm). If you already have 1 or 2 crash cymbals, you can look at buying a more specialized cymbal like a splash or China cymbal.;
, Cymbal manufacturers such as Zildjian, Paiste, and Sabian produce cymbals in different series. Each series corresponds to a different general tonal quality, and it is best to match the tones of all the cymbals in your setup. For example, if your current cymbals are from the very dark "K" series from Zildjian, you should avoid buying a new cymbal from the very bright "AAX" series from Sabian.
 Cymbals are sized by their diameters, and larger sizes produce deeper pitches and louder, more sustained tones. In fact, the main thing that differentiates high-pitched, punchy splash cymbals from louder and lower crash cymbals is their size. If your drumming style is loud and aggressive, opt for larger sizes for crash, splash, and effects cymbals. If your style is tighter and cleaner, opt for smaller sizes.
 Of course, picking from a specific series and set of sizes is no substitute for actually hearing cymbals firsthand. Musical instrument stores often have many of the most popular models on display for testing. If you are seriously considering buying a particular model, ask if you can set it up with a drum set so that you can hear how it sounds in the context of real playing.

