 If you want to highlight your new bold frames, as well as your facial features, try putting your hair in an updo like a high bun, or a sleek chignon at the nape of your neck. Combining an updo with interesting eye makeup and a bold lip color will ensure your face does not get lost among your hair or your frames.If you have bangs, a high bun can help to show off the lower half of your face, and your bangs will act as a great frame for your eyeglasses.
 If you have longer hair, past shoulder length, you can try curling the ends of your hair, and pinning back one side or both sides of your hair for a relaxed, casual look. This look is easy to do if you're strapped for time in the morning, and it will help show off your frames., Make sure to take your glasses with you to show your stylist the next time you get a haircut. Your hair cut may look good without glasses, but look different when you get home and put glasses on. A pair of square frames would work well with long, straight hair. If you have bangs, try a pair of light frames. In general, wear light frames with a bold haircut and bold frames with a simple haircut., Try to match the color of your frames with the basic tone of your hair. For brown or black hair, wear a dark or metallic frame. If you have blonde hair, try a pair of frames with light rims or no rims at all. Redheads can make just about any color of frames work, except white or yellow., Just because your eyelids are behind a pair of glasses doesn’t mean you should leave them bare. Makeup can enhance the style of your glasses. Show off your eyes by applying a cat-eye with eyeliner, or using eye shadow in a light color. Light eye shadow will highlight your eyes, but darker and bolder eye shadow may make your eyes appear too dark.You can also wear eye shadow that complements the color of your glasses. For example, choose a violet eye shadow if you wear yellow frames.
 For black, square frames try cherry red lipstick. If you wear glasses with caramel frames, try a red-orange lip color. Bold lipstick, however, looks great with any glasses. Colors such as coral, wine, and fuchsia can be worn all year long. 