 Decide which material you want your tape to be made out of and choose which color you’d like your tape to be. Consider tapes that have the ability to absorb moisture, as this will prevent your hands from slipping when you use the bat. There are many kinds of tapes, including electrical tape, grip tape, bat tape, and tennis tape.Avoid using plastic tapes because they do not absorb moisture.
Avoid using shiny electrical tape because it is illegal for most league play.;
, There’s no point in going to the store to buy new materials for taping your bat if you or your family already has them. Save yourself some money and take a look around your house to determine if you already have the following materials:


a utility knife or scissors
fine-grit sandpaper or residue remover
electrical tape, bat tape or tennis tape
a magic marker
latex gloves (optional), You’ll have to purchase or borrow the materials if you didn’t find them around your house. Take a look at your budget to determine how to best acquire what you need.


Go to your local hardware store or sporting goods store to purchase any materials that you don’t already have.Ask a team member or coach if they have extra supplies you can borrow if you’re short on money.
Choose less expensive materials if you cannot afford them or improvise based on what materials you have on hand.
 Peel off any old tape that’s on your bat. Make sure you take all the tape off.It’s important to start with fresh tape, especially for the lower layers. You want the tape to adhere to your bat as much as possible.
 Use a piece of fine-grit sandpaper to get rid of any remaining tape residue if you are using a wooden bat. Try to remove as little wood as possible and make sure your sandpapering is even.Use a specialized residue remover like Goo Gone or CleanUp Batter if you are using an aluminum bat. Both solvents can be used by pouring a small amount onto a rag and rubbing the area of your bat where you want to remove residue. You can wear latex gloves for this step if you like.
 Check the rules of your league to confirm how high you’re allowed to tape your bat. Some leagues are very specific and you could be disqualified if you don’t adhere to league rules. Use the magic marker to make a small mark on your bat where you would like your tape to end. Some players prefer 8 inches while others prefer 12 inches. Hold the bat in playing position and decide what feels most comfortable for you.
 Make sure the bat is in a secure position where it can’t move. You can place the bat between your legs or have a friend hold the bat for you.Make sure you don’t tighten things too much if you secure your bat using a clamp.
 Angle the tape about 45 degrees to your bat, press the tape to the bottom of your bat and begin taping upwards. You can choose to wrap the tape at a different degree, but many players prefer a 45 degree angle because it helps them grip the bat better. Leave space in between the tape as you wrap that is roughly equal to the size of the tape. Wrap your bat for about 8 to 12 inches, depending on your preference. Cut the end of the tape at an angle and secure it to the bat., Angle a second piece of tape about 45 degrees to your bat, press the tape to the bottom of your bat and begin taping upwards, though in the opposite circular direction as your first piece. This second piece of tape should fill in the spaces that you left in the first piece. Cut the end of the tape at an angle and secure it to the bat. This will leave some gaps where the bat shows through, but many players prefer this because it helps them grip the bat better., You’ll want to test the tape on your bat by holding the bat as if you were in the batter’s box and ready to hit. It’s important to learn how to appropriately hold your bat.


Place the bat handle across the lower base of your fingers and close your hands around it. Your left hand should be below your right hand if you’re a right-handed hitter. Your right hand should be below your left hand if you’re a left-handed hitter.
Rotate your hands so that your knuckles align.
Stay loose and do not over-grip the bat., Step outside and find some space to swing your bat. Go to your local ballpark or use a makeshift home plate if you can’t get there. Get into proper batting stance:


Stand with your body perpendicular to the plate.
Place the bat over your shoulder, keeping it pointed up.
Make sure your feet remain shoulder width apart.
Keep your hips, knees and shoulders square to the plate.
Slightly bend your knees., Put your bat into action and swing it as if you were hitting a ball. You want to test your bat in as realistic a situation as possible so you might consider bringing your bat with you to practice or having a friend pitch balls to you.


Place your weight on your back leg and foot. This will slightly raise your front foot.Twist your body and take a small step with your front leg. Make sure you twist your whole body and not just your arms.Make sure to follow through completely when you swing. Don’t stop short or you’ll lose a lot of hitting power. Extend your arms and finish with your hips pointing forward.Make any adjustments to your tape as necessary.

