 A two-bag bomb bag is a quick and basic way to make an effective bomb bag. To begin, place one tablespoon (14.78 ml) of baking soda in a Ziploc sandwich bag or a similar small, completely sealable bag., After adding the baking soda to the larger sandwich bag, pour ¼ cup (59.14 ml) of vinegar to a smaller sealable bag like a snack size Ziploc bag. Then seal the zip on the bag completely.Make sure that the snack size bag in which you put the vinegar is smaller than the bag that you put the baking soda in.
Leave a little bit of air inside the snack bag of vinegar, as opposed to pressing it before sealing and letting the air escape.
You need to initially separate the vinegar and baking soda because they react almost instantly, which means that if you poured them in together, you wouldn’t have time to seal the bag before the pressure builds. Adding them in separately ensures that the reaction in the bag will be able to build up to an explosion.
 Once you seal the snack bag, place the snack bag of vinegar inside the larger bag of baking soda. Seal the zip on the sandwich bag., Once you seal the larger bag, place the bag on a surface that is either outside or can be easily cleaned. Then hit or punch the snack bag inside the sandwich bag. Because you left some air inside the snack bag, the pressure of your punch should open up the seal of the bag slightly to let the vinegar escape into the larger sandwich bag.If punching the bag doesn’t partially open the seal, use your fingers to try to pinch the sides of the snack bag of vinegar and pull the seal partially open without opening the larger sandwich bag.
 Once you have partially opened the seal of the snack bag of vinegar, give the bag a good shake to allow some of the vinegar to escape into the larger, sealed sandwich bag of baking soda. Once you have jiggled the bag and see the vinegar touch the baking soda, toss the bag down onto an easily cleanable surface., After shaking the bag, the vinegar will collide with the baking soda, and you should see the reaction start and the bag start to expand. When the bag has expanded to its fullest extent, it will explode with a loud pop!