 Even if blotting and scraping removed most of the chunks of tar in your carpet, your carpet still may be stained a dark black from the pigment of the tar. To begin to target this pigmentation using dry cleaning solvent, pour water over a cloth rag, then add a few teaspoons of dry cleaning solvent to one area of the wetted rag.Dry cleaning solvent is a powerful agent that is designed to remove especially stubborn stains from a variety of surfaces, including carpet.
 After you have applied the water and dry cleaning solvent to the cloth, dab gently at the stain. Be sure to dab the tar with the area of cloth on which you poured the dry cleaning solution.


Just like when you dabbed with the dry cloth, try to pat in soft sponging motions, as opposed to rubbing at the stain.
If the dry cleaning solvent worked to completely remove the stain, pour a few drops of water onto the area you were working on, then dab using a clean cloth. This will absorb any of the dry cleaning solvent and leave you with a clean carpet.
 If the dry cleaning solvent didn’t work to remove the tar, you can try to clean the stain using a solution of dishwashing detergent and water. To make this solution, pour one teaspoon (4.9 ml) of water into a small bowl along with a teaspoon (4.9 ml) of liquid dishwashing detergent that doesn’t contain lanolin or bleach., Dip a clean cloth into the dishwashing detergent solution, then blot the stain as you did before, working in small, dabbing motions to lift the stain.If you succeed in eliminating the stain, wet a clean cloth with water, then blot at the area of carpet you were working on to completely remove any traces of cleaner.
 Rubbing alcohol is a very potent cleaner, so it is best left for especially stubborn stains. To use rubbing alcohol to clean the tar stain, dip a clean cloth in rubbing alcohol, then blot at the stain.Be sure not to oversaturate the cloth in rubbing alcohol, or else it may soak through the carpet. When rubbing alcohol bleeds through carpet backing, it can damage the latex bond of the carpet.
Whether or not the rubbing alcohol worked to remove the stain, clean the area of carpet you are working on by pouring a few drops of water onto a clean cloth, then dabbing at the carpet to remove any traces of rubbing alcohol.

