 Breeders and puppy mills are appealing to many because they can provide puppies quickly and with less applications and sometimes less cost. However, there are many, many downsides to adopting through a puppy mill or pet store.


Puppies from pet stores and mills are usually poorly bred, meaning they're prone to more health problems down the road. As they're usually kept in poor conditions before being sold, they usually already have certain behavioral problems at the time of purchase.Pet shop breeders also rely heavily on impulse buys. This is part of the reason it's so easy to get a puppy from a pet store. However, the practice is ethically questionable as it results in many dogs being returned or abandoned at shelters. Buying from a pet store puts money towards such practices that would be betters spent on responsible breeders.While not as bad as a pet store, backyard breeders are also not a good choice. Backyard breeder refers to someone who owns a Golden Retriever and casually decided to breed her for fun. Usually, such owners do not understand how to care for puppies or how to breed responsibly, in a way that minimizes the risk of genetic disorders., When selecting puppy breeders, learn the qualities of a good breeder so you can select someone responsible who will provide with a healthy puppy.


Good breeders will belong to organizations like the American Kennel Club, the Golden Retriever Club of America, or a local Golden Retriever club.A good breeder will also be involved in showing in agility competitions, hunting shows, tracking, or in any combination of fields. A good breeder is dedicated to networking with other dog enthusiasts to keep a long line of healthy dogs coming for generations.A good breeder will keep his dogs in a clean facility. Puppies should be relatively well socialized with clean, glossy coats. They should be excited to see visitors and not behave fearfully or whimper. A good breeder will also never offer to sell a puppy under seven weeks as this can be emotionally difficult for that puppy and lead to behavioral issues.A good breeder will provide extensive medical records, including dates, of any vaccinations, exams, and dewormings. He will also provide an pedigree for both parents, including information on any hereditary disorders in your puppy's bloodline. Ideally, a good breeder will have had both parents tested for a number of diseases commonly found in Golden Retrievers.A good breeder will not sell his puppies to just anyone. He will want to go over conditions for care and instructions for feeding and training your new puppy. He will also probably ask you a lot of questions about your experience owning dogs and your interest in Golden Retrievers specifically. While many people feel confused when breeders ask a lot of questions, this is a good sign. This means the breeder is dedicated to finding the best possible homes for his puppies, which means he's dedicated to the ethical care and treatment of animals., Understanding how to spot a good breeder, start looking for breeders in your area.


The American Kennel Club website has a great search engine to locate local breeders. This is an excellent place to start. You can also go through the Golden Retriever Club of America or any local organizations you know of.You can also check at local vet clinics and ask anyone you know who owns a Golden Retriever.
You may have to travel, especially if you live in a rural area. The closest breeder may be a few hours outside of town, so make sure you're prepared to make a few long visits to meet and select a puppy.

