 There will be at most one to two waves of very light artillery/air-raid (if any). Be prepared to meet them by creating a 2:1 ratio of soldier/missile launchers. Since you won't be having enough money to set up array of gattling canons/patriot/missile defenses of GLA, cover entry points with small batches of infantry (better if you can hole up in buildings, but then again, beware of flash guns/toxins). This is your first layer of defense during your first stage of game play., Build an array of (3 patriot/6 soldier units)/(3 gattling cannon/2 bunker with missile launchers)/(2 rocket sites + 5 soldier units + quad cannon). Don't ever keep the units in-line. It's always better to make them in layers, with the strongest deterrent in front. Once you're done (this should take approximately seven minutes), you can rest assured that your base can last long enough (in a worst case scenario) for you to make a counter attack. In most cases, you'll be able to defend even a horde of Overlords, if you've laid out the defense units properly. Also, build patriots/rocket sites/bunker with missile+gun units beside every building. This might just provide you with that extra 30 seconds you need., Whilst undergoing the previous step, create light armored tanks, probe-attack units(humvee/quad cannon/gattling tank/apache etc) in order to preempt any strike. You may get bruised (and battered), but it'll mean a weaker opponent reaching your doorstep - an easier job for your under-construction base defense., Before jumping into the enemy, send in covert units to probe/eliminate(if possible) enemy base defense units. Open up three to four such fronts to make the enemy confused. Always make sure that you are packing the most potent punch possible. Send in strike groups, one after the other, in quick succession, to make a continuous attack. Once you're inside their defense, send infantry and tankettes ahead of you to keep the enemy engaged, whilst you call in back-up airstrike/light armored attack units. Decimate your opponent.