 Exchanging sensual touch with a partner is a great way for you both to feel sexy and confident. Teach yourself how to give great back rubs and foot massages, and let your partner reciprocate., Purchase lingerie, underwear, or sleepwear that make you feel attractive and desirable. Treat yourself to new colors and fabrics that boost your confidence and your sexiness. Consider throwing away your old, ratty undergarments once you buy new ones., While you should always be yourself, it can also be fun and sexy to role-play every now and again. Channel a confident, sexy person you have seen in movies or on television, and act like that person for a couple of hours. Exude their confidence and sex appeal., Inject a little spiciness into your sex life by talking dirty to your lover. Send him or her a sexy text message over your lunch hour, or try to seduce your partner while you cook dinner. Tell them the sexy things you want to do with them, and make them excited about the intimacy to come., Studies show that men and women feel sexier in dim lighting. Provide some options for dim mood lighting in your home. Try warm, soft lights instead of bright fluorescent bulbs. Install a dimmer bulb in your bedroom to give yourself mood lighting options. Consider using candlelight on special evenings., Essential oils provide a pleasant scent and also help your skin feel smooth and shiny. Massage yourself and your partner with scented oils so that you both feel sexy, confident, and attractive., Nothing is sexier than confidence. Initiate sex with your partner, and be very clear with your partner about what you want from your encounter. Give explicit directions, and speak in a confident and take-charge tone. See how your partner responds to your confidence., Don't treat the act of undressing seem like a boring routine. Make the act of undressing a sexy act by doing it slowly. Maintain eye contact with your partner throughout your undressing., When you are feeling particularly unsexy, try to remember a sexual encounter when you felt especially sexy and confident. Let yourself enjoy these memories, and consider finding ways to channel that positive energy into the present moment., Men and women both respond positively to sexy images. Find your favorite romantic or erotic movie, and watch it when you need to inject some sexy energy into your relationship. Watch it with your partner if you want to have a romantic evening together., Feel sexy by loosening up with your partner. Don't be embarrassed to flirt with him or her in public. Display your affection for your partner by holding hands, hugging and kissing, or stroking each other's hair.