 Sword Master is an NPC wearing only ragged clothes and wielding a katana. He is crucial for this method.


To find him, leaving from the Firelink bonfire, go up the stairs and proceed outside. SwordMaster can be found on right path.






There are several ways to deal with Sword Master: you can straight up fight him, try and kick/knock him off the cliff (if you choose this method you must quit the game then reload the save if you want his sword) or try to get his aggro and drag him to Firelink shrine; he will get stuck in the doorway and you can bash him to bits.





;
, The boss you will be fighting is actually “hidden” in one of the earliest parts of the game.
 Proceed through the level normally or just run through it; there aren't any items you need or enemies you need to kill so it doesn't really matter how you get there.
 From the courtyard with the winged knight, go to the opposite end and go up some stairs to the right.


Be careful because there will be an ambush at the top of the stairs but it is easy enough to deal with.
 Regardless of how well you think you can dodge or evade attacks, it is very important to open the shortcut because the boss will pretty much kill you in one hit.


Ride the elevator up and then open the door.
Go up the stairs and run to the right, after going up more stairs you are now at the first bonfire and will be able to return to the boss fight easily in case you die.
 Go back down the elevator and clear out all the enemies in the area except for the Lothric knight with red eyes, he typically won’t bother you unless you provoke him. You mainly want to defeat these enemies so that you won’t die while attempting the coming steps.
 At the bottom of the stairs is a large archway that leads to the Vordt boss fight; instead of going inside, make sure you are embered (if you are, your body/clothes will have flame effects on them) and then look to the right of the archway and summon Sword Master.


If you need embers you can buy a few from the Shrine Handmaid in Firelink shrine.
 Go inside the building at the top of the stairs and talk to Emma until she gives you an item.


Once you get it just attack her until she dies, don’t worry this won't mess up any other NPC quest lines or have any negative effects overall.
 After Emma dies you get an item called the Basin of Vows. Try to place it under the head of the kneeling knight statue and this will summon the Dancer of the Borreal Valley boss.
 Once the fight starts stay alive as best you can and wait for Sword Master to die.


He is relatively weak so it should not take long.
 This will take you back to the title screen, Select your character and load back into the game, when you come back in you will be outside the Dancer’s boss gate and she won't be able to reach you.
 Go down to his summon sign at the bottom of the stairs and summon him again.



Sword Master is now invincible and will kill boss eventually on his own (if you see him taking minuscule damage every attack don't worry, the weapon he uses hurts him, but he will typically outlast the Dancer’s health).
During the fight try to keep your distance from the Dancer and let Sword Master attack her until she dies.
Be careful though because if you move too far away Sword Master will stop attacking her and try to stand right next to you, which can end in your death.
If you are feeling brave you can use bombs/spells to speed process but this will make the dancer target you.
 If at any point fighting the Dancer you die, you will need to repeat the process of waiting for the Master to die, quitting, and resummoning him., Sword Master may have to heal throughout the fight, but generally he is able to defeat the Dancer on his own.
 You can now level up quite a bit.