 Several studies have shown licorice root (the herb, not the sweet candy) to be effective in helping your esophageal lining resist irritation from stomach acid.Make sure you look for de glycyrrhizin ted (DGL) licorice. The active ingredient glycyrrhizin can cause serious side effects.When using licorice to treat acid reflux, take 250-500mg three times daily. Chew the root either one hour before or two hours after meals.You can also make a licorice tea by infusing 1-5 grams of dried licorice root in 8 ounces of water. Drink this tea three times daily.You should not take licorice if you have any of the following conditions: heart failure or heart disease, hormone-sensitive cancers, fluid retention, high blood pressure, diabetes, kidney or liver disease, low potassium, or erectile dysfunction. Pregnant and breastfeeding women should not take licorice.
 Ginger has been used to treat indigestion in traditional Chinese medicine.No scientific evidence has found ginger to be effective at treating symptoms of acid reflux, but ginger does also have other health benefits, such as treating nausea and upset stomach.Take ginger supplements in capsule form or take ginger with meals. Eating raw ginger on its own may actually cause mild heartburn.
 Preliminary research suggests that cranberry may inhibit the growth of the bacteria H. pylori in your stomach.While it isn’t known for sure whether cranberry helps prevent ulcers related to H. pylori, it is generally safe to consume and provides other health benefits, including keeping your urinary tract healthy.Try drinking 3 ounces of pure cranberry juice (not “cocktail” or a juice blend) per day.You can also eat 1.5 ounces of fresh or frozen cranberries.
Cranberries have high levels of oxalate, which is related to the formation of kidney stones. If you’re at high risk for kidney stones, talk to a doctor about whether cranberry is right for you.
 Baking soda, or sodium bicarbonate, is a natural antacid that may help neutralize stomach acid that has found its way back into your esophagus. Your pancreas naturally produces sodium bicarbonate to help neutralize excess stomach acid.Alka-Seltzer is the brand name of a common over-the-counter version of sodium bicarbonate.
Take one half-teaspoon, dissolved in water, every two hours for heartburn.If you are on a low-sodium diet, don’t use sodium bicarbonate as it does contain sodium.