 Earlier in the day, plan what you're going to do that night. Don't stay up so late unless it really is due tomorrow, because you could just do some now and the rest tomorrow afternoon.;
, Get all ready for bed, and be sure to have all your books and electronics with you. Include a snack and water in case you might get hungry later, and a flashlight if you might need to get up or see something in your room while in the dark. If your parents see the pile of stuff you have, then just tell them you're getting your backpack ready for school in the morning. Be sure to do normal things, like wait in your room reading until your parents come in and check on you and get you in bed.
 It might be risky, but if you can afford to go and check if your parents lights are on, then this will help with the next step.



Most parents take about half an hour to fall asleep, depending on if they talk a lot or are reading for a while

, Go back to bed and stare at the clock until it is the appropriate time.
 Get out your books first if you have research to do, as this is the hardest to do later on at night. Get fully under your covers if you are able to, otherwise just put the lower half of your body under your covers.


Only get out what books you need, to conserve space and time.
 Dilly-dallying is not acceptable.


If you are used to working with music, and your parents are used to you sleeping with an appropriate sleep music station, then go to a music app or website without ads, because if it has ads it can get loud at times.
, If you do, do that first.
 Make sure to frequently check how long it's been since your parents went to bed:


An hour and a half after they go to bed is safe study time. They are now in REM sleep, and should fall immediately asleep without waking up yet or anything.
About two hours after they go to bed is when it gets nerve-wracking, because they are more likely to wake up and have to go to the bathroom or worse, go check on you. If you are still up doing homework at that time, then you should be extremely careful, or put everything away and lie down until the next time period.
The last good study period is 5 or less hours before you have to get up. For example, if your parents initially went to bed at 10, then you started at 10:30, then worked through until midnight, waited for about half an hour, then kept going at 1 until you were done.
Don't stay up later than 2 if you must get up at 6. Four hours of sleep is only half the daily allotment you need, plus nothing good happens after midnight, so imagine how bad your work is after two! Plus, your parents might get up again around 2-3 am to check on you, go to the bathroom, etc.
 You have successfully worked through a paper quietly and completely, and done your best in only a few hours. Don't forget to set your alarm or something if you need to.

