 Your local library typically keeps archives of the local newspaper. If there's more than one branch, the central or main branch usually holds the largest collection.If you live in a rural area with no library nearby, try at the largest city or urban area, or maybe the county seat. That library typically will have archives pertinent to your area.
Search backwards, looking for mentions of construction in your neighborhood or the names of the house's previous owners.
Keep in mind that street names and numbers can change over time, so record any changes you see and the dates so you can construct a chronology.
 Most regions have a historical society that maintains historical records and information about your house and your general neighborhood. Larger cities often have their own historical societies, but if you live in a rural area you may have to seek out the historical society that covers a larger regional area.If you have an extremely old house, such as those commonly found in Europe, neighborhood information may be all you can find to research the history of your house.
If your house is less than 200 years old, the historical society may have a wealth of information, particularly if any of the house's previous owners were well-known in the community or the house was the site of a significant event in local history.
Take care handling delicate old documents, and follow the historical society's rules regarding the care and copying of these documents.
 There are many websites dedicated to preserving genealogical records and property history records, often available for free. You can use these resources to find information about your house as well as its previous owners.For example, if your house is in the United States, you might search for records at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) website. The NARA maintains all official government genealogical and land records, and also has links to other databases with a wealth of information.
If your house is in Ireland or the United Kingdom, you might start your online research at the Building History website, located at buildinghistory.org. This site is maintained by a historian and provides a wealth of resources for researching the history of your house, including deeds, wills, tax documents, and maps, as well as images and information about towns and villages.
 As you uncover information about your house, order it chronologically so that you can map the house's history from original construction to the present. Keeping your information ordered this way also enables you to identify gaps in that history where more research is needed.