 You can exchange your cash or withdrawal money from your credit or debit card at a bank or a building society. Building societies are very similar to banks. Some notable banks to exchange your money at in the UK are the Bank of England, Bank of Ireland, Citibank, Barclays, Halifax, Nationwide, HSBC, the Bank of Scotland, and the Allied Irish Bank.


Exchanging your money at a bank or a building society is one of the better ways to exchange money in terms of fewer and lower fees. However, some banks will not exchange your money if you are not a customer.
You will need identification such as your passport to exchange or withdrawal money.
 Post Offices will also exchange money for you. Post Offices are convenient places to exchange your money because there are a lot of locations. They are also open longer than your average bank. They typically open earlier and close later. Most Post Offices open at 7:30 a.m. and close at 10:30 p.m.With a Post Office, you can also order your money online. The office will have your money ready for you to pick up once you get there at the Travel Money counter. You just need to bring your passport and the credit card you used to buy the money with.
 A bureau de change or a local travel agent will also exchange your money for you. Always enquire about the fees, commissions, and exchanges rates when exchanging your money. Some places have more competitive exchange rates, fewer fees, and lower commissions than others.


The bureau de change at ferry ports or airports are some of the most expensive places to buy currency., You can also exchange your money at an ATM. Before leaving for your trip, make sure your ATM card is linked to the PLUS, Maestro, or Cirrus networks. These networks will enable you to exchange money almost anywhere. The PLUS network is associated with VISA, while the Maestro and Cirrus networks are associated with MasterCard. Make sure the ATM has these logos before exchanging money.Keep in mind that ATMs abroad, especially ones in Europe, do not accept ATM cards with PINs that are longer than four digits and PINS that are letters. If your PIN is longer than four digits and is composed of letters, contact your bank to have your PIN changed.While exchanging money at an ATM is convenient and can be cheaper, it can also be risky in terms of your information being safeguarded. Therefore, it is best to exchange your money at an ATM that is in a major bank.
Before traveling, check with your bank about international withdrawal fees. These fees can range from $1 to $6, or can be a set percentage of the total withdrawal.