 The colors will turn out the best on white eggs, but brown eggs work too if you want more muted colors. The amount you need depends on how many eggs you want to dye., Most people prefer to hard boil their eggs in preparation for dyeing. It is also an option to blow the content out of raw eggs and dry the shells.To use dry shells, use a pin to poke a hole that is slightly larger than the end of a straw. Hold the egg over a bowl, take a straw, insert it into the hole, and blow into the straw so that the yolk comes out completely. Rinse the shell, and allow it to dry., Gently wash your eggs with castile soap. Allow them to dry. Washing them will get rid of any residue that affects the coloring of the dye., Think about what colors you would like to dye your eggs. You will need to make a trip to the grocery store or raid your kitchen to find ingredients for the colors of your choice., Add two cups of grated beet to two cups of water. If you would like a brick red color, put three or more tablespoons of paprika, and dissolve it in one cup of water., Take two handfuls of yellow or brown onion skin and mix them with two cups of water.


To make rich yellow, use one large, chopped carrot and mix it with one cup of water.
If you would like a light yellow dye, use four bags of chamomile tea and mix it with one cup of water., Add up to four cups of spinach or grass to four cups of water. You can also use six red onion skins added to two cups of water to make red dye., Add two cups of shredded red cabbage to one cup of water. Note: this only works with white eggs. Brown eggs will turn green.


Take one pound of frozen blueberries and mix it with two cups of water to produce a light, marble blue.,


For a pale shade of orange, use two tablespoons of paprika, and dissolve it in one cup of water., For dark pink, use one quart of beet juice diluted with water., Or, mix two tablespoons of dill seed in one cup of water., Use two cups of red wine to make dark purple dye. The wine must be full strength or diluted with water.


For a lavender color, use one cup of grape juice mixed with a tablespoon of vinegar., There are several ways to add decoration to your eggs before dyeing them. One option is to use a white, wax crayon and draw on your egg. The wax does not absorb the color, so your design will show through on your dyed egg., Carefully wrap your egg with rubber bands of different widths. Make sure to leave shell exposed, and you will end up with a tie-dyed egg after the dyeing process., This method of decoration might be best for your last few eggs. Use your leftover ingredients and mix them together in the pan to get a blotchy, multicolored egg., Each dye needs to be made separately. The same pan can be used, but you will need to wash the pan before the next dye.
 Use one cup of vinegar per each cup ingredients. Take your chosen ingredient with the specified amount of water it calls for. For example, 4 tablespoons of chili powder per cup of water for orange. Put all ingredients into a non-metal pan.The acidity in vinegar creates the ideal conditions for the dye. Eggs dyed with vinegar are the brightest., The ingredient of your choice, water, and vinegar should already be in the pan. Bring the water to a boil.
 Allow the water to simmer for 15 to 20 minutes. After that, remove the pot from the burner., Dab the excess dye off of the eggs with a paper towel. Place the eggs on a drying rack. Only dab the excess dye off of the eggs if you are satisfied with the color. If not, proceed to the next step.You can get a deeper color by allowing the eggs to cool in the pan before placing them on the drying rack.
 Take the cool eggs and place them in a bowl. Take a strainer, and strain the dye water. Pour the dye water over the eggs and refrigerate for a few hours or overnight., Naturally dyed eggs have a matte finish. Put a few drops of olive oil or vegetable oil on the eggs and polish with a cloth for a shiny finish.