 If you have a store in mind, go and buy it. If you want a real-looking dog, look in a dog book that shows you all of the available breeds. Find one you like, then search for a stuffed toy dog that represents the preferred breed. For example, if you like a German Shepherd, you'd probably look for a German Shepherd plush.


Look at online toy stores, trading and auction sites to give you more choices. It's fun to have your toy dog mailed to you.
If you can't afford the toy yet, start saving up or ask for it as a gift for your birthday or other special occasion.;
, You could base the name on what you love most. If you like the beach and Los Angeles, you could name your plush Pineapple, Neon or Sunny. If you like cold winter days, you could name it Cloudy, Misty, Snowball, Snowfall, Snowy, etc.


Use names people usually give dogs, such as Fido, Fluffball, Guy or Lassie.
 Braid strings together or get a real dog collar. Put on a license tag for the dog so that it can be returned if you misplace it. To make the license tag, get a piece of paper and write your stuffed animal's name down. Then write your phone number, so that if you lose your plush, the finder can call you and let you know that they have your stuffed toy dog.


Dollar store collars are another fine option for the stuffed toy dog.
 It could be real dog bed or just some soft blankets stacked up in a pile. Whatever it might be, it has to be comfortable for your cute plush puppy. Or, you could even let your pet sleep on your own bed.
 If you're handy with sewing, stitch them, otherwise use glue or clothing from other stuffed toys you own.

This is a great way to learn to sew and to improve your sewing––the stuffed toy dog won't mind how amateur the stitching is while you're learning.
 Check that your dog's license tag is firmly in place, just in case you lose it. Pack your dog's collars, costumes, sweaters, bows, etc. in a little bag. Keep your dog with you at all times. Keep it in your bag with its head sticking out, or carry it, so that your puppy can still be included in whatever you're doing for the day.
 Nothing shows more love than cuddling! Your plush puppy will love it.
 This is optional, because you might think your pet doesn't need to eat. If you want your pet to eat, then get some little cups of water or make some fake food for it to eat.


Cut out images of dog food from magazines. Glue these to some box cardboard and cut around to make the shape realistic. Feed this to your stuffed toy dog.
 Don't give it baths because it will be hard to get all that soap out. Put it in the washing machine and wash it until squeaky clean. Then style the stuffed toy dog's fur, and groom it.

