 It’s important to be firm about the fact that the relationship is over, whether you’re the one doing the breaking up or not. If you’re letting go of the man because he turned you down, then you need to be firm to yourself about the fact that it’s really over. If you told him you’d like to end the relationship, then it’s important to tell him as firmly as possible, so he has no doubts about the end of the relationship.;
, Don’t be embarrassed about feeling sad and work on letting all of those sad, angry, confused, or bitter feelings out. Cry as much as you need to, whether you’re alone at home or talking to a friend. Write all of your feelings down. Accept that you may need to be by yourself for a few days. Do whatever you can to get those feelings out on the surface, so you can begin to accept them and deal with them. The longer you keep them bottled up, the harder it will be to let go of the man you love.


Nothing is too sappy or too ridiculous. If you want to watch a romantic comedy and cry your eyes out, put on Love Actually and go for it. If you want to sing “Let it Go” at the top of your lungs, no one is stopping you.
This is your time to deal with your break-up, and you can let your feelings out however you want. If you find that you can’t cry, that’s okay too. If you’d rather punch a pillow, no one is stopping you.
 Don’t expect to be running around with your friends, having an amazing time with a martini in your hand, the weekend after you have to let go of the man you love. It can take months, or even longer, for you to be ready to really have fun again, and you shouldn’t put pressure on yourself to be “okay” right away. Though it’s probably a good idea to stop wallowing after a few days and to spend some time outdoors or with other people, you shouldn’t feel like you’re forcing yourself to put on a happy face too soon.


Every woman has her own timeline. The pain you feel will depend on your way of dealing with things, as well as the seriousness of your relationship. Don’t feel like you have to be “fine” after a week just because that’s what your friends expect.
Don’t force yourself to be social if you really don’t feel like it. There’s nothing worse than going to a big party when all you want to do is cry. That said, you should try to seek one-on-one hangouts with your friends so you feel less alone.
 One of the best ways to let go of the man you love is to stop talking to him, stop looking at him, and stop hearing his voice. If you have the luxury of cutting off all contact with him, then you should try to do so as soon as possible. Delete his number from your phone, avoid him on social media, and don’t have any awkward coffee dates until you’re really ready to just see him as a friend. If he keeps reaching out to you, make it clear that this is not what you need.


If you know you have to see him in places like school or work, then you don’t have to ignore him completely if that will make things awkward, but you shouldn’t feel obligated to make small talk with him, either.
Though you may be desperate to see him or to hear his voice, remember that this will only make things worse, in the end.
 Though you may be feeling desperate to keep spending time with him, or even to get back together with him, you have to remind yourself of the pain you’d feel if you had to go back to him. Think of how horrible he made you feel, of all the nights he made you cry into your pillow, or all of the pointless fights that made you so angry. It’s easy to only remember the good times, but you should focus on the bad times if you want to let go.


Any time you’re tempted to call the guy or to see what he’s been up to, just think of yourself during the worst day of your relationship. Remember all the pain you felt, and think of how awful it would be to feel even a fraction of that pain again.
Of course, you don’t have to make a habit of remembering all the bad times every day, if it makes you feel worse. But if you find yourself pining for your man, then it may be the best thing you can do to keep a level head.
 You may feel angry, sad, confused, and upset at yourself about the fact that you’re still thinking about this man. You may ask, “What’s wrong with me? Why can’t I get over him already?” but you have to avoid this kind of thinking. There’s no sense in being angry at yourself for what you’re feeling and you have to let nature take its course. There’s nothing wrong in having deep feelings, and being mad about them will only make things worse.


Of course, by making an effort to let go of the man you love, you’ll be moving the process along more quickly than you would if you were pining away in your room. But it’s important to remember that it still takes time to heal.
Instead of being disappointed in yourself for still feeling sad, be proud that you’re honest about your feelings instead of being in denial about how you really feel.
 This part won’t be easy, but you have to do it right if you want to move on. It’s time to go through your room, or even your home, and to get rid of all the things that remind you of the man. This could mean the teddy bear he got you at the carnival, the t-shirt of his you love sleeping in, or even the necklace he gave you on your anniversary. If you have an item that is truly valuable to you, then you should put it out for a long time if you just can’t bring yourself to throw it out.


This may be painful, and it won’t hurt to have the help of a trusted friend when you go through this. Just remember that it’s like ripping off a Band Aid: the sooner you do it, the sooner the pain will be gone.
If your room is covered with things that remind you of your man, then you won’t be able to move on as quickly because you’ll have more reason to subconsciously think of him.
 In today’s world, social media may be the way that you keep up with your ex the most after the relationship is over. You may tell yourself that you’re not really staying in touch with him if all you do is longingly scroll through his Twitter feed or check his Facebook photos for evidence of a new girlfriend, but really, this is just adding insult to injury. Make sure you’re no longer friends, followers, or associated in any way on social media, so you’re not stuck looking at a picture of your ex all day instead of moving on.


Don’t worry about him being upset if you defriend him or no longer want to be in touch on social media. This is about you feeling better, not about him.
 Take your mind off of your own problems and channel all of your energy productively by helping out your community. You’ll be doing a good deed, getting out of the house, and learning from people who can also benefit from your help. You’ll build your confidence and will feel better about yourself once you see that you really are needed, and that you are able to make a difference. Being part of a community of volunteers can also make you feel more connected and less alone after your break-up.


Of course, you shouldn’t volunteer simply to get over your ex, but because you want to be a part of something bigger than yourself.
 You may keep telling yourself that he was the one, that he was the most perfect man on the planet, and that no man you meet will ever compare to him. However, if he really was so amazing, then you’d probably still be together, wouldn’t you? Instead, you have to remember that your ex is just a person, too, and that he has flaws—maybe even many more flaws than you give him credit for.


The sooner you accept that your ex wasn’t perfect, the sooner you’ll be able to move on and to give other guys the time of day.
Once you get over the idea that your ex was Mr. Right, you’ll be able to have a more realistic perspective on your relationship.
 Before you can start dating again, you have to be truly content being on your own. This can sound nearly impossible, especially when you feel like all of your friends are coupled up or like you want nothing more than someone to snuggle with at the end of the day. However, if you want to truly let go of the man you’re with and to be ready to find love again, then you have to make sure you’re comfortable being on your own first.


It can take a while to accept and be happy with your solo status. Once you work on personal growth and loving yourself without your man, though, you’ll be on your way to being happy about it.
Spending more time with other single girlfriends can help, as long as they don’t encourage you to date too fast. If you spend all day around your married or coupled up friends, then you’re likely to be more down about being single.
If you want to be able to move on, then it’s important to be able to enjoy your own company first. You can’t depend on another person to make you like yourself more.
 You may think that the only cure for getting over your man is to find a new man ASAP, but this is the furthest thing from the truth. You’re much more likely to get over the man if you find peace on your own, instead of having to depend on another new guy to bring you comfort. If you go on the rebound immediately, then you won’t be giving yourself the time you need to heal properly, and you’ll actually prolong the pain.


Not only is rushing into a new relationship inadvisable for you, but it’s not fair for the other person. He may really like you, while you may find yourself using him just to fill a void.
Besides, if you try to date a new person in an effort to get over the old one, you may actually end up longing for your old significant other more, because the new one may seem inadequate in comparison.
 If you want to move on, then you have to work on improving yourself as a person and on reaching your full potential. You should stop worrying about your past relationship or future relationships, and focus on becoming the best that you can be. Once you find a meaningful routine for your life, you’ll find that you’re letting go of the man you love without even thinking about it—because you’ll be too busy thinking about yourself.


Think about three flaws you’d like to address and make a game plan for tackling them. At the same time, work on accepting the things that you absolutely can’t change about yourself.
Make a list of all the things you’ve wanted to do but haven’t tried and set a personal deadline for crossing them off your list.
 One thing you can do to let go of the man you love is to try a completely new hobby. This can be anything you had thought of trying before but never had the courage, time, or self-discipline to really do. It can be learning to bake pies, singing, taking yoga classes, or even taking a crack at that novel you’ve been meaning to write for the past five years. It doesn’t matter what you do—the important thing is that you throw yourself into becoming better at it.


It takes discipline to work on a hobby, and you should set a schedule that you can stick to so you’re always moving forward. This will help your drive and will keep your mind off of your ex.
You can also try picking up an old hobby from your childhood or something you haven’t done in years, such as sketching or playing tennis.
 There may be some activities that you always wanted to do with your ex, but he either never wanted to do it or you two just couldn’t get your act together. Well, there’s no time like the present to do those things and to move on without him. If you’ve always wanted to go hiking, ask a friend to go with you. If you always wanted to travel to a town in the next state, plan a road trip with your girls, or even go by yourself.


Doing something that doesn’t remind you of your ex can make you feel more independent and more like you’re really growing as an individual.
If there was something your ex hated, like going to the movies or eating sushi, enjoy doing that, now that there’s no one holding you back.
 If you want to let go of the man you love, then you have to spend more time with the ones nearest and dearest to you. Opening up to your friends and family members about your pain can help you feel more loved and less alone. They may offer advice, or they can just give you a shoulder to cry on, and you’ll feel comforted by their love and warmth.


Don’t think that you’re too much of a drag to hang out with people right now. It’s important that you get the love you need and deserve instead of isolating yourself.
Though you don’t need to completely fill up your social calendar and it’s important to leave time for yourself, you should make sure to hang out with a friend or family member at least once or twice a week so you don’t feel too lonely.
 This doesn’t mean you should start a dating profile or immediately get the digits of the cute guy you noticed from across the gym. It does mean, however, that you should make an effort to enjoy more friendships and to be a more social person. Ask an acquaintance out for coffee and see if you can turn it into a friendship. Hang out with the cool girl in your yoga class after your latest vinyasa session. Be more open to new social opportunities and you’ll be on your way to letting go of your man.


You can also draw on old friends, too. If you’ve lost touch with an old friend, call her up and see how she’s doing. If a childhood friend moved to your neighborhood, ask her to grab lunch.
 Another way to spend more time on yourself is to write in a journal. This can help you get some alone time and to be at one with your thoughts and feelings. Spending just 15 minutes a day writing down your thoughts or narrating what happened to you that day can make you feel more in control of your life and mind and less rushed. You can even read over what you wrote every Sunday to get a better sense of the ideas you’ve been having throughout the week.


You can also open up about your feelings about the man you lost, and feel comforted to express your feelings in a place of non-judgment. This can help you get over your feelings faster, and will make you more in touch with yourself.
 While you don’t need to book your social calendar for the next 365 days in order to let go of the man you love, you should make an effort to fill as much of your time with the things you love as you can. Make time to do yoga, to see your friends, to read your favorite book, and even to start a home-improvement project, while making time for your work or studies. Leave some time to decompress but make sure you always have something to look forward to so you don’t resort to moping.


Staying busy will help take your mind off of your pain and will also make it so you direct your focus elsewhere. That said, distraction can’t be your only method of letting go of the man you love.
If you really need some time to yourself, don’t feel compelled to be social. It’s important to know your limits.
 Getting some exercise will help you feel happier and healthier. You don’t want to spend all of your time in your room feeling sorry for yourself and eating ice cream—though ice cream can work wonders for a broken heart now and again! You need to make sure you get around 30 minutes of exercise each day and that you keep your body active and your limbs moving.


If you do something you love, such as yoga or running, then you’ll feel even better about exercise time; it shouldn’t have to feel like a chore.
Exercising outdoors can also help you feel less isolated because you’ll be surrounded by people and sunshine.
 If you want to let go of the man you love, then you have to focus more on yourself than ever. Give yourself the freedom and the license to spend more time doing the things that matter the most to you. Maybe you stopped reading as much because you spent all of your time with your man; what better time than now to start a book club? Maybe your favorite thing is to be out in nature; what’s stopping you from going on a week-long camping trip with your girlfriends?


The most important thing is that you remember to take care of yourself and to make yourself happy. If you focus on that, then the rest will follow. If you’re busy with your friends and family and spend time doing what you love, then you’ll be able to let go of the man you love before you know it.

