 He'll want you to do errands, so it's important to have them open.
 He'll give you work clothes as the shop's uniform. Go into your inventory and drag the uniform over to your character. Talk to him again after you're done., He will now ask you to do some gardening around his shop - Tom wants the outside of his shop to be beautified. Go outside the shop and go into your inventory. Tap on a plant or flower that he would have given you and select "plant". You can plant things in random places around the shop, but you're not able to plant between buildings. Go back in the shop and get your next task from Tom., You'll need to chat with all of your neighbors as well as the mayor. You'll also need to repeat talking with them until one of them asks for your birthday. Go back in the shop and get your next task from Tom., Tom will give you a piece of furniture to take to a neighbor of yours, who of which he will tell you when you receive the furniture. Talk with that person and select the option, 'Delivery!'. Your inventory will now open, so select the furniture item. You will then receive a gift in return. Go back in the shop and get your next task from Tom., Tom will give you a name of a person and stationery. Go into your inventory, tap on the stationery, and tap on "Write Letter". Choose the specific name from the list and write your letter. Walk to Town Hall and go on the "Post Office mat". Give Pelly your letter to mail it. Go back in the shop and get your next task from Tom., Tom will give you carpet to take it to someone, who he again will tell you once you are given the carpet. Just deliver it to that person using the same technique as you used to deliver the piece of furniture, receive something in return, and then go back to Tom for your next task., Repeat the same process with the watering can as you did with the carpet. Go back to Tom to get your last task., Go to the bulletin board right outside Town Hall. Tap on "Post" and write a message by using the onscreen keyboard. You can either use your stylus to tap the keys, or use your arrow keys to select a letter on the keyboard and the 'A' button to select it. Go back to Tom. He will then tell you that you're all done with the tasks, but you still need to pay the mortgage using methods around town., You will exit the shop, and a little tune will play. Enjoy the moment- you are free! Tom will deduct 1,400 bells from your mortgage.
