 A few girls say, "Oh, we're never going meet any boys." That's such a lie. Look around. There are boys everywhere! All you have to do is take some time, and get to know them. You never know, that weird guy from your math class could be the boy from your dreams! Talk to them, and find out if they're worth spending time on, and if you actually have something in common. If you don't - find someone else! Just don't be one of those people who jump from person to person and leaves the other person hanging in the dark. Be nice, say, "Well, I'll see you around". Just to be safe, wait till the conversation is over.;
, Find out his interests and hobbies. You will become better friends as time goes on. Don't be too random, though. He'll think it's weird if you randomly ask if he likes carrots. Also, it is best not to ask a yes or no question. For example, instead of asking if they like dogs, ask them what sort of pets/animals they like.
 If his friends don't like you, he probably won't like you either. Unless his friends are jealous, that is. Make sure that you don't ask his friend if they are jealous though.
 We all know that most guys like girls who are feminine, have curves in the right places, and stuff like that. But what else do the guys want? Here are a few 'requests':


Nice looks.
Confidence.
A girl who is happy.
Intelligence.
A sense of humor.
Patience.
Generosity.
Sophistication.
Attitude (not the sassy kind)
A great smile

, Do you have really pretty eyes? Well, then start wearing eyeliner, or just make them really stand out. Do you have really great hair? Well, try straightening it, curling it, putting it up in a new style, or adding some accessories to it such as headbands! The point is, that if you focus on the things you like about yourself, boys will notice these things too.
 Don't try 'accidentally' tripping in front of him like in the pic, its not romantic its just stupid and it would make you look like a klutz. Instead, find a reason to talk to him. If he's in one of your classes ask him what the homework was like you forgot. If he's the friendly type, just catch him alone and introduce yourself. Just wing it; it's cool. Just avoid seeming too desperate or clingy because guys really hate that. Just be confident, and smile.
 Try telling one of his friends that looked nice today (or a similar compliment). Chances are that they will tell him. Of course, don't be so pushy that it's creepy. Make sure that it doesn't seem that you're telling everyone that you think he looks nice or whatever besides him. Also try complimenting him directly. Another technique is to talk to your friends when you are nearby him and say, "Don't you think that looked awesome today?"

, Just make sure that you do it casually. Give a nice, small smile that just says, "Hey, it's nice to see you" and then sort of smile at the ground and act chill. Guys like it when you are chill.
 If he's looking at you for a really long time, that would most likely mean that he likes you. Also, if he's leaning towards you, that might also mean that he's into you.
 Start by asking him if he could go over to your house and help you study.
 Don't act all weird around him or too flirty., If it's too risky, don't do it. If a guy really likes you, he won't make you dye your hair or get a piercing. Only do this if you are comfortably with picking up on this trait. Don't change yourself for him; it's not worth it.
 If you know he's a big fan of video games and you've never heard of Zelda, don't fake it. He'll eventually find out and you'll look pretty stupid. However, it is a good idea to learn about some of the things that he likes and take up some of his interests as long as taking up one of his hobbies doesn't eliminate all time for your personal interests.
, If his friends make a good impression of you, they might tell the person you like that you are a good person, but if they don't, don't sweat it. Also, try to make small talk.

