 Sometimes a change of scenery can help distract your friend from whatever it is that is upsetting her. Take a walk around your area and keep your eye out for cool or unusual, or funny sights.


Be present. Instead of talking about whatever the problem is, look at the color of the sky, or discuss what that weird smell might be. Watch the animals and engage with the environment.
 Movies and tv shows can be a great way to help your friend keep her mind off her troubles, at least for a little while.


Avoid upsetting films. For example: if her father has recently died of cancer, avoid movies where a parent dies, or where someone has cancer. Likewise, if your friend has recently been dumped, movies about relationships tend to be the wrong way to go. Keep it light and enjoyable.
 Silliness is a great way to distract from pain and encourage smiles and laughter. After all, "laughter is the best medicine" as the age-old saying goes. Laughter also has health benefits and improves some bodily functions.Take a stroll back in time to childhood. Make snow angels or a blanket fort, only talk to each other in outrageous voices, or replace walking with skipping or jumping.
Do some silly art, such as drawing silly self-portraits or writing silly poems.
 Doing something new and unusual is a great distraction and can increase happiness.It means that you're having to think about the new thing instead of focusing on whatever it is she's upset about.


Try a new workout class at the gym, make crafts together, plant a garden, or paint.
Don't spring a new thing on your friend without checking with her first. This could overwhelm and upset her, which is the opposite of what you want.
 Helping other people lowers stress, heightens compassion, and heightens capacity for resilience.Someone who is going through a difficult time has need of all of these things.


Volunteer for something. Volunteering is a great way to foster community, do good in someone else's life, and participate in something important. Volunteer at a soup kitchen, or volunteer to walk dogs at the animal shelter. Be a reading buddy for children or offer time at a nursing home.
Help cheer up a different friend. Sometimes working together to help someone else in their problems can help cheer someone up, because it helps take the focus away from one's own life difficulties.
Do something nice for someone else. You can cook for a different friend or create a card from both of you.
 Sometimes a great way to distract your friend from unhappiness is to take a trip. Travel introduces new sights and new places and keeps your friend from wallowing in whatever unhappiness she's dealing with.


You can opt for a long vacation: touring Europe, or hiking the John Muir trail, or road tripping through Canada.
You can also choose something smaller: a weekend getaway at a nearby beach, a couple days backpacking in the mountains, or road tripping to the next city to see a band you both love.

