 Mix one cup of blueberries and one cup of low-fat plain yogurt in the blender. Pour the mix into an ice cube tray. Freeze overnight and serve frozen. If you have extra, place it in an airtight container. Store it in the freezer for up to six months., Mix two ripe, peeled mangoes, juice of one orange, juice of one lime, and ½ cup of unsweetened almond milk in a blender. Pour the mixture in an ice cube tray. Freeze for several hours, or overnight. Pop the cubes out when they’re ready and give one or two to your dog in the shade outside., Mix one cup of fresh fruit, four cups of water, and one tablespoon of blackstrap molasses. Pour the mix into an ice cube tray. Once they freeze, pop them out and store them in a resealable plastic bag. They will stay good for up to six months.You can use any fruit you like for this yummy fruit popsicle with the exception of grapes and raisins. For instance, you might use watermelon, pineapple, oranges, apples, or peaches.
Discard pits and seeds.
 Just mix two cups of cubed seedless watermelon, one cup of ice, ½ cup of hulled strawberries, ½ cup of coconut water, and one tablespoon of molasses. Blend everything on high until it reaches a smooth consistency. Pour the mix into a bowl and encourage your dog to drink deeply.

You could also pour some of the slush into a KONG toy and freeze it if you wish to give your dog a challenge.
This nutritious summer treat will keep your dog hydrated and energized with potassium, magnesium, vitamin A, and vitamin C.
 Dice three pounds of honeydew melon (about half of an average-sized melon) into large chunks. Remove all seeds and cut away the rind. Place the melon in a blender along with one tablespoon lemon juice, ¼ cup honey, and 1/3 cup water. Blend on high.Pour the mixture into an ice cube tray. Freeze overnight. Transfer the honeydew ice to an airtight container.
When your dog is ready to eat the honeydew ice, blend two or three cubes until they’re chopped roughly. Pour the chopped honeydew ice in a bowl. Encourage your dog to eat the honeydew ice.

