 Aging cats tend to be more sensitive to the cold, so be mindful about keeping the house at a warm temperature, even when you are out. The cold can cause or worsen joint paint in senior cats, causing pain, stiffness, and irritability. If you can't raise the temperature enough to keep your cat happy, create warm spots for your cat to retreat to, such as:A heated cat bed
Furniture moved into sunny spots of the house
A fuzzy blanket to curl up in

, Using the litter box is a need that your older cat can't avoid, but it can be a difficult ordeal if the box is located in uncomfortable, out-of-the way spot (e.g. in the garage or basement). Move a litter box to a warm, easily accessible spot in the house so that your senior cat can avoid obstacles like stairs and cold floors, which may cause it pain.To avoid confusion, start by introducing a second litter box to the new location while leaving the first in its original place.
 Older cats are prone to dehydration, so keep your cat hydrated by making sure it drinks plenty of water, and by using a humidifier in the house to prevent dryness. Dehydration can cause dry mouth, lethargy, depression, and skin ailments, all of which can contribute to irritability. Leave several water bowls around the house so that your cat can have easy access to water, particularly if it has mobility problems.To keep a fresh, constant source of water for your cat, purchase a pet water-dispensing fountain online or at your local pet store.
 Boredom may contribute to your older cat's irritability, particularly if it has energy or mobility issues reducing its activity level. With your veterinarian's approval, engage in play with your cat (e.g. hunting and chasing games with toys) and give it treat-filled puzzle toys to play with on its own. If your cat enjoys sitting on a windowsill or other difficult-to-access perch in your home, place a chair or step ladder close by to help them climb up and add a soft cushion to the spot for their comfort., To improve your cat’s mood, use a synthetic version of the feline cheek pheromone, available in spray form. The spray, like the actual pheromone, has a calming and pleasing affect on cats and can help them relax. Synthetic pheromone sprays can be purchased through a veterinary clinic or online., For a boost in both mood and energy, give your cat catnip to elicit a temporary “high." Purchase dried, loose catnip from a pet store to put into refillable toys (approximately 1 tsp, or 0.5 oz.) or make a catnip spray to use around your cat’s play area, or on its cat bed. For the best quality, look for organically grown brands.