 There are many natural remedies you can use as treatment for acne scars. Salicylic acid is naturally occurring plant-based acid. It is an effective treatment for both acne and hyperpigmentation in people with darker skin tones. A dermatologist can administer a salicylic acid peel at their office or recommend a commercial peel kit to use at home.
Salicylic acid has minimal side effects and is not recommended for people allergic to aspirin.
 Alpha-hydroxy acids (AHAs) are natural acids in the body that reduce the appearance of scars, blemishes and wrinkles. They gently exfoliate the top layer of skin.AHAs include lactic acid, malic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid and beta-hydroxy glycolic acids. Many pharmacies and cosmetic stores sell scar gels containing alpha and beta hydroxy acids.
Apply the gel to the affected area up to twice daily.
Do not use any product with more than a 20% concentration of AHA or glycolic acid. Too much of these acids can strip the skin of oils and moisture.
Your dermatologist can also administer glycolic acid peels at their office.
 Apple cider vinegar is an antiseptic that kills harmful bacteria that can cause acne. It also contains malic, lactic and acetic acid. These help tone and purify the skin’s surface by stimulating collagen production. This repairs cells and removes dead skin cells.When choosing apple cider vinegar look for the muddiest, darkest vinegar. The more residue it has, the more beneficial ingredients it will deliver to your skin.
Mix ½ cup organic apple cider vinegar with ¼ cup of baking soda, ¼ cup sea salt, ½ cup of honey, and 5–10 drops of either tea tree or calendula essential oil. Combine all ingredients in a jar and stir well. If the paste is too runny, add more soda or salt as needed. The peel shouldn’t run off your face.
Apply daily for one week with your fingertips. Use gentle circular motions all over the face, avoiding the eye area.
Leave on for five to ten minutes before rinsing with cold water.
 Many studies support the effectiveness of onion extract to help heal scars and burns. Onions contain quercetin, a natural antioxidant compound, that helps fight harmful free radicals. It also reduces inflammation, stimulates cell growth and repairs damaged tissue.Onions are rich in antibacterial sulfur that can help reduce acne breakouts.Onion extract also has skin-whitening properties and can reduce blemishes and hyperpigmentation.
You can buy onion extract gel from most pharmacies, or you can make it yourself. To make a natural onion paste, use mechanical grater to puree a small onion. Leave the puree to cool in the refrigerator for 20 minutes. This helps reduce the pungent smell that can cause irritation. Remove the puree from the fridge, then apply to affected areas.
Leave the mixture on for 10–15 minutes, then rinse with cool water. You can use this method once daily until the scars heal. Expect improvements in 4–10 weeks.
If you experience severe irritation, stop use.
 Sea silt is a type of mud containing sea salt that falls out of the ocean as sediments in coastal regions.It contains many beneficial substances. These include unsaturated fatty acids, sulphur and algae with anti-inflammatory and soothing properties.Sea silt can also help smooth the texture of the skin by washing away dead skin cells and bacteria. This improves the overall appearance of scars.
Sea silt is available in many commercial face masks that you can buy from a pharmacy or cosmetic store.
You can apply sea silt masks twice a week or as recommended by a dermatologist for your skin type.
Sulphur and sea salt may cause irritation for people with dry, sensitive skin or inflamed scars.

