 If you're feeling like you need outside help, don't worry, you're not alone! Credit counseling agencies are non-profit organizations that specialize in helping people find the best solution for their specific situation. The process generally begins with free credit counseling which will help you better understand your current credit position and your options going forward.This is strongly recommended before applying for a new bill consolidation loan. You'll gain the information you need and be empowered to make the right decisions going forward.For more detailed information, check out How to Choose a Debt Management Program.
 Depending on your situation, applying for a (new) debt consolidation loan from your bank may be the best choice.A new loan has the potential benefit of paying off several bills simultaneously, giving you a new interest rate (hopefully a lower one), and in the process consolidating your bill payments to a single creditor (the bank). Exercise caution however because a new loan also has the potential increase your total costs and sink you deeper into debt with higher rates or more demanding terms than you had before.


While a new loan may simplify your payments through consolidation, it will almost certainly increase your total payback time.
Again, make sure to close the original debt account after transferring. Otherwise, you may end up simply running up the same amount of debt again.
Your debt counselor or your local bank can help you with the application process.
 For students loans, partial forgiveness of the debt can be an option for those who qualify. Several programs exist for student loan forgiveness based on your occupation and volunteer service records. Your debt counselor should be able to advise you, or else look at How to Get Student Loans Forgiven for more information.
 As with any consolidation plan you will need to make a payment plan and stick to it. Work with your debt counselor or loan officer to calculate how much you will be realistically able to pay, then set reminders for yourself to always pay on time.


Autopay options can greatly reduce the amount of time you spend each month paying bills, and reduce the likelihood of a late payment.
Whenever possible, pay more than the minimum to reduce your debt balance.

