 You can also line a couple baking trays with sheets of parchment paper, or wait until later.;
, Mix together the flour, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl until they're well mixed. To make extra-soft cookies, mix in one of the following ingredients as well:


3 Tbsp (45 mL) instant pudding mix makes the cookies soft and keeps them that way for several days.Use vanilla pudding mix for a basic cookie, or a different flavor if you're feeling experimental.






1 tsp (5 mL) cornstarch helps the cookies stay together in the oven, keeping them thick and puffy., Add the room temperature butter to a separate, large bowl. Mix using an electric or handheld mixer, with a paddle attachment if possible, until the butter feels soft. Gradually add both kinds of sugar while you continue to mix, until all the sugar has been added and no more streaks of butter are visible in the mixture.If your butter is still chilled, use a cheese grater to turn it into small flakes that will warm up rapidly.
Don't over-stir the mixture, or your cookies could end up flat.
 Mix the egg and vanilla extract thoroughly into the butter and sugar mixture until you achieve a uniform texture.


To increase the chewiness (without reducing the puffiness), separate the egg and discard half the egg white before adding the remaining white and yolk., Add all the dry ingredients to the larger bowl, and mix them until the batter is smooth.
 Drop the M&M's into the large bowl and stir them into the batter with a spoon.
 Chilling the dough for at least 30 minutes, or even several hours, will help keep the cookies from spreading in the oven.It can affect the texture and flavor as well, but different bakers report very different results, so you'll have to experiment for yourself if you want to find out how your cookies are affected., If you haven't prepared a baking sheet yet, line it with parchment paper to prevent sticking. Use a large cookie scoop, a tablespoon (15 mL), or your fingers. If you like, press extra M&Ms onto them for decoration.


The cookies will usually spread apart in the oven, so leave space between them.
Large cookies will have a crisp outside and a chewy, or even dough-like inside. Small cookies will be a single texture all the way through.
 Bake the cookies in the oven for 8–12 minutes, or until they're slightly brown on the edges. The centers should stay soft and puffy.


Let cool for about 15 minutes to achieve the final texture before eating.






For consistent results, use only one rack of the oven at a time.,