 Most companies will have you fill out a form about you and your animal. Often, this form is also a contract that you will follow the company's guidelines for shipping a pet.Mostly, you will say who's going to be providing the health certificates for your animal and that the company has the authority to charge your card.
You'll also agree to abide by the company's rules, such as providing an appropriate kennel or choosing an appropriate kennel from the company for your pet.
 By USDA regulations, your cat needs to have enough room in its kennel when traveling. It should be able to stand up, turn around, and lay down fully. In other words, it should be half a foot longer and half a foot taller than your pet. When you call or go online for an estimate, use these estimates to choose a kennel size for your cat.In some cases, you will need to provide your own crate. In other cases, the company will provide a kennel for the pet. Check with your company to see what it does., Your vet needs to certify that your cat is in good health for travel. Most vets provide this service, but call ahead of time to find out. Your health certificate must be completed within 30 days of travel for some companies, but always check with the company you're shipping with., In some cases, the shipping company will provide transportation to an airport, where your pet will be put on a plane. In that case, you need to follow the rules for your particular airline, such as providing food and water bowls attached inside the crate or kennel., Call your preferred transport service to set up travel. You can find pet transport services on the internet. Once you pick one, you can talk to a representative to decide how you want your pet to travel.Some services offer ground and air transport, while others only offer air.If you have a snub-nose cat, you'll likely need to send it by ground transport.
Some services also offer private pet transport, meaning your pet will be the only one being transported., Even with trusted transportation services, things happen. Make sure your cat has a collar with your name and number on it so you can be called if the cat is lost and found somewhere else. You might also consider getting your cat microchipped, so someone can find your information even if your cat loses its collar.A microchip is just a tiny chip your vet places under your cat's skin. It can be scanned to provide information from a database. You just need to be sure to update your information online.
 These pet services typically go door to door, so you need to know where your pet is going. If you don't have someone on the other end, you can arrange for a vet to kennel your cat until you arrive to pick him or her up.

