 BE CREATIVE! You can either choose an artifact which already exists (i.e, King Tut's Tomb, etc.) and give it your own supernatural flavor to make the story interesting, or you can make your own artifact. Again, BE CREATIVE! Choose a spear that was supposedly carved by God himself, a crystal that has power capable of destroying the world- these are some good ideas to start with.;
, Ideally, go from anywhere from the 1920s to the mid-1950s (Kingdom of the Crystal Skull). Every reader wants to know what period the story takes place in.
 You CANNOT have an Indiana Jones story without a leading lady and at least one sidekick or ally. Be specific when you are developing these characters: age, looks, characteristics, and where they come from. Do they come from a foreign country or are they from the United States?

, This is another thing you can't have an Indiana Jones story without. Much like creating an artifact, you have to use your imagination! Is the villain male or female? How old are they? Where do they come from? Are there any supporting villains accompanying the main villain? These are all factors to consider when creating your bad- villain. Also, make sure that in some part of the story, they commit something to make you feel like you've created the greatest villain of all time: threatening the leading lady, threatening Indy himself, or you could even have one of the characters get shot or seriously wounded. Whether they die or not is entirely up to you.
 Readers tend to understand an Indiana Jones adventure better if they know where the artifact came from, how it was made, its powers, and what happens when its power is unleashed. This is something to keep in mind at the end of the story, since that's when the artifact's power is revealed in a typical Indiana Jones story.
 When you consider these five steps, you will find putting the story on paper will be easier than you think. All you have to do is create put these elements all together, and you'll have an Indiana Jones story in no time!

