 Look around you and notice what friends, family, movie stars, musicians etc. are wearing. Ask yourself what you like/don't like about their personal style and make note of the things you would like to add to your own style.;
, Discover your personality, interests, likes and dislikes. You probably already know if you prefer rock music or country, blue jeans or pencil skirts but have you ever really thought about each of your tastes and what that means to your personal style? Make a list, either mentally or on a piece of paper of all your unique interests and tastes and circle a few that you would like to convey.
 After you've discovered your tastes, you'll probably have a better idea of what you want to be. However, make sure that it is something you really want and have the personality for and not just something you think is cool. For example, do you want people to see you as an artist, or an athlete, a romantic or a rocker?

, You can use the internet to do some research on what kind of clothing others of your style like to wear. Write down the styles you like as well as your favourite colours and general clothing items. Unless you want to be really hardcore, you don't need to buy everything super sporty or really artsy. Feel free to splash in other items and colours that you like as well-that will make it more unique anyway.
 Perhaps you actually have a whole collection of berets that would suit your Bohemian or Artist look. Maybe your closet is full of jeans that you could rip up for your vintage style. It's always best to start at home before spending a bunch of money on new clothing.
 You don't have to go anywhere fancy - the thrift store will do! Of course, you probably want to get a few new things but depending on your budget, buying a whole new wardrobe from the mall could be pretty expensive. While shopping, look for things that grab your eye and suit your new style.
 Start showing off your new style by wearing it. It may be hard at first to make new outfits or, if your style is extremely unique, to wear it out but the sooner you do this step, the sooner you will have your own style.
 A good place to find clothing advertisements are in magazines, especially fashion ones. Looking at these can give you ideas of what you would like to wear, and clothes to buy to help establish your personal sense of style.

