 Your goal when cooking bacon on a gas grill isn't to cook the bacon directly on the grill grate — if you do this, the fat, which renders and liquefies as the bacon cooks, can drip down onto the burners. This is even more of a problem here than it is for a charcoal grill because, in addition to causing flare-ups, dripping grease can get the burners or bottom of a gas grill dirty. To avoid this, we'll use a modified indirect cooking method that uses all of the burners (as opposed to the offset coal method above).


Begin by lighting most or all of the grill's burner's and closing the lid. Let the grill heat up for several minutes before beginning cooking.
 While you're waiting for the grill to warm up, lay your bacon strips over the grate in a roasting pan. This pan should consist of a metal grate that fits into a lower "grease catcher" with no holes in it. This allows the bacon to safely cook from the heat of the grill without dripping grease onto the bottom of the grill or burners.


As an added bonus, roasting pans make for easy cleanup — just pour the grease out of the lower pan, wash the pan and the grate, and you're done!

, Add your roasting pan full of bacon to the grill and shut the lid. This keeps the heat from the burners inside the grill, cooking the bacon from both above and below in a fashion similar to baking it. To keep your cooking time low, keep the lid shut during cooking except for when you check on the bacon's progress.


Don't forget to turn doing the cooking process — though it's not as essential here because the heat is coming from all sides, rather than just from below, it's still necessary for even cooking. You'll want to turn at least as it cooks — more is fine, but may lengthen the cooking time by allowing the grill's heat to escape. Keep a close eye on your bacon as it cooks — if it's cooking too quickly, flip it immediately and reduce the heat.
 Once the bacon is cooked on both sides to your liking, use a pair of tongs to remove it from the grill to a paper towel-lined plate. At this point, you're more or less done! Shut off your grill and, once it's cool enough to handle, carefully remove your roasting pan.

