 It’s easy to assume that someone else is the problem in a given situation. However, it’s possible that you might just have something personal against this particular coworker. Alternately, you may have unrealistic expectations of workplace behavior.Choose another coworker whom you trust. Ask them if they’ve noticed the noise or find it disturbing. If you mention the name of the noisy coworker, be sure that your friend won’t mention it to them without your permission, or that they won’t spread rumors or report it to the boss.
If your friend disagrees with you about the noise being a problem, you may want to consider finding your own way of dealing with it. For example, if you work in a kitchen or a garage where there’s lots of noise, you might want to wear earplugs or listen to music with headphones.
 If you don’t want to approach one other coworker for their opinion, you could take a poll of your entire workplace. Create a survey and post it somewhere prominent where everyone can see it and weigh in.You can make your survey an online one, if that’s appropriate to your workplace, or you can hang one in the breakroom or put it in coworkers’ mailboxes.
To keep things positive also allow people to remark on things they love or enjoy about the workplace.
A survey could say something like, "Please list two things you love about working here and two things we could do to make it better."

, Once people have had a chance to weigh in, share the survey results with the rest of your coworkers. You can do this online or you can propose an informal meeting to discuss the results and figure out what you can all do to improve your working environment.It’s possible that the survey results won’t reflect your personal interests. For example, you may be the only person who takes issue with the noise, but multiple people may complain about your or someone else’s choice of perfume or air freshener. Be prepared to follow through on the discussion, even if others don’t share your concerns.
Even if you’re the only one who objects to the noise, it’s still a valid concern. Bring it up in the meeting, along with others’ concerns.
Avoid calling out specific coworkers in a meeting or other public forum. This can be embarrassing for them. Establish workplace guidelines and expectations and assume that your noisy colleague will take responsibility for themselves.
 If you’ve decided to create a workplace discussion, you’ve likely excluded your manager or boss from the discussion. That can be good, as it gives you and your coworkers agency in addressing workplace concerns.In some workplaces, you might have enough autonomy to organize this without talking to your boss. If not, check in with them before taking this on.
Draft a list of expectations or best practices and post it somewhere prominent. Create a small committee to do this together, so that it doesn’t seem like you’re controlling the process.
If possible, designate some space in your workplace as “quiet space.” This can mean space where there’s no talking on cell phones, no music, or no use of machinery.
If your noisy colleague fails to abide by the new guidelines, you can pull them aside and remind them.

