 Yes that's right, nowadays everyone says thank you out of politeness. Originally someone would say thank you because they felt gratitude because someone did an action which was not obliged of them. The person in turn would say "you're welcome", to say that they were welcome to their help and no need to repay for the help which they received. Putting this into practice, it shows that you can only expect a thank you if something wasn't expected from you. This is not to say that, you should stop saying thank you but now you will know the difference from a thank you out of politeness and thank you out of good merit.;
, Now that you know you shouldn't expect thank yous over something which was expected of you you should work extra hard for something. This will make you stand out, bringing more success to your life, and will also be an example to everyone else not through words but action.
 When someone says something that hurts, but you know will help improve your character and personality try not to get angry. Listen to the person and work hard to improve yourself.It may hurt but its better to listen now then suffer later because you didn't hear the truth.
 Don't think your life will be awesome if you don't push yourself. Learn a new language, play a new instrument, remove your fear of heights. Don't limit yourself to your comfort zone, and persevere in always doing something new.
 This is not to be mixed with patience. However if you wish to reach a goal, instead of hoping against hope that it will somehow come true you have to take action! Make the goal realistic, yet something great. Persevere, and make sure you do what you have to do and fight for it! Have positive thoughts, distance from friends which will only bring you down and remind yourself of your goal whether it is reminders on your iPhone or notes stuck in your bathroom so you can see in the mirror. Work hard, and never take your eyes of the goal. You will get there!

, I'm not saying go for someone which will only bring lots of problems in your life but don't expect the total prince charming of Hollywood in your life. The real life fairy-tale is different from the Hollywood one. Work on yourself before investing in your love life. After all if someone was so "perfect", then why would they search for a partner. A relationship is for two people to work together and lift each other up. Think about this before entering a relationship.
 It will make you so much more approachable.  Don't let a stressful ruin you and always make a frown turn upside down. Life doesn't always go according to plan but a good sense of humor is best when problems arise.
 Whenever someone needs your help, offer to help and give the best advice possible. Reflect on the problem and first put yourself in their shoes, what should be done. Giving advice shows that you can reflect and are mature enough to face problems making you an uplifting person.
 Part of being an uplifting person is to strengthen someone when they feel down. Having someone which will make someone stand up when they fell will make you all the more uplifting.
 Being needy is unattractive and even worse, will show you are insecure. Be comfortable with yourself.
 Go out with friends, go the park etc. Make the most out of life.

