 You can install various extensions for Firefox that allow you to block sites. These are only available for the desktop version of Firefox. This method will focus on a popular extension called BlockSite, which will allow you to block specific websites.


Firefox extensions are fairly easy to bypass, and only affect Firefox. If you're trying to completely prevent access to certain sites no matter which browser you're using, you may want to try a different method in this article.;
, This will open a new tab with displaying your installed plugins.
 This will display some featured add-ons for Firefox.
 This will open another new tab with the add-ons market.
 This will display the BlockSite extension, which allows you quickly block specific websites.


There are lots of different extensions that can block and filter websites. If you're not satisfied with BlockSite, try a search for "site block" and "parental control" to find other extensions.
 This will add BlockSite to your Firefox installation.
 You'll be prompted to restart after installing the extension.
 This will prevent your browsing data from being sent to BlockSite.
 Return to the Add-ons tab and click the "Extensions" section. From there, click the "Options" button next to "Block site."

, Check the "Enable authentication" box to setup a password. Type the password you want to use into the field. Anyone using Firefox will be prompted for this password when attempting to access the BlockSite settings.
 When using a blacklist, any website you add will be blocked. When you're using a whitelist, all websites are blocked except the one's you are adding. Whitelists are more effective for children when you want to limit them to just a few safe websites.
 Click the "Add" button and then type or paste the site address into the field. This will add it to your blacklist or whitelist, depending on your settings.


you can use wildcards to block lots of sites that match. For example, to block every site with "drugs" in the address, enter *drugs*.

