 Do not sign in to your online banking while you are using public WiFi, such as the free WiFi at an airport or coffee shop.

If you are using a shared computer to access your online banking, be sure to log out completely before stepping away from the computer - even if it's only for a moment.;
, Some scammers will create 'spoof' websites that look just like a real bank's website, with a web address that is only one letter off or with a common misspelling of the bank's name. They then collect the information that customers mistakenly input, thinking they are signing into their online banking. If you open your online banking and the website looks different from usual, double-check the URL to be sure you are really at the correct address., Do not use the same password for your online banking and your email account. Do not use easily guessed passwords like 'password' or '1234', or passwords based on your name, date of birth, or other information that someone might be able to easily find out about you.

Remember that your email password should be secure and changed frequently as well, as your bank may send sensitive emails to you that you would not want a scammer to access, such as emails containing your monthly statement.
Remember that saving your password in your browser may come with additional risk, if your computer itself is compromised.
 One of the benefits of online banking is that you can check your account activity at any time, and often see transactions in greater detail than may be shown on your monthly statement. If you see any suspicious transactions, investigate them immediately and report them to your bank or the police if you suspect fraud., Your bank may occasionally send you emails pertaining to your account activity or special deals they are offering. A scammer might send you an email that imitates this kind of communication, often with an alarming subject line implying that your account has been frozen or that fraudulent activity has been detected, or an exciting subject line implying that someone has unexpectedly sent you money. You may be asked to click on a link, open a file, or respond with personal and financial information.

Review the format of the email. Look out for misspellings, strangely short messages, broken images, or inaccurate or outdated logos. These are all red flags of a phishing scam.
Check the sender's email address. If you can, compare it to emails you have received in the past from the bank. Look out for addresses that misspell the bank's name or are generic.
If you are at all suspicious, then do not click any links, open any files, or respond to the email in any way. Instead, open a seperate tab and navigate to your online banking the usual way to check if your account really is frozen or overdrawn. You can also print out the email and bring it in to a branch to review with a banker; they will be able to tell you if it is a real email or a scam.
If you realize you have accidentally provided information to a phishing scammer, contact your bank immediately and explain what happened. They will be able to lock your accounts to prevent your funds being stolen.
 Most banks are happy to provide information on how they provide you a safer online banking experience. You can talk to a customer service representative in person when setting up your online banking, or review your bank's website for details. Being familiar with your bank's online security features will allow you to make the most use of them.