 Where have you been successful in writing in the past? The local coffee shop? Your sister's kitchen table? Consider what kinds of conditions you were in when you were in that place and apply them to the following steps.;
, You may wish to have absolute silence when you write, or maybe you wish to play a song that relates to what you're writing at that moment. You may even choose a song for each chapter of your book and play them as you work. If you wish to have silence then consider writing in a library or other quiet place that you feel comfortable in. If you require background noise then maybe the local coffee shop or bookstore.


Distinguish between background noises and distractions. Choose your writing space to limit or eliminate distractions.
 Once you know how much noise you need, think about how neat and colorful you want your space to be. If you have a lot of clutter, your right brain will tend to feel cluttered and hence prevent you from thinking clearly. Although some writers write better this way, it's rare. Also think about the color scheme. Your color scheme may change depending on your mood and what you write so don't make anything permanent. Maybe use colored paper or pens, place colored objects on your desk, hang a colorful curtain, use colored lights...the possibilities are endless!

, Do you prefer paper and pen or computer? Big leather chairs or wooden ones? Think about what you want your body feeling and doing as you write. If you want lots of sensations then try writing on paper and sitting in a comfortable chair. If you want your mind more stimulated than your body, use a computer.
 Perhaps if you're writing about a bakery you want a vanilla pound cake candle burning next to you. If you like to smell things to make your descriptions crisp and accurate, then think about different scents. If you don't like scents then try to write in an area with clean, fresh air. But if you want to be surrounded by good scents and the like, go to a coffee shop, burn scented candles, or even use incense.
 Lots of the time writers feel the need to eat when they get stuck in their writing so be careful about how much you eat! Think also about what you're eating. Caffeine, chocolate, or candy are common choices but only leave you hyper, making it hard to think. Try drinking herbal teas or eating fruits or veggies to give you the real energy you need to write.
 A notebook and pen or a computer are required for any writing. If you need other supplies, such as ink, keep those handy, too. If you refer to a dictionary, thesaurus, style guide, or other reference material, keep them close. You may also wish to keep favorite books nearby for inspiration. If you can include them without cluttering up the space, objects of personal significance, whether whimsical, sentimental, or spiritual, can also help to get you in the frame of mind for writing.
 See the wikihow article about feng shui for more information on adding feng shui to your room.

