 Under federal and state antitrust law, a company can generally choose who they do business with. Therefore, a company will usually not be forced to do business with competitors. In fact, in a lot of circumstances, when rivals do business together, it runs afoul of other antitrust laws that exist to try and limit unreasonable restrictions on competition.For example, when two rival businesses agree to raise the price of their goods, they may be unfairly restricting competition by engaging in illegal price fixing.;
, While the general rule is that companies can choose who they do business with, there are exceptions. One of these exceptions is laid out in Section 2 of the Sherman Act, which is a law restricting monopolization. Illegal monopolization is the act of gaining a monopoly in a particular market through improper means (i.e., not through growth or development due to a superior product or knowledge).In order to be illegally refusing to deal, the business at issue must have a monopoly in some market. This doesn't, however, mean the business has to be huge. Courts and agencies can define particular markets narrowly, which could lead to even a small business having a monopoly.Therefore, if a business, regardless of its size, controls a particular market, that business might be considered a monopoly.
 Once you have identified a monopoly, the business that holds that monopoly must be taking some illegal action. In a subset of refusal to deal cases, called "essential facility" cases, a monopolist that has control of an essential facility may be forced to allow competitors access to that essential facility. In order for a monopolist to face antitrust liability, you must be able to prove the following:A monopolist controls an essential facility (e.g., a railroad company owns all of the bridges and switching yards in and out of a particular city)
No competitor can reasonably be expected to duplicate the essential facility
The monopolist is denying competitors the use of the facility
Allowing access to the facility is feasible

, In another subset of cases, companies can be found liable for refusal to deal where the monopolist refuses to sell a product or service to a competitor when that monopolist makes it available to others. Additionally, monopolists have been found liable for refusal to deal when they stop doing business with a competitor after doing business with them in the past. In these types of cases, the monopolist can be seen as reducing competition in their market by denying competitors access.


However, if the monopolist has a legitimate business reason for refusing to sell a product or service, or by discontinuing a business relationship, the action might be considered legal., Some industries are heavily regulated by state and federal executive agencies. For example, telephone companies are regulated at the federal level and are required to share assets with competitors at specific rates. When an industry is regulated, antitrust laws do not impose additional requirements beyond those imposed by the regulations. Therefore, if you are dealing with a monopolist in a regulated industry, you may not be able to make a refusal to deal claim unless the regulations in question require the dealings in the first place., Refusal to deal claims are based on single-company conduct, which means only one company is refusing to deal with one or more competitors. There is a separate cause of action, called group boycotting, that arises when two or more competitors get together and agree not to do business with someone else. This is different than refusal to deal (although it is similar) because it involves more than one company's conduct.


Group boycotting can be particularly dangerous when the companies getting together push out and refuse to deal with "price cutters", which are competitors that offer their products at a reduced rate.
For example, two retail companies who verbally agree to not do business with a particular manufacturer might be found liable for group boycotting., State attorneys general are responsible for protecting the citizens of their state and their state itself. Therefore, if a monopolist, in refusing to deal, is breaking the law and hurting you, other citizens of your state, or the state as a whole, your state's attorney general may be able to help. Your state's attorney general can enforce both state and federal antitrust laws by bringing lawsuits against monopolists acting illegally., If you have identified a potential case of refusal to deal, and you are being harmed by it, contact your state attorneys general office. Most attorneys general websites will give you access to a complaint page, which you can use to figure out how to draft a complaint, where to send it, and how to follow up on it. Conduct an internet search for your state's attorney general website. Once there, click around until you find the complaints page.


For example, the Attorney General of New York has an entire page dedicated to the enforcement of antitrust laws. The website gives you information about what can be considered an antitrust violation and what role a citizen's complaint can play in the litigation process. Additionally, the webpage has a link to a complaint form., If your state attorney general provides a complaint form (e.g., New York), use it. Most forms will ask you for your personal information as well as the personal information of the company you are complaining about. The form will also ask you to describe the actions you believe to be illegal.Make sure you provide as much detail as possible so the attorneys general office can make an educated decision about how to proceed.


However, if your state does not have a form to use, you will have to create your own complaint. Most state attorneys general offices will accept any complaint that includes information about yourself and the company you are complaining about. While the format of your complaint is not that important, it needs to be legible and easy to understand.
 Most attorneys general offices will ask you to file your complaint online, through email, or through the mail. Some states will have you fill out the form online using an interactive system (e.g., Washington). Once the form is completed, you will simply click "submit" to send it along. However, if your state does not allow online submissions (e.g., New York), you will have to email or mail it.


If you have a form available to you, it should give you the physical or electronic address where your form can be sent.
If you do not have a form available to you, look on the attorneys general website or call their office to determine how the form should be submitted.
Be aware that most states make complaints public after they are submitted. Therefore, anything you write will be viewable by the public if they search for it., Once a complaint has been submitted, it will be reviewed in the order it was received. Even in small states (e.g., New Hampshire), attorneys general offices can receive over 3,000 complaints each year. Therefore, it might take up to one month for your complaint to be processed.


When your complaint is received, it will be reviewed by legal experts to determine the validity of your refusal to deal claim. If your complaint is valid, the attorneys general office may choose to start an enforcement action and sue the company in question. If your complaint is not currently actionable, the office might file it away for future reference.
If the attorneys general office has questions or recommendations, they will contact you., The FTC has authority to bring administrative actions against companies allegedly violating antitrust laws. In refusal to deal cases, the FTC will usually get involved when the industry in question is highly regulated.One of the most common ways the FTC becomes aware of possible violations is through the citizen complaint process. If you think you have uncovered a possible refusal to deal case, navigate to the FTC's Bureau of Competition website, which is where you will find all the information you need about filing a complaint., The FTC's Bureau of Competition does not provide a form you can use to file a report. Therefore, you will need to create your own. The Bureau of Competition does, however, give you some guidelines to follow when you are drafting your report. While your report does not have to be in any certain format, you do need to make sure the report is legible and makes sense. In general, your report should answer the following questions:What company do you think is engaging in illegal activity by refusing to deal?
How is the company's activity harming competition (e.g., is the company restricting access to essential facilities or is the company refusing to work with a competitor that they have worked with in the past)?
How are you involved (e.g., are you a competitor, consumer, etc.)?

, FTC Bureau of Competition complaints can be sent through email or regular mail. If you send your complaint through the mail, it will need to be sent to the Office of Policy and Coordination, Room CC-5422, Bureau of Competition, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20580. If you are sending your complaint by email, send it to antitrust@ftc.gov. Be aware that emails are not secure and if you have confidential information it should be stamped as such and sent through the mail.


The Bureau of Competition will review your complaint but will likely not respond., The DOJ's Antitrust Division is the sole government entity responsible for bringing federal lawsuits under the Sherman Act. Once in court, the DOJ can ask for injunctive relief and treble damages if harm has been suffered by the United States.If you recognize that a company's refusal to deal might be hurting the United States, you should file a complaint with the DOJ.However, be aware that in recent years the DOJ has been very skeptical of bringing refusal to deal cases. In one DOJ Report, the Department concluded that "liability for unilateral, unconditional refusals to deal should not play any meaningful part in Section 2 enforcement."Therefore, even if you think you have a strong case against a company, the DOJ might not be a whole lot of help.
 From the Antitrust Division's homepage, look on the left side of the screen and click on the link to "Report Violations".This page gives you all the information you need about how to create a valid complaint, where you need to submit your complaint, and how your complaint will be processed.Read through the information carefully to make sure you understand what to do.
 The DOJ does not provide you with a form to use when making an antitrust complaint. Therefore, you will have to draft your own from scratch. While the format is not particularly important, make sure your letter is legible and easily understood. To create a complete report, answer the following questions within your document:What are the names of the companies involved?
How do you think the companies have violated antitrust laws (e.g., do you believe they have refused to deal)?
Can you provide examples of the type of conduct the company is engaging in?
What product or service is being affected?
Who are the major competitors to this company?
How do you fit in?
Who is being harmed and how are they being harmed?

, Once you have answered the questions within your complaint, you need to submit it to the CCC by mail, email, or over the phone. If you submit your complaint through the mail, it must be sent to the Citizen Complaint Center, Antitrust Division, 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room 3322, Washington, DC 20530. If you submit your complaint by email, you will send it to antitrust.complaints@usdoj.gov. If you prefer to call, you can contact the CCC at 1-888-647-3258 or 202-307-2040., Once you submit your complaint, the CCC will conduct a preliminary review of the information you provided. If your complaint raises valid concerns, it will be forwarded along to the proper legal team. That legal team will conduct a more thorough investigation, which might lead to a formal investigation and litigation.


If the CCC needs more information, they will contact you.
Antitrust Division investigations are confidential and therefore, if one is opened as a result of your complaint, you will not be notified., Most Section 2 violation actions are brought in federal court by private parties like you.In order to succeed, you will have to provide enough evidence to persuade a judge that a company is refusing to deal. If you recognize a possible violation, gather and keep as much evidence that backs up your case. In refusal to deal cases, good evidence might include:


Market research that concludes that a certain company is a monopolist
Financial data that helps prove the harm done to competitors
Information about essential facilities that a monopolist has control over
Agreements that competitors have entered into (whether written, verbal, or formed by conduct)

, Once you think you have enough evidence to move forward, contact an antitrust litigation lawyer. Antitrust law is incredibly complex and you will need an expert to help you through the process. If you plan on suing in federal court, hire a federal lawyer. If you plan on filing in state court, hire a state expert. Start your search by asking friends and family for recommendations. Lawyers rely on referrals and they can be a great way to find a qualified lawyer.


If you do not get any good recommendations, contact your state bar's lawyer referral service. After answering a few general questions about your case, you will be put in touch with various lawyers in your area.
 Sit down with the lawyer you hire and discuss your case. Your lawyer will be able to assess the strength of your case and how likely you are to succeed. While private suits alleging refusal to deal account for a large percentage of Section 2 cases, they are difficult to win. In fact, in recent history, plaintiffs (like yourself) have only received a favorable ruling in about 2% of all cases. Defendants, on the other hand, receive a favorable ruling in about 60% of all cases.


Additionally, about 60% of all cases filed have all their Section 2 claims eliminated through the use of pretrial motions (e.g., motion to dismiss and motions for summary judgment)., In order to bring a refusal to deal case in federal court, you must show the court that you are the right plaintiff to bring the case. To do this, you will have to show an actual antitrust injury that has harmed your property or business. In addition, you must be able to prove that your injury is not too remote from the violation.


If you are only trying to get injunctive relief, as opposed to damages, the remoteness requirement will be relaxed and you may be able to pass the test even if your injury is only threatened (as opposed to actual).If you have questions about standing and what you will have to show, ask your lawyer. They will be familiar with the law's nuances and how to get through this legal barrier.
 Your federal lawsuit must be filed within four years of the date the injury occurred. However, this time may be extended if your injury is too speculative to prove. In that case, the four year window will start when your injury is provable. In addition, if the company is continuing to refuse to deal, each individual act that threatens competition may restart the four year clock.It is important to talk with a lawyer as soon as possible. If the statute of limitations passes, it might completely bar you from bringing an otherwise valid case.
 If you and your lawyer have concluded that a lawsuit is likely to succeed, your lawyer will file a complaint in the correct court. A complaint is a formal document that starts a lawsuit. It will include information about the allegation you are making, the relief you are seeking, and why the court should hear your case.
 Once your lawsuit is filed, the clerk will sign and stamp the court seal on a summons form. You will need to give a copy of this form, along with a copy of your complaint, to the defendants in your case. This is called serving the defendant. In most cases, you will not be allowed to complete service on your own. instead, you will have to have someone over the age of 18, who is unrelated to the case, complete service for you. You can also hire the sheriff's office (in state court) or the Marshal's Service (in federal court) to complete service on your behalf., After the defendant receives a copy of your complaint, they will have an opportunity to respond. In most cases, they will do this by filing an answer with the court and serving you with a copy. The answer will tell you, and the court, why the defendant thinks they should not be held liable. It will include a response to all your allegations as well as any affirmative defenses the defendant has.

Read this document carefully as it will give you clues about how to proceed with litigation successfully. For example, if the defendant is claiming you do not meet one of the elements of a valid case for refusal to deal, you know that you will have to focus on that part of the case.
 Once initial pleadings have been exchanged (i.e., the complaint and answer), the pretrial process will begin with a period of discovery. During discovery, you and the defendant will exchange information in order to prepare for trial. You will be able to gather facts, interview witnesses, see what the other side will say at trial, and determine how strong your case is. In order to do these things, you will be able to use the following tools:Depositions, which are formal in-person interviews with parties and witnesses. The interviews are conducted under oath and the answers given can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to parties and witnesses. The answers must be given under oath and can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are written requests for documents related to the case. This is your chance to ask for documents that are not otherwise available to you. The types of documents you might ask for include text message exchanges, phone call summaries, email exchanges, internal memos, and written agreements.
Requests for admissions, which are written statements the defendant will be required to admit or deny. These admissions help focus in on what is really at dispute in the litigation.
 After discovery concludes, the defendant will usually try to end the litigation and have the judge rule in their favor. The defendant will do this by filing a motion for summary judgment. To be successful, the defendant will have to prove that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, they will have to persuade the judge that, even if every factual assumption was made in your favor, you would still lose the case.

To defend against this motion, you will file a response. Your response will contain evidence and affidavits showing that factual disputes do exist and that they need to be hashed out in court. The judge will need to be convinced that there is a chance (however small) that you could possibly win at trial. If you can convince the judge of this, the litigation will continue., Trials can be incredibly expensive and time consuming. Due to these facts, you should try to settle your case before it ever gets to that point. This is a great time to negotiate a settlement because both parties have prepared for trial and have a good idea about the strength of their case. In addition, both parties will have a good idea of how the judge is feeling based on the summary judgment proceedings. Start by sitting down with the defendant informally. If no agreement can be reached, try alternative dispute resolution methods.

For example, ask the defendant if they will take part in mediation. During mediation, a neutral third-party will sit down with you and the defendant, together, to discuss unique ways to resolve the dispute. The mediator will not inject their own opinions and they will not take sides.
If mediation does not succeed, try non-binding arbitration. During arbitration, a judge-like arbitrator will listen to each party present their case. The arbitrator will then draft a written opinion stating who has the stronger case and what remedies could possibly be awarded. If both parties agree with the arbitrator, they can agree to be bound by the decision.
 If your case continues to trial, your lawyer will present evidence to a judge and/or jury. As the plaintiff, you will have the opportunity to examine witnesses and present physical evidence before the defendant. When you are done presenting your case, the defendant will have an opportunity to do the same. When the trial concludes, the judge and/or jury will deliberate until a decision is made. Once a decision has been made, it will be read in court. If you win, you may be awarded money damages or other relief if you have requested it.

If you lose, the defendant will be found not liable for refusing to deal. If you think the judge made a legal error, you may be able to appeal the decision to a higher court. Ask your lawyer if you think this may be an option. Do so quickly, however, because appeals usually have to be filed within about 30 days of judgment being entered in favor of the defendant.

