 Items that you might not expect to contain milk might actually have dairy, lactose, whey or other ingredients that can cause symptoms for the lactose intolerant. Be sure to read the Ingredients list on food items so you know what you’re consuming.


Avoid or limit anything that directly states “lactose” in the ingredients. Be sure to check products like margarine, salad dressing, non-dairy creamer, baked products and pastries, and shortening., There are many products on the market that you can use to substitute for milk. Soy milk, rice milk, and almond milk are the most common, and often come in plain and flavored varieties.You can usually also use non-dairy creamer (though be sure to check the label for lactose).


Stay away from other milk products like cream, buttermilk, malted milk, evaporated and condensed milk, and Kefir cultured milk.To avoid all lactose, also exclude the following from your diet: cheese (including ricotta), cottage cheese, ice cream, whipped cream, sherbert, butter, cream cheese, hot cocoa mix, sour cream, yogurt, pudding, custard, and whey., Breads and starches on their own don’t always contain lactose if they’re made fresh and without additives. However, avoid pre-made products like instant mashed potato mixes and frozen pre-made meals – or at least carefully read the ingredients.Baked goods (cookies, cakes, pies, etc.) and breads may or may not be made with milk, so use caution.
 Milk, cheese, and other products that contain lactose can sometimes show up in meals and snacks that you wouldn’t expect. Be on the lookout for items that might contain hidden lactose:Dips, for instance spinach and artichoke dip. These often contain cheese. Opt for salsa or hummus instead.
Creamed vegetables (creamed peas, creamed corn) and cream-based soups (white chowders, for instance).
Smoothies that contain yogurt
Vegetables and meats that are coated in batter, i.e. fried.
Cheese in things like pizza, burritos, casseroles, and in salads
Confections such as toffee, caramel, and butterscotch
Processed snacks like potato chips

, Even some medications contain lactose. The birth control pill might, as well as over-the-counter medicines to treat gas and acid reflux. If you have severe lactose intolerance and are taking these medications, talk to your doctor about possibly switching to another option.