 There are endless creative ways you can spruce up a costume once you have the basics down. Because Abraham Lincoln was a politician, you might consider making a pin that says "Vote Abraham Lincoln" on it and pinning it to your jacket. The real Lincoln was also often seen holding pocket watches, so adding one to your costume may be a good idea for the fake of authenticity.


A walking cane is always a good add-on to a costume of this nature.
 A good costume maker won't be limited to the most obvious costume solutions. In truth, there's a virtually endless amount of ways you can make yourself look like Lincoln, without even wearing the proper clothes for it. For instance, you could use paper and black spray-painted cardboard cutouts to make the costume's "coat" and "hat," then tie the pieces around your body. This approach can be called the "Paper-raham Lincoln" costume.


Don't underestimate the effect of multiple layers in a fake materials-based costume. For instance a "dress shirt" underneath the cardboard coat could be made by cutting out some of the cardboard in the middle and gluing white construction paper

, This often takes the form of combining the costume with a skirt and heels in order to feminize it. The "Babe-raham" Lincoln costume is a well-known example of this. You can exchange the big coat and pants for a black skirt and blouse. The only part of the original costume you should keep is the hat and chin beard.


The Baba-raham Lincoln costume is a spoof of "sexy" versions of Halloween costumes. It can be worn by men and women alike.
 Because there are countless things you can do with a costume, don't be afraid to splice your Abe Lincoln design with other costumes. For instance, a cute cat costume can be merged with a Lincoln costume by taking the whiskers and ears, and throwing them together with the chin beard and top hat. If you have a stockpile of costume materials, you should experiment with different combinations using what you already have.


You get bonus points if you're able to make Abraham Lincoln pun from the combination you've created.

