 If you don’t have blender, feel free to substitute tools such as an immersion blender or a food processor.;
, Frozen fruit will typically give your smoothie bowl a thicker texture. If using fresh fruit, you may need to add in some ice to achieve the proper "smoothie bowl" consistency. You may also substitute any of the fruit in the recipes. Here are some options of fruit that you make like to try:


Cherries
Blueberries
Raspberries
Pineapple
Melon
Mango
Pomegranate
To achieve a thicker and creamier consistency, you can add avocado. It will make your smoothie bowl richer.
You can also change the amount of fruit in the recipe if you feel that it requires more for taste or texture.
 Smoothie bowls do not require as much liquid as a smoothie. Begin by adding a tablespoon when blending the fruit, and add more until you reach your desired consistency. There are several options to what type of liquid can be used. Try the following:


Dairy-free milks: soy, almond milk, cashew milk, coconut milk, etc.
Water
Fruit juice
Yogurt, either natural or flavored
Tea

, Putting in extra flavorings is a great way to be more creative and add more flavor into your smoothie bowl. Here are some options:


Vanilla extract
Cinnamon
Nutmeg
Mint
Allspice
Cocoa
Nut butter, such as peanut or almond.
 This is a great way to add more nutritional value into your smoothie bowl. It is very easy to mask the flavor, so you - or your kids - won’t even know it’s there! Some popular options are:


Spinach
Kale
Lettuce
Cucumber
Cilantro

, If you prefer a sweeter smoothie, bowl then feel free to add some sweetener to balance the flavor. Try adding dates, honey, or agave for a healthy sweetener.


If you're adding dates to your smoothie bowl, soak the dates in hot water for a couple of minutes before blending to make it easier to blend.
 Once you have added all of your ingredients, secure the blender's lid and begin blending on a low speed. Slowly begin increasing to the highest speed on the blender. Blend for 10-30 seconds or until smooth.
 Now that we have completed the base, grab a bowl and plate your smoothie.
 Now it’s time to add your favorite toppings! In fact, one of the main parts in creating a smoothie bowl is the garnish. Try some of these options:


Sliced fruit
Chia seeds
Oats
Granola
Chocolate chips
Crushed nuts (such as almonds, cashews, or walnuts)
Coconut flakes
Pumpkin seeds

