 For preschool there are a lot of different options and approaches. You may want something that is more childcare centered versus something that is educational. You may also have an opinion about whether you want your child in a busy environment with lots of activity and classmates or more individual oriented environments that focus on developing particular skills., There are many approaches to young child education.Play based programs are activities aim to use play to develop skills. This is also known as "child-centered." Many times these classrooms are broken up into different sections such as home or kitchen, science area, water table, reading space, and a space with blocks and toys. This encourages students to gain skills through play.
Academic focused programs are typically teacher led and provide more structure. This is similar to a kindergarten setting and aimed at preparing a child for their next steps in school. This is also for parents who want more structure and fear the chaotic environment of play-based programs.
 There are different philosophies for how to best teach children and prepare them for success. Montessori. This is a method that was developed in Rome. This focuses on letting children learn at their own pace and allows them to work at whatever educational level they are at. It has less emphasis on teacher directing the children and lets children explore puzzles and toys on their own, being rewarded by the successful completion of a task and not verbal reinforcements from an adult. This is great for parents who want their children to develop leadership skills and independence.Waldorf. This is a method emphasizes reading, creative learning, reading, singing and acting. There is also a great emphasis on cooperation amongst students. One thing that is unique about this method is the exclusion of media such as computers, videos, electronics and no focus on academic tasks like tests, homework or even desks. This method is great for parents who want their child to develop individualism. Reggio Emilia. This is a style that encourages students to explore and engage in project based learning. Lessons are based on the interest of the students. Instead of the teacher directing questions, it might ask the student to explore outside and to ask questions and pursue education through their own encounters and interests. The projects are then framed by the student to encourage this., This is important because they will be the ones directing the curriculum, instilling values, and disciplining your child. Meet with them and find out their methods and views on things of importance.

