 Corporate positions at UPS vary greatly. Corporate jobs are also more demanding and require more education and experience. They include things like management and CEO positions. They require general leadership experience. Some positions may have specific educational and experience-related requirements. These jobs are generally more longterm and come with a chance of advancement., Corporate positions almost always require at least a bachelor's degree. If you want to work in UPS at the corporate level, you must first obtain the necessary education.


Educational requirements for corporate positions vary. However, a bachelor's degree in business or a related field can certainly help. Some corporate positions may require a master's degree in a specific field.
There are also many marketing and administrative positions that may require a degree in that particular field. Browse the UPS website, where you can look at jobs by category, to get a sense of educational requirements for a variety of UPS jobs.You may need a master's degree for some corporate positions. However, many people work for a few years between their bachelor's and master's to gain some experience in the field.
 As corporate jobs are more competitive, a high level of experience in business is necessary to obtain these positions. Start working on gaining experience as early as possible.


Leadership is important to the UPS corporation. Work on building your leadership position. Look for entry level management positions at UPS. Intern at small businesses or bigger corporations. Take on a leadership role in a local club, church, or political party.Work in high school. Even a job doing something basic, like answering phones or filing papers, can kickstart a business career. Employers will see you have some knowledge of business operations and may be more willing to hire you.
Seek out internships in college. If you want a corporate position, internship experience is vital. Talk to your college career counselor about finding an internship sometime during your junior or senior year of college. In fact, many business programs may require an internship for graduation.
Gain entry level work shortly after college. Be on the lookout for entry level business positions. Ideally, you would want an entry level position at UPS. However, if that does not pan out you can work at another company for a few years and try again. You may stand a better chance getting hired with some experience on your resume.
Networking matters when it comes to corporate positions. Stay in touch with those you've met along your path. When job hunting, reach out to past internship supervisors, bosses, colleagues, and anyone else you've encountered professionally. Ask for leads on job openings.
 Depending on the position you're seeking, as well as your state, you may need special certifications. Pay attention to job requirements on UPS job boards. If you see a particular certification is frequently required or recommended for the position, work on obtaining that certification. This will help you land a good corporate position.

