 Did you know you only grow when you're asleep? Your body produces human growth hormone (HGH) while you sleep. This hormone helps you develop muscle and actually grow taller. So if you're serious about getting taller, get plenty of sleep.


School-age children should get between 10 and 11 hours of sleep.Teens and those just under 18 should get at least 9 to 10 hours of sleep.
 Whatever you do, take the time to exercise. Exercise is crucial for your healthy development and general well-being. If you want to grow tall during your teen years especially, get in the habit of exercising your body. All exercise is good, and there is no particular exercise to increase height, but doing things that involve stretching and jumping will help to lengthen your spine.


Try jumping around by playing basketball or skipping.
Try stretching out your back and limbs by swimming.
There is no specific amount of time you should be doing this for to increase height, but the more the better.
It is recommended that people children and adolescents should do an hour of exercise a day to be healthy.To give yourself the best chance of growing taller, try to exceed this amount.
 Some stretches can help you to release your spine and improve your posture. If you stretch the first thing in the morning and the last thing at night, it can help you to become more upright, and thus make the most of your height. Some of the stretches to try include:


Toe touches. Stand up straight and raise your hands up to the sky, and then reach down to touch your toes.
Cobra stretch. Lie on your front with your hands at your sides and then push up on your hands to raise your chest and tilt back your head.
Bridge stretch. Lie on your back with your hands at either side of you, then, pressing down on your hands, raise your abdomen off the ground to stretch your back.
 If you do all of the previous steps, there's a good chance that you've given your body the best chance to grow taller. Not everyone is going to be as tall as a basketball player or a model. Being tall isn't everything, so learn to be comfortable with how you are.


Some people are "late bloomers" and only hit their big growth spurt when they turn 17, 18 or beyond.
If you are really concerned, see your pediatric endocrinologist. This doctor will be able to give you valuable information about possible medical courses you may take in order to combat low growth.

