 Depending on where you live you will have better luck with some grass varieties than others. Grasses fall into two basic categories: warm-season and cool-season.Warm-season grasses will be able to survive a brutal summer and tend to do well in the southern states. Choose from varieties such as Bermuda, St. Augustine, and Kikuyu.Cool-season grasses handle cold much better than warm-season grasses. They can tolerate freezing temperatures and some drought. Don't expect them to survive the heat or go longer than 4 weeks without water. Kentucky bluegrass is a popular cool-season grass.;
, If you choose a warm-season grass, plant in late-spring. If you choose a cold-season grass, plant in late summer or early fall.If you're going with sod, the time of year doesn't matter as much, though summer may still be too hot.
 Before you get started planting grass, you'll need to make sure your soil is in good condition. It's a good idea to test your soil. Soil testing will give you an idea of how much fertilizer to use, and what kind.It is difficult to amend soil in an established lawn.If you need to add fertilizer work it into the first 4-6 inches., This is a critical step. Soil preparation is the most important part of healthy lawn growth. Your goal is a soil that is loose, rich in organic matter, and able to hold moisture while draining well.








Clear the area of all weeds, rocks, and roots. Using a shovel dig up any large objects in the area where you'll be planting grass. Make sure you get rid of all weed roots.You may have to use a chemical weed killer to get rid of weeds completely. If you must use chemicals, refer to the manufacturer for instructions on how much to use.Till your soil either by hand or using a rototiller depending on the size of the area. This is the perfect opportunity to mix any compost or other amendments to your soil.Add gypsum to your soil to improve drainage., Now that you've cleared and tilled the area, it is ready for leveling. Use a garden rake and smooth out the entire area. Fill in any low spots and break up any remaining clumps.








While leveling the area it is a good idea to apply a "grade," or slope, away from the house foundation. Applying a grade will help you avoid any water runoff problems in the future.