 Members must be able to keep secrets and do surveillance on the enemy. First get your best friend to join,then start recruiting your other friends.;
,


Can they keep secrets?
Can they work cooperatively and generously as a team?
Do they help others and keep people in safe hands?
Do they listen resourcefully and have good skills for defending and fighting?
Do they take part on all missions bravely and safely?
Do they take everything seriously and skillfully?

,


An example: C.I.S.S.O.
Have your team members vote on the secret service organization's name.
 Some possibilities:,, You can add some tables or a meeting table, chairs, TV for surveillance and for keeping an eye out on news and some computers for searching up on the internet or for a spy device.
 Give your team members some training in:




Surveillance watching.
Protection training.
Co-operative training.
Combat training.
Spy mission training.
Stealth training..
Using high-tech equipment.
Securing target.
Capturing training.
,
Secondary director(Second In Command, doesn't have direct command over whole organization but just a small unit)
Admiral (Head Of Operations)
Vice Admiral(Second In Command Of Operations)
General(Head of Security)
Major(Head of Info. Department)
Captain(Head of Missions Department)
Commander(Head of Special SWAT Team)
Lieutenant commander(Second in Command of Special SWAT Team)
Lieutenant(Head of Secret Service)
2nd Lieutenant (Head of Officer Training)
Cadet(Officer In Training)
Corporal(Head of Agent Training)
Special agent(Member of The SWAT Team)
Recruit(Agent In Training)
Be creative and make up some new ranks for your own team.



You need to let your organization to have some gadgets to go on missions and operations working with demolitions. You can buy spy gear in shops worldwide. You can also make your own gadgets and equipment for your secret service organization.



Keep a secret.
Work as a co-operative team in the organization.
Keep a low-profile.
Keep the organization safe.
Keep you your team members safe from threats.
Respectfully obey the rules.
Generously help your organization.



Head of Protection
Security guards
Scientist
Assistant Scientist(s)

