 One of the easiest and most effective measures to prevent colds and the flu is by washing your hands thoroughly and frequently.This reduces the proliferation of bacteria and the cold or flu virus from common spaces or surfaces.Make sure you wet your hands before applying soap to your hands. Scrub your hands vigorously for 20 seconds, making sure to get under your nails, between your fingers, and the front and back of your hands.Rinse your hands under running water and dry them on a clean towel.Rub on a hand sanitizer if you can’t locate any soap and water.;
, Put your hand or tissue over both your nose and mouth whenever you cough or sneeze.Covering sneezes and coughs minimizes the risk of spreading your germs and the viruses.


Consider coughing or sneezing into the crook of your elbow, which may help avoid contaminating your hands and spreading germs to others.
Throw away the used tissue immediately and then wash your hands.You may also want to wash your hands after coughing or sneezing into them.
 The cold and flu are very contagious and generally spread where crowds of people congregate. Steering clear of crowds or packed spaces may minimize your risk of contracting either virus.Wash your hands after touching surfaces in crowded places. Door handles (especially restroom door handles), for example, are surfaces on which cold and flu viruses can linger.
If you feel ill, stay home for at least a day to reduce your risk of spreading your cold or flu to others, or making your case worse by catching something else.Avoid touching your face, especially your mouth, nose, and eyes.
Choose a daycare for your child that has clear policies on keeping sick children at home and exhibits good hygiene practices., The cold and flu viruses can spread easily on shared surfaces and spaces, especially in bathrooms and kitchens. Disinfecting these areas can help prevent the cold and flu viruses from spreading..


Focus cleaning on common spaces such as the toilet, bathroom sink, kitchen counters, and the kitchen sink. Disinfect door handles, too.
Use any type of surface disinfectant available commercially, though you may want one that provides broad protection against different strains of viruses, germs, and bacteria such as Lysol.
 These include your bedroom, kitchen, dining room, sitting room and bathrooms.
 A lack of proper oral hygiene can make it easier for microbes to enter the body. .