 Go through your finances and determine exactly how much you can spend on housing, food, entertainment, and other expenses each month. Estimate how much income you will be bringing in as well. This is especially important because island prices can come as a shock to some. The USVI follow the U.S. dollar, but the cost of particular items are often much more than the mainland.


There are a variety of websites online that will give you a price comparison on some of the most commonly purchased goods. Eggs, for example, might cost you up to $6 per dozen. A gallon of regular milk can go up to $9., If you already have a job waiting for you, that’s great. If not, then start your search months in advance by browsing some of the main career websites, such as Craigslist and Indeed. The USVI moving forums might provide you with some leads as well. It’s best to flexible when looking for a position, as many people come to the islands and switch career paths completely.For example, it is not uncommon to hear about accountants becoming yoga instructors or hotel staffers. The key is to stay open-minded while still selling your current skill set., A non-U.S. resident will need to apply for an H1B, H2B, or student visa. You can find a detailed list of the requirements for these different visas at the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services website. The H1B visa is the most common choice for professionals with a long-term job waiting in the USVI. The H2B visa is more short-term and intended for seasonal workers and the like. A student visa covers those persons attending a university on the islands., Operating a business in the USVI requires that you get a license from the Department of Licensing and Consumer Affairs (DLCA), which covers all four islands. Your DCLA application will then put you in contact with other agencies of importance, such as the Police Department and Department of Planning and Natural Resources (for zoning).Many companies move to the USVI due to the tax advantages offered, relative to the U.S. Some businesses see a reduction of up to 90% on corporate income tax., Each island has a Board of Realtors who can help you find a home to buy or rent. Owning a timeshare, renting, or leasing provides more flexibility if you believe that you’ll move around a bit between the islands. On the other hand, buying a home can be a good investment for anyone with ample funds who is looking to settle for a while.On St. Thomas, for example, the average home price averages just over $500,000 for any given year. Condos start at around $150,000 and can be a more affordable option.Some people prefer to purchase land and build a home on it. To do this you’ll need to work with a real estate attorney. Keep in mind that building can be quite costly as all materials must be imported.Make sure to set up any utilities for your home well in advance. Most places offer a combination of electricity, water, and gas, often provided by the city.