 For example, if you are having a tiki cocktail party, you may want to serve a rum punch or a Blue Hawaiian, which require different ingredients than a normal home bar's stock.;
, It is not essential that you provide a full bar. As long as you have a variety of spirits, wine, beer and non-alcoholic drinks, the guests will most likely be content.
 You want to make sure there is a flow of people past the cocktail bar and into standing or seating areas. Place the bar away from the appetizers or other food and away from the entryway, to avoid a bottleneck.


If possible, place your bar in the kitchen, because it is easier to clean spills off counters and tile than off carpet.
 If the bar will be away from the kitchen, make sure you have a nearby source of water and kitchen towels for spills. Lay a tablecloth over the table.


If you are putting up a collapsible table for your bar, make sure it is about 30 inches (76 cm) wide and 6 feet (182 cm) long, to avoid a long wait for drinks.
 Hire a bartender a month to a few weeks in advance, as the good freelance bartenders book up early.
 This can be mixed in advance. For example, if it is a winter cocktail party, you can mix eggnog in advance and have it available for guests.


If you are going to have a punch bowl, consider putting it on a table of its own, since the punchbowl and glasses can take up a lot of space.
 If you want to have wine, choose a white and a red, but stay with the same type of wine so that the guests do not have to make more decisions.


Consider stocking these staples that are common to a self-serve bar: vodka, rye whiskey, tequila, white rum, gin, and scotch or bourbon. If you are serving themed-drinks, buy other ingredients, such as Blue Curacao or Irish Cream.
Buy mixers, such as tonic water, club soda, cola, cranberry juice and other sodas.
 You can never have too much ice at a cocktail party. Place a full ice bucket out and refill it throughout the night.
, These include: a long spoon for stirring, a metal drink shaker with a strainer, tongs for the ice bucket, a bottle opener, a wine corkscrew and at least 2 small measuring cups, known as jiggers.
 Set them out, including toothpicks and bowls of cherries and olives right before the party.
,
The second row should have a water jug, juices and garnishes.
The third row should have soft drinks, jiggers and other bar tools and openers.
The fourth and front row should have napkins, an ice bucket and tongs.
Only keep 1 or 2 bottles of each liquor or wine out at once and restock as the night goes on.
,,