 The drawing does not have to be to scale, but the more accurate it is, the more useful it'll be.


Since you are just measuring floors, including windows and doorways should not matter.
Include all areas involved in your project. For example, if you’re putting in flooring and have a walk-in closet you are also flooring, draw the closet.
In this hypothetical drawing, there is a bathroom on the right (which is a separate room, so it is not drawn) and a bay window to the left (shown with a half circle).;
, To calculate the area of a room, use the standard (Length) x (Width) = Area formula.Measure the maximum length and width at the widest points of the room.This is important and will help you get the correct measurements.


Move any items or furniture in the way of your measuring tape.
Having a friend hold the end of the tape could help.
Right now, you are only measuring the main area. Ignore bay windows and separate areas like bathrooms for this step.
 Use a calculator to ensure this measurement is accurate. For instance, if the room is 12 feet wide and 12 feet long, the area of the floor is 144 square feet. Your result is the measurement of the total floor area. Record this number on your drawing.
 These often include closets or bathrooms that you are part of a flooring or tile project. Measuring square or rectangular recesses is the same as measuring the main area of the room. Measure the width and length of the recess, then multiply the length and width to find the area of the recess.


Write down the result in the recess area of your drawing.
Repeat this step if there are multiple recesses in the room.
 Measure the longest length (usually through the center) and width of the recess.Do not measure further than the edge of the main area you already measured. Next, divide the length by two. Then, multiply this number by the width. Now, multiply the total by pi (3.14). Lastly, divide the area in half.


Record the number in the recess area of your drawing.
Now you have the area of the U-shaped protrusion in the room.
The area in a bay window recess should only be included as part of the area of the room if it has a floor (rather than a seat) and the ceiling is at least seven feet or 2.13 m high.
 Add the areas of all recesses to the main floor area. Now, you have the total square footage of your floor, and you can purchase carpet, flooring, or other materials accordingly.

