 It's important to wear running clothing that is both comfortable and able to wick away moisture from your body. If you sweat a lot, avoid wearing cotton as it'll just soak up the moisture and leave you with heavier clothing, which isn't conducive to your best performance. While there are many proprietary names for specialized fabrics that wick away moisture, such as Dri-Fit, Coolmax, Polypro, etc., they all fairly much perform the same way by wicking away moisture and drying fast. Wearing garments made from these items will tend to keep you cooler when running in hot weather.


In weather over 14ºC/60ºF and above, the ideal clothing for running is a tank top, tankini or singlet and shorts.For walking, a t-shirt or short- or long-sleeved shirt works too.
When choosing running or walking clothing, always try it on at the store first and check for padded or excess fabric that might result in rubbing when rubbing, uncomfortable seams or loose stitching. Walk around in the item before purchasing it.;
, Protecting your body against sun damage is vital. Focus on doing this both through clothing and sunscreen:


Wear a hat. Legionnaire hat styles are the best when made from fabric that grips close to your head. These protect your neck and the sides and front of your face from glaring sun. All the same, still add sunscreen to these areas. Whatever hat you choose, make sure that it stays on, either through its own elasticity or by means of a tie.
Wear sunglasses. Sunglasses that are suitable for running or walking are available and you can add on elastic or holders that keep the glasses in place. For walking, you may be able to wear your regular sunglasses unless they slip when walking a lot. Be sure that sunglasses wrap around to cover the sides of your eye area too.
Apply sunscreen to all exposed parts of your body. Do your research into suitable sunscreens––there is more advice available here.
 Purchase a good quality water bottle that has a carry sling or water pack that has back straps. It is important to take water when out running or walking, and the farther you intend on going, the more water you'll need.


Drink plenty before you go running or walking. Have around 500ml/17 fl oz of water about one to two hours before heading out for your exercise and and top this up with 250ml/8.45 fl oz 15 minutes before exercising.Don't use thirst as a monitor, not even in hot water. Drink regularly whether or not you feel thirsty. For example, on a long run, sip small amounts of water often. It's the only way to get the 800ml/27.05 fl oz of water your body needs per hour into your system comfortably and safely while exercising. During a run, aim to drink between 250ml to 350ml (8.45 fl oz to 11.8 fl oz) every 15 minutes.The hotter it is, the more you need to hydrate, especially when running. Re-hydrate at the end of your run, race or walk too.
What to drink? Water is generally fine for walking and for basic running. Sports drinks are considered to be more useful for serious running, as they replenish lost salts and sugars (fixing depleted glycogen stores quickly) as well as the liquid. There are isotonic, hypotonic and hypertonic sports drinks available on the market. Do your own research into ingredients to see what matches your unique needs and preferences. However, it is recommended that the amount of carbs be between five and eight percent––any lower and the drink won't be useful, any higher and you're liable to a nasty sugar high which might cause diarrhea or worse.Know where refill areas for water are around your running or walking circuit. If you regularly include parks and other public spaces, drinking stations are often provided for the use of all.
 Both the temperature and the time of the day impact your ability to run or walk in hot weather. It tends to be more crucial for running because you're exerting so much energy to keep your pace but in either case, be sensible. Here are some tips to bear in mind:


Over 35ºC/95ºF atmosphere temperature, the human body loses its ability to release heat into the air, and any activity accelerates this process. In terms of core body temperature, the maximum body temperature recorded in a long-distance extreme runner who was still conscious was 41ºC/105.8ºF––by the time the body core temperature reaches 42.7ºC/109ºF, a runner will collapse.If left untreated, death can be sudden. The lesson is, don't go running or walking in temperatures over 35ºC/95ºF; wait until it cools down.
Note that while atmosphere temperature may be one reading, radiant heat from the ground, especially from such surfaces as bitumen and concrete can be up to 40 percent higher again.Following the sensible advice provided by all organizations concerned with sun safety, avoid running or walking outside for any length of time over 10 minutes when it's between 10am and 4pm. This is to avoid getting sunburned and risking skin damage and skin cancers. Stick to going out in the sun in the early morning or late evening, to avoid the intensity of the midday sun.
 If you aren't taking in enough fluid while running or walking in hot weather, you will start to notice some or all of the following effects and need to rehydrate and probably also stop exercising immediately (depending on the severity of your dehydration):Thirst: This is the initial stage of dehydration but it's not always evident as we learn ways to overlook this first indicator as a matter of convenience. Also, it shouldn't be relied on as the necessary sign to be concerned.
Dry mouth and reduced endurance: Dehydration is beginning to show itself.
Feeling discomfort everywhere: Your aerobic ability is impaired. Running or walking will seem much harder.
Your breathing and heart rate increase noticeably: When you start to find it hard to make decisions and find your pace dropping, your body temperature is rising.
Hot flushes, cardiovascular rates still rising: Once your body temperature starts rising to dangerous levels, you'll feel headaches, a loss of balance and dizziness.
Difficulty breathing, confusion, impaired vision, hallucinations, unable to swallow: All of these are signs of dangerous heat stress and maybe even heat stroke; your system is in danger of shutting down. You may suffer a blackout and you could die. Don't ever let things get this far.
 If you're running, slow to a walk or sit in shade if possible. If you're walking, sit in shade or find a nearby air-conditioned indoor space.

