 One thing that can dampen romance is the boredom of routine. This can apply to your bedroom if you have had the same setup for a long time. Try moving the bed to a different wall, facing a new direction in the room. Move dressers, chairs or any other furniture to new places as well. Giving the room a completely new look will make it feel almost like you are staying in a romantic getaway rather than your same old room.You may want to draw out potential room layouts before you start moving things to ensure that the setup you hope for is achievable. Maybe your options are limited but drawing it out can help you figure out what could be moved.
If moving the entire bed is not an option, especially if space is limited, considering moving the rest of the room around so at least the arrangement is new.
If you are working in a living room, you can move the couch to a new location, or maybe move two chairs close together so you can easily sit and talk. Don’t have them facing each other head on, but don’t have them completely beside each other either. Angle them toward each other while giving those sitting there the option to look slightly away, too.
 If significant remodeling in the bedroom is an option, putting recessed lights in the wall is great for establishing a better mood. Overhead lights tend to be unflattering, so moving away from those for the bedroom is smart. You will most likely not be able to do this on your own, unless you have specific electrical training, so consider the cost of a contractor and whether it fits your budget.


This is also a good time to evaluate the light bulbs you are using. Even if you can’t install new lights, you can change bulbs. Go for bulbs with a soft white/or warm white light and use 60 watt or lower so best brightness.
Overall, it is good to assess how your room is lit and what ways you can change it. Remodeling and adding new fixed lighting may not work, but consider adding a couple lamps if your room doesn’t already have them. For day to day routines, you can still use overhead lighting, but for times when you want to increase the romance, stick to low lit lamps.
Dimmer switches are a great addition to any room because they give you the option of having full light for regular daily activities and lower mood lighting for specific romantic occasions.
 This is obviously an expensive and long term option, but since the bed is the centerpiece of the room and the primary location for romance, it can really affect the mood of the room. The bed should ultimately be comfortable, but how it looks is important becuase you will see if before you feel it. Old or broken down looking beds detract from the romance of the room.A large, wooden, 4 poster bed will give the room a classically romantic look. You can add a canvas canopy which softens the look and feel of the room, as well. Hang drapes down each of the posts to enhance the look.
Maybe you can’t buy an entirely new bed but you can buy a new mattress. A comfier more inviting mattress will increase the romance of the room. Even if you can’t buy a mattress, considering buying a down-filled mattress cover which adds a layer of softness to the bed.
Lastly, if none of these purchases are within your budget, consider buying new sheets or a bedskirt. Higher thread count sheets are softer. You could buy some red silk sheets for special occasions. Again, the specific color of the sheets is mostly personal preference, but light reds and pinks are often considered the most romantic.
For rooms besides the bedroom, considering investing in other new furniture. Your mom’s old sofa that sat in the basement for two years is probably not the most romantic piece for you living room. The poker table that doubles as a dining room table may not set the mood you hope for. If it is within your budget, new furniture can be a great way to make a room more romantic.

