 The Google Maps site allows you to create maps with up to nine additional destinations.
 This will open the sidebar and allow you to enter a starting location and your first destination.
 Use the buttons along the top of the sidebar to select how you will be traveling. You can only set multiple destinations for driving, walking, and cycling. You cannot set multiple destinations for transit or airplanes.
 You can type an address, a business or landmark, or click a spot on the map. Click the "My location" option at the top of the search results to use your computer's current location. You may be prompted by your browser to allow Google Maps to see your location.











You must enter a starting location before you can add multiple destinations.
 Click the "Choose destination" box and then enter a destination just like you did your starting point.
 If you started by selecting your destinations first (i.e. by clicking a spot on the map or searching for a destination when you first opened the map), click the round "Directions" button and pick a starting location. You'll need to be in "Directions" mode with both a starting location and a destination before you can add multiple stops.


Click "Directions".
 This will add a new destination line for your second destination.









Make sure that you have both a starting location and a destination set, or the "+" will not appear.
If you don't see the "+" button, you may need to close "Route options." You may also have the wrong travel method selected, as airplanes and transit do not support multiple destinations.
 After clicking the "+" button, enter in your second destination like you did the first. You'll see your route adjust so that you're taken to your second destination after reaching the first.
 You can continue to add destinations in this fashion until you've completed your trip. You can only specify a single method of transportation for the entire trip.











You can set up to ten total locations, including your starting point. If your trip has more destinations, you may have to create multiple maps for your trip.
 You can drag and release the dots next to each destination if you need to reorder your trip. The new route will automatically be calculated.
 If there are multiple possible routes for your trip, they'll be listed below your destinations, along with the total travel time. Click the route to view the turn-by-turn directions.











You cannot send a trip with multiple destinations to your mobile device, so this option will be grayed out.
 You'll have two options: printing with the map, or printing text directions only.











You can also click the Share button and send a link to the map to others via email.

