 One way you can stop losing weight is to increase the amount of calories you eat each day. You should consume at least 1200 calories each day. Try tracking your calorie intake each day using a calorie tracker app, and then add a couple hundred calories each day.This doesn’t mean you should start eating a bunch of junk food. Instead, eat healthy calories that provide a lot of nutrition. For example, you can eat nut and nut butters, which have healthy calories and fat. Try adding healthy oils, like coconut and olive, to your meals. Include healthy carbs, like quinoa and oatmeal.;
, If you are having trouble getting enough calories, try eating more small meals throughout the day. Large meals only once or twice a day may not provide enough calories for you, and they can make you feel stuffed and overly full.Try eating three meals, then small snacks between meals. You may also want to have small mini meals, like a protein and a vegetable, between your main meals.
For example, you may want to eat eggs, avocado, and a piece of fruit for breakfast. For a small snack, you may eat almond butter on a whole wheat English muffin. For your afternoon snack, you may eat some nitrate-free deli ham, cheese, and an apple. After dinner, you may eat Greek yogurt with frozen blueberries and walnuts.
 You shouldn’t stop working out completely, but adjusting your workout may help you stop losing weight. Assess what you are currently doing, how often you are working out, and for how long. Consider cutting back on long cardio workouts, or do cardio fewer days each week.Add in social workouts instead of hitting the gym each day. Go for walks with your family, friends, or dog, or plan a hiking trip with them. Play a team sport at the park, or go for a bike ride through a park.
Consider light workouts that help with stress, like yoga, tai chi, or pilates.
 Increase your strength training and reduce your cardio. Building muscle mass can help you gain muscle weight and stop losing weight from burning fat. Lifting heavy weights will help you gain muscle tissue, which will increase your weight.Switch from the treadmill or elliptical to doing bicep curls or lunges with dumbbells or barbell squats. If you've never worked out with weights before, consider talking to a personal trainer or a knowledgeable friend to help you learn proper form.
 High stress levels and anxiety can lead to weight loss. Stress and anxiety can lead you to stop eating, or your nervous energy may burn away calories. If stress is the root of your weight loss, you should find ways to reduce it to help your overall health.Try deep breathing exercises. For example, focus on your breathing twice each day. Take a minute or two and just breathe in and out calmly, focusing only on the way your breath feels as it enters and exits your body. You may want to breathe in for a count of four or five, hold it for that long, and then release for a count of five.
Guided meditation is another good relaxation technique. You can find apps, audio files, and YouTube channels that will lead you through guided meditations for stress.
Yoga and tai chi are great exercise for stress relief.

