 Choose a pair of jeans that you'd like to distress. If this is the first time altering a piece of clothing, use a cheaper jean that you don't mind destroying. If you don't have any cheap jeans, you can go to a thrift shop to purchase an affordable pair. Stretchy jeans are the best for laddering.
Get tighter jeans if you're going for a sensual look.
Get baggier jeans if you are going for the "tomboy" look.;
, To get a more natural look for your jeans, you can distress the area that you want to make the ladder with a pumice stone or some sandpaper. Place the stone or the sandpaper on where you want to distress your jeans and scrub your jeans horizontally with your tool. This will break down the vertical or blue threads in your jeans and give it a naturally worn look.








Use a 220 or higher sand paper when distressing your jeans.
 Traditionally jeans are laddered at the knee. Put your jeans on and use a white chalk to make two to four-inch (5.08 - 10.16 cm) horizontal lines on the areas if you are creating the ladder at the knees. The line on the back pockets should be two inches (5.08 cm) or smaller. The piece of fabric in between these marks will be your ladder.








The line on the side seam should be half an inch (1.27 cm) or smaller.
You can also choose to ladder other parts of the jean including the back pockets and side seams.
Decide on if you want the ladder to be above, below, or covering your entire knee.
You must decide on how large you want the rips in your jeans to be and how many rips you want.
 The cardboard or magazine will prevent you from cutting into the backside of the jeans. Put it on the leg that you're laddering at the time.
 Fold the jean vertically at the line you created and cut the line you drew with a scissor. Measure an inch above the cut and make another identical cut running parallel to the cut you just created. You can also use a razor blade or box cutter to cut the lines as long as the magazine or cardboard is under your blade.
 Flip the tab that you created with the two cuts and look at the underside of your fabric. The blue threads running vertically on the inside of your pants are called warp threads. Pull these out with tweezers until all that remains is the white "ladder" threads.








The vertical white threads in your jeans are called weft threads and should be left intact to create the ladder.
When laddering on smaller parts of the jean like the side seam or back pocket, measure a half inch (1.27 cm) up instead of an entire inch from your initial cut.
 Continue to pull out all the blue threads in your ladder until the white threads are the only threads remaining. Once you've done this, you can repeat the process to create other ladder areas around your jeans.








If you want larger gaps in between your ladder, you can pull some white threads as well., Continue to repeat the steps on other pieces of your jeans until you reach the look that you desire. Once you've distressed your jeans in multiple places, you'll have created your owned laddered jeans.

