 By knowing the symptoms of hypoglycemia, you can assess yourself or others. If you or someone else has symptoms of hypoglycemia, then the best thing to do is to eat a fast acting source of glucose, like orange juice. If the symptoms resolve, then hypoglycemia was most likely the cause. Symptoms of hypoglycemia may include:Nausea.
Sweating.
Irritability.
Confusion.
Dizziness.
Anxiety.
Headache.
Hunger.;
, You can determine if you have low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) by measuring the blood sugar level just before a meal when the blood sugar level is at its lowest. Hypoglycemia is generally defined as a blood sugar level that is less than 90 milligrams of sugar per deciliter of blood (mg/dL).You’ll need a blood sugar tester. You can purchase a digital one-touch tester at any major retailer or pharmacy for as little at $15.
Wipe your fingertip with alcohol and let it dry before you use a one-touch unit. Then, use the single use lancet the make a small prick in one of your fingers. The unit will automatically assess your blood sugar level and display the number.
The finger prick shouldn’t be painful. Make sure to wash your hands with antibacterial soap when you’re done to avoid infection.Check your blood sugar again after you’ve eaten to make sure it’s returned to a normal level.
 This will allow the blood sugar less time to drop between meals. The sizes of the meals should be reduced accordingly so that the total caloric intake doesn’t change.Smaller snacks like granola bars, sliced fruit, a hardboiled eggs, or a bag of baked chips are good options for people with chronically low blood sugar.
A good rule of thumb is to consume at least 15 grams of carbohydrates. If you want to consume exactly that amount, try 4 ounces of fruit juice, 1 teaspoon of sugar or jelly, and 7-8 Life Savers., If you do not have diabetes, then strategic mealtimes may help to maintain your blood sugar levels. Carbohydrates are complex sugars that increase the blood sugar level when they’re broken down. A regular intake of carbohydrates will help maintain the blood sugar level throughout the day.Carbohydrates can be found in white breads, pasta, potatoes, beans, fruits, nuts, yogurt, and cereal.
Hypoglycemics frequently carry candy or fruit juice with them to raise their blood sugar level quickly.
If you still feel light-headed and weak after eating carbohydrate or sugary foods, you may want to contact a doctor.
Ensure that your diet is varied with complex carbs (fruits and vegetables) and lean protein to help keep healthy blood sugar levels in check.
 If your blood sugar is extremely low, this can be dangerous for your health. A blood sugar emergency would be a blood sugar level below 75 mg/dL. Healthcare professionals may inject the hormone glucagon directly into the bloodstream in an emergency to raise the blood sugar level quickly.Many diabetics can be trained to self-inject glucagon in an emergency. You will need a prescription from your doctor.
Be aware that glucagon is not meant for healthy people. It is a drastic measure to control blood sugar that has dipped to a dangerous level.
 If your blood sugar is causing a seizure or diabetic shock, you will need someone else to administer dextrose. Emergency dextrose is administered with an intravenous drip. This should only be done by a medical professional.