 Shame is harmful to mental health, and may make them afraid of being judged. It will also harm your relationship and make them distrust you.;
, This attitude is hurtful to heavy people who work very hard on maintaining good health, ignores the existence of unhealthy thin people, and can turn into a self-fulfilling prophecy for obese people who are self-conscious. It may be best not to mention weight at all.
 Some obese people are afraid of exercise, because they might be mocked or pushed too hard. Get outdoors together, let them set the pace, and make exercise a social activity rather than a self-loathing workout.


Go for walks together
Play backyard sports (football, volleyball, soccer, etc.)
Visit nature trails and hike
Play in a pool or lake

, Go to the grocery store with your obese loved one and ask them to pick out their favorite fruits and veggies. Talk to them about what they like to eat, and what their favorite health foods are. Mention what health foods you like, and what other family members like too.


Integrate health food into desserts: strawberries with whipped cream and chocolate syrup, raspberries and vanilla ice cream, bananas with nutella, etc.
 Your relative will notice if you always give them a tiny dish of nonfat ice cream while you let their thinner loved ones eat whatever they please. Make any health projects a family initiative, so that no one feels singled out.
 Many obese people struggle with body image issues and poor self confidence. Compliment their resilience, their compassion, or their skill at the piano. Encourage them to see themselves as talented, worthwhile individuals.
 Society places an enormous value upon how beautiful a woman is, so if she is obese, she may feel ugly and unwanted. You can help her by pointing out cute clothes in her size, playing with her hair (if she's okay with it), and telling her she looks gorgeous.


Avoid the term "slimming" when giving fashion advice. Tell yourself that the goal isn't to make her look skinny, which is impossible, but to make her look fabulous, which is definitely possible.
 You are their family, not their personal trainer. Your caring and affection is what they need most.

