 This is a great way to make you forget that you are bored. An author's words can help you take a mental vacation. Children's and young adult books are especially good at this. They can also awaken the inner child, as well as feelings of wonder and nostalgia.


Choose a genre you enjoy. If you've never been able to get into science fiction, a science fiction book in unlikely to alleviate boredom. Instead, go for historical fiction.
If you don't have any books lying around, go to a local library or bookstore. Getting out of the house can help lessen your boredom.;
, This is a great way to exercise your creativity. You'll also have something beautiful to show off when you're done. This can also help you build a new skill, which can be great to do when you're bored.


Drawing or doodling may also increase your intelligence. Research suggests that doodling can help keep you focused and listening by engaging your brain.If you like to paint and draw, but aren't sure what to draw, try going outside and painting/drawing a still life of what you see. You can also draw or paint something interesting around your house.
You can also draw or paint your favorite book or movie character if you want to use your imagination.
 Even if you're getting older, coloring can still be a great way to lessen boredom. Try digging out some crayons and markers and then find a coloring book lying around. Coloring for a few hours can help lessen boredom. You can try playing music in the background or have the TV on.If you don't have anything to color, try coloring in the pictures in a black and white newspaper or magazine. You can also draw your own pictures and color them in.
If you're older and feel silly coloring, they do make coloring books aimed at adults. Try picking such a book up at your local bookstore and coloring that.
 Lists are fun ways to pass the time. You can make a list of places you want to visit, books you want to reach, or goals you want to achieve. You can also make a silly list without a serious purpose.Make a list that challenges you to think of a variety of ideas. For example, try to write down 50 different Christmas songs or 50 girl's names that start with the letter "A."
You can also make lists of your favorite things. For example, you can have a list of your favorite movies in a particular genre, your favorite books, or your favorite travel destinations.
 You don't even have to be a great writer to do this. A little creative writing can be personally challenging and result in lessening your boredom. Writing will help distract your mind. You will focus on what you are writing, rather than thinking about how bored you are.If you're struggling to start, just do a free write. Write down anything that comes to mind without filtering yourself. If you strike on anything interesting, try developing that idea further. You can even start by writing something like, "I'm so bored" and describing your boredom.
If you enjoy creative writing, start writing that novel, poem, or short story you've always wanted to find the time to write.
Start a blog. If it feels a little silly to write with no particular goal, start blogging about a subject that interests you. For example, you can start blogging about music if you love going to concerts., If you're bored, think about someone you haven't seen in awhile. Try writing that person a letter or email. This can help you do something productive by reaching out to someone and will also lessen your boredom.Express something positive to a friend or family member. In addition to lessening your boredom, you will feel better about yourself. Tell someone you're grateful that they helped you with something, for example, or that you admired how they handled a situation.
Consider writing a letter to a soldier overseas, disaster victims, or an elderly person at a hospice. There are many organizations that collect such letters and then mail them for you. If you join this kind of organization, you will always have something to do when you're bored.
 If there's a holiday coming up, or if you're just feeling generous, make some gifts. You don't have to be a master crafter to make something cute and meaningful for a loved one.Try something simple like painting a clay flower pot, making a photo collage, or using construction paper and stickers to make a handmade card.
If you like to knit or crochet, try making a scarf or arm warmers. They are easy and can usually be completed within one day.
Try making a scrapbook for someone. Get a scrapbook album, or an empty notebook, and some photos, paper, glue, and other embellishments. You can make pages based around a theme. For example, on one page you could include photos and mementos from a particular holiday., If you're bored because you're stuck at home, there are a lot of crafts you can do with objects lying around the house. This can help lessen your boredom without forcing you to spend extra money or make an extra trip.You can make a fun night light by filling a mason jar with old Christmas lights. You can also glue the lights along the side of the mason jar in a fancy design.
Do you have sewing supplies and old pillows? Try sewing several pillows together to make a long body pillow. If you have young children, this can be fun at sleepovers.
Do you have a lot of keys for your home? Take some nail polish and paint the end of each key a different color. This will make it easier to grab they key you need in a hurry.

