 It's important that your significant other recognizes your feelings. He or she may be sorry, but that's different from understanding the pain, heartache, and confusion you're going through. Tell your significant other how you really feel, and make sure he or she acknowledges everything that is going through your head.


Your significant other should completely understand that he has put you in a terrible position before you can move on. He may be in a tough position too, especially if he had to end an affair, but he should be understanding of your feelings for it to work.
 Have an honest conversation about what happened is the only way to move forward. You should plan a day and time to sit down with your significant other and to talk about what happened. You may have already shouted or argued about it, but this is different from breaking down what happened in a rational way. Here's what to do:


Ask your significant other what happened. There's no need to get into the nitty-gritty of what exactly happened between him and the other woman. Just get the facts. How many times did they meet, and when did it happen?
Ask how he feels about the other woman. Best answer: "I feel absolutely nothing for her." Worst answer: "I don't know." Your significant other should not only say he's attached to the other woman, but he should truly feel nothing for her. You will have to pay attention to see what he's really feeling.
Ask him if this has happened before. Though there are arguments against revealing past dalliances or insignificant mistakes to your long-term significant other, since you already know the score, you might as well get as much information as you can so you can make the best decision.
Ask how he's feeling about the relationship. Find out why he cheated, and how he feels about being together.
Tell him how you feel again. Though you should have already communicated and validated your feelings, you can be firm about how you feel once he tells you his side of the story.
Discuss what you can do to make things work. You can be business-like about it and take notes. What will you do to make sure your relationship is stronger and that the cheating won't happen again? Will you spend more time together, be more honest with each other, or find a completely new relationship routine? Will you see a relationship therapist and talk to friends about the problem, or will you try to figure it out by yourselves?
Set rules. If the woman is a coworker, does your significant other have to quit his job? Many relationship therapists say yes. Does he have to communicate with you every hour when he's out? This may feel humiliating for him, but remind him that you're the one who feels humiliated.
 Once you've had an honest conversation about what happened, you can work on making honest communication a part of your daily lives. You should make a point of being open and honest with each other, and of taking the time to listen to what the other person has to say. Here are some ways to work on having open communication:


Make time to talk every week. Be open about what worked in the relationship that week and what you can do to make things better. This shouldn't feel too forced, but like a necessary step.
Make a point of telling each other how you feel. Though you may feel closed off after you found out you've been cheated on, you should work on talking about your positive and negative emotions when you're ready.
Don't be passive aggressive. If you're mad mad about something, then mention it when the time is right.
 Unless the cheating was truly an anomaly and everything is perfect between you and your significant other, you need to work on your relationship. There are many things you can do to help build a deeper connection and to try to start fresh. Here are some things to try:


Pick up a new hobby together. Both of you should try something you have never done before, whether it's rock climbing or ceramics.
Try to share more interests. Maybe you've grown distant because you feel like you have nothing in common and nothing to talk about. Make a pact to read the same book each month, or to watch a new television show together. Even sharing a few little interests can make a big difference.
Work on compromising. Don't let your significant other always get his way, and know that you shouldn't get your way all the time either, even though you're the one who has been cheated on.
Go on a vacation together. Doing something completely new together will give you a breath of fresh air. While a vacation is not a good long-term solution, it can help you feel more of a distance from the cheating. You should only do this once you've had some time to reflect and feel that you want to spend a lot of solo time with your significant other.
Stop blaming your significant other. This may sound impossible, but if you really want to work on your relationship, you can't mention the fact that your significant other cheated every two seconds. You can bring it up when you're communicating about your feelings, but casual jabs about your significant other's cheating behavior will only make things worse.
Minimize your significant other's groveling. Though you may be enjoying the constant compliments, flowers, and shoulder rubs, try to be on even footing as much as you can. Though your significant other is truly sorry, he or she can't spend the entire relationship groveling or trying to assure you of his or her love. It's exhausting.
 This is the easiest way to drive yourself completely insane and to ruin your relationship. If you know who the woman or man is or if you're unlucky to have met her or him or to even run in the same social circles, do everything you can to avoid contact with this person. It's natural if this feels completely impossible, but tell yourself that you should focus on your own relationship, not on what some other person is doing with his or her life.


Don't compare yourself to the other woman. Don't let her make you feel bad about yourself or inadequate in some way. You don't know her situation. Maybe she has fallen for your significant other, or maybe she had no idea he had a girlfriend. Just don't even think about it.
Don't stalk the person your significant other cheated with on Facebook and other social media. Don't search through his or her profile, looking for clues about what that person has that you don't.
Don't stalk the person in real life. Obviously.
Don't talk about the other person to your significant other. Focus on your relationship instead of dwelling on the past.
If you're really obsessing over the other person, you can talk to a friend about it, but you can only take that so far.
 If you have tried everything and are still filled with anger and resentment and can't possibly find a way to move the relationship forward, then it's time to end things. If you can't stand the sight of your significant other, let alone his or her touch, or if you're filled with paranoia any time your significant other is around a member of the opposite sex, it's time to call it quits.


It's much better to end the relationship than to force yourself to stick around in something that isn't working. Your resentment may only grow, and you could end up hurting the other person by cheating, or grow so emotionally distant that communication is impossible.
Remember that even if the person has tried incredibly hard to be the best significant other after he or she cheated, it may have just been too late. Just because the person is trying hard now doesn't mean you have to stick with it if you're just not feeling right.
You can feel proud that you tried to work through something incredibly difficult even though it didn't work. That still took a lot of courage.

