 Find a spot that is unobstructed, dark, and on level, solid ground to set up your telescope. Leave your telescope outdoors for an hour or two before using it to allow the equipment to adjust to the climate; the shift from indoor to outdoor temperatures could cause the telescope’s optics to fog up, affecting the view. To make your viewing more efficient later, align your finderscope (i.e. the aiming device in your telescope) ahead of time; focus on a distant object and adjust the settings to fix the view.Bring a flashlight with you to set up and later pack up you telescope in the dark.
 A lot of the excitement about viewing Mars is due to the notable features of the planet's surface; these features are more distinguishable than Earth's due to Mars' smaller size, thin atmosphere, and lack of erosion.Some key features that observers look for are:Mars’ polar ice caps
the pale haze that forms over polar regions
albedo markings (i.e. variations of light and dark on the surface of the planet, marking an alternation of bedrock and desert sands)
clouds in the planet's atmosphere

, Sketching Mars during your observations is an excellent way of making yourself think about what you are seeing; experienced observers spend years sketching the planet to note any intriguing details on its surface or in its orbit. Be patient in order to capture fine details accurately; draw the foremost features first (e.g. the polar ice caps) and then add finer details (e.g. clouds, haze). Be sure to note the date, time, and filters used (if any) to establish the full context of your observation., While using a telescope is the ideal way to view Mars in great detail, the planet can also be an impressive sight for the naked eye. The weeks surrounding Mars’ opposition with the Sun and its closest approach to earth are the best times to view the planet without equipment. Track the dates with a sky map; Mars should be viewable throughout the evening during this time period.Use an app like Sky Map to track where the planet is.
 If your interest in viewing Mars is keen enough, consider joining a local astrology club to meet others with the same passion. This is a great way to interact with experienced group members who can offer advice about equipment and other important aspects of astronomy. Group meetings may involve learning new techniques and trying new equipment, which will enhance your astronomy skills and make your observations of Mars even better.Your local planetarium may also offer resources for advancing your astronomy skills, including lessons on how to use a telescope and relevant shows about Mars.

