 The Snapchat icon looks like a yellow box with a white ghost in it. Snapchat will open up to the camera screen.;
, This will open your Snapchat Home screen.
 This button is in the upper-right corner of your screen. It will open your Settings page.
 It's under the MY ACCOUNT heading.
 This is a green button at the bottom of your screen. It will take you to the Bitmoji app.
 The Bitmoji app will ask if you want to connect your Bitmoji to Snapchat. Tap the purple Agree & Connect button at the bottom of your screen to confirm.


Consider reading the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy above the Agree & Connect button before you connect Bitmoji to Snapchat.
 This means you're ready to start sending Friendmojis on Snapchat.


You only have to link your accounts once. You won't have to do it again in the future, unless you unlink your Bitmoji from Snapchat.
 It will take you back to the camera screen.
 This will open your Chat list.


Alternatively, tap the Chat button in the lower-left corner of your screen. It looks like a white speech balloon.
 This button looks like a white speech bubble and a "+" icon in the upper-right corner of your screen. It will bring up your friends list.


Alternatively, you can double-tap on a name on your Chat list. This will open your camera, and let you take snap to send to this contact. You will be able to add Friendmojis from the Stickers menu.
 Scroll down and tap on a friend to start a new chat.


You can use the Search field at the top of your screen to quickly find a contact on your friends list.
 This is a blue button at the bottom of your screen, or above your keyboard. It will start a new chat.
 It looks like the snap capture button on your camera screen. It will open your camera.
 Tap the large circle at the bottom of your screen to take a photo, or hold it for video.
 It looks like a square icon below the pencil in the upper-right corner of your snap. It will open the Stickers menu.
 It's next to the scissors icon at the bottom of your screen. It will open your Bitmoji library.
 Your Bitmoji library will include Friendmojis, showing your friend's avatar and your avatar together. Tapping on a Bitmoji will add it to your snap.
 You can move your Friendmoji anywhere in your snap.
 You can make your Friendmoji smaller or larger by pinching in and out with two fingers.
 This button looks like a blue paper plane icon in the lower-right corner of your screen. It will send this snap to your contact with your Friendmoji sticker on it.

