 Because birth records in Scotland and Ireland were kept by local parishes until recently, it will help if you know the religious denomination of the person whose records you are looking for. In addition, you should try to learn:The person’s full name
The name of their parents, spouse, and next of kin
The approximate date of their birth
Place of birth

, Many newspapers can now be searched online, and those that cannot are usually available at public or research libraries. Obituaries typically have information on the place and date of birth, as well as the mother's surname. Regional newspapers are typically best, unless the person you are searching for was very well-known.
 You can perform a search by location, using the map at the bottom of the search page. Enter as much information as you know on the form. You can view transcribed records for free, though if there is a picture of the document, you will have to visit a family research center to see it. The site can direct you to the nearest center.
 In addition to sites like ancestry.co.uk or rootsuk.com, there are sites for both Ireland and Scotland that will search a variety of records for you.



scotlandspeople.gov.uk – Contains information from parish registers dating to the 16th century, Catholic registers dating to the 18th century, statutory registers starting in 1855, and census records and valuation role going back to mid 19th century. You can search the records for free, but there is a fee for viewing documents.

rootsireland.ie – Contains transcriptions of nearly 10 million birth or baptismal records. Requires a subscription to search the index.
 Scotland, Northern Ireland, and Ireland each have their own register that will issue birth records for a fee:



National Registers of Scotland – You will need the full name, date or year of birth, parent’s names, and place of birth if known.

General Register Office of Ireland – You will need the full name, approximate date of birth, gender, father’s full name, and mother’s first name and birth surname.

General Registers Office of Northern Ireland – You will need the child’s full name, approximate date of birth, sex, mother’s maiden surname, and the registration district sub-district if known.

