 Dip a dish rag in warm, soapy water. Use a mild dish detergent over a chemical cleaner. Ring the rag out slightly so it's just damp., Wipe down the door with the damp cloth. Wipe off any spills, smudges, or fingerprints. The exterior should look clean and shiny when you're done., Get a cloth damp with clear water. Rinse down the exterior of the dishwasher until the water from the cloth runs clean. Then, pat the dishwasher dry with a towel.Make sure to rinse your dishwasher completely. Leaving residue on the dishwasher can cause damage.
 Frigidaire dishwashers have a glass trap that collect shattered glass. Empty this when cleaning. Grasp the glass trap's handle and push down as you turn it 90 degrees clockwise. Grab onto the spray arm to lift the glass trap out of the dishwasher. Empty the broken glass into a garbage bag. Place the trap back into its slow and turn it 90 degrees counter clockwise until it clicks back in place.Make sure to empty the glass into a heavy, thick bag to avoid getting poked.
 Remove the bottom tray from the dish rack. Use a sponge or towel to sweep up any debris or bits of loose food. Inspect the drain carefully. If you notice any gunk blocking the drain, wipe it off., Use a damp cloth and mild dish detergent to wipe down the interior of the dishwasher. Wipe off any spills, dirt, or food residue from the sides of the dishwasher. When you're done, put the tray back in place.This is not always necessary. You only need to wipe down the sides if there is an abnormal amount of gunk and debris built up. If you clean your dishwasher regularly, you can probably skip this step.
 Frigidaire dishwashers clean themselves automatically during regular cycles.Empty all dishes from the dishwasher. Then, place a cup filled with white vinegar on the bottom rack of the dishwasher. Run the dishwasher on the longest cycle. This should sanitize the dishwasher and remove unwanted smells.If your dishwasher is very dirty, you may need to run a cycle with vinegar more than once.
Make sure the cup you put in place is secure. You do not want it to come undone and break during the cleaning cycle.
 Harsh chemical cleaners should not be used on Frigidaire products. They can cause damage.Stick to mild cleaners, like dish detergent, or non-chemical cleaners like vinegar when cleaning your fridge.
 Many people neglect to sweep the bottom of the dishwasher before running a cleaning cycle. Make sure you do not forget this vital step. If gunk sticks on the bottom of the dishwasher too long, it could clog the drain and cause serious problems., When emptying the glass trap, make sure to take care when handling any broken glass. Wrap glass in plastic wrap and then set it in a cardboard box. Close the box and seal it with tape. Write something like "Danger" on the box to indicate it contains sharp materials before throwing it in the trash.