 Your first way of winning 4Loot Coins will be by searching the web. 4Loot works like a normal search engine. Whenever you need to look something up, try 4Loot.com. Sometimes your search will result in you winning some coins. The best way to win is to just search naturally. If you search too much or put in bogus searches, the system will stop you from winning more coins.;
, The quickest way to rack up coins is to recruit your friends to use 4Loot. If they join through your invitation and win some coins by searching, 4Loot will match those coin wins into your account (up to 500 coins per friend). Remember to recruit your friends in a variety of ways: Facebook invitations on 4Loot, email referral codes, plus sharing of coin wins and purchases.
 4Loot has a browser toolbar for Internet Explorer and Firefox. It's an easy way to remember to search at 4Loot every day. It also allows you to earn coins by shopping at various online store. Plus, it displays your current 4Loot coin balance.
 4Loot has a quiz of the day where they ask some random trivia question. If you enter the correct answer as a search on 4Loot.com, you will win some bonus coins. The quizzes are pretty fun and an easy way to rack up more coins.
 Each week there is a leaderboard of the users who have won the most coins by searching during the week. If you are the leader at the end of the week, you will win 50 Facebook Credits.
 If you return and search on 4Loot each day for 5 days in a row, you earn the chance to spin for a prize of up to 50 coins. Plus, you earn some coins for each day that you return.
 Every hour, a random winner is selected and displayed on the homepage. If that happens to be you, click the button and you will win a bunch of 4Loot Coins

, 4Loot has a shopping page with links to various online stores. If you visit one of these stores and purchase something, you will earn 4Loot Coins. The amount of coins earned per dollar spent will vary but it's an easy way to get some extra coins.
 Once you have enough coins, you can purchase Facebook Credits on 4Loot. After you purchase, these credits will show up in your Facebook account automatically within 48 hours

