 But, before the cross, and the rising from death -- Adam became the first man to "fall" representing all of mankind as sinners. A while earlier, Adam had been lonely, for he did not have any companion on earth. So, God had put Adam into a deep sleep, took a rib from Adam, and made a woman named Eve (not a clone!). They had a good life together in the garden for "a time" (how long -- no one knows!). We are told that there were many trees and fruits (i.e.: representing love, peace and togetherness), or the tree of "Knowledge of Good and Evil" (not a temptation but forbidden). God seems to say, "You may take an apple from the love and peace tree, but do not eat of the tree of 'Knowledge of Good and Evil'." Yet, Satan tempted Eve, then Eve took that disallowed fruit and she tempted Adam, and they both ate (i.e.: disobeyed the "Law of Love"). Then they found themselves to be naked, made clothing out of leaves, but it did not work. So, they attempted to hid from the Lord! Then the Lord banished them out of the garden(!), though they still loved God, very much.
 All men (according to The Bible) were evil except one family. Once again, before sending Jesus, God reached out to a young man, to be His (God's) friend and his God. And, told him to build an ark and put pairs of every animal on that ark and take his family with him. God said, "I am sorry that I created man!" on the earth because people were being cold-hearted and corrupt (everyone but Noah and his family). Noah built the ark, put the animals on there and his family just like God said to do. Then when everyone was on, God shut the door and flooded the earth! They were on that boat, 40 days and 40 nights! Everyone died except the ones on the boat! Adam sent a dove out, and finally after a while he came back with a tree branch! The water was going down! And when they got off, life was back!

, The Lord, himself, made Mary pregnant and said to Mary. "You will have a son, and his name will be Jesus!" Then said to Joseph "You will marry Mary! And, love each other for as long as you live!" At that time, a woman who was pregnant before marriage, could be stoned to death. So, Joseph believed God and married her, and took her from her home and Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, Joseph's hometown.
 Later in Jesus' life, life itself depended upon him. Ah, God and Jesus must love us very much, God gave his son to willingly hang on the cross and die for us, to pay for all sin and save our lives! Jesus himself, gave up his life (as God's only begotten son) for us! -- and Jesus (though tempted) never rejected God. He hung on the cross, next to two others, and the one on the right said "Why don't you send your angels to minister to us!" "No." said Jesus. And, there they remained hanging until death, but a little later, some "prophets of old" were seen in the streets (risen from death)! And one of the local people requested Jesus' body. Then he took the body and buried Jesus, and put a big boulder over the entrance. Roman soldiers stood watch, so that no one would take His body. Yet, as people arrived the next morning, the boulder was rolled away; the soldiers were gone, and Jesus was gone, also! Nothing was there except his burial garments! They thought someone stole the corpse, but they left because there was nothing they could do, and soon they met Jesus who was alive again!

, He will see that you know he's there, and that you Love him! Love is the key! "By this you know that you are my disciples, that you love one another." said Jesus.;
, Kids may read "children's Bibles", and they tell so much and are understandable to children, but adults and intermediates should be reading more adult like passages.
 Love and show him that you do; so, pray, smile and talk to him, as he is your friend!

,,,