 Showering will keep you smelling good and feeling confident. Showering daily can help you start a daily grooming routine that will keep you consistently looking good.


Washing your hair daily can dry it out. Instead, wash your hair every other day and wear a shower cap on off days.
To keep your hair healthy, you can wash it at night and let it air dry.;
, A great smile is one of the first things that guys notice. Keep your teeth clean and your breath smelling good! Brush thoroughly twice a day and floss at least once a day


Brush with a toothpaste that has whitener, use whitening strips, or whitening mouthwash to brighten your smile. If you have darker stains on your teeth, go to a dentist who can whiten your teeth.
Keep gum, mints, or mouthwash in your purse, car, or at work. Keep them there so that you can quickly freshen your breath, before seeing guys you like.
 Consider using a deodorant with a good smelling fragrance. After being up close and personal, guys will start associating this good smell with you. According to psychologists, smell is the strongest sense associated with memory. Wear a deodorant that will keep you sweat and odor free all day. Some deodorants will work better on your body chemistry, so try a few different drug store brands to find the one that fits you the best.
Secret, Dove, Degree, and clinical strength Suave, boast a few of the most effective and inexpensive deodorants. If you want more coverage than a standard deodorant delivers, pay a couple of extra dollars more to get a clinical strength deodorant.
 Consistently use a perfume you like and that smells good on you. Use a perfume as part of your getting ready routine.


You can buy a higher quality fragrance at department stores like Macy’s. You can find inexpensive fragrance at pharmacies like Walgreens. Both will work to give you a signature scent.
Pay attention to how much perfume you apply. Guys can be sensitive to how much perfume a girl is wearing, so make sure your scent is not overpowering. Lightly spray a little on your wrists, neck, and spray a little to your hair. Again, keep a small bottle of perfume in your purse, in your car, or at work, and apply one light spritz to freshen up before seeing guys.
 Having clear skin is an important part of attracting guys. Make sure that you use a gentle face cleanser that deeply cleans pores and treats acne.


If you have acne, it may be necessary to consult a dermatologist for a more powerful facial cleanser.
 Apply, at least, SPF 35 sunscreen daily. Apply a light moisturizer after you apply sunscreen in the morning and again after you wash your face at night.


Get rid of dead skin by using a face wash that exfoliates. Exfoliate your skin three to four times a week with your face wash.
Get a healthy glow. There are two different kinds of sunless tanning products you can use to achieve that glow. You can buy cosmetic tanners that wash off, for example, bronzers are cosmetic tanners. You can also use sunless tanners that taint the skin, like sunless tanning lotion. You can find these inexpensive sunless tanning options at a pharmacy like Walgreens. , For example, use matte eyeliner instead of shimmer.Go easy on the makeup. Too much makeup can be off putting and can hide your natural beauty. When applying makeup:


Apply a thin coat of eyeliner, and use dark brown-black mascara on your top eyelashes only.
Use a concealer, a shade lighter than your foundation, to cover the bags under your eyes. Also cover any blemishes and any imperfections on your face.
Apply a light coat of foundation with an applicator. Use the applicator or your fingertips to blend the foundation really well into your skin.
Choose a shade of lipstick that is not too bright. Apply a light coat of lipstick on the surface of your lips and blot with a kleenex. Keep gloss or chapstick on you to keep your lips moisturized.
Keep makeup, like your lip balm, concealer or eye liner, in your purse with a mirror. Freshen up your makeup when you are seeing guys.
 Hair is an important part of what guys find attractive in women. If you are unhappy with your natural hair, use a curling iron or straightener to achieve a desired look.If you are unsure how to style your hair, go with a simple style. For example, wear your hair down and straighten it. Guys typically like it when girls wear their hair down.
Go to a hair stylist regularly to keep your hair healthy and well managed. If your hair is healthy you can wear your hair simply, and it will look attractive.
Keep a brush or comb in your purse, in your car, or at work. Brush your hair before you see guys.

