 It needs to be tall enough to extend from the bridge of your nose down to your chin, like a surgical mask.The mask needs to be long enough to wrap around the front of your face. If it extends past your jaw, trim it shorter.
 Fold the mask in half lengthwise, and make a mark along edge side edge where the fold is. Unfold the mask, then fold it in half widthwise. Make another mark along the top of the folded edge. Unfold the mask when you are done.

You will have three marks: a mark along the top-center of the mask, and a mark on each side edge.
Make sure that you are making the marks on the same side of the felt.
 Cut straight down from the top-center mark to the side-left mark. Repeat this step for the right side. You will have something that looks like a house., Fold the mask in half so that the narrow side edges match up again. Cut a > shaped notch into the side edge. Start at the bottom corner and finish at the top, right before it goes into the diagonal angle. Unfold the mask when you are done., Totomato's symbol is a large circle with a diagonal line going through it, like a non-smoking sign. The symbol should be almost the same height as the mask, with a 1/4 to 1/2-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border at the top and bottom., Cut a piece of thin elastic so that it is long enough to loop over your ear. Thread it onto a needle with a large opening, such as a yarn needle or tapestry needle. Tie a knot onto the end of the elastic.

Try to use black elastic, if you can.
You can use ribbon or string, if you want, but the measurements have to be exact.
 Turn the mask so that the back is facing you. Push the needle through the top corner of the notch. Pull it until the knot is against the fabric, then bring it through the bottom corner of the notch., The elastic needs to be long enough so that it can loop around your left ear. Once you are happy with the length, tie a knot into the end, then trim off the excess., When you are done, you will have two loops: one on the left side of your mask, and one on the right., Place the mask over your face, so that it covers your mouth and nose. Slip the left loop over your left ear, and the right loop over your right ear.