 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is a federal regulatory agency that has the responsibility of protecting consumers.The CFPB can be found online at http://www.consumerfinance.gov. Once you're on the home page, click the green link to submit a complaint.
When you file a complaint, the CFPB will work with you to resolve the problem with the lender. The CFPB also shares complaint information with federal and state law enforcement agencies and with the general public (although the public database will not include any of your personal information).
In addition to an online complaint form, the CFPB website has a wealth of information on how to recognize and protect yourself against credit discrimination.
 You can file a complaint about a mortgage, payday loan, student loan, vehicle loan or lease, or any other type of consumer loan.The "other loan" category includes pawn and title loans, store loans, installment loans, or rent-to-own arrangements, as well as medical debt.
If your problem is with a credit card company or with credit reporting, choose the correct item under the "products and services" heading on the initial complaint page.
 Since you can attach digital copies of documents to your complaint, you should pull together copies of any correspondence you've had with the lender that you believe indicates discrimination.In addition to documents that you think indicate discrimination against you on the part of the lender, you also should include any documents that help the CFPB to better understand your problem and assist you.
Keep in mind that when you are alleging discrimination, you may not have a piece of paper that clearly indicates that the lender unlawfully discriminated against you. Typically your evidence will take the form of questions asked to you directly or statements made off-the-cuff by a representative.
However, notices you received may provide evidence, even if they don't indicate discrimination on their face.
For example, you may have received a notice stating that you weren't approved for a loan because your credit score was too low. However, your credit score is 800. The notice along with that fact could indicate discrimination against you might have taken place, if coupled with other evidence.
 Your complaint should include contact information for yourself and the lender, as well as a description of what happened.Include as many specific details as possible, including dates and names of people with whom you spoke in connection with the loan or other credit product.
Keep in mind that the CFPB will be forwarding your complaint to the lender. Make sure you've included enough information in your complaint that the lender can accurately identify you and find your information in their records.
 Before you submit your complaint online, you have the opportunity to review the information you've supplied to make sure it's complete and accurate.Before you submit your complaint, print a copy of it for your records.
After you submit your complaint online, the CFPB will send you a confirmation email that contains log-in information so you can track your complaint's status.
If you don't want to submit a complaint online, you also can call 855-411-CFPB and an operator will assist you.
 After you submit your complaint, the CFPB will forward it to the lender, which will have 15 days to respond both to you and to the CFPB regarding the issues you reported.The CFPB expects lenders to resolve all but the most complex complaints within 60 days.
If you submitted your complaint online, the CFPB will send you an email notification when new information is added or your complaint's status has changed.
After the lender reviews your information from CFPB, it will either communicate through the agency or contact you directly.
If the CFPB determines another agency is better able to assist you, it will update the status of your complaint and provide you with information regarding the agency to which your complaint has been forwarded.

