 Make a copy of the completed form for yourself and any other parent, guardian, or other party legally entitled to notice. You must give the minor notice as well if they are old enough to decide for themselves whether they agree to the name change. Sign this form in front of a notary. You must also attach a Cover Sheet for Civil Actions form., The request for hearing form asks the court to schedule a hearing in your case. The Affidavit for Waiver of Court Filing Fees form allows you to avoid the filing fee if your income is too low. , If one parent is not petitioning for the name change—or guardian or custodian—you must get written consent from them to change the name. You must file this consent with the petition—ask the court for the proper form. If you cannot secure written permission, you must have notice and the petition sent to the non-petitioning party. Your hearing will be rescheduled to give the other party time to receive notice and respond., The request for hearing form asks the court to schedule a hearing in your case. The Affidavit for Waiver of Court Filing Fees form allows you to avoid the filing fee if your income is too low., Once you have completed all the forms up to this point, take them to the district court in the county where you have lived for at least one year. Give the documents to the court clerk and pay the filing fee. If you did not have the petition notarized, you must sign it in front of the clerk upon filing. Find out from the clerk whether the hearing is set automatically—if it is not, you should call about a week later to see when the hearing has been scheduled. Have your case number handy—you should have gotten one from the clerk when you filed your forms. If a hearing is not set, you may be required to submit a request to set a hearing., You must use the form available at the court and use the court address on the form. Service must be signed by the recipient to be valid. After the signed receipt is sent back to you, you must attach it to the Proof of Service by Mail form. Attach the Summons to this form as well and file it with the court.If you cannot get service by mail, you may have a sheriff present the Summons and Petition. If you cannot afford the fee for this service, you may present an Application for Waiver of Court Fees. You will receive a Return of Service form after the delivery which you should file with the court after making a copy for yourself.The person served has 30 days to respond if they live outside Utah, 21 days in they live in the state. If they do not respond, you will have to file a Motion to Waive Service, Petitioner's Affidavit in Support of Motion to Waive Service, and Order to Waive Service with the court., Bring copies of all your forms with you to the hearing and be prepared to testify to any and all information. Bring the minor with you to the hearing—he or she must be prepared to testify as well. Prepare the final Order Changing Minor's Name before the hearing, the judge will sign your prepared Order at the end of the hearing. You should return to the court clerk after the order has been signed to get certified copies of the order, which you will use to change the minor's name with any agencies or private institutions.

