 Switch your TV on and open the channel guide to find your local news station. Frequently, low numbered channels, like channels 4, 7, and 12, feature local news. Your local news should talk about weather and road conditions at regular intervalsThe segment on weather and road conditions may be short. If you walk away and miss the report, you’ll have to wait for the next update.
 As conditions worsen, new roads may become dangerous and be closed. Keep your television on in the background as you get ready to leave so you can listen for possible new closures.


You may want to mute the TV so you aren’t distracted by less important news. Set a timer for the next road condition report and unmute the TV to hear new closures.
During extreme weather, like thunderstorms or snowstorms, most local TV news increases the frequency of road condition reporting.
 Local radio news usually will update traffic conditions hourly, if not more frequently. In severe weather conditions or in the event of a traffic jam, more frequent updates or special live reports are common.


Listening to radio reports in your car won't be as distracting or dangerous as checking conditions on your phone while driving., These stations are oftentimes advertised alongside highways. Keep an eye out for roadside signs with the station settings for these services. When you see the station number, set your radio to that frequency.


Radio stations like this are generally for a designated area or region. When traveling long distances or across state lines, you may need to change to a new designated traffic station., This might take the form of a designated local, state, or federal phone number. Find these numbers online at the websites of local, state, or federal departments of transportation.Call the number and follow the directions provided to check road conditions.In most areas in the US and Canada, you can reach the a road condition hotline by dialing 5-1-1 on your phone.The condition of government roads in Australia can be checked by making a free call to the government funded hotline at 1800-246-199.5-1-1 road condition information is generally set up to update twice every hour in severe weather, though it may update less frequently in mild weather., Although major closures should be listed on the road condition hotline, the exact severity of conditions might not be clear. Call someone at the location you’re headed to for a more detailed idea of the conditions of local roads.


In severe weather, many schools, workplaces, and vacationing spots try to provide phone support about road conditions or the establishment’s open/closed status.

