 What do you want to write about? Love? Things you're struggling with? Wishes, hopes or dreams? Broken hearts? Maybe you want to write about your feelings like what makes you sad, happy or regretful. Think somewhere along those lines, but only you know what you want to write about.;
, This tends to bring out the most authentic and relevant lyrics. For example, you may want to write about love because you just had your heart broken or you've found your soulmate. Maybe you want to write about sad things because your parents divorced.

Just remember how you've felt about any given situation, that you have strong feelings about, and use the memory of that situation as a great inspiration for your song.






Aim to create a meaningful piece: something people will take to heart and remember because they can associate their experiences with yours.
 Every person has different lives and different experiences but similar feelings arising. Just combine those feelings.
 You could use any relationship to be inspired.
 Look to your favorite artists and musical legends for inspiration.

Don’t only listen to “your usual type” of songs. Vary the genres and tempos to see the different ways to write songs. It will make writing easier if you understand how others write as well.
 It doesn't have to take forever to write a song, it really doesn't. Think of an experience you've been through but don't try to make it too deep, too meaningful or too clever. Stay with what feels right and work with that instead of overworking it.
 Choose somewhere you won't be disturbed and where you feel inspired. Under the clothesline at the back of your house might just turn out to be the perfect songwriting locale!

, Rely upon your heart and soul to help you create the song. Don't worry about the music just yet. Right now, you just need lyrics.


Remember, the average song has a chorus (the part that repeats in the song), at least 2 verses and a title.
Remember those feelings or emotions and just let them flow.






Give yourself time to compose something you're proud of.
 Random lines can be drawn together later, as you develop the song. What's important is that you capture them as they come to you.
 Ask others to listen to your lyrics. If you find that people don't like them, keep working at it and use their feedback as inspiration to improve the lyrics and expression of feelings. While your feelings matter, other people can act as soundboards for how they perceive (or don't perceive) their own feelings being reflected in the song. This will matter when it comes to the song's popularity, as it needs to resonate with the listeners.


Don't be afraid to make changes. You will, usually, never get all the pieces to fit on the first run. Sometimes the lyrics have to be changed to fit the music and vice versa.
 Make sure it reflects what your song is about For example, a song called "I'm so in love with you" has a pretty obvious meaning. "Mother" is a more mysterious title, because it could mean many different things.
 Use music that fits the mood. A sad song has a lot of minor and diminished chords to it. A happy song will be set in major keys. Angry music usually has a driving beat and minor keys. Let the lyrics guide the music. The composition will dictate the chord changes, and basic layout of the music.


To start to get a tune together, begin with writing chords to go with the lyrics. After you have the basic chords down, you can write notes and a beat.
 Play it back to listen for where you want to make changes.


You may even want to perform it for someone.







