 Luckily, coupons are available online, in newspapers and at the checkout line. Buy an envelope to organize coupons and leave it in the car. Plan your purchases according to what's on sale that week and you will shave money off your weekly grocery bill.


Throw away coupons for things that you would not normally buy. Just because an offer is attractive, it doesn't mean it is a good cooking choice. Stick to the things you know you need, not offers for new products.
 Also, buy with coupons from the store, if possible. Stores like Costco send out coupon booklets, so buy your toilet paper, toothpaste, lotion, roasts, yogurt or frozen foods according to the coupons sales.


Remember that you should not buy everything in bulk. Just like grocery stores, bulk stores have attractive offers on DVDs, large jars of olives, frozen appetizers, cakes, chips and other things that are unnecessary or unhealthy. Limit your bulk purchases, and shop alone, if you find your spouse or kids are big impulse buyers.
Bulk store memberships often require you to pay a yearly fee. If you plan to buy your toiletries, shop regularly or get gas from the store, this is very likely to pay off within a few months' time.
 For instance, you may save money on toilet paper by shopping at a bulk store, but your coupon at the local supermarket saves you money on bread. Figure out a monthly shopping plan that includes discount stores, supermarkets and bulk stores.


Make sure you sign up for the local supermarket's "club." Most supermarkets have a card that you are required to swipe in order to get a discount. Although almost everyone uses them, you save a considerable amount of money by following the practice.
 Many stores package cut foods and mark up the price. Buy the large head of broccoli or the pineapple and cut it yourself.


Many nutrition experts suggest that you stay near the outside of a supermarket. Most of the processed, high-calorie food is contained within the aisles. Try shopping the perimeter first, before you delve into the aisles for a few items.

