 It is okay, and normal, to feel a sense of grief around your hearing loss. You are losing a way to interact with the world, and you will also face greater challenges than you did before.Understand that grief is a process to be worked through. Although it is tempting to numb your feelings of sadness through alcohol, food, or drugs, you will not achieve any lasting healing effects. It is best to work through the sad, angry feelings, even though they hurt.
You may wish to spend some time writing about your hearing loss, or getting in touch with a close friend and sharing your feelings.
You may find it useful to talk to someone about how you are feeling. If you are not yet competent in sign language, you may wish to look for a counselor to do an online counseling session with you.
 When people deal with stress or grieve the loss of a loved one, they frequently hear that they need to make sure self-care is an important part of their treatment plans. Grieving the loss of your hearing is no exception. Think of some healthy things you can do to take care of yourself during this time. For example, you could:


Take a walk.

Meditate.
Write in a journal.
Enjoy favorite hobbies that you don’t need to modify, like reading a book, crossword puzzles, or sewing.
 The Deaf community is known for being tight-knit, with a culture all its own. Make Deaf friends who can support you and offer helpful suggestions. If you are new to sign language, ask the Deaf person another way about other ways you could communicate with each other.


The use of Deaf (with the D capitalized) refers to the culture that has developed from deaf people. People who are deaf may or may not be a part of Deaf culture.A good summary of Deaf culture and books, movies, and TV shows that highlight Deaf lifestyles can be found at https://www.start-american-sign-language.com/deaf-culture_html.
Search for a Deaf social event in your area. Try searching on Meetup at https://www.meetup.com/topics/asl/. Deaf Chat Coffee provides links to meetings at coffee shops for Deaf people around the country to get together and talk. Check out http://happy.deafcoffee.com/.
 There are many websites devoted to deaf and hard-of-hearing support and socialization. Try typing “online deaf support” or “online deaf community” into a search engine to begin exploring options.


These websites aren’t just for talking about being deaf. You can find current events discussions, dating websites, and discussion boards for hobbies and interests.
 If going deaf has affected your self-esteem, then trying some strategies to improve your self-esteem may help you. This can take time and patience, but the end result could improve your quality of life.


Working with a therapist is a good way to work on your self-esteem. If you find it difficult to build your self-esteem on your own, then try finding a therapist who can help you., If you tend to get frustrated easily, then working on ways to calm yourself down can also help. There are lots of ways that you can calm yourself down. Try out some different strategies to see what works best for you.


For example, you can use a relaxation technique like deep breathing or meditation, or you can just do something that is enjoyable to you, such as listening to some soothing music or going for a walk.
 Having good problem solving skills can also help you to deal with difficult situations that you might encounter. Try to work on developing a strategy for solving your problems. Some things you can do include:Writing out the problem in detail.
Making a list of the solutions that are available to you.
Analyzing each solution to determine which is the best one.
Choosing an option and carrying out your plan.

