 Dark colors are the clothes of vampires. When you look in your closet, try to avoid things with bright, shiny, or pastel colors. Instead lean in favor of things that are solid and dark. You want to look like a creature of the night, not an outlet store model.


Avoid conspicuous brand names and shirts with lots of prints on them. A black t-shirt and black jeans is a great everyday vampire look.
You don't have to wear only black. A little bit of color can work as well. Dark purples and navy blues are just as appropriate as black., Another vampire look is the old, formal, Victorian style. Dress like you're ready to go out for a night on the town. Wearing elaborate, dark toned clothes that might seem out-of-date to give off the impression of the undead. For women, fancy black skirts, black or red tops with bell sleeves, corset tops, and black dresses are great for a vampire style.
For men, try a dark suit jacket or overcoat with antique buttons. Wear dark pants with a white button up shirt for the perfect vampire style.
 You probably don't want to have to dress up like you're headed to a funeral every day. Black skinny jeans with a red, purple, or black top will help to create a more comfortable and contemporary vampire look.


For girls, black skirts with ruby studded designs look awesome, but avoid clothes from the mall that are branded to be "vampire" theme. Wearing a Twilight t-shirt won't make you look like a vampire, it'll just make you look like a fan.
 Generally, vampires don't run around in tennis shoes or sneakers. They need the right kind of formal shoes to pull off the right look.


For boys, chunky boots are always the best bet. You can wear dark leather dress shoes, or big black work boots for the right look. Doc Martens will work fine.
For girls, shoes should be dark and dressy. Spiked flats or small heels will work, as well as Black Doc Martens.
 Just because you want to look like a vampire doesn't mean you get to ignore the concerns of weather and dress code at your school. It'd be impractical to dress like you're going to an 18th century ball when it's 90 degrees out.In cold weather, vampires usually wear long velvet cloaks in black or red, or a leather jacket or black trench coat.
When it's hot, you'll probably have to ease up on the heavy makeup and thick layers, but try to stick to wearing black clothes and stay inside.
 A couple of old accessories can help pull together a vampire look and make you look like you've been stalking the back alleys of London since the 1700s. Hit up swap meets, flea markets, and antique stores to find cheap old accessories. Any of the following will be perfect:


Pocket watches
Canes
Antique brooches or pins
Old necklaces
Silver bangles and bracelets
Amulets