 There are a multitude of rose varieties that keep their brilliance even when dried. From classic red roses to vibrant purple ones, use this guide to help choose a variety best suited for you:



Red and red blends: Veterans’ Honour, Miss Flippins, Olympiad, AceyDeucy, Mountie, Hilde, Coffee Bean, Chelsea Belle, Black Jade, Christian Dior.

Pink and pink blends: Show Stopper, Fame, Adams Smile, Timeless, Hanna Gordon, Prima Donna, Rina Hugo,Giggles, Gemini, Valeria Jeanne, Doris Morgan.

Orange and orange blends: Kanegem, Starina, Gingersnap, Tropicana, Impatient, Rio Samba, Denver’s Dream, Hot Tamale, Fragrant Cloud, Mardi Gras, Perrine, Copper Sunset.

Yellow and yellow blends: Cal Poly, Julia Child, Henry Fonda, Behold, Summer Sunshine, Sunsprite, Midas Touch, Rainbow’s End, Oregold, Bees Knees, Gold Metal, Rise’n’Shine, Glory Be.

Apricot and apricot blends: Holy Toledo, Honey Perfume, Amber Sunblaze, Tahitian Sunset, Apricot Twist, Michel Cholet, Angel’s Blush, Jeanne Kenneally, Joycie, Autumn Sunset.

Purple and mauve: Lavender Jewel, Barbra Streisand, Dr John Dickman, Fragrant Plum, Vista, Ebb Tide, Winsome, Distant Drums, Wild Blue Yonder.

Russets: Teddy Bear, Hot Cocoa, Copper Sunset

Fun colours: Gizmo,Fourth of July, Fancy Pants, Purple Tiger, Neon Cowboy, Hurdy Gurdy.
 Protect the pages of your book by using absorbent paper on either side of your rose as pigments in the petals and stem may stain them. Place a rose every ⅛ inch between the pages of the book. Close the book and weigh it down with more books or other heavy items. Let the flowers dry for about a week before checking on them.








Replace the absorbent paper every week and allow the roses to dry for up to 3 weeks or more.
Make sure the roses are as dry as you can make them before pressing them. Do not place them in the book directly from the vase. Shake off excess water.
 Place each rose between absorbent paper and heat an iron to its lowest setting. Make sure that there is no water in the iron because you do not want moisture from steam to ruin the process. Flatten the rose with a book after placing it in between the 2 absorbent pieces of paper. Press the iron on the top sheet for 10 -15 seconds. Wait for 10 -15 seconds and repeat.








Do not use a gliding motion but rather just press the iron down onto the top sheet. Check by gently lifting the top sheet to make sure the flower is dry.
 When the roses are about to open, hang in a dry, dark, and warm area. make sure that there is good ventilation and allow them to dry for about 2 - 3 weeks. Hang them upside down using a string to tie the stems together.








Hanging them upside down prevents moisture from being trapped in the petals. Moisture can lead to mold which can damage your flowers.
The roses will shrink as they dry. You may need to retie them together if the string is no longer tight around them.
Be careful when handling the dried flowers as they can be very brittle.
 Do not expose the dried roses to direct sunlight. Avoid placing them under a table lamp. Display dried flowers in a glass dome or box to avoid handling as they can be extremely brittle.