 Confidence is one of the most irresistible personality traits a woman can have, so the first step to being irresistible is to learn to love yourself, warts and all!


Think about it -- how can you expect a man to think you're beautiful, smart and cool if you don't believe that you're beautiful, smart and cool?
Stop worrying about your flaws and focus on all of the things you like about yourself -- make a list or repeat positive affirmations if it helps!
Another good tip is to "fake it til you make it." This means pretending that you're full of confidence even if you feel shy or nervous inside. Eventually the confidence will come naturally!;
, Having a good sense of humor is always a good thing, especially on the dating scene. Nobody wants a Serious Sally. Plus, you'll look more attractive when you're laughing or smiling.


Having a good sense of humor doesn't mean that you have to be a stand-up comedian (although the ability to make a guy laugh is a bonus). You should at least be able to laugh at yourself and not take life too seriously.
Imagine a guy accidentally spills his drink on you. Do you scream at him for ruining your dress, then storm away? Or do you laugh it off and tell him he can buy you a drink to make it up to you? Which version do you think a guy would find more attractive? (Hint: It's the second one.)

, Sometimes girls think that acting mysterious and aloof will make them irresistible to men, but this is misguided. If you want a man who's kind-hearted and genuine, it's safer to play nice.


Being nice means being polite and courteous and not treating a would-be suitor like something you'd wipe off the bottom of your shoe (unless the guy's being a total jerk).
If you end up in a conversation with a guy, try to avoid talking about yourself all the time. Express an interest in him and try to really listen to what he's saying. This boosts his ego, unconsciously making him more attracted to you!
Even if you're not interested, you should try to turn the guy down gently. Think about how you'd like to be treated if the situation was reversed.
 Let's get one thing straight -- you should never, ever dumb yourself down just to make yourself more attractive to a guy.


This tactic just isn't going to attract the right kind of guy, because any man worth his salt finds intelligence attractive, or even a turn-on!
The right guy will be attracted to your sharp wits, he will appreciate your ability to hold a meaningful conversation and be genuinely interested in your opinion. So don't just sit there with a vacant expression, nodding like a bobblehead!
If you feel like you need to give your conversational skills a boost, the best thing you can do is be informed about current events -- try reading a newspaper or watching the news (if you don't already) and you'll never find yourself short on conversation material

, You've heard it a million times before - be yourself, be yourself, be yourself. Well, you're gonna hear it one more time, because it really is so important - be yourself!


Don't try to play a certain persona just because you think it'll make you more attractive. This rarely works and will just end up being exhausting. Besides, if you think a guy wouldn't like the real you, then what's the point? It's never going to go anywhere!
Of course, it's okay to embellish the truth a little when it comes to small things -- "Sure, I love the Red Sox!" "Yes, I go rock climbing every weekend!" As long as you're not outright lying, a little exaggeration is acceptable for the sake of good conversation.

