


Ask yourself what evidence is there for or against a bias. For example, you see a blond and immediately think she may not be very intelligent. What evidence is there for this? None. What evidence is there against it? None.
It is virtually impossible to assess other's intelligence since intelligence involves many factors beyond textbook knowledge, and it certainly isn't gleaned with a mere glance. Therefore, you are making an unfair assessment of this person with little evidence to go on.
 When we are faced with the unknown, our minds may automatically retreat to the worst-case scenario. Elect to override this way of thinking by asking yourself whether it allows you to meet your objectives. When we are not thinking in a goal-oriented way, we are being negative. But, you can change this.For instance, you are walking at night and pass an African American young man. You hurry your footsteps and pat your pants to check for your wallet. Unconsciously, you think "danger" or "bad".
You can challenge this prejudice with goal-oriented thinking in addition to the reality testing. After asking what evidence you have to think this way, you could also ask yourself how thinking this way is helping you meet your objective of stopping prejudice. It's not.
Thinking this way is causing you to unfairly judge others, allowing you to play into media-driven stereotypes, and keeping you from connecting with those different from you.
 As you continue in your own change process, you must also actively challenge prejudice expressed by those around you. When an acquaintance, friend, or family member forms a pre-judgment about an individual for any reason - race, ethnic group, disability, age, gender, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, education, etc. - confront them. You can use reality testing to challenge others' views as well.You might ask:


What evidence do you have to support or deny such a statement?
Are you jumping to conclusions about this person?
How can you actually find out if this statement is true rather than making an assumption?

