 Creating a wall planter can spruce up any room without taking up much space. It can also provide an interesting conversation piece when you have guests.Get or construct a deep, rustic-looking frame. Make sure the interior space is sufficient for cactus soil and your plants.Affix a large piece of 1” chicken wire to the back of the frame and make sure it is flush with the front. Then secure four pieces of 2 x 2 wood strips to each side of the frame.
Line the chicken wire with some Spanish moss to keep the soil from falling through the frame. Fill the frame with cactus soil and secure the back with a large wood panel.
Turn the frame so it is right side up and begin filling it with your chosen succulents. Arrange them in a specific pattern if you like. You may also want to simply place them in the frame without any organizational plan for a more whimsical effect.
Use one side of a small ladder instead of a frame for a longer wall display. You could also put the succulents on a small wreath for the same effect.;
, If you don’t have wall space or a display is too heavy, consider an aquarium or other type of glass as a display for your succulents. Choosing different sized glasses—such as wine bottles, cups, and even aquariums—can give you a fun and easy way to display your succulents. It also allows you to change up the arrangement as often as you like.Fill the glass with cactus soil, moss, colored stones or other decorative filler. Then arrange your succulents in your chosen pots. Bunch the glassware together for a stunning effect or place them throughout your home.
Make sure your glass succulent displays are near a window or other space that gets plenty of sunlight.
Consider using vintage glassware you have around the house and don’t use for other purposes. Old aquariums, terrariums, and display cases are great choices to display your succulents.
Place your succulents under a glass table top to visually stimulate you and any guests you may have., You may have cats or other pets that like to knock over displays. You may also not have a lot of extra space for glassware displays. If this is the case, display your succulents by hanging planters from your ceiling or niches in your home.Find sunny places from which to hang the planters so that your succulents can thrive. Use either specific plant hangers or create your own using wood or ceramic bowls with some string.
Plant your succulents in the bowl you chose with some cactus soil. Then either hang the individual planters from the ceiling or string several together using a sturdier piece of rope. Make sure that your ropes or other hanging material cradle each planter. If you are stringing together several planters, knot the rope under each plant and then create another rope cradle until you have incorporated each of your displays.