 Pick up your tickets from the ticketing agents, if you don't have them just yet, or if your smartphone isn't able to provide to you, or if you don't have access to these tickets. You'll need them to pass through the TSA lines later on.;
, You'll be on the third level of the airport. This area will have several display monitors that tell you your gate assignment for your flight, if the flight's information has changed since your tickets were printed, or some other factor changed the flight pattern or flight gate any.
 The TSA lines tend to be very long here, but if you have all your stuff handy and out so you don't have to reach in, you can get through. Listen to the TSA agents, as you walk through the aisles. These aisles will get you to the checked baggage lanes.
 Be sure to include your sneakers/shoes, phones, wallets, anything that is loose, as TSA requires it here. Even gum containers will be needed to be X-rayed.


Although belts don't tend to trigger problems, be sure your belt comes off.
Place any loose items into a plastic square bin that is found off the edge of the rolling racks before the items X-ray machines.
 These body scanners are of the newest variety. Walk into them and turn to your right. Look at the picture. Hold your hands open and formed in the shape of a curved V (almost as if you were forming them into an almost interconnected Valentine heart well above your head.) Wait for the machine to X-ray you. Most people pass through the machine without much interruption.


These newest scanners began the 100% screening were installed and 2007 following a firearms and marijuana smuggling case was discovered at this airport., Look at the large numbered signs above your head that lead you to the monorail/shuttle-to-gates. Once you start to see several square-tube like items with a circular plastic piece (that may or may not have a fluorescent light that designates these transportation devices), make sure that the alleyway sends you to the gate containing your flight.
, With the exception being the ends of each monorail car, there are no seats in the monorail. Everybody must stand. Be prepared for a few-minute shuttle to the gates area.


Don't go too far down the alleyway, if you'd like to ride going forward and be able to sit. The best place to sit (and almost never crowded) is the seat at the very back of the monorail. The other monorail cars will tend to be crowded and almost always will have no seats going in the forward direction or no seats whatsoever.
Exit from the monorail car through the doors that open, once the monorail stops. The doors that open should be the opposite sided ones than the ones you entered through the last time.
 Find your gate and sit down.
 Most often no other changes are needed, as most flights don't change gates that often. But be prepared in the event that your flight does change gates

