 Pour more than enough water for a cup of tea into a regular pot, and bring it to a boil.


The better tasting your water, the better tasting your tea. The best water is filtered or bottled (but not distilled). If using tap water, let it run cold for 10 seconds before using it for tea.
Make sure you only boil the water one time. If you boil the water more than once, the oxygen levels in the water will be reduced and make the tea taste flat.
;
, This will prevent the steeping water from dropping in temperature as soon as it is poured in. Add a little boiling water to the individual cups (ceramic and porcelain cups retain heat well). Let the water stand until the cup is warm, then pour out the water and proceed immediately to the next step.
 You can use a tea bag or 1-2 teaspoons of your desired flavor .









When using tea bags, the measuring has already been done for you - generally it's one tea bag per cup. However, make sure that the bags are fresh, since most commercially produced bags consist of small pieces of leaves that are susceptible to becoming stale faster than the loose leaf variety.
 Pour it over the tea. Use an amount in proportion to the quantity of tea you've added (e g. 5 cups of water for 5 teaspoons of tea). The ideal water temperature varies based on the type of tea being steeped. The more oxidized (fermented) the tea (e.g. black tea) the hotter the water should be, whereas less oxidized teas (white, green) should be steeped in water that isn't as hot.White or green teas (full leaf): Well below boiling (170-185 F or 76-85 C). When the water boils, turn off the heat and let the water cool for 30 seconds for white tea and 60 seconds for green tea before pouring it over the leaves.

Oolongs (full leaf): 185-210 F or 85-98 C

Black teas (full leaf): Water must be at a rolling boil (212 F or 100 C). The most common mistake is to steep black tea with water that is not hot enough, which can prevent the active substances in black tea from developing.Pu-erhs: Full rolling boil (212 F or 100 C).

Tea bags: Never let the water boil. Since tea bags often include tea dust and fanning (the smallest tea particle grades) and so have more surface area, use slightly less hot water.
 Cover with the cozy to retain warmth. Different teas require different steeping times. In general, whole-leaf tea should be steeped longer than broken-leaf tea.Check the box for guidance. If there are no instructions, steep for a minute or two, then taste frequently until it's flavorful but not bitter. If practicing gong-fu brewing to make multiple infusions, use shorter infusion times, typically 30 seconds to 1 minute.For normal (Western) brewing, the steeping times are longer. The following recommendations are guidelines:



Oolong teas: 4-7 minutes

Black teas: 3-5 minutes

Green teas: 2-3 minutes

, Depending on your taste, you may want to serve black tea with milk, sugar, lemon or honey. Do not serve the tea with lemon and milk or the milk will curdle. If you use milk, add the milk to the cup first and then add the tea; this prevents the hot tea from scalding the milk by heating it gradually.
