 Divide your hair into two sections by parting it above the highest point of your eyebrow. Work through your hair with a fine tooth comb to separate the sections, and tuck any remaining bits behind your ears.Finish with a spritz of hairspray or a cute bobby pin for staying power.;
, If you have more of a bob, deep-part your hair and make a simple three-strand braid with your bangs. Use a small elastic to tie off the end of the braid, and use bobby pins to tuck the braid under the hair on the side of your head opposite your part, right above your ear., Short, wavy hair lends itself well to mini-braids. Create tiny two- and three-strand braids from the hair around your bangs, even if you can only do a few twists with each braid. Next, pull the braids back and tuck them into your waves for a fun look.To make sure they stay put, pin the braids back with bobby pins.
 Emphasize your bob's natural waves by loosely wrapping a few dry strands around a curling iron for a few seconds, then spritzing a wave-defining product on your hair. Next, create a subtle side part so some of your hair falls in front of your face.For a fun touch, tuck some hair back behind your ear and secure it with a decorative pin.
 For a carefree, just-got-out-of-bed look, go a few days without shampooing. Then, use a round brush to “blowdry” the already dry hair to get even more texture. Add a touch of spray wax or pomade on your fingers and run it through your hair for definition., Short, curly hair can be tricky to work with, so sometimes, the best thing you can do is let it take its natural course. Wash it before you go to school and apply a curl-enhancing cream or mousse.Define your curls by twirling them with your fingers as you let your hair air-dry.
 If your hair is less pixie, more short bob, this is a cute, easy look to pull off for short curly hair. Create a very deep side part by placing the part right above where your eyebrow ends., Create a rounded part on the front of your hair using an afro comb. Starting from the left side of the front part, take a piece of hair and twist it over towards the right. Pin the end of the strand into your hair, and comb back the rest of your hair.To finish off the look, pin the remaining strands onto the back of your head with additional bobby pins.
 Open up a rectangular silk scarf and align the middle part with the back of your head. Tie the scarf once right above your forehead, and tighten it backwards until the knot is sitting about one to two inches behind your forehead. Tie the scarf once more, securing it at the back of your head. Before tying the scarf, spritz moisturizer your hair to keep it from getting frizzy.
All your hair should be above the scarf when you tie above your forehead.
After you first tie the scarf, be sure to smooth out its back so it doesn’t look crumpled.
Tuck in any of the scarf's loose ends to keep the 'do looking neat.
 Create a middle part down the back of your head, as if you were making two low ponytails. Knot the two pieces of hair as if they were shoelaces to create two twists, one right below the other. Secure the loose ends of hair underneath the knot with bobby pins.For added volume, backcomb your hair around your face.
When you backcomb your hair, apply a shine cream so it won’t look messy, just voluminous.
 Create a part right above the middle of your eyebrow, and allow your hair to air dry. Next, pull back your side-swept hair with a pretty barrette right above your ear. For added drama, use a curling iron to define the ends of your strands.
 Part your hair straight down the middle. Apply a heat-protectant shine cream, then use a hair straightener to define the sleekness., Divide your hair into left and right sections. Take a small piece of hair from the outside of one side and cross it over to the inside of the other section. Repeat the process with the other side of the hair, and keep crossing small outer strands with the inside pieces until you reach the end.


Secure the braid with a hair tie or elastic.
When you're starting the braid, the smaller the piece of hair that you take the better.
 If your hair has that rough but cute second-day hair texture, just pull it back into a loose pony at the nape of your neck. Next, pull out pieces of hair from the pony so they frame your face for a soft, casual look.


Spritz your hair with a flexible hold hairspray to make sure your hair stays in place.
 Start by shampooing and conditioning your hair the night before. Part your hair however you prefer, and divide it into four sections. Apply a sea salt spray, and braid your hair before you go to bed. In the morning, take out the braid, spray a bit more product, and you’re ready to go!After you apply your texturizing spray, twirl your hair so it really soaks up the product.
 Flip your head upside down and secure it in a ponytail at the crown of your head with an elastic. Pull it through a styling donut until the donut rest at the base, and wrap the ponytail around the donut, securing it with bobby pins.If you'd like, you can pull some strands loose around your face for a softer look.
If you don't have a styling donut, you can also use a sock to create a top knot.
 When your hair is still damp, apply a volume-boosting product to the roots and use a rattail comb on your roots to boost the volume even more. Diffuse or air dry your hair.If you don’t mind a little frizz, you can gently backcomb pieces of your hair all around your head. Don’t go overboard and tease your whole ‘do, though.
 Curly hair already has all the texture it needs to stand out, so you don't need to do much. Wet your hair in the morning and apply a leave-in conditioner while it’s still damp. Comb through the conditioner with a wide-tooth comb, and let your hair air-dry.Once your hair is dry, don’t touch it - doing so will just create frizz.
 Gather a 2-inch section of hair from the front of your head and create a two-strand braid with it. Curl the end of the twist and secure it with a bobby pin. Repeat with the rest of your hair, then cover it with a silk scarf and let it set for 30 minutes. Remove the scarf, apply oil on your twists, and then separate the twists.Be sure to start with moisturized hair.
Fluff your twists with your fingers or an afro comb.
 Twist two strands from the bottom, back of your head upwards and pin it in place. Keep twisting and pinning until you reach the top. At the front, part your hair into three sections. Twist and pin the sides of your hair as you were doing in the back. For the front, twist and pin strands of hair sideways, tucking the hair into itself.Make sure to tuck and pin down all of your hair.
 Add some dry shampoo to your hair, and pull your hair up to the crown of your head. Hold your hair with one hand and with the other brush out any bumps so your pony looks sleek. Center the pony so it’s visible from the front, and secure it with a hair elastic.It may be easier to flip your head upside down and gather all the hair atop your head.
You can take a thin strand of hair from the underside of the pony and wrap it around the elastic so that the tie is not visible.
Brush out flyaways by spraying a toothbrush with hairspray and running it with a front-to-back motion across your hair.
 Twirl the hair that frames your face into two chunks. Pull them and the rest of your hair back into a pony at the nape of your neck. Take the top layer of the pony and pull it through the elastic. Repeat with the remaining hair from your pony. Secure the ends of the hair into the elastic with bobby pins.Spray your chignon with hair spray to ensure that your hair stays in place.
 Towel-dry your hair, and apply an extra-strong mousse. Blow dry your hair with your head upside down to add volume. Twist your hair into a knot at the nape of your neck and secure it with an elastic.For a more delicate look, allow a few pieces of hair to fall and frame your face.
 Part your hair slightly off-center, and loosely gather a medium-sized strand from each side of your head. Pull those sections back one at a time to the back of your head. Secure the pieces together with a hair elastic or a sparkly barrette.Don't gather your bangs or the hair framing your face when you pull back your hair. Let them fall naturally.
 Divide the middle section from the top of your hair into three strands, and crisscross them once as if you were making a basic braid. Next, add a small section from the right side of your hair to the right section in the braid. Move the new strand to the middle and the middle strand to the right. Repeat the pattern until you run out of hair.Secure the end of the French braid with a small elastic.
 Wash your hair, apply your typical hair products, and air dry it. Section your hair into two horizontal parts. Pull the lower part into a low pony and gather the top of your hair back into a somewhat loose pony to help maintain volume.The trick with this style is to leave your hair slightly loose rather than tightly pulled back. This will give it an effortless, casual feel.
For greater volume, create a deep side part at the top of your hair to allow for more poof.
 Open a cotton towel on a counter or a table, and place your head down against the towel, with all your curls on top of your head. Put the towel over your head to the nape of your neck, and twist the sides of the towel. Pin it in rolls on the back of your head to your head and them your hair sit for 20 minutes.Make sure to start with hair that's still wet. You can apply a mousse or cream if you like.
After air-drying, part your hair at the highest point of your eyebrow. Finger-comb your curls to the appropriate side of your head., Pull your hair up into a ponytail at the top of your head. Put small elastics every inch or so along the entire length of the tail. Pull on each “hair bubble” gently to increase the poof.If it’s easier, you may want to flip your head downwards to create the original ponytail.
 Run a curl control or curl hold cream through your hair after showering. Set your blow dryer on medium and use the diffuser attachment to gently dry your hair. Spray on a medium-hold hairspray to keep your look intact throughout the day.
 Use a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner, and apply a nourishing oil, such as coconut or olive oil. If your hair is especially dry, you might want to apply both a water-based leave-in conditioner and then a naturally-occurring oil to seal in the moisture.A leave-in conditioner with nourishing oils can also work well.
Sleep with a satin pillowcase or cap to preserve the moisture.
 Part your hair where you want the cornrow to start, and create a small, traditional 3-strand braid with the first section of hair. Continue to braid, adding more small strands to the middle section of the braid, until you reach the end. Secure the braid, and repeat until your whole head is braided.


With this hairstyle, you’ll only have to wash your hair every few days. You might even be able to get away with once weekly., Part the front section of your hair, and create five or six mini-twists with the hair from that front part. Move the twists upward and gather the ends on top of your head. Twirl that section of hair into a knot, then secure it atop your head with bobby pins or a colorful elastic.Start by moisturizing your hair with oil and a leave-in conditioner so your locks are more manageable.

