 Do an image search for the celebrity (or celebrities) you want to be with in the photo.


Look for a high-resolution image. You can always go down in resolution (that is, save a high-res image as low-res), but it's hard to go up.
Images taken against a solid colored background will work a lot better than a dynamic or moving background.
When you find one you like, right-click and save it to your computer.
For maximum believability, choose a seldom-seen photo of the celebrity. A casual snapshot might be better than a professional photo that's been plastered all over the Internet.
;
, Once you have the celebrity photo you want, find (or take) a picture of yourself to put into it.


If you can, try to find an image that will blend well with your celebrity picture. For example, if there is a spotlight coming from the right on your celebrity image, choose a photo of yourself where there is a strong light source on the right. Also, pay attention to contrast - if the celebrity image is high-contrast, make sure the photo of you matches.
 Photoshop is popular but you can also find free image editing programs online such as Gimp. Gimp has all of the same popular features found in Photoshop and it doesn't cost a dime.
 Use the Magic Brush or Magnetic Lasso Tool to cut yourself out of your picture. use a remove brush to "erase" the background. You want the background to become a light white and gray checked background, this means that you are removing any background which will make it lay on top of the second photo better.
, No matter how closely you tried to match the celebrity image, you'll probably need to make a few adjustments to the final product to make it look more realistic. Here are some things you could try:


Use the eraser tool to get rid of extraneous pieces of background that came along with the image of yourself.
You may also need to adjust the lighting or contrast of the photo.
Make sure you look proportionately sized next to the celebrity (that is, not too short or too tall). You might need to shrink or enlarge the image of yourself. If this is not an option, try placing yourself in the foreground (if you're too big) or the background (if you're too small) of the image.
Blend the edges. Drag the blur tool around the image of yourself. This will help your edges fade into the photo, making it look more realistic.
 People will have questions about the picture. Come up with an amusing anecdote or believable story about how the photo came into existence. People will want to know what was in the gift.

