 This will include an Xbox 360 game supporting system link capability, game discs for each console (featuring the identical game version, maps, etc.) and as many televisions or monitors are you need for each player. Instead of crossover cables or network hubs, however, you'll also need either Xbox 360 Wireless Networking Adapters (for each console) or alternatively use built-in wireless networking that's only found in the Xbox 360 S and Xbox 360 E console editions.


Wireless connections may be beneficial for those who must locate their consoles and televisions/monitors in different rooms due to limited space. The other advantage is that this kind of arrangement even works without an Internet connection. Unfortunately, however, it will only support a maximum of four connected consoles.
Original Xbox consoles may be connected wirelessly, but you'll first need to check the wireless networking devices' features. Some wireless bridges will do the job, but wireless access points may require special bridging or client-mode features.
There's no way to combine wired and wireless connections for the same system link, so you'll need to select the appropriate method accordingly.
 If using an original Xbox 360, you'll need to attach a wireless networking adapter to the back of the console and install it according to the provided directions. Players using Xbox 360 S and Xbox 360 E consoles don't need wireless networking adapters and can instead use their built-in wireless capabilities.
 Be sure that you've inserted your game discs to each console. You also may wish to make sure your system has the most recently updated version of Dashboard. Then select System from the Setting menu and click on Network Settings. Next, select Advanced Settings from the Available Networks screen and click on "Create Ad-Hoc Network." Enter a name for the new wireless network and select Done.


Other players can find and select the new wireless network on the Available Network screen.
Those using older versions of Dashboard should instead begin by selecting Configure Network and then selecting Wireless Mode from the Basic Settings tab. Then click "Scan for Networks" and select "Create Ad-Hoc Network." Enter a name for the new wireless network and click Done. Finally, exit System Settings, and other players will find your new network by selecting "Scan for Networks" and choosing the one you just named.
 You'll find system link instructions associated with your specific game, so follow those, and you're all set.

