 If you still think those few pimples will go away and never return ever again, you are probably going to be disappointed. Acne can last a long time. If you don't accept that you have acne, you will not be able to see its positive effects.;
, Everything that doesn't kill you makes you've stronger, and, as painful ban depressing as acne can be, it won't, of itself kill you.
 Having to keep track of all your medications and when you have to take them can be tough at first. Almost everyone forgets once in a while and are punished with a breakout the next day. By having to make time to wash your face and use different treatments, you become better at managing your time in general, whether it is finding time to do homework, or going to sleep earlier because you know you will be in the bathroom for half an hour.
 Lots of people with acne, sadly, get picked on sometimes. This causes the person with acne to find ways to deal with being picked on, whether it is ignoring them or laughing with them to show it doesn't bother you. Later in life, when people are picking on you for something else, you will already know how to shut them down.
 Acne is generally not considered attractive. To make up for their skin condition, many with acne will work out to achieve very large muscles or put extra care into making their hair look amazing. Just because you have acne doesn't mean you can't look attractive.
 Acne can be gross, but it is even more gross when it pops and pus and blood oozes out. Eventually, you get used to it and find everything else you used to find disgusting not so gross anymore. Being used to sights that gross others outs, might help you in a future medical or veterinary career, or just help you deal with parenthood!

, Maybe acne has made it harder for you to get a boyfriend or girlfriend. But, with the extra time it has made it easier for you to get good grades, improve in your hobbies and sports, and just become a better person.
 You have very likely learnt not judge a book by its cover. Because you yourself don't have the best "cover," you begin to realize that the cover doesn't matter. Maybe you started to hang out with kids that aren't obsessed with how they look, but instead are obsessed with helping others, or improving in everything they do. Your looks don't last forever. One day, everyone will be old with wrinkly skin and all that great stuff. But, your personality does last your entire life. Create a good one now, so that after you graduate, you are not remembered as a jerk, but as someone well-liked by all.
 Acne has helped you to become a more determined person. You, like thousands of others, are on a mission to rid yourself of acne. You will probably do whatever it takes to rid yourself of it. So, why not use that same philosophy in everything you do. Work your hardest on everything, whether it is bringing your grade up or trying to get that person to be your boyfriend or girlfriend.
 Most people are happy the look younger than they are - appreciate your zits if someone takes you for 25, not thirty.

