 Once you have prepared yourself and decided that tonight's the night, it's time to start sending out the "kiss-me" signals. Giving the boy a compliment is a great place to start. He'll feel great about himself and it'll make him like you even more, making the possibility of a kiss ever more likely.


Say something flattering yet honest, like "I love your eyes" or "you're one of the coolest people I've ever met" or if you want to be even more obvious, you can tell him that you love his lips!

, Guys are attracted to happy, confident girls, so show off these winning personality traits by smiling a lot and looking him directly in the eye. Smiling a lot will make you seem happy and carefree, while laughing at his jokes will flatter his ego. Making eye contact will let him know that you're interested and that you're not afraid to get what you want.


Don't bat your eyelashes, but try looking at him directly for a few seconds, then smiling and looking away - he'll be hooked!

, Drawing attention to your lips will get his attention in a not-so-subtle way and make him think about kissing you. Try not to be too obvious about it, you should make it look like you're doing it without thinking.


Try applying your lip balm in front of him or gently biting your lip when you know he's looking. You'll soon have his attention right where you want it.
 Sometimes boys can feel awkward or unsure about making the first move, but just by making physical contact you're letting him know that it's okay to kiss you. Try giving him a playful push, brushing your fingers through his hair, holding his hand or giving him a spontaneous hug. He'll immediately feel more comfortable around you and hopefully get the message that you'd like to take things to the next level.
 Use an excuse to get up close and personal with the guy. Pick some imaginary fluff out of his hair, challenge him to a staring contest or tell him that you're cold and ask if you can snuggle closer to him. The close contact will let him know that you're interested and make it much easier for him to lean in for a kiss.
 Boys can be a little dull sometimes, so if he's not picking up on any of your oh-so-subtle signals, it may be time to give him a more obvious hint. You can just go for it by making eye contact as you lean towards him, or you can try giving him a playful kiss on the cheek, challenging him to go a step further.


If you're feeling extra confident, you can try a cheeky comment like "you can kiss me now" or "what are you waiting for? Kiss me!" He'll probably think all of his Christmases have come at once!

