 To get a more intimate sense of geography, you can practice drawing free-hand sketch maps of your house, your neighborhood, your school, and your town. You may also try to map out your state and your country. Compare your maps to the maps in atlases and note the gaps in your knowledge. Consider how you might be able to find more information on certain areas that you were not able to draw on your own.You may also walk around your home or school and use your eyes to help you map out the space. This can also be a good excuse to take a walk around your neighborhood and make a map of the area through moving through the area. You may notice details you do not usually pay attention to and get a better sense of the geography of your neighborhood.
 One fun way to get better at identifying the cardinal directions (north, south, east, and west) is to have a friend or parent hide objects in your room and then locate them using directions. For example, the friend may say, “two steps to the east and four steps to the north." You can then try to use your own sense of direction and/or a compass to help you locate objects using cardinal directions.You can also extend this game to identifying locations on a map based on cardinal direction. For example, maybe you note that your home town of San Juan is on the north coast of Puerto Rico and east of the equator.
 Connect the news of the day to geography by noting where events occur on a map. You may watch world news and try to place the events where they occurred based on city or region. You may also watch local news and place events on your map of your home state or your neighborhood. Doing this can help you notice any patterns of where certain events are taking place in the world and come up with theories on why this may be.You may also get a better sense of how events can be tied to geography. For example, an earthquake may occur in a region that is located on a fault line. Or a hurricane may go through a tropical area due to its location in the ocean.
 You can brush up on your geography knowledge by playing mapping games online. Use games that allow you to follow a certain character around the world on a search for clues or to solve a mission. You can also play games that require you to correctly identify the names of places in the world and certain details about the environment of these places.One popular mapping game is Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?You can find a list of mapping games for kids through the BBC at: http://www.bbc.co.uk/schools/websites/4_11/site/geography.shtml.
 If you feel like your geography skills are close to masterly level, you may want to try taking a geography test. This can be a test that your parent or guardian comes up with for you or a test that you take online. You may also be able to customize quizzes online to focus on a specific area or region you are trying to study up on.A list of geography tests and quizzes can be found online.