 They can be exactly the same shade, or they can be two different shades. Make sure that at least one of the jeans fits you well, as this will be the top of the skirt., Take the pair of jeans that fit you. Starting from one cuff, cut up along the inside seam until you reach the crotch. Repeat the process for the other leg. Cut apart the crotch seam when you are done., You may have noticed that the crotch part on the front and back seams is curving outward. It needs to lay flat. Use a pair of scissors to cut up the curved part of the front and back seam. On most pants, this will only be about 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters). Doing this will help the skirt lay smoother. Set this pair of jeans aside when you are done.You've cut far enough if you can smooth the seam down. The left and right edges will overlap, which is fine.
 Overlap the left and right edges on the front crotch seam until it lays smooth. Topstitch it down, following the original stitching. Trim off the excess fabric from the top flap. Repeat this step for the back seam., You will be using these legs to fill the gaps on your skirt. Cut up past the crotch to ensure that you have enough fabric., You will be left with two panels: a front one and a back one. Pick a panel to use for the front of your skirt. Set the second panel aside for another project., This will create a wider panel, which you will be using this for the back of the skirt. Do not cut the leg apart on the inside seam., Set the first pair of jeans down in front of you, with the right side facing out and the waistband facing away from you. Smooth the legs down so that they lay flat against your work surface. You will have a triangular-shaped hole between both legs. Do not close this hole up. You will fill it in with the panels., Tuck the narrower panel inside the jeans so that the front gap is no longer visible. Make sure that the bottom cuffs match up and that the side edges overlap. Smooth down the crotch so that it lays flat; you will need to overlap the left and right edges. Pin the panel in place. Repeat this step for the back of the jeans with the wider panels.You may have to scoot the legs closer together. You need the inside seams on the legs to overlap the outside seams on the panel.
If you have a gap on top, fill it in with a patch of denim fabric.
Don't pin the right sides together like regular sewing. You want the raw, cut edges on the first pair of jeans to be visible.
 Start sewing on the bottom of one cuff and finish sewing on the other. Use a wide enough seam allowance so that you sew through both layers of overlapped fabric. You can use a matching thread color or a contrasting on.,
Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing.
 You don't have to do this, but it will help give your jeans a more rustic, bohemian look.You can also cut the skirt down to the length you want it to be. Hem the bottom, or leave it raw.