 Whether that's soccer, basketball, swimming, volleyball, or something else, you should be proud of yourself. Your skills are important in having confidence and making good impressions on your teammates. You won't be able to become popular if you're embarrassed about your skills. Practice everyday if that's what you have to do to improve. Ask your coach what you can do on your own. If you already have a really good friend on the team or has seen you play, ask for their opinion as well. Work hard and become dedicated - it's an admirable quality to have.


Become captain for your team, if that's an option. This will make your more known, and will give you a chance to be a leader. Players will look up to you and ask for advice. If you become captain, you are putting yourself in a good situation to bond with teammates and become good friends with them. As an added bonus, being captain opens up chances for scholarships, and can be good on any college resume.;
, Even if you're a tall basketball player, or a soccer star with muscular legs doesn't mean there's something wrong about you. Be proud of your strength and endurance rather than wishing you could look like someone else. Confidence plays an important role in popularity, so get over yourself and love just being you.


Get clothes that will work with your body rather than against it. Skinny jeans go great on a tall, lean basketball player while short shorts and mini skirts allow you to show off your great legs. Remember that black and vertical lines elude you to look slimmer, and horizontal lines do just the opposite. Keep this in mind when building a wardrobe. Also remember to always buy clothes that fit.
 While it may not be feasible to go and get a manicure or get your hair done daily, for reasons involving sports, don't be afraid to do a few girly things every so often. Pedicures are normally less likely to be ruined by sports, why not go get pedicures with friends? There's an infinite number of things you can do that are both girly, and compatible with sports, you just have to find them.
 You never know who you'll run into whether it's the most popular girl in school or this totally hot guy from church, so you should always be on top of your appearance. This means practicing good hygiene, and taking care of your hair and skin. If you have acne, you should consult a dermatologist right away, because there's not a bigger turn off than acne. Now that you're taking care of your body and grooming yourself properly, you should make sure you have cute clothes. You may have to change your style a bit so that the popular crowd approves, but it's a sacrifice worth making. If you don't think your current style is up to scratch, then clean out your closet and donate everything that is too large, or out of style. Build your wardrobe back up over time with weekly or bi weekly shopping trips. Also, don't forget to look your best at all of your games and practices. Think about the popular girls on the team who you're trying to be friends with. They probably look good while playing sports, and so should you.
 Do this especially to those who are more popular than you, or someone who you would like to get to know better. It's hard to ignore someone who is complimenting you, and they will probably notice you more. Compliments are a great first step in starting a friendship. When you are complimenting someone it's important to make brief eye contact and smile. Compliments aren't only shared during a game or practice. Walking up to someone to tell them they performed well is really nice, and is a great way to start a conversation.
 Try to make sure it's after a game that you just won. If it's a big win, all the better. You want everyone to be in a happy mood rather than sulking over a loss. If you don't know what to do, a good idea is to eat out at a popular restaurant. If it's a bad time for a meal, invite some people to go with you to the mall, or to see the latest movie. Make sure everyone has a chance to clean off first, as no one wants to go somewhere all smelly and dirty. Don't get caught off guard. You should always have something planned to do or you're destined to be bored and very embarrassed.
 If everyone obviously had fun, then invite them out again after the next game. If you're not sure about everything, wait a few more games to ask again. In the beginning, you want to come off as a supportive teammate, and not a full on friend. At school, greet them with a simple, cute smile. Pace your friendship with them. Try to get their phone numbers and text them or call them every once in a while just to say "hey". Soon enough you'll be past the "just a teammate" phase, and you'll actually be friends. But remember, you're just friends for now, not best friends. Hopefully they'll have invited you to do something with them, instead of you inviting them. If they haven't, keep the friendship going at a slow pace and it will develop overtime. They'll invite you to hang out, but only if you don't rush them.
 Hopefully by now, these are 100% two way friendships. This means they're inviting you out just as much as you invite them out. You should be in contact with at least 2 or 3 populars from the team by now, and hopefully you're all friends. Don't force anything if you're not, though. Hang out more than just after games. Go shopping, invite them for a day at the salon, see movies together, just hang out at each others' houses and surf Myspace. Whatever you want. If you can, make a regular hang out that you meet up 2 or 3 times a week. This could be a certain store at the mall, a Starbucks or 7-11 near your school, or any random restaurant.
 Start friendships with all these new people in the same slow fashion that you did with your now core group. But remember these are just friends, you have best friends to put ahead of them. That doesn't mean be rude, just make sure you don't cancel plans with your clique to hang with new populars. Aim to hang out all together. You don't want to make anyone mad, but if there's no choice, it's better to disappoint someone outside the clique.
 Be social and outgoing. This is a chance to meet even more people, which is what being popular is all about. Be nice to everyone, and if your your clique approves, invite some new people to hang out with you. You can never know too many people. Keep up with everyone, contact people in your clique every day or every other day. Talk to your other friends once or twice a week.
 Surely you're eying some guy by now. Hone your flirting skills and send him lots of flirty smiles. Make eye contact and get his number if you can. If things go well, you'll have a boyfriend. This is great for popularity, as you will get to know all of his friends. It's important to be friends with guys as well as girls when you're popular. Don't just go out with any guy, though. Make sure you genuinely like him, or else you'll just look manipulative.

