 Your child will learn to treat himself as you treat him, so showing love is important. This doesn't mean that you should let your child do whatever he wants. Set boundaries and enforce them so that that your small kid knows what to expect. Show your love however you can. Some people give hugs, others provide a good home, and some give their attention.Don't expect to be the perfect parent or caregiver. There will be times where you're frustrated with your children. Accept the frustration and know that things will get easier.
 You don't have to carve out a large chunk of your day to dedicate to your small children. You can actually make small moments count and show your kids that you're interested them. You might sit together and read stories, play silly games, or just work on making snacks together. The point is to encourage your children to do things alongside and with you.If you cook with your child, be sure to do it at his level. Work on a low table or bring a high-chair over to a counter so he can help you prepare food.
Small kids love when adults act goofy. Surprise your small child by making faces or dancing.
 Take the time to listen to whatever it is your kids want to tell you or talk about. Stop what you're doing and really engage with them. Try getting down on their level, make eye contact, put away your cell phone, and hear what they're saying. Your kids will feel valued and communication between you can improve.If your child has a hard time talking or describing things, you can always ask open-ended questions to get him talking.
 New experiences and playing are how small children learn about their world. As a parent or caregiver, you should give your small kids things to explore. For a very young child, you might give toys that develop his senses (like balls, rattles, or soft animals). For somewhat older small children, take them to a museum, a nature park, or zoo.Kids like activities where they can create something, run around, or explore something new.

