 This is probably the only universal rule of fashion. Wearing perfectly fitted clothing makes you appear more put together and mature, even if you're just wearing a T-shirt and jeans. If you have unique proportions that make shopping difficult, try bringing your clothes to a tailor for alterations., Wearing clothing inappropriate for a situation may make you appear unprepared or foolish. You may not be the type of guy who wears a suit every day; just make sure you own one for when you're expected to wear it.


For more formal occasions like a job interview or wedding, stick to a dark matching suit. Your dress shirt and tie can be colorful as long as they don't clash or look tacky.Business casual is a happy medium for when you want to look sharp without overdoing it. Wear a collared shirt, slacks, and dress shoes. Pair with a blazer for a smarter look or a sweater. Ties are optional. This is a good look for networking events, evening parties, and first dates.Casual wear covers just about everything else, such as the classic T-shirt and jeans look. This can be your day-to-day style.
Cities with warmer climates may be more lax with dress codes. Nobody wants to wear a dark suit and jacket in extreme weather.
If you aren't sure what to wear to an event, ask other men who will be there what they plan on wearing. If you're going to a restaurant or venue, try figuring out what's expected by looking up photos of the establishment online.
 No matter how much or how little you spend on your wardrobe, taking care of your clothing will keep them looking better for longer.


Learn how to sew to be able to make minor repairs on the fly. If you really can't stitch, have someone who can mend minor damage before it becomes major.
Iron your dress shirts. Wrinkles make you look sloppy.
Find a good local cleaner. Some types of clothing you shouldn't do yourself. A professional will know how to remove tough stains and get your clothes looking great again.Avoid wearing clothes with stains and holes in them.

