 Unless otherwise stated by an espresso recipe, always start with a shot of espresso. With the correct amounts of water, coffee, pressure, and timing, an espresso shot should come out perfectly. In general, a shot should take 20 to 25 seconds to create one to two ounces. However, be aware of the shot requirements for specific drinks and follow the directions provided. The remainder of this section suggests various well-known espresso styles to try.
 Most coffee shop drinks revolve around a latte. A latte is simply an espresso shot and steamed milk. However, to make a delicious latte, good steaming of the milk and froth also plays a key part.


See How to make a latte, How to make a vanilla latte, How to make a caramel latte, How to make a chai latte, How to make a caffee latte freddo and How to make an iced latte for precise details on the latte family drinks.
With a lot of practice, you can also create latte art.
 This essentially the same thing as a latte, but with less milk. You will also end up with less foam on the top (hence the name "flat" white). , This is made with steamed half and half rather than regular milk.
 This drink is usually equal parts of espresso, steamed milk and frothed milk. If you're preparing this in North America, you must ask the drinker if they would like a "dry" or "wet" cappuccino. You'll soon find out that a regular latte is in the middle of the two. A dry cappuccino requires espresso and pure milk froth. A wet cappuccino requires espresso and more milk than froth.


For more ideas, see How to make a cappuccino, How to make iced cappuccino and How to make cappuccino foam.
 Americanos are simply shots of espresso with the rest of the drink being hot or chilled water. This is a larger and cup of smooth coffee. It's also known as espresso lungo, or just as an espresso.


For more details, see How to make an Americano and How to make an iced Americano.
 A caffè macchiato is simply a shot of espresso with a slight amount of milk or foam, making a "mark" or "stain" in the drink. This is not to be confused with a latte macchiato, which is milk or froth with a very small amount of espresso.


For more ideas, see How to make a macchiato, How to make a caramel macchiato and How to make a marble mocha macchiato.
 As already explained, this is a volume "restricted" espresso drink. Less diluted than the regular espresso, it's very strong, so expect a caffeine jolt.


See How to make an espresso ristretto for details.
 This is literally a "double espresso" and is the equivalent of two cups of espresso.


See How to make an espresso doppio for more details.
 This is an espresso with a bit of whipped cream added to the top.
Make an espresso Romano. This is espresso served with a small piece of lemon peel on the cup's saucer.
Make an espresso corretto. This is an espresso laced with a spirit or liqueur.

See How to make an espresso corretto for more details.


Make a caffè mocha or mochaccino. This is espresso, steamed milk and chocolate syrup or hot chocolate. On top, frothed milk or whipped cream is added to finish off. In this case, the word mocha refers to the chocolate, not the type of coffee bean.

For a range of ideas, see How to make a mocha, How to make a white chocolate mocha, How to make a black forest mocha, How to make a Starbucks mocha frappuccino, How to make a spicy mocha and How to make a Christmas mocha.


Make an affogato. This is an espresso enhanced by the addition of vanilla ice cream. Perfect for hot days and those with a sweet tooth.






See How to make an affogato and How to make a butterscotch affogato for more ideas.
 This "eye-opener" drink should not be confused with an americano. Red eyes are a single shot of espresso with dripped coffee. Variants of this drink are called "black eye" (two shots of espresso) and "dead eye" (three shots of espresso).