 To work the cabbage patch stitch, you will need to begin by chaining a multiple of four, and then chain an additional three stitches. You can make the chain as long or short as you want as long as it is a multiple of four plus three.For example, you could make a chain of 12 plus three to make a practice swatch or small washcloth with the cabbage patch stitch. Or, you could make a chain of 80 plus three to make a blanket.
To make a chain, loop the yarn over your hook twice and pull the first loop through the second loop. Put this loop on your hook. Then, loop the yarn over the hook once and pull it through the other loop to make your first chain.;
, To begin your first row, skip the first four chain stitches and then double crochet four times into one chain. Only do this for the first stitch in your first row.To double crochet, loop the yarn over the hook, then insert the hook through the chain and loop the yarn over the hook again. Pull the yarn through the first stitch, and then loop the yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the next two stitches, then yarn over again. Pull through the last two stitches to complete a double crochet stitch., For the remaining stitches in the row, skip three and then double crochet four times into one chain.Continue to skip three and double crochet four times into the same chain until you only have two chains left.
Double crochet one time into the last chain to finish the row.
 For the second row, start by turning your work and making a turning chain of three stitches. This will provide some slack to start the next row and help to prevent puckering., Skip the first three stitches in the row and then double crochet one time into the fourth stitch. Skipping the first three stitches will allow you to double back and double crochet into one of the stitches you skipped. This is what creates the criss crossing effect of the cabbage patch stitch., After the double crochet stitch, make a chain of two stitches and then double crochet into the first stitch in the row that you skipped. This will required you to double back and cross over your first double crochet stitch.Continue to skip three stitches, double crochet, and then double back and double crochet into the first stitch you skipped.
When you reach the end of the row, double crochet into the last stitch to finish the row.
 To start the third row, you will need to turn your work and then make a chain of three stitches. This will be your turning chain to provide slack for the row., In the last row you made chains of two that you used to provide slack and double back to the stitches you skipped. For this row, you will be double crocheting four times into each of these chain of two spaces.Continue to double crochet four times into each of the chain of two spaces all the way to the end of the row.
Double crochet one time into the last stitch in the row to finish the row.
 You will need to repeat these three rows to continue working in the cabbage patch stitch. After you complete your third row, turn your work around, chain three, and start the rows over again.Begin your next row by skipping four and double crocheting into the same stitch four times and follow the same pattern from there.
When you finish your project, cut the yarn a few inches from the last stitch and then pull the end through the last stitch to secure it. Tie it in a second knot through the last stitch ensure that it will not unravel.

