 As you are writing each section of the manual, people using the manual will be trying to take in a lot of information. When you purposefully include blank spaces for writing notes, you encourage the users to jot down what they are learning. This will increase the amount of information that they retain.Notes sections would be good alongside most sections of text, but you could also make a separate notes section at the end of chapters and the end of the whole manual. This helps people avoid having separate notebooks that they might lose track of.
 Any time you can show the reader something visual, it can have an impact on how much they understand. You don’t want to clutter your manual with too much, but use visuals if you can. You can have screenshots of steps in computer work. You can include charts of important data. Pictures of tools or machinery the person will use are good, too.There really is no limit to what types of visual aids you could include, so think about what you are training for and what would be most helpful for the user to see.
 For many manuals, you’ll be detailing the steps of various processes, and checklists are a great way to sum things up. When a user needs to refer back to a section that includes specific steps, the checklist will refresh their memory and can be checked much more quickly than multiple paragraphs of text.It might even be useful to make these pages easy to tear out so users could keep the checklist handy at later times when they are working on tasks.
Checklists could include materials needed, sections for before, during, and after completing a task, or how to evaluate work once it is done.
 You want to ensure that users of your manual are learning as they go, so write up small tests of their knowledge. Include the answers in a separate spot so they can check how they did. You could have multiple choice questions, fill in the blank and matching, or scenarios for problem solving.These would be separate from any official testing you would have employees take after training is complete. The purpose would be to help them along the way in gauging how much their are learning.

