 Online courses are different than social media websites. You are not there to just share your opinions. It is important to behave in the same manner that you would in a traditional classroom. That means that you should use proper grammar. No text speak or internet shorthand allowed.Use common courtesy. Address your classmates and instructor by their name or title.
Do not be disrespectful to others. Disagreement is fine, but make your points in a respectful manner.
For example, if you are taking an online history class you might be required to discuss politics in a forum post. Refrain from saying negative things about another point of view.
Avoid saying things like, "That's a stupid statement." Instead, say, "Based on example XYZ in our book, I disagree."

, Discussion forums are an important component of many online courses. Your professor will use them to evaluate how well you are absorbing the material. Making the required amount of posts each week is also usually a significant percentage of your grade. Don't just post without thinking. Spend some time working on your posts.

A good discussion post addresses the question that is posed. Do not try to take the conversation off on an unrelated tangent.
The best discussion posts are focused and use specific examples. When you reply to another student, be specific.
For example, don't just say, "Great post, Natalie!" Instead, try, "Natalie, I am very interested in your views on the causes of the Civil War. This seems to relate to the third paragraph in chapter three. Do you agree with the author that economics were the main factor?"
Participate regularly. Make a habit of checking the discussion forums at least twice a week., Taking an online course can feel intimidating and confusing. You might be unsure where to find materials and you might not understand the pacing of the course. Don't be afraid to ask questions.If something is unclear, ask. The best way to clear up misconceptions is to ask questions.
Spend some time trying to find the answer first. But if you can't locate the syllabus after 10 minutes of earnest looking, ask someone where it is.
Make your questions clear. Since you are communicating electronically, it is especially important to make your messages efficient.
For example, avoid asking something like, "I'm confused about the assignment. Can you help?"
Instead, say, "Assignment 10 requires us to access a short video. I'm having trouble getting the video to load. Do you have any suggestions?"

, Just because you may not meet face to face does not mean that you can't forge a good working relationship with your professor. Make an effort to introduce yourself to your professor. During the first week of class, send an e-mail with some basic information about yourself.

Try saying something such as, "Dear Professor Smith, My name is Sara Brown and I am a student in your online intro. to biology class. I just wanted to take a minute to introduce myself. I'm a Philosophy major, so I'm new to the world of online science classes."
It can help your confidence to begin a rapport with the professor. Later, if you have a question or concern, you will have already had a positive interaction.
If your professor holds in person office hours, stop bye to say hello. Even a brief face to face meeting can make an online course feel more personal.
 Make an effort to get to know your classmates. If there is an open discussion forum on the course site, utilize it. Post a message introducing yourself and sharing a little basic information about yourself.Use your classmates as a resource. If you have a question about where to find a podcast, your classmates might be able to point you in the right direction.
Study together. You can set up an in person study group. Or you can quiz each other on the material via instant message.

