 If you think your baby is running a fever, use a rectal thermometer to get the most accurate results. Place your baby on his or her stomach, or on his or her back with legs pulled up. Coat the base of the thermometer with petroleum jelly, and insert it slowly into the anus – only about half an inch, so that the metal part is inside. Hold the thermometer still, and, when it beeps, remove it and read the results.;
, Any rectal temperature over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) is considered a fever. If your baby is less than three months old, you need to call your doctor immediately or seek treatment at an urgent care center or emergency room. Young babies have very weak immune systems; their bodies cannot handle the minor infections that would not pose a risk to an older child or adult. If your baby is between three months old and twelve months old, you should call your doctor if the rectal temperature rises above 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit (39 degrees Celsius).


If your baby’s fever persists for longer than a day or two, even if it never rises about 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit (39 degrees Celsius), you should see your pediatrician as soon as possible.
 Certain symptoms warrant immediate medical treatment – either from your pediatrician or, if you cannot reach him or her right away, from an emergency room. Some of these symptoms can be hard to identify in young babies, so use your best judgment and err on the side of caution. If your infant has a fever and any of the following symptoms, seek medical treatment:


vomiting
diarrhea
earache
abdominal pain
headache
sore throat
painful urination
swollen joints
a rash

, Certain symptoms require emergency treatment. If you see any of the following symptoms, don’t wait to see if they resolve themselves. Call for help immediately.


unconsciousness or difficulty waking
signs of severe pain
stiff neck
seizure
blue lips, tongue or nails
difficulty breathing
dark purplish rashes or bruises
signs of dehydration – a lack of wet diapers, dark or strong-smelling urine, dry mouth, dry eyes, or sunken fontanels (soft spots)

, If you have seen a doctor, always follow his or her instructions regarding the care of your baby. Having seen your infant, he or she will know the best course of treatment. This article is meant for general guidance, not as a substitute for medical care.
 If you’ve determined that your baby’s fever is not high enough to warrant immediately medical treatment, or if your baby’s pediatrician has decided that your baby’s condition is not serious, you can focus on keeping your baby as safe and comfortable as possible. Making sure he or she stays hydrated should be a priority.


If your baby is young and still eating only breast milk or formula, continue feeding at the usual intervals.
If your baby is at least six months old and has started eating solid foods, supplement with water. If he or she has been introduced to juices, offer diluted fruit juice as well.
For toddlers and older children, you can freeze juice into popsicles as well.
 If your baby has begun eating solid foods, continue to offer them, but don’t force the issue – fevers sometimes decrease the appetite. As long as your baby gets enough fluids, you don’t need to worry about solid food.
 If you dress your baby in heavy clothing, his or her fever may rise. Let body heat escape by dressing your infant in light, airy clothing and covering him or her, if necessary, in a light blanket.


Babies often sweat when they have fevers. Change your baby’s clothing if it becomes damp. This will minimize discomfort and prevent chills from developing.
 Don’t try to bring down a temperature by bathing your child in cold water (unless you are advised to do so by a doctor), and don’t try to ease your baby’s chills by using very warm or hot water, either. Stick to lukewarm water.
 In addition to regular baths, sponge baths may help your baby feel more comfortable. Lay a dry towel on a surface that can get wet (like your bathtub or the floor). Place you baby on the towel. Using a bucket or bowel of lukewarm water, get a sponge or washcloth damp (not soaking wet), and gently wipe your baby’s head, eats, face, and neck. Then move on to the rest of your baby’s body. Dry your baby well, and dress in clean, light layers.
 Help your baby get as much rest as possible, both through daytime napping and nighttime sleep. Hold, rock, or sing to your baby if it helps, and keep your baby’s room a comfortable temperature.
 Your baby’s doctor may have specific guidelines for administering medication to reduce fevers and make your baby more comfortable. For example, he or she may want you to wait until the fever reaches a certain point, especially if your baby is more than three months old; this is because so many fevers resolve themselves, and in these cases, it can be best to let nature take its course.


If your baby is younger than three months old, never give any medication without consulting the pediatrician first.
 If your baby is younger than six months old, acetaminophen (sold under the brand name Tylenol) is the preferred medication for fevers. Choose a liquid version designed for infants, and use the oral syringe provided to administer the correct dosage. Determine this dosage using your baby’s weight – this is the most accurate method.


Consult your doctor and the manufacturer’s instructions, but in general, you can give your baby another dose of acetaminophen every 4 to 6 hours.
 If your baby is at least six months old, you can give ibuprofen (sold under the brand names Advil and Motrin) instead of acetaminophen. Choose a liquid version designed for babies, and use the oral syringe provided to administer a proper dosage. As with acetaminophen, use your baby’s weight to determine the dose – this is the most accurate method.


Consult your doctor and the manufacturer’s instructions, but in general ,you can give your baby another dose of ibuprofen every 6 to 8 hours.
Once your baby is over six months old, ibuprofen has additional advantages over acetaminophen. It lasts longer, reduces swelling, and has anti-inflammatory properties.
 Unless specifically instructed by your doctor, do not dispense any other medications. Baby aspirin is especially dangerous; it has been linked to a condition called Reye’s syndrome, which causes the liver and brain to swell.
 Unless otherwise instructed by a doctor, there’s no need to wake your sleeping baby to administer fever reducers. Let your infant get as much rest as possible.

