 Be confident in your ability to make a choice that works for you in the moment. Know that the outcome of your decision may not be what you expected; however, you will always have an opportunity to make a different decision down the line. , If you have a trusted friend or mentor, ask her to sit down with you and talk about the situation. She may be able to give advice based on experience or just hear you out. Don’t let this person change your mind entirely. Instead, she should be able to support whatever choice you make.Try calling a friend and saying, “I’m trying to choose the right university for me. Can I tell you what I’ve been thinking?”

, Big decisions can be really difficult, especially when your emotions get in the way. Imagine that you are talking to a close friend who is in your situation. What would you say or do to help him make the right choice? Make a list of the types of questions you would ask to help your friend. Additionally, write down past experiences that would help guide your friend’s thinking.
Pretend that your friend is choosing a university. What are the first questions that come to mind when think of your friend's needs?

, Although it is good to weigh the pros and cons, you don’t want to overload yourself with information. This will eventually confuse you and overwhelm your process. Gather enough facts that will help you see the situation clearly. Then start thinking about what is best for you and those involved.
In choosing a college, for example, it is important to think about what you want to study, proximity to your home, finances, the social environment, and other things that are important to you. You do not, however, need to know every fact about the university before you make a choice.
 Sometimes we get stuck in the same patterns because we do not challenge our beliefs. Try listing your assumptions about your situation and imagine if everything were the opposite. How would you make your decision if the circumstances were different? When a situation is framed in a positive way, people tend to be afraid of taking risks. On the other hand, when the situation is framed negatively, we are more likely to make a risky choice. Maybe one university offers study abroad and the other offers a major of interest. Try framing it negatively. Ask yourself what would happen if you never study abroad or how you would feel if you had to change your major.
 People tend to have biases especially in decision making. It is common that people will feel overly confident about a decision or swayed in a particular directions. Try to ignore any biases you may have about your situation. For example, you may have heard that one college is better than the other, but you have not fully investigated why or how.
 Accept that you may face consequences as a result of your choice. You must be prepared to face them. Remember that you thought through the pros and cons decision making process! Try asking yourself about the true price you will pay for the decision. Think about if you are willing to accept what will happen. Do you have alternatives?You may not be the only one who will face challenges as a result of your decision. Consider those around you, and come to a fair conclusion.
When choosing a college, there are many factors to consider. It is your education, but family members often help financially. Remember to think about how your decision affects them too.

