 Your Hunger bar does not deplete in Creative mode or Peaceful mode.;
, You can only eat when when the Hunger bar is not completely full. The only exceptions to this are chorus fruit, golden apples, and milk.


Your Hunger bar will shake when it begins to lower. Once at least one of your hunger icons starts to deplete, you can eat.
 Open your inventory and drag the food item onto your hotbar at the bottom of the screen. Press the hotbar number to select the food and hold it in your hand.
 This is usually the right mouse button, but can be changed to other keys. Continue holding the button until the food has been completely eaten.
 The Hunger bar does not go down in Creative mode or Peaceful mode, so you won't be able to eat if you're playing either of these.
 You'll only be able to eat if you Hunger bar is not completely full. The only exceptions to this are golden apples and milk.


If your Hunger bar is shaking, it will begin lowering. You'll be able to eat once at least the first hunger icon begins to get used up.
 If you pick up food without anything in your hands, it will be selected automatically. You can tap the "..." button to open your inventory, tap a hotbar box, then tap your food item to add it to your hotbar. You can then tap it in your hotbar to hold it.
 You may have to look around a little bit before you are able to start eating, as you may accidentally be trying to click a block. Press and hold your screen until the food has been eaten., Many animals you find in your Minecraft world will drop meat when killed. All of this meat is safe to eat raw, except chicken meat, which can give you food poisoning. Cooking meat will increase its benefits.


You can get meat from cows, pigs, chickens, mooshrooms, sheep and rabbits.
See Start an Animal Farm on Minecraft for instructions on farming animals for meat.
 If you have a fishing rod, you can fish for food. Raw fish, raw salmon, and clownfish are safe to eat, but pufferfish will cause food poisoning and nausea. Cooking raw fish will increase its benefits.


See Fish in Minecraft for details on how to fish.
 Various crops and plants will drop food when harvested. You can farm potatoes, carrots, beetroots, apples, and melons. You'll find these plants in various locations throughout your world, though you may be able to find a lot concentrated in village farms.


See Build a Basic Farm in Minecraft for instructions on creating your own farm to harvest crops.
 Although you only see the Hunger bar in the game, there are actually two hunger systems at work: Hunger and Saturation. The Saturation level is hidden from the player, but affects how the Hunger bar depletes. The hidden Saturation level needs to completely deplete before your Hunger bar starts to drop. Certain foods give higher Saturation bonuses, allowing you to go longer without having to eat.Your Saturation level drops as your perform strenuous activities like sprinting. The Hunger bar will begin to jiggle when your Saturation level has been completely depleted.
 This will give you the largest Saturation bonus, and allow you to go the longest without having to eat again.


High-Saturation foods include cooked porkchops, steak, cooked mutton, cooked salmon, golden carrots, and golden apples.
 You can eat any of the raw meat and gain a small amount of food points, but you'll get better results if you cook the meat first. In order to cook meat, you'll need a furnace. You can create a furnace by placing 8 cobblestone blocks around the edge of your crafting grid.


Once you have a furnace, place some fuel in the bottom box and your raw meat in the top. The meat will be cooked and will give you about 3 times the original Hunger benefit and about 5 times the original Saturation benefit when eaten.
Cooking chicken is the only way to safely eat it. If you eat raw chicken, you have a 30% chance of getting food poisoning.
Putting a potato in a furnace will create a baked potato, which has better hunger benefits.
 There are a variety of food items that can be created by combining ingredients. These can provide good Hunger recovery, but don't offer as much Saturation. Eat these when your Hunger meter is low to get the best effect:



Bread - Crafted from 3 wheat.

Cake - Crafted from 3 milk, 2 sugar, an egg, and 3 wheat.

Cookie - Crafted from 2 wheat and a cocoa bean.

Mushroom stew - Crafted from a mushroom and a bowl.

Pumpkin pie - Crafted from an egg, a sugar, and a pumpkin.

Rabbit stew - Crafted from a cooked rabbit, a carrot, a baked potato, a mushroom, and a bowl.

Golden carrot - Crafted from a carrot and 8 gold nuggets.
Golden apple - Crafted from an apple and 8 gold nuggets.
 There are several foods that have a chance to get you sick if you eat them, or don't prepare them properly. When you get food poisoning, you lose 0.5 Hunger units per second for 30 seconds. Drink milk to counteract the effects of food poisoning.Raw chicken has a 30% chance of giving you food poisoning. Cook chicken to avoid this.
Rotten flesh has an 80% chance of giving you food poisoning. There is no way to make it safer.
Pufferfish has a 100% chance of giving you advanced food poisoning, which will take 1.5 Hunger units per second for 15 seconds. It will also give you Poison IV, which will drop your player health. You cannot cook pufferfish.
Spider eyes have a 100% chance to give you Poison, which will drop your player health by two full hearts.

