 If your business has a physical location and does a high volume of transactions, a POS system might be for you. It directs customers to a specific location in your business where they can complete their purchases. Employees can be trained to use the equipment and scheduled to man the register. Examples of businesses that use a POS system include spas, restaurants and retailers., You will need a checkout terminal. This includes a credit card swiper, a near field communication (NFC) reader (to process Apple Pay, Android Pay or Square payments) and a bar scanner. You also need a cash register and printer. The credit card swiper reads the customer’s information and submits it directly to the credit card company. You will receive confirmation that the payment has been accepted or declined. The payment is then sent to your merchant account and then to your bank account.Choose between a traditional or a mobile POS system.
A traditional system includes a credit card swiper, a terminal with a screen, a receipt printer and a cash register.
A mobile POS system is meant to be used with a smartphone or tablet. It comes with a stand for your mobile device, a credit card swiper and a dongle that attaches to a headphone jack.
 The cost of a POS system varies. The type of POS system you choose and the kinds of credit cards you accept affect the cost. Also, in some cases, the volume of sales may have an impact on the cost.Credit card swipe fees range from .35 percent to 3.7 percent. In addition, you must also pay a set amount of 10 cents to 30 cents per transaction.
Equipment can be purchased or leased, and the cost varies depending on what you purchase.
Chargeback fees occur when you have to return funds to a customer, usually in the case of fraud. These can cost approximately $30 per month.
Some vendors charge sign up, application and subscription fees.
Prepare to pay an early termination fee of several hundred dollars if you want to end your service early.
Payment Card Industry (PCI) Compliance fees are usually $99 per year.

