 It’s difficult to learn about eating in moderation if you’re allowed to have whatever you want, whenever you want. Because of this, offering food only during structured meals allows children to eat healthy food their parents make them, and when they’re actually hungry. When left to their own devices, children often choose the same foods and may eat when they’re not hungry, just upset or bored.


Choose a specific spot in the home that is designated just for eating meals. Keep this area away from the television and prohibit any games or devices at the table. This allows them to pay attention to their bodies while eating and can prevent them from over-indulging., Many parents take the route of teaching moderation with sweets by giving small portions of them. But, this typically causes a child to want more. If they feel deprived from them, they may always feel like they need to have them. This negates the lesson you are trying to teach about moderation.


Instead, allow them to indulge in whatever they want, once a week. This allows them to feel like they’ve had as much as they wanted, which will likely satisfy them until it’s time to indulge again.
For instance, you could place a small bag of candy on the table and let them eat as much as they want. But once they’ve had their fill, that’s it. No more until next week. They won’t feel deprived and will be less likely to feel that they need the treats.You may also want to provide your child with access to healthier treats, like dried fruit and yogurt. These will provide healthy, filling nutrition, while also seeming like a sweet treat.
 Relay to your kids what happens when they eat too much candy and sugar. If you explain to them the health consequences of indulging in too much sugar, they may refrain from wanting candy so often.


You could tell them about how too much sugar can cause them to gain weight, expose them to diabetes, and cause other health problems. Explain to them, however, that sugar in moderation is perfectly fine.You may also want to avoid buying unhealthy foods because this can send mixed messages to children. Buy the foods that you want your children to eat and avoid buying junk foods.
 The body needs a variety of different types of food in order to stay healthy. Explaining what foods can help with what function of the body is helpful when trying to get children to eat certain things. If they know how the food can help their bodies, they may be more apt to eating it.


For instance, you could tell your child that they need to eat certain fruits and vegetables so they can see better. Carbs like oatmeal and brown rice give them energy so they can have more fun.
Putting it in terms that they understand and that are ultimately advantageous for them can encourage them to eat foods they may otherwise not like.You can also try turning this into a fun game to help keep your kids engaged and prevent them from tuning you out. You can visit http://www.foodchamps.org/ to find games and activities to help teach your kids about healthy eating.

