 Since the whole point of a holiday open house is to stay stress-free, you’ll want to give yourself some time to organize your food and beverage menus. That way, you won’t make things hectic by waiting until the last minute. Since a healthy menu is a priority, you’ll want to be able to spend some time putting together healthier options instead of going with quicker items, like chips and dip.In addition to healthier options, plan on including small plates with grab-and-go food items. This will decrease the amount of food and lower calorie counts.
 Four or five food choices is plenty for a holiday open house. Plan on each of your guests having at least a couple of each item you’re serving so you don’t run low. The general rule for parties is that each guest will eat between a half pound and a pound of food, but at an open house, you’ll find some people will dig in while others will just pick.Including a good bulk option with visual appeal, like a salad, is an excellent option.
It’s a “grazing party,” so try to include buffet items that can be enjoyed at room temperature and that will stay pretty over the course of a few hours. Think salad, bruschetta, fruit and veggie plates, mini meatballs, and cocktail shrimp.
You can always swap out or reheat warm or hot items, but do remember you’ll want to spend lots of time with your guests. Try to keep the buffet low maintenance.
 A salad can be a beautiful, healthy way to anchor your buffet. Keep it simple, elegant, and be sure to include salad dressing on the side so it doesn’t get soggy.


Try a winter seasonal salad by tossing together kale, shredded red cabbage, and shredded carrots. Top it with toasted pumpkin seeds and pair it with a zesty vinegar-based dressing.You could also do a simple arugula salad tossed with sliced red onion and a bit of grated parmesan. Top with prosciutto if you’d like, and pair with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
 Soak 3 cups of dried chickpeas at room temperature for at least 12 hours. Drain well and rinse, then transfer to a large pot filled with water and bring to a boil over medium heat. Cook at a boil for 5 minutes, then reduce heat and simmer for 45 minutes.Remove from heat, ladle out a couple cups of the cooking water and set aside. Drain and rinse the cooked chickpeas with cool water.
Transfer to a food processor or blender and add the reserved cooking water, 1 1/2 cups tahini, 3/4 cup olive oil, 3 cloves garlic, the juice of 3 lemons, 1 teaspoon cumin, 1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes, 1/2 teaspoon paprika, and 1 teaspoon salt. Puree until smooth, about 5 minutes.
Serve with pita bread, or with sliced carrot or celery chips for gluten-free option. If you don’t feel like making your own hummus, just buy an appropriate amount for the number of your people you invited!

, Use 2 pounds of lean ground beef, or substitute lean ground turkey for a healthier option. Combine well with 2 cups breadcrumbs, 1 cup skim milk, 1/2 cup finely chopped parsley, 4 medium eggs (lightly beaten), 2 cloves minced garlic, and 1 medium chopped onion. Season with salt and pepper to taste.Shape into 1 tablespoon-sized meatballs, using a scoop to help control portion size. Place on a shallow baking pan or sheet, put in an oven preheated to 350 degrees F, and bake for 25 minutes. Insert a toothpick into each meatball for easier serving.
Increase or decrease recipe proportions based on the number of your guests.
 Slice a baguette or long loaf of bread. Place the slices in a broiler pan, and broil on high for a few minutes each side, keeping an eye on them through the oven window as they char. Rub the toasts with smashed garlic cloves and drizzle them with a bit of olive oil.Cut 3 or 4 plum tomatoes in half. Squeeze out the seeds and juicy, then dice. Place diced tomatoes in a small serving bowl.
Take a couple dozen basil leaves, stack them, and roll them then chop finely to chiffonade them. Combine with the diced tomatoes, then add a drizzle of olive oil and a dash of kosher or sea salt. Provide a serving spoon with the topping, and arrange the toasts on a platter around or near the bowl.

