 As you age, it is important for you to continue to stay active. Physical therapy can help you with this. You can work with a physical therapist to come up with an exercise and physical activity program that suits your ability level. Even if you have limited mobility, there are exercises a physical therapist can help you with.For example, your physical therapist can suggest stretching exercises, help you work on strengthening your muscles, and show you how to improve your range of motion.
 If you find that your functioning is deteriorating as you age, you may consider occupational therapy. MS can cause you to lose some of your independence due to mobility and cognitive problems. Occupational therapy aims to help find solutions for you so that you can continue living a full life by yourself.In occupational therapy, you may get ideas on how to help you get around. Your therapist may suggest walking aids, like canes or scooters, or grab bars for your rooms to help you stand.
Occupational therapy may offer suggestions on how to schedule activities, like personal grooming, in a way where you conserve your energy.
Occupational therapists can also help you work on cognitive and memory skills.
 There are a few other therapies you may consider as you age with MS. These therapies can help improve your quality of life and help you learn how to deal with the disease and the symptoms of aging.


Speech and language therapy might be helpful if you are having trouble talking or holding conversations due to a lack of motor skills. This can also help if you are finding it difficult to swallow.
Vocational therapy can help you learn how to manage your MS and keep your job as you age.
While there is little scientific evidence to back the claims, many people with MS report symptomatic relief with the help of massage therapy or acupuncture.
 If you are struggling with the effects of MS as you get older, consider going to a counselor. A counselor will listen to your concerns, fears, and issues and offer strategies on how to deal with and manage your emotional symptoms. A counselor is a good idea if you are depressed.You can also try a support group or group therapy, where you can talk to others who are facing MS.
Ask your doctor for a referral to a counselor. You doctor can also help you find a MS support group in your area. Likewise, a local or national meeting may help you find a counselor or support system.
You may also want to look online for support. There are very active groups and forums for people dealing with MS, as well as their friends and families.

