 Visit the Amtrak page dedicated to Baltimore Penn Station for information about departing trains from Baltimore. Here, you’ll be able to plan your trip, download timetables, and purchase your tickets. Be aware that Amtrak is more expensive than MARC., Locate the tab labeled “Schedules” along the top of the site. Enter BAL (Baltimore Penn Station) as your starting point and WAS (Union Station) as your destination. Click the calendar by the “Depart” window and select your intended date of departure. Choose your preferred time from the drop-down list under “Time.” Click “Find Schedules.” A list of departure times will appear on the next page.Alternatively, you can download a printable timetable from the link directly below the schedule finder. Note that this timetable has information for the entire Amtrak system nationwide., Click the tab labeled “Buy Tickets.” Enter BAL in the “From” field and WAS in the “To” field. Click the calendar to select your departure date. Select your preferred departure time from the drop-down list. Enter the number of passengers (divided into adults, seniors, children, and infants). If you’re traveling with others, select the category for each of the people traveling with you from the drop-down list below the Promo Code field. If you’re not paying with reward points, leave the “Dollars” radio button clicked. Click “Find Trains.”


If you’re only looking for fare information, you can still use this option. There’s no obligation to purchase a ticket.
 Find the departure time that best fits your schedule. Select the price category that appeals to you. To learn what’s included in each price category, mouse over the column heading directly across from the “Dollars” and “Points” buttons. To purchase your ticket, click “Add to Cart” after selecting a price. You’ll then be directed to check-out. Amtrak’s price categories are:


Saver is the least expensive option, but the ticket is non-refundable.
Value is somewhat more expensive. As a trade-off, you’ll receive a full refund if you cancel at least 48 hours in advance. If you cancel less than 48 hours before your trip, you’ll be charged a 20 percent cancellation fee.
Flexible fares are more expensive than Value fares. However, they’re fully refundable without a fee regardless of when you cancel.
Premium fares entitle you to first-class service and sleeping accommodations., Scroll down and click “Enter Passenger Info” at the bottom right. If you don’t have an account, either create one or continue as a guest. Enter your name (and the names of your companions, if applicable). Then, enter your contact information. Click “Proceed to Payment” at the bottom right. Enter your credit/debit card information and complete the process. Your e-ticket will be emailed to you. Print it out or save it to your mobile device. The conductor will check tickets during the trip.


Alternatively, you can purchase a ticket at Baltimore Penn Station from an Amtrak vending machine., Amtrak has designated places for luggage and bicycles. If you have personal items or bags small enough to be carry-on luggage, you may bring it to your seat as long as the train isn’t crowded. Companion animals must be kept in their carriers.
 You may sit wherever you like. Safety rules mandate that you don’t sit on stairs or stand in vestibules. You may use restrooms or visit the on-board dining service. Otherwise, it’s best to remain seated for the duration of the trip.
 Trains arrive below the historic Union Station. After disembarking, follow the signage to your intended exit or transfer. From here, you can transfer to the DC Metro (bus or rail service). You may buy rail tickets from designated vending machines.


Visit the Metro website for more information.