 No two people experience stress response syndrome the same way. To help your loved one, you should learn as much about the disorder as possible. This helps you have an idea of what they are going through.Stress response syndrome occurs after a major life change or stressor occurs. It manifests as emotional or behavioral symptoms, and usually occurs within three months of the even.Stress response syndrome usually lasts for around six months. Sometimes a few symptoms last after that.
The condition is also called adjustment disorder.
To learn more about the condition, consider buying a book or checking on out from the library. You can also research the condition online, or talk to a mental health care professional.
 Stress response syndrome occurs when the symptoms are significantly excessive or worse than the cause. The symptoms interfere with daily life, including school, work, and social interactions. This disorder can happen at any time in a person’s life, though it happens more often during adolescence, midlife, and late life.Symptom include:Impulsive behavior, acting out, defiant behavior — A person may skip school or work, get into fights, or abuse alcohol or drugs.
Depressed feelings, such as sadness, and hopelessness — The person may cry or withdraw or isolate themselves.
Anxiety symptoms, like nervousness or tension, including both acute and chronic stress conditions
Abnormal heart rate or other physical problems
Shivering, trembling, or twitching

, Any significant life change or emotional stressor can cause stress response syndrome. The event may be serious or mild, positive or negative, but it becomes a significant source of stress and change for the person. They cannot cope or accept what has happened, and they develop the disorder. Examples of triggers include:Divorce
Death of someone close
Marriage
Having a child
Losing a job or financial troubles
Problems at school
Family problems
Sexuality problems
Medical diagnosis
Physical trauma
Surviving natural disaster
Retirement

, There are different types of stress response syndromes, also called adjustment disorders. Your symptoms may depend on which type of stress response syndrome you have. The six subtypes include:Adjustment disorder with depressed mood
Adjustment disorder with anxiety
Adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood
Adjustment disorder with disturbance of conduct
Adjustment disorder with mixed disturbance of emotions and conduct
Adjustment disorder unspecified

