 A primary requirement for developing new friendships is being interested in the other person.Although you may enjoy talking about yourself, it’s polite and thrilling to give another person the opportunity to do the same. They will be pleased to chat, and view you as a great listener.


The next time you’re at a social function, strike up a conversation with someone who catches your eye. “How do you know the host?” or “So, what got you involved in this organization?” are great questions to show interest.
Be sure to use open-ended questions like those above rather than close-ended questions, which are those that demand only a short, one- or two-word answer.That way you’ll have a greater chance of moving learning more about this person and actually keeping the conversation alive.
 No doubt, one of the main reasons why many people have limited social circles is due to their fear of rejection. You worry that others will view you as lonely. You cringe at the thought of your casual invite for coffee will be turned down. This is a common concern, but you must overcome it to make friends in midlife.


Take the risk of reaching out to others by taking initiative.If you spot someone who seems to have mutual hobbies or interests, point it out and then let the person know you’d like to connect. Say something like “Wow, it seems like we have the same taste in movies. Why don’t we go see the new rom-com together?”
If the person turns you down, don’t take it personally. The person could have other obligations. Rejection is not necessarily a reflection of you.
 In recent years, everyone seems to be so connected online that face-to-face connections become fewer and fewer. Although it is wonderful to keep track of what your friends are doing through social media or catching up over email, there is no substitution for in-person interaction. Online relationships, while potentially fulfilling, cannot meet your needs when you are sick, lonely, or grieving.Make an effort to reach out to online friends and take those connections offline. Maybe you have a Facebook friend who lives in your area and has published a post sharing excitement about an upcoming local event. Send the person a quick message saying “Hi, I see you’re going to the jazz festival this weekend. I hope to see you there!”
Taking initiative with online friends indicates to the person that you are interested in forging a closer bond. Maybe you’ll hit it off, maybe you won’t. Either way, you will have made strides towards creating a new, face-to-face relationship.
 A wonderful method to making friends in midlife is by examining some of your old relationships that have slipped through the cracks. Do you have a college friend who recently moved to your area? A previous coworker who just friended you online? Reach out to one of these people and attempt to reconnect.


A major perk to these connections is that you’re already past the awkward introduction phase. Depending on your relationship with the person, you can email, Facebook message, or call to catch up.During the first encounter, mention something like “Oh, it’s been such a long time since we got together. Why don’t we go out for lunch one day next week? What day is good for you?”

, As a middle-aged person, you may have fallen into a set routine of dealing mainly with family or close acquaintances. Such a rigid schedule can get boring. Plus, it hardly provides opening to connect with new people. A great way to deepen a casual connection is by coordinating some sort of function to invite people to.


Is your church hosting a huge, annual event? Ask a few people in your gym class to attend. Are you hoping to get to know the people in your book club better, but feel limited by time? Suggest that you all grab dinner and drinks. Are you an excellent chef? Show off your skills by inviting a few coworkers over for a home-cooked meal.Just as it can help you enhance bonds by extending invitations, it can also help to accept them. Do you often turn down invites to other people’s church functions or potlucks? Start saying “yes” and you’ll be amazed at how your social calendar starts changing for the better.

