 Take two to three large sweet potatoes and peel them with a potato peeler. After the skin has been removed, rinse them under cold water. Once clean, use a cutting board and kitchen knife to cut each potato into chunks. The size is up to you, though one to two inch pieces are recommended for a stew.You can also cut the sweet potatoes into wedges if you would prefer larger slices.;
, You can use any type of chicken you like. For example, try a pound of boneless, skinless chicken breasts, or five to six bone-in, skinless chicken thighs. It is also up to you whether you’d prefer to cut the chicken into smaller portions or leave it whole. Cutting the chicken into chunks will allow it to cook faster. However, if you cook the chicken whole you should be able to shred it easily with a fork once it’s finished.


Just make sure that the chicken is properly de-thawed and skinless before using.
 Try adding a variety of vegetables to your stew. For example, many common recipes include either spinach or kale, but you can add anything like carrots, onions, or mushrooms. Make sure to clean each vegetable before using it. You should also make sure you peel both the onions and carrots before chopping, as well as removing the stems on the spinach and kale before doing the same., Similar to the vegetable options, you can choose any spices you’d like to season your stew. If you want something flavorful, yet mild, try using dried rosemary, salt, pepper, and a bit of white wine. If you’d prefer a spicier dish, use paprika, chili powder, and ginger. You can even take a bolder route with ingredients like garlic, paprika, coriander, cumin, lime juice, and coconut milk for a Brazilian inspired dish. It’s up to you!, Pour two-three cups of water into a large pot or saucepan and bring the water to a boil. Once boiling, add your diced sweet potatoes. You want to keep the stove on high heat until the potatoes are cooked through. This should take around ten minutes. After this time, remove the pot or saucepan from the heat and dump the sweet potatoes into a colander to drain., Without cleaning, put the pan or pot back onto the heat and add a tablespoon of coconut or olive oil. Then add your chicken. You want to fry the chicken until it starts to brown on both sides, which should take around eight to ten minutes if whole and five to eight if chopped.


It’s okay if you’re chicken isn’t fully cooked at this point, as you will be cooking it further as you put the stew together. Just make sure that you are allowing the pieces to brown without burning.
 Before you finish cooking the chicken, throw your vegetables into the pan. You can do this two to three minutes before the chicken fully browns. However, make sure you are paying attention to cook times.


For example, onions are going to take longer to cook than sliced mushrooms. Also, kale and spinach cook very quickly and will be done once they start to wilt.
 Once the chicken and vegetables have been cooked, pour 500ml of chicken stock or broth over them and into the pot. Bring the broth to a boil and then turn down the heat to allow it to simmer. Allow the mixture to cook for ten minutes, stirring occasionally.
 After cooking for ten minutes, check to make sure your chicken has cooked through. Do this by cutting into a piece and looking at the inside color. If it’s pink, then you need to cook the chicken longer. However, if the inside is white, your chicken should be done.
 After your stew has been cooking for ten to twelve minutes, add in the sweet potatoes you cooked earlier. Be careful when dropping these items into the stew as you want to avoid splashback. Once the potatoes are in, add any additional spices you want, like salt, pepper, or rosemary. Leave the stew to cook further for five minutes until finished., Taste the chicken first to see if it's fully cooked and tender. You should be able to pull pieces apart easily with a fork. Then make sure that the vegetables are soft, yet crisp. You should also be able to notice that the broth has thickened.


If you feel like your stew is thin, even with an additional five minutes of cooking, try adding cornstarch. Simply mix two tablespoons of cornstarch in a separate bowl with a tablespoon of water in a separate dish. Stir until smooth and then add to your stew., When eating, ladle the stew into deep bowls with wide rims. This will help allow the stew to cool naturally so you don't risk burning yourself when eating it. The wide rim of the bowl is also perfect for any additional food items like bread., Though stew is hearty on its own, it's best enjoyed with an accompaniment like bread or potatoes. Try serving your stew with a few slices of artisan sourdough. Butter the bread and dip the pieces into the stew to soak up the broth while eating.


You can also substitute potatoes for the bread. Try a creamy mashed potato or crispy roast potatoes. The choice is yours!

, Before you store your leftover soup in the fridge or freezer, cool the pot in an ice bath in the sink. This will help bring the temperature down where it needs to be for freezing. Then ladle the stew into gallon or quart-size freezer bags and label them with the date. Lay these bags flat in the freezer so they are easy to store together once frozen.To reheat, simply let the stew to defrost in the fridge overnight and then cook over low-heat on the stove.

