 Typically, indie girls will have lots of layers, and both long and short hair works for this look. Make sure not to backcomb or tease underneath because you DON'T want to look scene. Your hair color should be natural, or dyed a vibrant shade of a natural colour. Again, stay away from the scene look. If you're more into the grungy side of indie, you might try dying a random piece of hair snow white for a really individual look. Most girls have red or orangey red hair. Curly or straight hair is fine. Do whatever you're comfortable with.;
, Not many indie girls have piercings, but if you're a bit of a rebel, you can get away with ONE facial piercing and still look indie. Stay away from silver or black studs, as those will give you more of an emo look. Try a simple elegant gold stud. These look great with red and blonde hair and will give a great 80s rock n roll look to black haired beauties.
 Have a varied collection of simple tops, everything from vests to gypsy style tops, in all different colours! Don't get drawn to just black; you will shine if you change the colours you wear often. Also, vintage tees are good - try truffleshuffle.com for LOTS of amazing prints! Soft blouses with ruffles or small polka dots are good, as are peach or cream lace dresses. Every indie girl should have a really girly dress. Skinny jeans in all basic colours are fine (try light blue denim with rips at the knees). Big jumpers, cardigans and hoodies are essential - if needed, borrow some big sweaters from your dad, brother or boyfriend. Pair the oversized sweatshirts with a pair of shorts and lace tights and you'll look adorable.
 Loafers, or 'Moccasins', are an absolute must! Any colour or design works. Converse are kind of common these days, but if you like them, wear them. Any kind of pump is great and try find some old Nikes or Adidas trainers. Ballet slippers, brogues, simple heels, and Macbeth's are also needed.
 Steer clear of plastic rainbow jewelry - it gives more of a "scene" look and doesn't fit the indie girl style. Look around charity shops and find some vintage style brooches, necklaces, and bracelets. Big wooden beads are great, as are pearls. If you like boho, try putting a small dream catcher on a long chain for a unique statement piece. Swallows, crystals, keys, peace signs, and anything kitsch is good too.
 The makeup you choose all depends on your particular outfit. If you're wearing a pastel coloured dress that is floaty and soft, you might want to add a hard edge by wearing lots of black eyeliner - Taylor Momsen style. If you're wearing rugged jeans with a velvet blazer and Ramones tee, you might only want a thin line on your top lashes and some mascara. Make sure your skin is clear and radiant-looking.
 This is very important! Listen to whatever music you like; any genre is fine. Typical bands could include: French Films, Wild Beasts, The Young Friends, O. Children, The Horrors, The Drums, Crystal Castles, The Cure, Echo and the Bunnymen, The Libertines, and Frightened Rabbit. Get to all local gigs, and go to see as many signed bands as possible.
 It is VERY indie to turn your skinny jeans up at the bottom to just above your ankle, and is also pretty indie to wear your top button on your shirt done up. Wayfarers, hippy bags, and circus-inspired fashion adds to your uniqueness too. Do anything you want with your look - just make sure it works.
