 Every dog should see a vet at least annually, regardless of breed. In addition to age and breed related considerations, a general preventive care routine involves:Vaccinations.
Heartworm and internal parasite testing.
Consultation and evaluation of behavior and diet.
Physical examination, including dental, body, and muscle condition.
Consultation about spaying and neutering or counseling about breeding and reproductive health, depending on your needs and preferences.;
, Core vaccinations vary according to your jurisdiction’s regulations. In most locations, your dog will need vaccines against rabies, distemper, and parvovirus.Talk to your dog’s vet about non-core vaccinations against germs that are more common in particular areas. Examples of non-core inoculations that your vet might recommend include vaccines against Bordetella bronchiseptica, Borrelia burgdorferi, and Leptospira bacteria.Once you've completed initial vaccinations, annual vet exams will ensure they remain up to date.
 Heartworm, which is carried by mosquitoes, can affect blood flow, breathing, and kidney and liver functions. Your dog's vet will test it for internal parasites like heartworm and provide preventive medication, such as a monthly pill.Symptoms of parasite infection are often hard to recognize or not present, especially in early stages. In late stages, your dog might show shortness of breath, cough, or tire easily.
Preventive parasite treatment for puppies should begin between six and eight weeks.
Internal parasites like heartworm are life-threatening but are absolutely preventable with routine vet care.
 In addition to general canine healthcare, your dog’s preventive care plan should include more customized attention for its specific breed, age, and lifestyle.Remember, choosing a vet who’s familiar with your dog’s breed and potential breed-specific health risks is essential to its health.
A vet will provide blood screening and physical assessments if your dog is predisposed to problems like joint disorders, organ or gland issues, or bloat and other digestion issues.
They’ll also offer location-specific recommendations. For example, they can let you know if flea and tick prevention is especially vital in your location, and if certain products are more effective against pest populations in your area., While it’s important to choose a good vet who is familiar with general canine care and any breed-specific needs, you should also inform yourself about potential health risks. Search online for health information about common canine health risks and to learn more about your dog’s breed or mix of breeds' specific risks.For example, some toy dogs with smaller teeth are more prone to serious gum diseases. Basset Hounds, Dachshunds, and other breeds with extremely modified body forms are at a higher risk of developing joint issues. Brachycephalic or “smush-faced” breeds like bulldogs and pugs have issues breathing, with skin irritation and infections, and with staying cool in hot weather.
Your local breed club or rescue group can help you learn more about caring for your dog’s specific needs.
When you purchase a dog from a breeder, be sure to ask for its parents’ medical records. Their medical history will inform you about potential genetic disorders and help you and your dog’s vet create a more customized preventive care routine.

