 The earlier you book your travel, the more likely you are to avoid single occupancy supplements. This will help you find a cheaper hotel room if you are planning your own travel. If you want to join a cruise or tour, you may find that some will waive the supplement for those who book a certain number of months in advance., You will have better luck with rates if you travel alone during the off or shoulder season. The hotels may lower or waive their single occupancy supplement. Look at your plans, and consider if you can change your dates.The off-season is when hotels are the least busy. For example, the summer is the off-season in the Mediterranean while winter is the off-season in Scotland.
The shoulder season is at the end of the tourist season and the beginning of the off-season. The weather may still be nice, but the hotels have lower rates.
 If you’ve tried searching for deals in vain, you may want to set up a search alert for yourself. To do this, make a search term alert for the type of travel that you want to do. Sites like Google will email the top results of this search term to you daily.To set up a Google alert, go the Alert page of your Google account. In the form, write what search terms you are looking for and how often you want them emailed to you.

Talkwalker Alerts and IFTTT are good alternatives to Google Alerts.
The words “no single supplement” or “single supplement waived” should be in your alert. You should also put the destination. For example, your Google Alert may read “Paris no single supplement.”

, Hotels are more likely to charge you a single occupancy supplement as they charge by room, but hostels charge by person. While many hostels have dorms, you may still be able to find a hostel that offers private rooms at a reduced rate.You can search for safe, highly rated hostels at Hostels.com, Hostel World, and Hostel Bookers.
Some hostels will offer single-sex dorms or rooms for those who don’t mind having roommates of the same sex.
 While it may be harder to find a hotel without a single supplement, you can find tour operators or cruise lines that do not charge it. Some companies waive this fee entirely while others will offer significantly reduced supplements.



HFHolidays, Exodus Travels, Overseas Adventure Travel and Intrepid Travel all offer tours without charging a single supplement.

Norwegian Cruise Line, Grand Circle Travel, and Avalon Waterways all waive or reduce single supplements on certain cruises.
 Some travel companies may offer special deals for people traveling alone. These may be advertised as “solo travel,” “singles only,” or “singles specials.”When looking for such deals, read the descriptions carefully. Some may be tailored for single, unmarried travelers looking for romance while others are catered towards people traveling alone.

