 There are upwards of 100 different viruses that are considered a form of HPV. Of those 100+ strains, around 40 of them are sexually transmitted, while around 60 of them cause warts on areas such as the hands and feet.Non-sexually transmitted HPV usually enters your body through skin-to-skin contact, entering through cuts or abrasions on the skin, and will manifest as warts around the area of infection
Sexually transmitted HPV enters the body through direct genital contact, or from skin-to-genital contact. HPV infections around the mouth or in the upper respiratory system may also occur from oral sex. These may manifest as warts, or may have no symptoms. Only a test from your doctor can properly diagnose sexually-transmitted HPV.
 Sexually transmitted strains of HPV are generally broken down into two broad categories: high risk and low risk HPV. About 40 types of HPV are transmitted by direct contact with a mucus membrane, such as those around the genital area. These types are the most likely to be spread through sexual contact.
High-risk HPV viruses are those that are sexually transmitted and are at a higher risk for developing into a serious health risk, such as cancer. High-risk HPV strains include HPV 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, 58, and a couple other strains. The strains responsible for most cervical cancer development are 16 and 18, which are screened for most commonly since they cause about 70% of cervical cancers. Medical testing is necessary to see if you have high-risk HPV.
Low-risk HPV strains include HPV 6, 11, 40, 42, 43, 44, 53, 54, 61, 72, 73, and 81. HPV 6 and 11 are the most common forms of low-risk HPV, and are the HPV strains most commonly associated with genital warts. Rarely do low-risk strains lead to cancer, so they are not part of routine screening.
 Certain factor can increase a woman’s chance of contracting HPV. Those who have had multiple sexual partners, a weakened immune system from HIV, immune disorders, or cancer treatment, and those who engage in unprotected sex may all be at a higher risk for sexually-transmitted HPV.Aligning with a risk factor does not mean that a woman has or does not have HPV. It is simply an indicator that she is more likely to be exposed.

