 To place your hand for the continental grip, hold your racket pointing away from you with your left hand. Orient the string area so that it is perpendicular to the ground. Put your right hand out as if to shake hands with the grip of the racket, and place the base knuckle of your index finger on the small, sloped side of the grip to the right of the flat side on top. Close your hand around the grip so that this same bevel of the grip goes diagonally across your palm to point toward the heel of your palm below your pinkie. The Continental Grip is:









the most basic forehand grip in tennis.
standard for serves and preferred for volleys.difficult to use for working with topspin or backspin.;
, To place your hand for the Eastern forehand grip, start by holding your racket pointing away from you with your left hand. Orient the string area so that it is perpendicular to the ground. Put your right hand out as if to shake hands with the grip of the racket, and place the base knuckle of your index finger on the long flat side of the grip facing straight out to your right. Close your hand around the grip so that this same bevel of the grip goes diagonally across your palm to point toward the heel of your palm below your pinkie. The Eastern Forehand Grip is:









a classic, versatile grip good for squarely-placed swings or slices.
basic, but still used by pros.
not optimal for topspin either coming or going.
 To find the Semi-Western grip, hold your racket pointing away from you with your left hand. Orient the string area so that it is perpendicular to the ground. Put your right hand out as if to shake hands with the grip of the racket, and place the base knuckle of your index finger on the small, slanted plane of the grip facing downward and to your right. Close your hand around the grip so that this same bevel of the grip goes diagonally across your palm to point toward the heel of your palm below your pinkie. The Semi-Western Grip is:









a grip that tilts your racket downward, forcing an upward swing and promoting topspin.
the game-changing grip preferred by many pros.
not a good grip for slicing or hitting low balls., Start by holding your racket pointing away from you with your left hand. Orient the string area so that it is perpendicular to the ground. Put your right hand out as if to shake hands with the grip of the racket, and place the base knuckle of your index finger on the flat plane of the grip located on the very underside of the grip. Close your hand around the grip so that this same bevel of the grip goes diagonally across your palm to point toward the heel of your palm below your pinkie. The Western Grip is:









an extreme topspin creator.
very bad for low balls, slicing, or square hits.

