 Tongue piercings generally heal in about 4 weeks, though this varies from person to person.Do not try to change your jewelry before your piercing is fully healed. This can cause pain, damage, and your piercing may close up.
 Do not take out your piercing without replacing it. Tongue piercings can close up very quickly, even after they heal. If you take out your jewelry, put a new one in its place right away., Your tongue swells when you get it pierced, so the bar you were pierced with is extra long. When the swelling goes down, you can use shorter bars.Once your initial swelling goes down and your piercing is healed enough, change your barbell to a shorter one that sits more snugly on your tongue. This will probably be more comfortable and less obtrusive.It’s best to have a professional piercer help you choose the right length barbell for your tongue.
 When you change your piercing, continue to use high-quality jewelry made out of titanium or surgical steel. These are sturdy and safer than cheap jewelry, which can cause an allergic reaction.Use titanium if you have had allergic reactions to jewelry – it’s the least likely to cause a reaction.
14- to 18-carat gold and other hypoallergenic products can also be a good choice for sensitive skin., It can be helpful to wear a retainer to keep your piercing open if you work in a professional environment that discourages piercings. Only use one of these once your piercing has fully healed. The same goes for switching from a barbell to a labret stud.It’s usually safe to start experimenting with jewelry after about a month. This varies from person to person, however.
 If possible, return to the person who originally did your piercing; otherwise, see another trained professional. They can tell you whether or not it is a suitable time to change your piercing, and can help you choose the right length of jewelry to use. They may use pliers adapted to remove the ball from the ring; it's not recommended that you try to do this yourself.
 Changing your jewelry can introduce bacteria to your piercing if your hands or jewelry aren’t clean. See your doctor right away if you notice signs of infection, including:Swelling in your tongue (after the initial few days of swelling)
Redness
Discharge
Discoloration or red streaks

