 Make sure that your child knows that not everyone is ready to learn more about who Santa is. You can make it a special responsibility for your child to keep this secret for any younger siblings.


Let your child become a helper by giving them the responsibility of stuffing stockings for younger children after they have gone to bed, or another task that allows them to be involved in maintaining the ritual.If you have no younger children, you can ask your child to help keep the Santa story alive for other kids of the same age or younger at school who might not be ready to hear about Santa’s true story.
 Make sure your child understands that other children and other families will choose to tell the story of Santa differently, or at different times. He or she should do their best to respect these differences.


For example, if another child says Santa leaves cookie crumbs in his or her house but “yours” doesn't, you can instruct your child that families simply have different Santa traditions, and that one is not better or more real than another.
You can also explain different ways of dealing with Santa by comparing the belief to religion, if that’s already something you’ve discussed with your child. You can point out that your child wouldn’t make fun of another child for celebrating Hanukkah instead of Christmas, so they also shouldn’t make fun of someone for believing Santa is real., Know that just because you tell the truth about Santa doesn’t mean that your child can’t keep up a level of fantasy and make-believe about Christmas. Allow them to continue to act out elements of the story if they want to.


Offer your child the ability to act as Santa him or herself, or be an elf on Christmas eve, working to wrap presents for other family members and get the house set up for the holiday.
Remember that just like any other story, your child can understand that Santa and other characters may not be real, but can still enjoy the fantasy of it. You can laugh over the silliness of how Santa could ever visit every child’s house in one night while still appreciating the magic of an idea like the North Pole.

