 Spread newspaper to cover the surface of your work area and use a paint brush or clean cloth to gently apply chestnut-coloured wood stain. Be sure to apply it in the direction of the wood on all vertical sides of your blocks. Allow the stain to dry for a couple of hours. You may add a second coat but one should be fine.Do not stain the top of the blocks. You may stain the bottom of the blocks if you choose.;
, Pour tacky glue into a bowl of water. Once the blocks are dry, use a paint brush to apply the mixture to the top of the blocks that do not have any stain on them., Sprinkle faux grass on the wet glue at the top of each block. Use your fingers and press on lightly on the grass to make sure it adheres to the blocks. Allow the glue to dry for a few hours., Use a blunt object, like the end of a foam brush, to scrape off some of the grass and create a stream. After you have created your desired stream shape, apply a thin layer of glue to either side in order to create a border to seal in any water you may with to add., Use a paintbrush to paint thick blue acrylic paint on your stream. You may also use the undercoat that comes in the Scene-A-Rama kit instead of the acrylic paint. You may also add small pebbles to the stream by placing them on top of the undercoat.Purchasing a Scene-A-Rama kit is optional.
 As the undercoat dries, glue down trees, figurines, structures, and rocks at your desired locations. Use tweezers to hold down the items as the glue dries., Use the water effect that comes with the Scene-A-Rama kit and apply it onto the dry undercoat of the stream. Allow the water effect to dry for a few hours and apply the special ripple effect from the same kit. You may also simply paint a contrasting blue or use white to create waves.The ripple effect is the last layer of the kit. Purchasing a Scene-A-Rama kit is optional.
 Add a few more pebbles or figurines to the stream. You may also paint flowers or details on any of the objects. Allow the diorama to dry for several hours before using as your bookends.