 Stop-motion is similar to the flip books many people make as kids, where a small drawing on the corner of the pages is brought to life by flipping through them rapidly. This makes stop-motion a long process, as you need to take a lot of photos to make the film.
 Say you are going to have some bread walk itself into the toaster. Your first shot would likely be the bag of bread sitting next to the toaster. Set everything up, lights and props, and get ready to roll.
 Check it quickly to make sure there were no issues, but do not move the camera. If you move it, there is a chance you'll need to restart, as it is nearly impossible to get it back into the same spot it started.
 Continuing the bread to toaster movie, you might open the bag a quarter of an inch. Take the shot, keeping the camera in the same place.


Some cameras have "auto-shutter" features, which take shots every 5, 10, or 15 seconds. If you only need a few seconds to adjust things this can be a great way to prevent accidental camera movement., Open the bag a little more, and take a photo. Start to move the bread out the bag, take a photo. Keep moving and snapping, trying to keep your movements brief and making sure the camera stays in place.


The smaller the movements between shots, the smoother the animation will look. As a guideline, most early animation, like Disney shorts, took 24 shots per second of movie footage, and they look incredibly smooth as a result. You can get away with between 10-12, however, for home stop-motion., Getting the bread out of the bag and scooting it towards the toaster is easy. Getting it in the toaster, however, is a lot harder, since the bread will likely not wait for you halfway up the toaster without something to keep it from falling. Luckily, because you can take as much time in between shots as you want, you don't need any crazy special effects. For most stop-motion movies, some clear fishing line or tape will help you accomplish most of your goals., If you're unsure where the next motion is, check the last few photos you took and compare them to the current image on the camera screen. This is also helpful for larger actions, like suspended or "jumping" figures.

