 You should consider how your use of technology affects your home life, including your ability to be a part of special moments with family. Consider if your computer or smartphone use is getting in the way of you spending quality time with your family and witnessing meaningful moments at home. You may have a hurtful relationship with technology if you tend to opt out of family time for more time on the computer, your smartphone, or online.For example, perhaps you missed your daughter’s first steps because you were too busy looking up funny videos on your smartphone. Or maybe you were distracted during your mother’s birthday speech because you were too busy texting a friend or checking your email.;
, You should also think about whether or not your technology use is getting in the way of relationships with a partner or with friends. You may notice that you avoid talking to others in person and opt for texting instead. This could then have a negative effect on your personal relationships with friends or a partner, as you avoid connecting face to face with them.You may have a hurtful relationship with technology if you use your phone or your computer as a convenient distraction to avoid addressing issues or problems you may have in your relationships. You should consider if your only meaningful relationships are online and not in real life. This could mean you have a damaging relationship with technology.
For example, maybe you go on your phone when your partner is talking to you to avoid discussing a touchy subject. Or perhaps you often stay in and go on the computer instead of going to hang out with friends in person.
 If you are not being as productive at work or school because you are spending more time on your computer, phone, or gaming system, then you may have issues with technology. This may be because you are spending more time using technology, or it may be because you are lacking focus because you are preoccupied with thoughts of when you will next be able to use your devices.

If you are not being as productive, this may cause other people in your life to have to pick up the slack. Ask your friends or family, "Do you feel like you're doing more work around the house since I got my new computer/phone?"

, You may find that you are neglecting your personal care, your care duties for others, or your responsibilities around your home. You may spend less time with friends and family than you used to and be less reliable than you have been in the past. This could also spill over to your work or school habits.

Notice if your home is messier than usual.
Watch for changes in your personal care habits. For example, are you showering less, sleeping less, or neglecting yourself?
Are you properly caring for your pets, children, parents, and others who rely on you?
Are your bills late?

, If you are getting in more arguments with friends or family than you usually have, it may be a sign of poor technology habits. This is also true for if you are more agitated than usual. Spending too much time using technology can alter your mood and how you relate to others, creating a negative impact on your relationships.

Pay attention if you're having fights over minor issues.
Notice if arguments are happening either while you're using your device, over your device issues, or because of issues that occurred because you were using your device. For example, you may have an argument if you forget to do the dishes on your night because you were playing a game on your phone.
 If you are not sure if you have a good or bad relationship with technology, you may ask your friends and family for their opinion. They may be able to tell you if they think you have an issue with technology and need to address it. Be open to their feedback and consider their perspective.For example, you may ask a friend, “Do you think I'm on my phone too much?” Or you may ask a family member, “Do you feel hurt because of my technology habits?”

