 Apply some yucky tasting nibble inhibitor on your nails at least once a day.


Now when you bite your nails, it will taste nasty and you'll think twice about doing it again. Over time, using a nibble inhibitor can help you to break your nail biting habit for good.
If you don't want to splurge on a specific nibble inhibitor product, try applying some hand sanitizer or cream that doesn't taste so good instead. However, you will need to apply this quite frequently.
 Covering up your nails can provide a physical barrier between your teeth and your fingertips, preventing you from biting.



Wear gloves. If the weather is cold, wearing gloves is a great way to hide your nails while also staying warm and stylish.

Wrap your fingers in adhesive bandages. If your nails are covered this way, you won't be able to get to them! This is a good technique for when you're sitting at home in the evenings, or in bed at night.
 Try to find new activities to replace your nail biting habit when you're feeling nervous or bored. For example:


Try chewing sugarless gum every time you want to bite your nails. This will give your mouth something else to do -- and will taste much better!
Find something to play with like a coin or ball of putty -- this will keep your hands busy and away from your mouth! This is a good technique for in the car or while watching TV.
Eat or drink something. Try carrying around a bottle of water or a bag of carrots sticks - then whenever you feel the urge to bite, you can simply take a drink or nibble on a carrot instead.
 Another way to prevent yourself from biting is to give yourself a beautiful manicure -- your nails will look so pretty, you'll hate to ruin them by biting!


Choose bold colors like dark pink and red, where it will look very obvious if the nails have been bitten or chipped.
Apply fake nails, or get gel nails done professionally at a salon. These will cover up your natural nails, giving them a chance to grow out while you can't bite them.
 Keeping your nails in good condition will make them stronger and prettier-looking, making them less prone to breakage and more difficult to break. Follow these tips for healthier nails:


Eat a healthy diet. A diet rich in nutrients, vitamins and minerals such as calcium, magnesium and fatty acids is beneficial for nails. Try eating lots of eggs, oily fish, fruit, leafy green vegetables and nuts. You could also try taking a supplement for healthy hair, skin and nails.







Keep your nails short. Keeping your nails cut short will prevent them from breaking and from becoming too long or weak. It will also minimize your temptation to bite them. How often you need to cut your nails varies from person to person, but for most people it will be somewhere around every one or two weeks.







Apply nail and cuticle creams. Dry, dehydrated nails are more prone to brittleness and breakage, so keep your talons in tip-top shape by massaging a little nail cream into each individual fingertip every night. Rubbing some cuticle oil on your cuticles can also work wonders.







