 Decide that this is it: you are going to treat your opiate addiction and you are going to recover. Plan on trying and not giving up — relapse is common, but recovery is common too.Write your intention down.
Make a list of all the reasons you want to get sober. This may include being there for the people you love, accomplishing goals you have had in the past, and anything else that you will be able to do when you are sober.
Tell your family and friends your intention, and ask for their help.
Understand that the process may be gradual, that it may take weeks or months, and that you may slip up and have to start over at some point in the process.If you do relapse, try again. It may take you a few tries, but if you persevere your recovery will give you new life.;
, The first step in treating opiate addiction is letting the drugs leave your system. After that, you'll go through rehabilitation, which will help you transition from detox back into the ordinary world. You will then need a maintenance plan that will help you avoid relapse. Planning this out ahead of time will help you avoid any gaps in your treatment, which would otherwise place you at risk of relapse.Detox is painful. Withdrawal symptoms need to be managed carefully. If you can manage it, your best option is probably to go straight to an inpatient treatment center.
Go straight into rehab after detox. Any pause will place you at risk. Relapse after going sober can be fatal.
Maintenance will depend on your personal needs, but it may involve medication such as methadone, therapy, group therapy, and changes to your daily routine.
 Treatment can be expensive. Inpatient rehab can cost around $6,000 for a month's care, and you may find you need more than a month's care — many people choose to stay in rehab for 60 or 90 days. Outpatient treatments are cheaper. Outpatient detox can cost around $1,000 – $1,500 for a month's help, and outpatient rehab can run you around $5,000 for three months of care; however, there are also free programs, programs that accept your insurance, and programs that offer financing.If you have insurance, such as Medicaid, it should pick up a significant portion of the cost.
Search SAMHSA for a state-funded treatment center that will treat you for free or at reduced rates: https://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/locator/home

Look for programs with good financing systems. Programs that offer their own payment plans are often the best option for patients who are low on funds.
Call SAMHSA to get a referral for low-cost treatment: 1-800-662-HELP
Ask for a loan from family and friends. If you still need some money to cover treatment, ask your family and friends for help. They can give the money directly to the program.
 If you have a regular doctor, visit them. They will administer urine or blood tests to confirm the presence of opiates in your body. Depending on the state you are in, they may also test you for other illnesses, such as hepatitis C.Search for community mental health and addiction support centers. In many areas, there are free or low-cost clinics where you can speak to a drug counselor and make a plan for your recovery., While you are detoxing, one of your goals will be to avoid relapse triggers. If you are outpatient or on your own, you must be especially vigilant in this.


For instance, you might never carry cash.Cut off contact with people who are active in their addiction and people you know are enablers.
Try to stay away from places where you have used or bought drugs in the past.

