 Monologues will help you get better at memorization, character study, and auditioning.


When searching for monologues you can search online but be weary of which monologues you find. Casting directors don’t want to see you perform the same monologue that four other people have performed. This happens when people simply find monologues online. Instead, find one that you like from one of the plays you’ve read.
Go over your monologue and scan it. Meaning you should break down the beats, and know your objective. This is where the twelve guideposts come in handy. Find the places in your monologue where you can hit each one. Know where you are, who you are talking to, who you are, what you need, etc.
If you truly want to improve your ability as an actor, you should have roughly four monologues. Have four that you practice frequently and have scanned and memorized. These are monologues that you could perform at any time with no preparation. You should have two that are humorous and two that are dramatic. One of each should be contemporary and the other classical.
 Classes and studying acting is a great way to dissect and build your skill. But auditioning for shows is also extremely valuable to improving.


When you audition you get to act in a way that will allow you to better understand where your skills lie. You'll see what you need to further work on. Auditions are important for not only getting your face and name out there; but for getting some practice in.
An audition usually consists of cold reading a scene, performing a monologue, or both. Auditions will help you to get better at making decisions in a scene quickly and in the moment. You won’t have a lot of time to scan your lines, but learning to operate well with that lack of time will help you grow.
Go to as many auditions as you can. You can do a search in your area for theatre or film auditions and sign up. Or, ask your teachers where the best place to find auditions is.
If an audition goes well and you get cast, then you know you are on a path that is helping you improve your skill. During your audition, treat it as if it’s opening night. You should use everything you have to fully immerse yourself in the character and make strong choices. If making strong choices is hard for you, auditioning will help you improve that skill.
 Recording yourself can be a good exercise for identifying your quirks and pinpointing areas you need to improve on.


Set up a camera and record yourself doing a monologue or a scene with a partner. You may not like how you look or how you sound, but that’s ok. Take notes on what you are doing, how much or little you are moving, and if you believe your performance.
Watching yourself perform with an objective eye can really show you what you need to work on. Perhaps you don’t enunciate enough or you’re always touching your face. Maybe your movements are too big and unrealistic. Write down the areas you want to improve. Then go back and try it again.
 With so much technology and resources available to us, it’s easy to create your own production, whether it’s film or on stage.


You can rent out a small theatre space and put up your own play or get some camera equipment and shoot a web series. Doing the work yourself will give you a new viewpoint on your craft. When you put up your own production you challenge yourself to do your best work.
Having something that you’ve created and that others will see can help you develop your own style and become a better actor. You’ll find through the process what you like and don’t like. What works for you and what doesn’t. And because it’s on you, you know you won’t slack off or phone it in.

