 You may want to use a shampoo specially formulated for dreadlocks, but a regular shampoo will also work. Use your fingers to massage the shampoo into the scalp with water. After the dreads have been thoroughly soaped, you're ready to rinse.


You should avoid shampooing your dreads for a minimum of two weeks after having them done to keep the locks firm and secure.
The shampoo you choose should be low lather and should suit the needs of your scalp. Many people with dreads suffer from dry scalps. If you do too, you should use a shampoo formulated for dry scalps.
You may want to use a clean nylon to contain your dreads when washing. This can help keep your locks from coming apart while being washed., You don't have to use conditioner on your hair, but doing so can improve your hair's strength, softness, and luster. Take your hair conditioner in your hands and massage it into the scalp and dreadlocks until all locks are moisturized and loose.Follow the label recommendations of your conditioner for best results. Generally, you should let the conditioner set in the locks for a few minutes.
After you have finished conditioning, you should rinse the conditioner from your hair, turning off the shower and wringing out excess moisture from the locks as you do.
Some dreadlock wearers choose to skip conditioning, as it can loosen the tightness of your locks., Your dreadlocks can pick up a lot of buildup throughout daily life, and this can drip unpleasantly down the neck if you're not careful. After rinsing out the conditioner, keep the washed head bent so drips fall onto the shower floor and not down the body. Then:


Gather a towel around the base of the neck. Blot the dreads there to absorb moisture, then hold the towel firmly in place with your hands.
Straighten the head. Excess moisture will trickle down the head and get caught in the towel you are holding at the base of the neck.
After the hair has mostly stopped dripping, use dry portions of the towel to blot/wring excess moisture from the dreads., Failing to dry your dreads completely can leave your cool hairdo smelling like a wet dog. For this reason, you may want to use a hair dryer to make certain your dreads are dry. However, you can also allow your hair to air dry before retwisting, though this might take some time to fully dry.


Hair that is wet stretches more than hair that is dry. Due to this, you may have the best and most consistent results if you wait until the dreadlocks are completely dry before retwisting.
Due to the thickness of most dreads, moisture deep inside a lock can sometimes be missed while drying. For this reason, you may want to dry for 10 minutes more than you think necessary.