 Meanwhile, lightly coat four 10 oz (315 ml) ramekins with nonstick cooking spray.You can use oven-safe bowls or similar dishes if you don't have ramekins, but the dishes should be able to hold at least 10 oz (315 ml), if not more.
Note that this baked egg dish will only include one egg per serving, so you should have an equal number of dishes and eggs.
 In a medium to large mixing bowl, combine the shredded hash brown potatoes, 1/4 cup (60 ml) shredded cheddar cheese, 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) salt, and 1/4 tsp (60 ml) ground black pepper until evenly mixed.
 Spoon equal amounts of the hash brown mixture into the greased ramekins. Use your fingers to create indentations in the center of each dish.Essentially, you need to create a "nest" of hash browns with a 2-inch (5-cm) deep and 2-inch (5-cm) wide indentation for each egg. Press the mixture into the bottom of each ramekin and up the sides, leaving the centers empty.
 Place the hash brown nests on the middle rack of the oven. Bake them until they become golden brown and crisp, but not burnt.


The hash brown nests require a much longer cooking time than the eggs, so they need to be baked first. Furthermore, baking the nests first gives the eggs a more solid base to rest on, which may prevent them from seeping into the hash brown mixture.
 Remove the hash brown nests from the oven. Allow them to cool for about 5 minutes, then break one egg into the center of each nest.


Use cold eggs to minimize the risk of accidentally breaking any yolks. Also note that holding the eggs just 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) above the top of each dish when breaking them should reduce the impact of the fall and further minimize the risk of breakage.
Inspect the eggs for stray shell fragments and remove any you find.
 Sprinkle each egg with additional salt and pepper, to taste. Add up to 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of diced tomato and 1/2 Tbsp (7.5 ml) cooked bacon bits or sausage crumbles per egg. Top each egg with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of additional shredded cheddar cheese.


The toppings are easy to customize according to your own preferences. Others worth considering may include chopped fresh herbs, like parsley or chives, or other types of cheeses.
Note that the additional cheese is highly recommended. Adding a layer of cheese can help prevent the the eggs from drying out in the heat of the oven.
 Place the eggs on the middle rack of the preheated oven. Bake until the whites are set and the yolks are thickened.


You can cook the eggs until the yolks reach your desired level of doneness, but traditionally, the yolks are left soft. Also note that the eggs will continue to cook for a few minutes after you remove them from the oven.
Watch the nested eggs carefully and do not allow the potato nests to burn. If the potatoes look too brown before the eggs are finished, try covering the dishes with a small piece of aluminum foil before you finish baking the eggs.
 Remove the eggs from the oven and allow them to set for about 2 minutes, then enjoy them while they're still hot.

