,

If on the desktop, click Start >> All Programs >> OpenOffice.org 2.3 >> OpenOffice.org Writer.






IF you are in OpenOffice.org Writer, click File > New > Text Document.






In either case, A text document appears on your screen. (The name of the text document appears at the top of the screen.


The next line down that starts with the word File is called the Menu Bar. (Clicking on a word in the Menu Bar shows a list of things that you can choose to do in Writer. This list is called a Menu.)






The second line down is the Standard Toolbar. (Clicking on a small picture will make available a specific function that can be done in Writer.)






The third line down is the Formatting Toolbar. (Additional specific functions that can be done in Writer are on this line.)






The fourth line down is the Ruler which appears on the top and the left side of the page. (Click “View”. If there is a check mark by Ruler, a ruler will appear at the top and the left side of your page on the screen.) The Horizontal Ruler is below.






Note the numbers on the ruler. The numbers on the Ruler on the left side of the page indicate where the text is located on the page from the top of the page. The numbers at the top of the page indicate the location of the text from the left or right sides of the page.)






Right-click on the Ruler to see the choices for the settings which are Millimeter, Centimeter, Inch, Point, and Pica.






The Horizontal Scroll bar (by clicking and holding the pointer, you can navigate a document left and right) is located at the bottom of the page above the Status Bar which is the line at the bottom of the screen that starts with Page 1/1. (This line gives you information about the document you are presently using.)






The Vertical Scroll Bar (by clicking and holding the pointer, you can navigate up and down) is located on the right side of your screen.
,


The “Page Style: Default” window appears






For this how-to, use a paper size of 8 ½ by 11 inches (27.9 cm) which is a common size in the USA.
 To use other paper sizes, open the “Format” pull-down menu and select a size of your choice.


Words, numbers, and graphics can be placed anywhere on a sheet of paper except for a small border at the four outer edges of the paper. The word margin is used to describe the boundary lines where the borders end and the words begin. All future added words, numbers, and graphics will stay within the lines that indicate the margins. The margin lines appear on the screen and will not appear on the printed page.







