 Most high schools do not have classes directly related to cartography. However, a strong base in algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and preferably calculus and statistics will give you a useful head start. If available, take classes in technical drafting and any type of computer programming.
 These are usually two or three year programs available at colleges or trade schools. Focused on practical experience, you'll graduate qualified to work on survey teams mapping locations on the ground.


You may enter these programs with or without a bachelor's degree. It's common for people to transfer from a technician program to a university partway through the degree — or vice versa., University programs tend to provide less practical experiences but stronger knowledge of theory, and a broader range of coursework available to choose from. There are many degrees that could lead to a job in the field:Geography is probably the most common major for a cartographer, as most universities do not offer degrees in cartography or geomatics.

Civil engineering, forestry, or computer science can all provide relevant background, as long as you take the coursework described below.
 No matter what your specialty, take all the classes you can in the principles of map design, the history of maps, and data collection for mapping. If you are aiming to a very specialized branch, you'll need a university that offers the following courses:


Hopeful GIS specialists will need courses specifically on GIS technology.
Develop your interest in photogrammetry with coursework in remote sensing, image processing, and LIDAR (light-imaging detection and ranging).
 You don't need to be an expert on all of these, but try to take at least an introductory course in these, and additional courses in those that relate to your desired specialty:Geography is useful for all cartographers, including both physical geography and human geography.
Computer science courses are useful for many cartographers. Consider studying computer graphics, web-based technology, and data collection and analysis.
Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, calculus, and statistics are all valuable, and may be required for more programming-heavy majors already.
 Training with actual cartographers can boost your practical knowledge as well as the desirability of your resume. Many of these are only available while you are a student or recent graduate, so start looking before you complete your education. Job search sites often include an internship section, and you can search online for internships related to your specialty as well.


A few examples include the ASRPS photogeommetry internship, and National Geographic.

