 Once you have chosen your language, it is time to figure out the words you need to learn. If you have chosen Spanish, for example, you'll want to use a website, book, or person to learn to say "good luck".Look for an online site that offers free language lessons. You can read about different sayings for wishing someone well.
A good website can also tell you about the cultural connotations of saying "good luck". You will likely not want to direct translate English colloquialisms like "Knock 'em dead."
You can also use tools like Google translate to help you figure out the literal words you want to say.
 Pronunciation is key when speaking different languages. If you mispronounce a word or phrase, you might look silly, or you might even be unintentionally offensive. Take care to spend time carefully studying how to say each word in your new vocabulary.Maybe you want to learn to say "good luck" in French. You will want to start by studying the French alphabet and learning what each letter sounds like.
Next, find a pronunciation guide. You can find these online or in reference books. If you have a text book, there is likely a comprehensive pronunciation guide in the index.
Listen to audio clips. Even free online courses will generally have recordings that you can listen to to help you understand pronunciation of your chosen language.
 Learning a new language can be tricky. Even if you're only looking to figure out a few handy phrases, you might still feel like you could use assistance.There are several ways you can get the help you need.Ask a teacher. If you are in school, ask your foreign language teacher for help. If you aren't currently a student, do an online search for language tutors in your area.
Post on message boards. A lot of the free online language boards will let you ask questions on their site. You might write something like, "I'm having trouble with the pronunciation of "good luck" in Arabic. Can anyone offer some tips?"

, The best way to hone your skills is to get some practice. Try wishing your friends "good luck" in multiple languages. You could even write your mom a note wishing her well in several ways. She'd probably appreciate it!Don't worry about being perfect. Learning new phrases can be tricky. Be patient with yourself and just keep trying.
If you're going on an international trip, practice your phrases before you leave. Say them out loud to yourself in the mirror. You'll feel more confident in no time!

