 Create a new browser tab and visit the Gilt website at https://www.gilt.com/.;
, Click the “Sign In” button at the upper right section of the web page and enter the email address you’re using with Gilt and its password. Click the “Submit” button to continue.


If you’re using your Facebook to log into Gilt, just click the “Login with Facebook” button to sign in to your account.
 Click the “Account” button at the upper-right section of the main page and select “Account Settings” from the drop-down list. You’ll then be directed to the “My Account” page.
 Click “Account Settings” from the left menu panel of the “My Account” page to start editing your basic Gilt information.


Type in your full name, email address, gender, and birthdate on the allocated text fields under the “Account Information” section and click the “Save” button to update the details.
 Click the drop-down lists under the “Country Preference” section and choose which country to ship the items you buy, the monetary currency, and your preferred language to use. Once you’re done, click the “Save” button to update the details.
 Enter your old and new password on the text fields provided and click the “Change Password” button to update your Gilt account’s password setting.
 Click “Shipping Address” from the left menu panel of the “My Account” page to start editing your account delivery details.
 Click the “Add” button to start creating a new shipping/delivery address for your Gilt account.


Enter your full name and the exact address of the new shipping location you want to add on the allocated text fields and click the “Save & Continue” button to confirm and add the new shipping address.
 After saving the new shipping location, you’ll now see it listed under the Shipping Address section of the My Account page. Every time you make a new purchase, you can opt to have the item delivered to this new location.
 Click “Payment Method” from the left menu panel of the “My Account” page to start editing your payment channel details.
 Click the “Add” button to start adding a new credit/debit card to your billing channels.


Enter your full name, credit/debit card information, and the card’s billing address on the allocated text fields. Click the “Save & Continue” button to confirm and add the credit/debit card as your new payment method.
 After saving, you’ll now see it listed under the Payment Method section of the My Account page. Every time you make a new purchase, you can opt to pay for the item using this new billing information.

