 Some power outages are planned well in advance, but others are the result of an emergency situation, such as flood or tornado. Before you lose power, sit down with your family and write down what each family member will do in case of an outage. Give each person specific responsibilities, such as gathering flashlights, and discuss how you all will communicate in case the internet or landlines go down.Give these documents to extended family members and friends as well. This will help them to know where to find you and how to contact you in the event of an emergency.Go through as many different scenarios as possible when creating this document. For example, talk about what you will do if it is unsafe to drive due to downed power lines in your area.
Some organizations, like the Red Cross, have downloadable templates available online that you can use to start the process of creating your own customized plan.;
, Print out a list of all important numbers and place this somewhere safe and easy-to-access, such as in an “emergency” cabinet file. This list should include numbers for the power company, the local fire department, hospital, personal doctor, and other emergency agencies., Go online to the website for your local government disaster agency, like FEMA branches, and see if they offer text or email alerts for power outages or other emergencies. This is a great, free way to give yourself a few extra minutes of preparation time prior to an actual outage.


Also, go ahead and sign up for any notifications offered by your power company. Then you will know if they have any planned outages coming up for your area., Before an outage occurs, call your power company and discuss with them what their protocol is in the event of a residential power loss. Ask them how they will contact you and how they go about determining which areas to service first. This may seem like a hassle, but it will be great information to have in the event of an outage.


Power companies recognize that some people rely on electricity to keep critical medical devices up and running. If this is the case for you, alert your company and they will put you on a priority service list., If your outage is weather-related, then you will want to keep a close eye on developing conditions. Cell service may be unreliable during these situations, so a battery or hand-crank radio is your best option. This may seem an antiquated way of getting information, but it actually works really well in storm situations.Many emergency agencies, such as the Red Cross, sell weather radios online.

