 There are several different types of child abuse, including neglect. This can help you know what to look for if you are concerned about your neighbor's children.


Physical abuse: This refers to a physical injury that is not caused by an accident. This includes hitting, shaking, throwing, biting, choking, kicking, burning and so on. In the US, this behavior is considered abuse regardless of the intention. It should be noted that physical discipline, such as spanking, is not considered physical abuse if it does not cause bodily injury and there is reasonable cause to spank the child.
Verbal abuse: This may include verbal, psychological, or mental forms of abuse. The child may be bullied and devalued. The abuser may name call, make accusations, or even ignore the child. Because this type of abuse leaves no obvious physical marks, it may be difficult to identify.
Neglect: This occurs when a parent or caregiver is not providing for a child's basic needs, such as food, shelter, clothing, medical care, education, and so on. It may also include a parent who is inattentive to a child's needs or allows drug and alcohol use.
Sexual abuse: Like verbal or emotional abuse, this can be difficult to identify, as it doesn't necessarily leave an obvious physical mark and happens behind closed doors. This includes touching and non-touching activity, such as committing sexual acts with the child or forcing them to commit sexual acts, showing them pornography, taking pornographic photos or videos of the child.
 If your neighbor’s actions appear severe, you should keep an eye open for signs of abuse. There are many different signs and symptoms to look for — note that the following are only some of the signs.However, some red flags are:


Your neighbor’s kids quit hanging out with the other kids in the neighborhood.
They show serious behaviorally changes, like increased aggression, anger, hostility, or hyperactivity.
The kid appears depressed, anxious, unusually fearful, or suddenly loses their self-confidence.
They frequently miss school and school-related events.
They are reluctant to go home.
The child has a constant medical or physical condition that has not been treated.
They are increasingly watchful and look fearful. They are concerned that something bad could happen at any moment.
The child is frequently left alone at an inappropriate age.
 Once you begin noticing some red flags, pay attention to see if these things are recurring. A regular pattern that repeats over a long period may be a good indication of problems. For example, if your neighbor’s kid is reluctant to go home every now and then, there may be a good reason for this behavior. However, if they refuse to go home every time they visit, they may be cause for concern., If you believe that your neighbor is abusing their child, you should report them. Call the police or your local child abuse hotline. When you call, make a detailed report that includes the child’s information, your relationship to them, the abuser's information, their address, and the type of abuse that is occurring.If your neighbor is regularly yelling at the child, they are experiencing emotional abuse.

