 Take into consideration the cat's size; large cats will be tough, but somewhat clumsy, while long-legged cats will be swift, big-eared cats will be able to hear well. Also, include some skills of theirs. For example, you might not want "tough but kind", but instead want, "He is tough in battle, and wary of enemy clans, but he is kind to his clan-mates. He is gentle with kits and is protective over his mate. He is brave, but not the smartest cat. He would take on a fox or even a badger before thinking if it's really a good idea or not." See the difference?

, The following list details some things to consider here:


What is your cat's favorite food (plump squirrel)?
What is your cat's favorite time of day (dawn, because it is cool)?
What is your cat's biggest fear (having his mate get an incurable disease). Think of "what if their biggest fear came true?".
What is your cat's biggest dream? Answer the question "what if their greatest dream came true?".
How would your cat react if lost and in enemy territory?
What would your cat do it if met a kittypet in your own cat's territory?(scare off the kittypet)
What if your warrior cat became a medicine cat? Or, vice versa?
A good method is to keep asking yourself "Why?" to every question you think of. Keep doing this until you get back down to their backstory. Tie it in.


Make your choices for this cat realistic. Remember the cat's personality, size, and looks. Most of all, avoid making a Mary-Sue cat (an all too perfect cat). Don't use the same descriptive words too often––be adventurous in describing your warrior cat.
 Use the cat's personality as a basis for this aspect. For example: Is your cat mean and ruthless or kind and gentle? Motherly? Cold and cruel or honest and loyal?

, Readers are usually more interested in a story with a struggle, so special talents could hold you back, but try to make it work. Something along the lines of a great fighter, super smart medicine cat, or amazing hunter are usually popular and easy to work with but can be way overused.


If you want to add disability, be careful. It's important to consider that people who read your story may have that disability or know someone who does, so be considerate. Think about how the community supports the cat, and what strengths the cat has (so that they don't exist purely as a burden).
It is not a good idea to give cats powers. It works sometimes, but most of the time it makes things seem very unlikely.
 Your history should be detailed and a bit lengthy. Include past clans, past battles, and any important events.



Example: Silverthorn yawned as the first signs of dawn stretched across the sky. It was another day, and Silverthorn had to do the dawn patrol. She was tired and didn't want to, but she had to do what was best for her Clan.
 Add how their family changes their personality, looks, or anything else about the cat. Make each family member, clan-mate, rogue, or whoever, using the same method as above.

