 If you own a bulldog, you should be alert to the signs of breathing difficulty. When your dog faces any respiratory troubles, you will need to take steps to calm your dog and rest him so that his need for oxygen is less.When you see that your dog has respiratory distress, stop him from any physical activity immediately. Keep him calm so you can try to regulate his breathing.
If you are outside, take your dog inside. If you can’t get inside quickly, get your dog into a cooler, shaded area.
Place cool wet rags on your dog to help lower his body temperature.
 Since all bulldogs are at risk for respiratory problems, you can do things for your bulldog to help reduce the likelihood of him experiencing respiratory distress. One of the main things you can do is regulate your dog’s weight.Being obese can put major stress on your dog’s respiratory system, causing breathing problems. Weight loss is one of the most common treatments to help respiratory problems in bulldogs.Limit your dog’s heavy exercise and his excitability. These things lead to fast breathing and panting, which is more difficult for your bulldog.
Keep your bulldog out of the heat. Excessive heat can worsen his breathing problems., One of the major problems for bulldogs is that the structure of the skull is made up of bone and soft tissue, and the size of the nose is reduced and flattened in this breed. Although bone is shortened, the soft tissue structures in the mouth, such as the tongue and soft palate, remain the same size as before. Due to this structure, the structural problems suffered by bulldogs include:Narrow nostrils. The nostrils of the bulldog are often narrow and either completely closed or mere slits, instead of having nice wide open nostrils like other breeds.
Compressed nasal passages. The shortened bony case of the nose means the dog lacks the normal filtering mechanism of the nasal turbinates. Filtering serves to warm cold air when it's breathed in and to filter out dust.
Long soft palate. A fleshy shelf called the soft palate divides the nose from the mouth. Given the shortened nature of the dog's nose and mouth, the soft palate takes up more room than it should and tends to block the entrance to the windpipe, causing choking episodes from time to time.
Large tonsils. The dog's tonsils tend to enlarge to cope with the unfiltered area. The tonsils sit in the throat just above the entrance to the windpipe. When they are enlarged, they can restrict airflow into the windpipe.
Narrow windpipes. Bulldogs have a syndrome where the windpipe has a narrower diameter, again making it hard to breath.

