 Purchase or rent a stud finder and mark the locations on your walls. If those areas don’t match up with the project, then move on to finding wall plugs and screws that will work.


Installation in the center of a stud is always preferred, because it is a load-bearing support. Walls, especially dry wall, are not designed to hold large, heavy objects by themselves.;
, (6.8kg). If it does, the universal version is likely to work well. If possible, purchase wall plug and screw combos to ensure they will fit.


If the wall plugs and screws are sold separately, test the screws by inserting them inside the plug. If it fits through the center and comes out the other end with a few mm to spare, the screw will likely work with that plug.





These universal wall plugs and screws often come with hanging objects in the original packaging.
 The plug opens up perpendicular to the wall once it’s installed into panel or plasterboard. There is also a special plasterboard plug you can buy that expands like an umbrella once behind the wall., Buy a package that includes a steel screw. This is best for attaching items to wooden beams, window frames or wall cladding.

Once screwed in the wall, you will need to hammer the screw the rest of the way in to complete the process.
 (200 kg). Unlike the screw head, there is a nut at the end. After the plug is installed, you tighten the nut and the anchor keeps a strong hold on the surrounding material.
 Unlike other anchors, there are two metal wings. Keep them closed and push them through the ceiling, and then the wings will sit against the inside of the ceiling material while you tighten the screw., Generally both are measured in mm. For example, a size three wall plug is usually a three mm drill bit. You will be able to compare them side-by-side to ensure the size is right.


If you don’t have a power drill, find a nail that is the size of the plug and pound that in to create your pilot hole.
 Unlike nail holes, wall plugs can look unsightly and require patching if you want to change positions.
 Make sure it is a little longer than the length of the screw.
 You will push the expanding section through the hole until the collared section touches the wall.
 Align your flat or Philips head drill bit with the top of the screw and drill into the wall.
 This is a special combination screw. When the threaded part is in the wall, tap the rest of it into the wall with a hammer.
