 Screen printing is an art form that can be as complicated or simple as you want to make it. The basic concept is using a screen to evenly distribute the paint around a stencil. Using this method, it's possible to apply several layers of color and make intricate designs. Here's what you need:


A t-shirt. You can screen print on most types of fabric, but cotton works best for beginners. Be sure to wash, dry, and iron it before using.
A screen. These are available at art supply stores. Choose one that's about the same width as a t-shirt.
Screen printing ink. Pick out one or more colors to create your design.
A squeegee. This is used to smooth the ink over the screen and apply it to the t-shirt.
Craft paper. Use craft paper that is cut to the same size as the screen.
A craft knife. This is used to cut your design into the craft paper.
 Use the craft knife to cut a design out of the craft paper. You might want to draw it before you start cutting. Make the design as simple or as intricate as you'd like. If you want to create more than one layer of color, make a different stencil for each color., Cover a flat surface with butcher paper or scrap paper. Place the t-shirt on the surface and smooth out any folds or wrinkles. Put the paper stencil on the t-shirt where you want the design to be. Place the screen over the stencil.
 Put a spoonful of ink onto the top of the screen. Use the squeegee to spread it evenly down the screen. Make a second swipe with the squeegee across the screen.It may take some practice to get the hang of inking the screen (and the t-shirt below it). Try to make just two swipes: one vertical swipe and one horizontal. This will ensure you apply the right amount of paint in an even coating.
Make sure the edges of the paper stencil extend past the edges of the screen. Otherwise, you'll get ink on the t-shirt outside the borders of the stencil.
 Carefully remove the screen and examine your work. Let the ink dry completely before using or laundering the t-shirt.
 When you remove the screen from the t-shirt, the paper stencil should be stuck to the paint on the screen. You can place this on a second t-shirt and apply more ink to replicate the design. Repeat with as many t-shirts as you like.
 Water-based screen printing ink dries quickly, and it's difficult to remove once it's dry. Wash it thoroughly in warm water when you're finished using it.

