 Not all dog charities have dogs actually on campus, but many do. Those dogs get attention from the people who work at the organization, but most of the time, an organization has too many dogs for each one to get the attention it needs. By volunteering your time to walk dogs, you'll be giving the dogs the attention they need, plus giving much-needed relief to people who work at the organization.Often, you'll need to complete a short orientation before volunteering. Many places have age requirements, so call ahead.
 Another way you can help your local dog charity is to volunteer to help plan or run events. Charities often have limited staff members, and volunteering your time can help the events come off without a hitch.For instance, maybe you can volunteer to run a table at a fundraiser.
Alternatively, maybe you can check in people at an adoption event.
 Even if you're not great with animals, you can still contribute to a dog charity. The key is to offer what skills you do have to the group, as expert help is always needed. Think about the skills you have that could be beneficial to a charity.For instance, if you're good at writing, you could assist with grant writing.
On the other hand, if you're in publicity, you could offer to help the charity publicize events.
 Another option is to donate supplies that the group may need. Many dog charities need all sorts of dog supplies, and they may even take some supplies used, such as dog crates. They'll also need things like dog food, leashes, collars, and blankets.
 Not all dog charities are rescues. However, for those that are, one great way you can support the charity is to adopt a dog. The main goal of these charities is to find good homes for the all the dogs that come through, and if you can provide one, that's a great way to offer your help.


To adopt a dog, you take the dog into your home permanently. Often, older dogs need homes more desperately because most people go for puppies or young dogs. However, older dogs still have a lot of love to give.
If adoption sounds like too much of a commitment, consider fostering. Many rescues don't have large facilities, so they put dogs and other pets into foster homes until the pet can be adopted. That way, you only provide a temporary home for the dog, but you play an important part in helping the dog find a home.

