 The plaintiff suing you will file a complaint in court. You will then receive a copy of the complaint along with a summons, which is a legal document that tells you how much time you have to respond.Read each document closely.


The complaint will name all of the defendants. You might be sued individually or your company might be sued (or both). You will receive a copy of the complaint if you are sued individually or if you own the business which is named as a defendant.;
, In the complaint, the plaintiff should describe that facts surrounding the lawsuit. Highlight what action the plaintiff claims was discriminatory.


If you are accused of employment discrimination, then the plaintiff could claim discrimination in any aspect of employment:firing or layoff
hiring
pay and fringe benefits
promotion
job assignments and training


If you are accused of discrimination in housing, then the plaintiff can sue for a variety of actions, which include:refusing to rent or sell
setting different terms or conditions for a sale or rental
denying you a mortgage loan or setting different terms and conditions



, Once you know what conduct the plaintiff claims was discriminatory, you should gather all relevant documents. For example, if an employee sues you because they were fired, then you should gather:


employee evaluations
reprimands, awards, and notes in the personnel file
your handbooks and manuals
any communications related to the employee such as emails, handwritten notes, or voicemails

, After gathering your evidence, you should meet with an attorney. If you work in a large company, then you should have general counsel on staff. If you work for a smaller company, then you might have an attorney on retainer. Ask your supervisor.


Should your business need to hire a lawyer, then you can ask other small businesses for a referral to an employment attorney.
If you work for a small business which cannot pay for a lawyer, then your business should still seek out legal help. Lawyers typically provide a half-hour consultation for free or for a reduced price.
Your business might be able to hire an attorney to perform only certain tasks. This is called “limited scope representation.” For example, you might need the lawyer to draft a court document but do no other work. Or you might want to pay for a half hour of coaching. During your consultation, you can ask if the lawyer offers limited scope representation.
If you are sued individually—that is, you are a named defendant on the complaint—then you might need to hire an independent lawyer not associated with your company. Your company attorney will advise you if and when you need to seek a lawyer for yourself.
 A discrimination lawsuit will focus on your motivations. For example, if you fired a female employee, then the lawsuit will focus on whether you fired her because of her gender.Since you are unlikely to admit that you discriminated against the plaintiff based on gender, the jury will look at what actions you took in order to infer your motivations.


When you are sued for not hiring someone, you can claim that the plaintiff wasn’t qualified for the job. In this situation, you would need to show the court the credentials for the person who was hired. If the person you hired had more experience or education, then it will be harder for the jury to infer that you were motivated by gender discrimination.
If you are sued for firing or demoting an employee, then you can argue that the employee deserved it. Here, you can show employee evaluations and reprimands that document a history of poor performance.In the housing context, you can allege that the plaintiff didn’t qualify to rent an apartment from you. You would need evidence of the plaintiff’s credit scores and income. You probably will also need to show that you never rent to someone with credit scores as low as the plaintiff’s.
In some cases, employers are sued because a policy creates a “disparate impact.” A common example is an employer which uses a strength test as part of its hiring process. If a larger number of women fail the test than men, then the test has created a “disparate impact.” You will defend against this type of claim by arguing that your neutral policy is job related and is necessary for your business.Because these cases are complicated, you should work closely with your attorney to make a compelling defense.
 You will respond to the complaint by filing an answer with the court. In this document, you must admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation made in the complaint. If you have a lawyer, then he or she can draft the answer for you.


Defendants representing themselves can usually fill out a printed answer form available from your court clerk.Be sure to also raise any affirmative defenses. For example, if the plaintiff is suing for employee discrimination, then he or she must have filed an administrative action with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (or an equivalent state agency) before filing the lawsuit.If not, then ask the judge to dismiss the case.
 You must file the answer with the court.Make several copies and take them all to the court clerk. Ask to file the original. The clerk should then stamp your copies with the date.


You might have to pay a filing fee, which will vary by court. If you can’t afford it, then ask for a fee waiver form.
You must also serve a copy of your answer on the plaintiff. If the plaintiff has a lawyer, then serve a copy on the lawyer.Ask the court clerk for the acceptable methods of service. Typically, you can either mail the answer or have someone 18 or older (who is not a party to the lawsuit) deliver the copy of the answer.
 After you file an answer, you and the plaintiff can request information from each other. This process is called “discovery.” As part of discovery, you can request any document that relates to the case.


For example, in an employment discrimination case, you should ask for a copy of any document that relates to the plaintiff’s job search.You can also ask for copies of exhibits that the plaintiff intends to use at trial.
 Since your motivations are central to the lawsuit, you should expect that the plaintiff’s attorney will want to ask you questions during discovery. During a deposition, you meet in the lawyer’s office and answer questions orally, under oath. The questions and answers are recorded, usually by a court reporter.You should have a lawyer go to the deposition with you. Your lawyer can object to any questions.
Anything you say in a deposition can be used against you later at trial. For this reason, you should talk with your lawyer about your deposition and what kinds of questions you will be asked. You can also run through sample answers.
 Before deposing you, the plaintiff’s attorney has probably spoken to other people in the workplace. Accordingly, you should expect to be asked about embarrassing information.


For example, if you ever used sexist language at work, then the plaintiff may have identified as a witness someone who overheard you. The plaintiff’s lawyer probably already knows what you said, so if you are asked if you have ever used sexist language, you must be honest.
Let your lawyer figure out how to minimize embarrassing facts at trial. The worst thing you could do is lie in a deposition. The lie will eventually come out at trial., During discovery, you can also have the plaintiff and other witnesses sit for a deposition. You will want to find helpful information that will help your case.


For example, you can ask if the plaintiff has ever filed a gender discrimination lawsuit before. Also find out how the case was resolved. It might be helpful to your case to show that the plaintiff files a lot of gender discrimination lawsuits.
Ask the plaintiff what errors he or she made on the job. If the plaintiff is too proud to admit errors, then this reflects poorly on their ability to be objective about their performance.Also, if the plaintiff admits to any errors, then you can remind him or her of these errors at trial. This will also diminish the plaintiff’s testimony in the jury’s eyes.
 You can win your gender discrimination lawsuit without ever going to court if you file a motion for summary judgment. In this motion, you argue that there are no facts in dispute for a jury to decide and that you are entitled to win based on the law.


About one out of eight employment discrimination cases are decided by summary judgment, and over 90% of them are decided in the employer’s favor.Accordingly, it is worth bringing this motion.
If you want to file a motion for summary judgment, then have a lawyer draft it for you. A summary judgment motion requires that you have experience writing persuasively for a court.
 On the day of your trial, you should focus on giving yourself enough time to find parking and go through security at the courthouse. Try to get to the courtroom at least fifteen minutes early.


As you enter the courtroom, make sure to turn off your cell phone, as well as any electronic device that makes a noise. You don’t want a device going off in the middle of trial.
 During jury selection, the judge calls a panel of potential jurors up to the front of the courtroom and asks them questions. The questions will probably be basic, e.g., what the person does for work and what their hobbies are. The judge will also ask whether the potential juror knows either you or the plaintiff and whether the juror can be fair.


If you don’t think a potential juror can be fair, then ask the judge to dismiss him or her from the panel.
The judge might also give you some “peremptory challenges.” You can use one to excuse a potential juror from the panel without having to give a reason (unless the plaintiff claims you are excusing jurors based on sexual, racial, or ethnic bias).If you are being sued for employment discrimination, then you might want to use your peremptory challenges to remove anyone who works in a similar job as the plaintiff.
 The trial begins with you and the plaintiff making an opening statement. The plaintiff will go first.


The purpose of your opening statement is to offer the jury a preview of what evidence you will present.Tell the jury who will testify and what information they will testify to.
You also should try to address “bad facts.” For example, if the plaintiff will have a witness testify that you made sexist remarks in the workplace, then you need to tell the jury what evidence you will present that relates to that bad fact.
For example, you could say, “And the defendant will produce evidence that the sexist joke he made was a quote from a TV show. You will also hear how he served as a mentor for several women employees.”

, After you deliver your opening statement, the plaintiff presents his or her case. The plaintiff will call witnesses to testify. Your job is to undermine the witness’s credibility in front of the jury.


Be sure to ask the plaintiff about errors that he or she made on the job. If the employee tries to deny having made errors, then confront him or her with their deposition testimony.
Also ask the plaintiff if he or she ever complained about gender discrimination in the workplace before filing the lawsuit. If the plaintiff hadn’t, then it looks like he or she made up a discrimination claim in retaliation for getting fired or demoted.
 As the person sued for allegedly acting in a discriminatory manner, you will probably have to testify at trial. You can prepare by doing a “dry run” with your lawyer. If you are representing yourself, then you will need to deliver your testimony in the form of a speech to the jury.


The plaintiff’s attorney will be able to ask you questions. As you testify, remember the following tips:If you don’t understand a question, ask for clarification.
Be careful with your answers. Instead of guessing when you don’t know an answer, tell the attorney, “I don’t know.”
Speak clearly and answer questions in a direct manner. There is no point in hedging or being evasive. An attorney can continue to ask follow-up questions until you answer the question.
Always remain calm. If you lose your temper, then the jury might think you are someone who could target an employee for gender discrimination.
 After all evidence has been submitted, you and the plaintiff will make your closing arguments to the jury. You need to convince the jury that your actions were not motivated by gender bias.


In an employment discrimination case, point to the evidence that the plaintiff was a terrible employee. For example, you could argue, “The plaintiff never showed that she was discriminated against because of her gender. Instead, the evidence showed something else quite clearly—that she had a history of never getting to work on time and cost the company $3,000.”
Also point to specific pieces of evidence that support your argument. You could say, “Remember the plaintiff’s own testimony. How she went through and told you all of the mistakes that she made on the job. Let me read to you what she said. First, she said that on her first day of work she was late. But that’s not all. She also forgot to fax our client a contract, so we lost out on a $1,500 contract. These were her own words.”

, When you have finished your closing argument, the judge will give the jury instructions. The jury then retires to deliberate.


In many state courts, you can lose even if the jury is not unanimous in favor of the plaintiff.Instead, you can lose if nine or more jurors decide in the plaintiff’s favor.
 You have the option of appealing the jury’s verdict if you lose. Before taking an appeal, however, you should talk with your attorney. Specifically, ask your lawyer if your appeal is strong. Appealing when your case is weak will only add to the costs of the lawsuit.


If you want to file an appeal, then get a Notice of Appeal form from the court clerk. You typically need to fill it out and file it within 30 days, though your court might allow only 10 days. Ask the clerk for the deadline.

