 Tailored clothing helps people look their best, and is the easiest way to immediately up the quality of your wardrobe. Clothes are designed for average height people, and designed to accommodate multiple body types. Accordingly, your pants and shirts may be too long, or may be sewed in a way that makes them fold in odd spots.In particular, get your pants hemmed - it will not only shorten the legs, but make the pants fit better on your whole lower body.
 You can also purchase clothing made to fit you perfectly. This is especially worthwhile for button-up shirts, which will almost always need to be altered or custom made to fit you well. On the topic of dress shirts, opt for short, downward-pointed collars.For online options, Modern Tailor and Blank Label are retailers that specialize in making clothes to fit your specific measurements.
 A longer leg line from a longer pant leg will help make you appear taller. Though many popular styles of pants are worn on the hips, this risks making your legs look stocky. To emphasize a lengthening look, wear trousers without belt loops and wear suspenders.Get a high quality pair of dark, well-fitting jeans. Opt for a pair that fits your form, avoiding a baggy or tight fit. Boot cut jeans are especially good for shorter legs, as they add silhouette to your body without adding boxiness., Watches, jewelry, and neckwear can help tie an outfit together. Choose particular items in proportion to your body type. Big watches belong on big wrists and stocky arms, while slim, short men look especially good in slim ties., Here’s a simple style rule to follow: always keep darker colors lower on your body. A dark pair of pants and a lighter colored shirt will make you look taller, while a dark shirt and light colored pants risk making you look shorter., The classic example is vertical stripes, which have a slimming effect. Consistently-spaced, thin, vertical stripes without much room in between are ideal. Of course, any texture that is vertically oriented will have similar effects. Accordingly, opt for corduroy and herringbone patterned materials for heavier weighted clothing., Most importantly, avoid jackets that have extra space in the armpits. This may be the case even if the sleeves are the right length, and will make you look heavier. This is because the proportions of the jacket are not designed to fit your body. When shopping for a suit coat, work with a tailor who can make you a jacket or make the necessary alterations on a store-bought jacket.Shoot for about ¼ inch of shirt cuff showing beyond the end of your jacket sleeve. This is proportional to a shorter arm length. Opt for thin collars and lapels too, for a lengthening effect.
 Simply put, shorts and short-sleeved shirts will make you look shorter. This is in part because short men usually have relatively short appendages, and these types of clothing will draw attention to them. Linen pants in hot weather, as well as long sleeved-shirts (even with the sleeves rolled up), are preferable., Shoe inserts are purely a matter of personal preference. They can subtly add height, but may be uncomfortable or otherwise bothersome. You can also try wearing cowboy boots or another type of footwear with heels that are higher, per the style of the shoe.Avoid shoe inserts in high-heeled shoes, like many types of boots. The combination will tilt you forward too much.
Shoes designed to add a few inches to your height are usually not the best option, as they will be noticeable.

