 Often, you don’t have to order directly from the website to subscribe to a magazine. Some websites offer a wide variety of magazine subscriptions at a discounted price. You can select the magazine you wish to subscribe to, fill out your address and payment information, and then you have subscribed without leaving the magazine.A couple of websites that offer magazine subscriptions are magazines.com and Amazon.;
, If you know what magazine you want to subscribe to, you can go directly to that magazine’s website. There should be a section of the website dedicated to subscriptions. Sometimes an option to subscribe will be on the magazine’s front page, or an option will appear in the corner of the website as you browse. Click the subscribe button. It should take you to a page where you provide your information., If you want to have the magazine sent to your house, you will need to provide your address. Typically, you need to fill in your full name, address, zip code, city, state, and country. Fill out your PO box information if you do not have mail sent directly to your home.Some magazines allow you to check out with PayPal instead of entering credit card information

, Typically, there will be a couple of options for the subscription. The choices will often be about subscription length. The option for many websites will be either one or two years, though some magazines will allow you to subscribe for a shorter amount of time. Some magazines will give you the option of subscribing only to print, digital, or to both options.The price may vary depending on your choice of print, digital, or both options.
The price will be more expensive if you choose a longer subscription option.
 You will need a debit or credit card to order a subscription from a website. Most websites take the major debit and credit cards, but check to make sure that the magazine takes the type of card you have. Enter your full name, card number, expiration date, and security number into the proper form. If Make sure you are using a safe and secure website when you enter your credit card information.
 If you choose the digital option, you will usually have immediate access to the current issue and the archives. Sometimes, there may be a short processing time for your digital subscription order. For the print option, it will usually take some time to process the order and then send it to you. It will usually take around six weeks to receive your first copy.Call the magazine if you do not receive your first magazine after six weeks.

