 And pretending you aren't scared or trying to act smart just wastes your money, not someone else's.;
, There's nothing worse than a customer who keeps their eyes and ears covered, or runs.
 Fog machines and strobe lights are often used. Keep this and any medical conditions that could be aggravated by this in mind.
 You won't have fun, your friends won't have fun, the actors won't have fun, and you could be a danger to yourself and others.
, This is liable to get you thrown out, and possibly arrested.
 Unless they are unprofessional, actors are unlikely to break character, regardless of how many devastatingly witty one-liners you come up with. You might think it's hilarious to ask for an actor's phone number, or to comment on how hot they are. It's not.
 This is not funny. This ruins the experience for the people behind you and forces the actor to break rules.
 Stating that you aren't frightened indicates to the actors that you are. If you see an actor peeking out from behind a curtain, it is probably because they wanted to be seen. Saying "ha, I can see you!" doesn't prove that you're clever.
 Pushing aside curtains in search of actors waiting to scare you ruins the scare.
 It's not your job to scare people, it's the actors'. Let them do their jobs.
 This will almost certainly not work, and you'll look silly or foolish.
 Do not play with props. Do not move props. Do not attempt to steal props.
 If you find yourself too afraid to continue, request to be taken out. Do not ask to be taken out unless you genuinely want to leave the house. A false chicken out will only irritate actors who have to break character to escort you out.
 Asking an actor to not scare you will often not work. In fact, it will only encourage them to scare you more. If you are truly frightened, chicken out.
, Having no fun ruins the experience for everyone.
 Running in a haunted house can be dangerous and destructive. Try to avoid it.
 Try to keep an average walking pace. This will ensure that you won't clump up into big groups with the people behind you, which leads to less scares for everyone.
 This makes you more manageable and easier to keep track of in the house.
 The longer you wait at the end of a hallway or in a doorway being frightened or debating about who goes first, the more time the actors have to prepare to scare you.
 When you leave the house don't warn waiting customers about what it might hold. That's kind of like telling people the end of a movie that they're waiting in line to see.
 This really destroys it for others. Posting on Facebook, Instagram, or anywhere else really destroys it for those that want to enjoy, and hurts those that took the time to create this art form. It also causes the actors to have no vision for a few minutes, making their job rather difficult.
 If you do happen to know one of the actors personally, don't yell out their name or ask/mention any personal information or upcoming plans to meet. Again, this ruins the experience for anyone else in front or behind you. It also ruins the scare actor's experience. Many hours of rehearsal have been put into your one walk-through, and it could be of concern to give out actors' names.
 Leaving the group you are with to hide and try to scare them is not only rude to the performers, it can hold its own dangers. There are electrical cords and other items that are intentionally set out of the way to not be a hazard to guests. By straying off the path, you may be putting yourself in harm's way or get lost.
 If you see an actor setting up a scare for someone in your group, don't try to 'help.' You're probably not as clever as you believe and your friend probably isn't as stupid as you think. Telling them, 'look over there' and pointing at the stalking actor is tantamount to saying, 'hey, there's a monster over there getting ready to scare you.'

