 If your hair is short, straight, light in color, undamaged, and neither very thick nor very fine, you may be able to successfully bleach it at home. If your hair does not meet all these criteria, you can certainly attempt to bleach it yourself, but you should be aware that the odds are significantly against you, particularly if you have never bleached hair before. Whatever kind of hair you have, if you decide to bleach it at home, you should be prepared for the possibility that it will go very wrong. If having fried, yellow hair for a while would make you feel awful, it’s best not to attempt this.
 You will need a powder bleach (like L’oreal Quickblue), developer (ideally the same brand as the bleach), toner (Manic Panic is a popular brand), a plastic mixing bowl, a plastic spatula, a plastic rat tail end brush, deep conditioner, a few pairs of rubber gloves, some cotton strips, and a friend to help you.
 There is no universal rule and you’ll need to follow the instructions on the bleach you purchased. Usually, though, the ratio is between 2:1 to 3:1 of developer to bleach. Use 10 or 20-volume peroxide developer for the best results. Higher volume developers will not lighten your hair better – just faster – and cause more damage.









Be sure to mix the bleach thoroughly. Use a whisk and mix till no powder clumps remain.
 Use the tail end to section off very thin segments of hair, and the brush end to spread bleach onto both sides of your hair. Start at the crown and work down through the sides and back.








Start about 1 inch away from the scalp and work to the ends, saturating very thoroughly. Apply the bleach to thin sections of hair and put cotton strips at the roots – this will stop bleach from running toward the scalp.
The parts of your hair that already have bleach on them will begin to lighten as you work. If you notice any spots you missed, reapply bleach to those areas.
 Consult the instructions that came with the bleach to determine how long you need to wait. Check your hair as you go. It will not be platinum blonde yet, as you have not yet applied toner. The important thing to look for is lightness. You don’t want orange hair, but yellow is fine. If you do wind up with orange hair, it’s time for an appointment at a salon. When your hair is pale yellow, hop in the shower, rinse out the bleach, shampoo, and deep condition your hair.









You will feel itching and burning on your scalp. This is natural, but if you are in serious pain you should rinse it out and make an appointment at a salon, rather than burning your scalp.
If your hair is still quite yellow, it hasn’t been lightened enough and may turn green or brownish when toned.
 There are many brands you can buy and the application will vary based on which one you select. In general, though, you’ll need to towel dry your hair, apply the toner, and then comb it into your hair and let it sit for a while. When the right amount of time has elapsed, hop back into the shower and deep condition again.







