 Gin can be a difficult drink to drink straight, unless it is of a very good quality. Nevertheless, a good gin can make an excellent drink served chilled over ice on a hot summer day. Simply fill a highball glass with ice cubes, pour over a measure of your finest gin (Bombay Sapphire and Tanqueray are two good options), and add a twist of fresh lime juice, if you like., How you drink whiskey will really depend on the alcohol volume and personal preference. Any whiskeys with an ABV (alcohol by volume) over 50% can usually benefit from a splash of water or a couple of ice cubes to dilute the alcohol slightly, thus allowing you to pick up on the flavors more easily. Whiskeys with ABVs between 45% and 50% can either be diluted with a little water or ice, or left on their own - it's really a matter of which taste your prefer. Whiskeys with ABVs less than 40% should technically be drunk neat (no water or ice, unchilled) as they have already been cut down to this volume in the distillery and don't require any further dilution.
 Vodka should be stored in the freezer overnight or for at least a few hours before serving. Freezing vodka brings out its ideal flavor and consistency. You should also place your serving glasses (2 or 3 oz. glasses are best) in the freezer for about an hour to get them nice and cold. Once they're ready, pour a shot measure (1.5 oz.) of the frozen vodka into the chilled glasses. Do not add ice. Warm the glass in your hand for a minute or two before drinking, to bring the vodka to ideal drinking temperature., Really good rum is considered a great after-dinner liquor. Like whiskey, rum can be served by itself, with a splash of water (5 to 6 drops), or over ice--it really depends on your personal preference. The best glass to use for rum is a snifter--the opening of the glass is rather small, allowing the rum's vapors and aromas to become concentrated., While most lower-range tequilas are served in a shot glass, good quality tequilas should be served in a snifter or a similar glass that has a small mouth. When serving tequila straight, it is important to 'warm up' your mouth. If you were to take a large gulp of tequila, it would taste fiery and some of the liquor's flavor would be wasted. Instead, warm up your mouth by taking a tiny sip of the tequila and letting the liquid run over all of the surfaces of your mouth--gums, tongue, and cheeks included. After this warm up you'll be able to taste and fully appreciate the subtle flavors of the tequila.