 Ensure that you do not eat solid food. Eliminating solid food is thought to help your body to focus on flushing the toxins out rather than digesting what comes in. While this might be challenging, the whole point of the juice cleanse is to give your kidneys some time to rest.
 Some people suggest sticking to only one juice during your cleanse, while others say drinking several different juices throughout the day is more healthy. This is a decision you need to make for yourself. Consider:


If you do decide to go with just one type of juice, make sure to review if that juice is appropriate for a prolonged amount of time.
By drinking different fruit and vegetable juices, you will come closer to getting your required amounts of nutrients and vitamins.
By sticking to one juice, you might save money and you might save time by being able to prepare more juice at one time.
Your juices should be fresh and free of additives and preservatives.
 The diuretic properties of watermelon may aid in producing more urine. This helps in the removal of more wastes from your body. Watermelon may help to wash away toxins in your kidneys as it is high in potassium.


Juice two cups of watermelon.
Add a teaspoon of lime juice.
You can drink the juice two or three times a day. Some people prefer watermelon juice as their sole juice., Lemon juice may be very effective in cleansing your kidneys. The citric content in lemons may reduce the level of calcium in your urine, thereby reducing the risk of kidney stones.


Juice a small lemon.
Add it to a cup of warm water.
Drink it in the morning on an empty stomach., Radish juice may prevent the formation of kidney stones and is thought to be able to remove existing kidney stones. The diuretic properties of radish may help kidneys to effectively process waste and improve urine flow.


Take a cup of radish pieces and put them in a juicer.
After extracting the juice, you may add some honey to taste.
Drink this juice once a day., Consider blackcurrant juice as part of your juice mix during your cleanse. Blackcurrant juice may aid in treating uric acid stones. The alkalizing effect of blackcurrant may aid in acidifying urine and treating urinary tract infections. You’ll only want to drink this once a day., Carrot juice is a great all-around juice for your cleanse. The carotene content in carrot may aid in preventing kidney stone formation. It is also rich in other vitamins and nutrients that will help you.


Take three carrots and wash them thoroughly in running water.
Cut them and juice them well.
Add water to liquefy the juice before you drink. Drink this mixture once a day.
If you're going to rely on carrot juice as your sole juice, consider mixing up your recipes and adding celery, kale, or other vegetables for important vitamins and nutrients., The diuretic properties of cucumber may aid in flushing uric acid. As a result, cucumber juice will help dissolve kidney stones and improve overall kidney health.


Keep the skin on if it was grown organically (but make sure you wash it), remove it if it was not.
Take three to four cups of cucumber pieces and juice them.
Drink this juice once or twice a day., Grapes are rich in potassium, which ensures that toxin-free blood is passed through the kidneys. Grape juice is also readily available in many types of varieties, and buying store-bought grape juice might save you time and money.


Don't rely on grape juice as a single juice cleanse, but drink it perhaps once a day or every other day.
Those on a dialysis are not supposed to have foods rich in potassium, so avoid grape juice if this is the case.
If you’re going to be drinking store-bought grape juice, make sure to get juice that is free from refined sugars and other additives.
Feel free to experiment with different varieties of grapes., Parsley contains a number of nutrients and vitamins that will aid in your cleanse. Specifically, parsley is rich in apiol and myristicin and will help increase urine production and may aid in flushing out germs through the urine, thereby cleansing your kidneys.Try drinking parsley juice once a day.


Take a handful of parsley leaves, clean them well and add two glasses of water.
Boil the parsley and water mix for roughly 10 minutes.
Filter the liquid and drink once a day., Wheatgrass is a rich source of alkaline minerals, which means that the juice may help to cleanse your kidneys. It is thought to flush out toxic metals including cadmium and mercury.


Try drinking wheatgrass juice once or twice a day.
Juice a handful of wheatgrass.
Add water to dilute the juice if you like.
To enhance the taste, juice a few pieces of apple along with the wheatgrass.