 Set time aside each week to spend with each of your kids, just you two. Relax, encourage them to be themselves and enjoy the uniqueness of each. Work on togetherness and understanding.;
, Read to them every day if possible. It’s great quality time, and one of the best things you can do to help them in life.
 When you get home from work, instead of sitting down and watching TV, or taking a nap, or finding some other way to veg out after a long day at work, take the extra effort to sit down and talk with your kids about their day.
 If dinnertime isn't a productive time to connect with your kids, try playing this game:


Go around the table, and each person shares his high points of the day, and low points. One or two or even three of each is good. And everyone should really listen. It’s fun, and a great way to connect.
 Pick a long-term goal to do together — for example, reading the first 5 books of Harry Potter aloud together. Doing this can teach your child about setting and achieving goals by taking small steps each day. A sports goal is also great — getting in shape for soccer, for example. Have a workout plan, and be drill sergeant, and a workout journal. It’s a lot of fun, and it bonds you together.
 Don’t be afraid to be a kid with them. Play video games, watch cartoons, play board games, have pillow fights, make a fort, play superheroes. Play at their level — don’t expect them to play at yours.
 Life can be very busy, shuttling us from place to another, so take advantage of time in the car — you can have some great, deep conversations in the car.
 Pick a day that will be strictly for you, your spouse, and the kids. Don’t work, don’t do (much) housework, don’t go to functions or parties (usually). Plan out what you’re going to do, and do really fun things with the kids. Reserve the time for them and no one else.
 Before Family Day, have a weekly Family Meeting. While this isn’t exactly one-on-one time, it’s a great way to talk about things with the kids, have fun with them, and include them in decision-making.
 Every now and then, just pull your child to you and hug them. Snuggle, be affectionate, squeeze them tight. That kind of physical intimacy is important — and the day will come when they don’t want to snuggle with you any more. Take advantage of it now.

