 Double-click a browser’s shortcut icon on your desktop to open it.


If you already have a browser up, just open a new browser tab.;
, On the address bar at the top of the screen, type http://www.freelancer.com and hit enter. You will be directed to the Freelancer home page.
 Click “Log in” to be taken to the sign-in page. in the fields provided on the sign-in page, enter your username and password. When you’re done, click the “Sign in” button.
 Hover your mouse over your username, which is on the top-right side of the screen. This will cause a drop-down menu to appear. Click on “Edit settings” from the options to continue to your profile settings.
 At the top of the next screen, you will see three tabs; the third one over reads “Email Settings”; click on it to change the settings below the tab.


Each of Email options can be turned on and off by clicking on the slider to the right of each notification. Look to make sure the blue ON is showing if you want the notifications to be turned on.
 There are four subsections for email notifications. If you scroll down, you will see the first section is called “Digest emails for your posted projects.” There are two notification settings here:


The first one is receive a notification when a bid is placed, updated, or retracted on one of your projects. This is good for keeping track of potential workers who are applying for a job with you.
The second option in this group is if you want a notification when a private message is sent from a freelancer.
You can turn these on and off with the sliders previously mentioned.
 This is the second subsection. There are top options to this notification:


The first option allows you to set up a notification if you receive an entry for your contest, which is crucial for keeping track of who is participating.in your contests.
The second option is there if you want to receive a notification when a freelancer sends you a private message about a contest, which is great if freelancers have any questions or concerns about a contest you are doing.
 This is the third subsection. There are two options for this:


The first option is called email frequency; this will help you decide how often you get emails for news jobs. It is represented by a drop down menu. The default is set to one hour; you can click on it and pick how often you get these emails by clicking another time frame that you prefer from the menu.
Below that is a notification if you would like to get emails about new projects that get posted that fit your skill set. This is good for letting the opportunities come to you, turn this on by clicking the slider next to the option.
 The final subsection is called Individual Notifications. The first notification under this subsection is if you want news and announcements from Freelancer. If you would like to keep up-to-date on everything that is going on through Freelancer, to turn this on.
 The next option is there if you want to get a notification when a buyer awards you a project. This means you do not have to keep checking the website; you will get an email as soon as they award you the project.
 The third notification is there if you want to be alerted when you get a private message. You can use this if you want to keep track of any new messages that you receive during your work day.
 You can turn the next notification on if you want to be alerted when a freelance writer requests a milestone payment from you. This notification will help you keep up with your payments through your different freelance workers.
 Below the milestone payment notification option is one if you want to receive Freelancer marketplace notifications. You can use these to keep track of the different marketplace features that may be added or changed.
 The next notification is if you want to get notified via email who the top bidder is on your project. This notification type can make it easier to pick a candidate for a job.
 Following the top bidder notification is one that will let the website email you when you get contacted by a Freelancer Concierge member; this is important for your contact with the website.


This is something you should keep on.
 Next is a notification that allows the website to contact you with information about activity regarding services on the website. You can turn this on using the slider to the right.
 The next notification is if you want to be notified about the latest activity regarding the Freemarket on the website. You should keep this on if you want to see regular updates about things that are being changed or added to the Freemarket section of the website.
 The last notification is there if you want to be notified of a freelancer requesting you as a contact. Turning this on means you can quickly get a hold of new freelancers with ease.
 These notifications are save automatically. When you are done arranging them to your liking, feel free to exit the page.

