 There are many different substances that can treat dandruff. For mild dandruff without much inflammation or itching, look for shampoos containing salicylic acid or urea, which break apart dead skin cells. Because there is a chance of drying out the scalp and causing even more dandruff, it is recommended to use it in combination with a moisturizing conditioner to neutralize the side effect., If your flakes are thick, white, and found on the scalp (either alone or in addition to the hair), your problem is likely caused by a species of yeast-like fungus called malassezia.Malassezia is a skin surface yeast that has been targeted as a contributing cause of dandruff in people. This yeast may also have a role in affecting immune systems. For these more severe cases, find a shampoo that lists ketaconozole (at least 1% strength) or ciclopirox in its ingredients. Selenium sulfide (at least 1%) is also effective, but users often dislike the oils it causes to build up on their scalp.


A doctor can prescribe you stronger shampoos than are available over the counter, including 2% ketaconozole anti-fungal shampoo. This is most often prescribed as a foam/shampoo to be used twice a week for initial dandruff relief. After that, it is recommended to be used once a week or every other week.You can also be prescribed a shampoo with 1% ciclopirox , which can be applied twice every week.If you have black, coarse hair, which may dry out excessively from daily shampoo application, consider a topical steroid ointment instead such as fluocinolone acetonide.This can be applied as a pomade to dry hair.
 To apply the shampoo, wet your hair, then massage the dandruff shampoo into your scalp. Let it sit in your hair for five to 10 minutes before rinsing it out. Use your anti-dandruff shampoo once a day, until the flaking, itching, and inflammation is less severe.


If you notice no improvement after a few days of using anti-dandruff shampoo, try a shampoo with a different ingredient. Since dandruff is often caused by a species of yeast, an antifungal shampoo may attack the problem from a different direction.Some people report success when alternating between two shampoos, using each one every other hair-washing session., Once you notice a significant improvement, reduce anti-dandruff shampoo use to two to three times per week, or even less if you can keep your dandruff to an acceptable level. Once the severe flaking is removed, there is typically no need to continue applying every day.


If you are using prescription-strength shampoo, or more than one type of treatment, reduce frequency or stop use after two weeks, or harmful side effects may develop.