 If your cat shows signs of an infection (yellow or green mucus from the nose) then talk to your veterinarian about whether or not your cat needs a prescription for antibiotics.If the vet suspects the infection is viral then antibiotics may be of no help. Likewise, if antibiotics are prescribed, it may take four to five days before the infection improves, so in the meantime you can help to ease your cat's breathing in other ways.
 The warm, moist vapor of steam helps to loosen up mucus and makes it easier to sneeze out. Obviously, you cannot put a cat's head over a bowl of boiling water because if she panics and knocks the bowl you will both be put in danger. Instead, use a steamy room to help clear up your cat’s congestion. To do this:Take the cat into the bathroom and shut the door. Switch the shower onto hot and draw the shower screen so that there is a solid barrier between the cat and the hot water.
Sit in the steamy atmosphere for 10 minutes at a time. If you can do this two to three times a day, your cat should be able to breathe a little easier.
 This may sound obvious but if the cat's nose is stuffed up or dirty, clean it. Hold a cotton ball under the faucet and then use the wet cotton ball to wash your cat’s nose. Work away any dried mucus that may be encrusted on your cat’s nose.


If the cat has a heavy nasal discharge then wiping the nose regularly can really help make your cat more comfortable.
 Some mucus is so thick and tacky that it sits like glue inside the nasal chambers and make it impossible for the cat to breathe through her nose. In cases like this your vet may prescribe a "mucolytic".


This is a drug, such as Bisolvin, which breaks down mucus and helps it to liquefy. The active ingredient in Bisolvin is bromhexine. When the mucus thins, your cat will have an easier time sneezing it out.
Bisolvin comes in 5 gram (g) sachets and can be mixed in food once or twice a day. The dose for a cat is 0.5 g per 5 kg of body weight. This translates as a "generous pinch" from the sachet, once or twice a day on food. 