 This includes:


Picking a safe place to take refuge at home, school and work. Keep in mind that during an earthquake you'll have only seconds to get into a safe place, such as underneath sturdy furniture or against an interior wall, away from windows and unsecured furniture that could fall on you.
Knowing what to do if you're not all together, including having communication methods and central meeting points. Identify a single meeting place for all family members to reunite, when possible, after an earthquake.
Mapping escape routes to and from your home. This means making escape route plans for leaving work/school/other regularly visited places to your home and plans for leaving your home. Be aware of alternative routes and be aware that if the electricity and internet connections are down, you need paper maps and road guides. Keep the escape plans in your "go bag" or in a safe place at work/school, etc.
Deciding who can help you if you need to leave the city or town for a while. Which family members or friends interstate or across the region might put you and your family up for a while if things are bad enough that you have to leave? Ask them in advance if they are prepared to be your refuge in such a situation and reassure them that you will cover costs, etc.;
, You can all use this contact to check in and make it known that you're safe, even if local lines of communication aren't working.


Let all family members know that telephone lines tend to be overwhelmed after a natural disaster, as everyone tries to contact their loved ones. Prefer texting over calling, as it uses a lot less power and is more likely to get through to people. Let family members know that there may be a substantial amount of time when communications are impossible and that it is important to follow the plans and neither panic nor assume the worst. If your family knows the plan well, there is less need for worry.
 Once the list is made, shop for the supplies and set them aside in storage areas of your home. You will also need a "go bag" in case your house becomes uninhabitable as a result of the quake. A suggested list is provided below.
 Every family member old enough to follow instructions should know what to do when a quake happens. The more you rehearse the actions, the more natural the self-protection reaction will be when the quake occurs and everyone will be less likely to panic.


Practice the "drop, cover, hold" drill in each selected safe place.
Hunker down beneath the sturdy furniture or against the interior wall, cover your neck and head, and hold on.
Make it a habit to hold quake drills once a month if you live in a quake-prone area. Make it fun, such as combining quake-drill night with takeout food or a movie together afterward. By making it a family affair and associating the rehearsal with positive things, being quake-safe becomes a fact of your everyday life, not something to be afraid of. Prepared people stay alive.
 Make sure that every family member is aware of the following:


If you're outside, get away from power lines, buildings, street lights and anything else that might fall on you. Be aware that glass windows shatter and can rain shards down onto the street, so buildings with large glass expanses are not safe to be under during a quake.
If you're inside, do not try to run outside. If you do, you risk being hit by falling debris from awnings, glass shards, bricks, scaffolding, cement decorations forced off buildings, etc.
 Show family members how to use radios, cooking equipment, flashlights, etc. that are powered by electricity or other contained energy sources. Have a few practice runs; you could even have an entire night of camping in your home to see how it goes.


Never cook indoors with fuel stoves or barbecues. Carbon monoxide is one of the by-products of burning fuels; it is odorless and colorless and it kills quickly. Always keep cooking gear outdoors and make sure every family member is aware of this need. Tell children that if they cannot operate the cooking gear safely should you not be there to help them during any emergency, that they should eat only cold food from cans, dried packages and (within 12 hours) things from the refrigerator.
 Make the following modifications, recommended by the American Red Cross and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA):


Bolt or brace water heaters, gas appliances, bookcases, china cabinets and other tall furniture to wall studs, so they're less likely to fall over.
Hang pictures and other objects away from the bed, where they're less likely to fall on you during a night-time earthquake.
Anchor or brace overhead fixtures such as lights and ceiling fans.
Store heavy, breakable items on low shelves or in cabinets that lock shut, so there's less chance of them falling on you.
 If your kids are old enough, teach them how to do this as well. Every person old enough in the family should be able to do this.


Make sure that all family members are aware that they are not to turn utilities back on until given the all-clear by the utility or emergency authorities that it is safe to do so.
 If it's not secured, your home is at additional risk during an earthquake.
 It should include basics such as:


A gallon of water, per person, per day. The United States Geological Survey recommends storing enough water for 2 weeks
A water filter or purification tablets for purifying water
A camp stove for cooking without electrical or gas power
One week's worth of shelf-stable food for all family members, including pets. Remember to address any special dietary needs, such as diabetes or food allergies. The best food sorts are canned, dried (pasta, cookies, beans, etc.) and dehydrated foods (always add water to dehydrated food or you risk bloating internally and suffering injury)
Mechanical can opener
Portable crank radio, or radio with extra batteries
Crank flashlight, or flashlight with extra batteries
Any medications or personal hygiene supplies necessary for every member of your family. Keep each person's hygiene supplies/medication sealed in a large zip-close bag with their name on it, and check medication expiration dates at least every 6 months
Toilet paper. Other useful sanitary items include wet wipes, alcohol-based hand sanitizer, and waterproof plastic bags; sawdust/kitty litter etc. can be used for keeping toileting sanitary (use a bin with liners and bury if possible)
A fire extinguisher, and any necessary tools to shut off the gas and water lines to your home
An emergency blanket and extra layers of clothing, including a waterproof poncho or pants and jacket
Food, water and medication for your pets
Shovel for digging (toilet waste, trenches for disposal of garbage, food gathering, etc.)
Whistle for location
Sewing kit for emergency stitches
Pet crate, leashes, pet medication, etc.
 The items in this bag will be similar to above except that you cannot carry anywhere near as much and will need to take portable versions of many things. If you're able to take your car, you will be able to carry more supplies than if only going by foot.

