 This recipe is including the optional items. If you're not including ground beef, then skip to step 3. If you are including it, then continue reading.;
, Cook the ground beef in a pan on the stove set on medium-high heat, breaking it into little pieces with your spatula, until all brown. Add taco seasoning; pour a small amount of water over the meat to help spread the seasoning. Turn the heat down to very low to keep the meat warm.
 This is the fun part. Spoon half of the can of refried beans into the 9x13 casserole dish and spread it around, making a fairly even layer. Add more where necessary, but make sure to save roughly half a can of beans.
 Spread a layer of ground beef over the refried beans, possibly saving enough beef to make a second layer later. It depends on your tastes and how much beef you have.
 Apply liberally. Seriously, don't skimp on the cheese - you'll use most of a full bag for just this layer of cheese, and there's a second one later. On top of the cheese, spread a layer of salsa using a spoon. Be generous with it. Add to next layer the rest of the refried beans. It's a little difficult putting a layer of dense refried beans over a layer of not-as-dense salsa, but it's not impossible, and it's okay if they mix. And they will mix. It all goes to the same place anyway.
 Add some more cheese and the black olives. These can be put on together - the layers have a tendency to mix anyway. Take the whole mixture, and put it in the oven for five minutes. After those five minutes have passed, check on it - if it looks like the cheese needs to melt a little more, then pop it back in there. If you're making burritos out of this (which is a really good idea), then take a plate large enough to hold a tortilla and two paper towels. Wet both paper towels and squeeze them out so they're damp. Place one damp paper towel on the plate, place the tortillas in a stack on the paper towel, and put the other paper towel on top of the tortillas. Microwave for about 45 seconds. When the microwave beeps, your bean dip should be done as well.
 If you want to add lettuce, sour cream, more salsa, or a packet or two of Taco Bell sauce, do it now. Then fold the burrito. You may want to use a fork to eat it. If you're using it as a chip dip: Scoop some onto a plate with a pile of tortilla chips. If you're using this for a party, maybe array the chips nicely around the casserole dish. If you're just eating it on its own: Just put a dollop on your plate, get a fork, and dig in!

