 The Table of Contents should appear after the title page in the document. To create the Table of Contents manually, start a new page right after the title page. This way, you do not have to worry about moving the Table of Contents around in the document later. Doing this can end up throwing off the page ordering in the Table of Contents.


The Table of Contents should be on its own page. Do not include the introduction or a dedication on the same page as the Table of Contents.
 Start by listing the headings of each section in the document in order. Include only the major titles or headings in the document first. Write them down vertically on the page, using the same font and font size for each heading.For example, you may write down main headings like, “Introduction,” “Case Study 1,” or “Conclusion.”

, The subheadings will be subtopics under the main topics or sections in the paper. They should have their own titles in the document. Write down all subheadings underneath the applicable main headings.For example, under the main heading “Introduction” you may write the subheading, “Themes and Concepts.” Or under the main heading “Conclusion” you may write, “Final Analysis.”
You can also include sub-subheadings underneath the subheadings, if applicable. For example, under the subheading “Themes and Concepts” you may have the sub-subheading, “Identity.”
Some papers do not have subheadings at all, only main headings. If this is the case, skip this step.
 Write down the page number of where each heading starts in the document. Only include the page number that marks the beginning of the heading. You do not need to include the page number of where the section ends in the table of contents.For example, if the “Introduction” section begins on page 1, you will attach “page 1” to the Introduction heading. If the “Conclusion” section begins on page 45, attach “page 45” to the Conclusion heading.
 Make a table with two columns. Then, place the headings and subheadings in the first column in order. Put the applicable page numbers in the second column.


Check that the subheadings are located underneath the correct headings, indented to the right.
Make sure there are page numbers for the subheadings listed as well.
You can center the content in the table using the table options if you want the content to appear a few spaces away from the lines of the table. You can also leave the content indented to the left if you'd prefer.
 Add a title on the top of the Table of Contents. Usually the title is “Table of Contents” or “Contents.”


You can put the title above the table or in a separate row on the top of the rest of the content.

