 Go through what happened or what was said, bit by bit. If you haven't been willing to face the situation or event before but just feel it was all bad and frightening, breaking it down and reviewing it might help you to realize that the situation or event isn't as bad as you though it was. Try to pinpoint exactly which part of the event or situation has left you feeling so bad about it.


You may need the help of a therapist, counsellor or medical professional to do this, particularly if the experience you had was extremely traumatic.
If you are dissociating, feeling foggy or you're finding it hard to recall, these are signs that your brain is trying to protect you and you will benefit greatly from seeking professional help.;
, Write down your thoughts in a diary or journal. Your mind will feel cleaner and fresher when you write through your feelings and worries - free of bad thoughts. If the notes are really personal and private, you could shred the piece of paper you've written on (unless you want to keep it as a record or memo)––it will still have the same effect. You could almost say the paper absorbs the negativity, then you get rid of those bad feelings.
 Tell people about how you're feeling. Talk to someone you trust, to be certain that your secret is safe. Your feelings are like a bug latching onto you, so unlatch this inner whirlpool of woe by getting it off your chest.


Choose someone who is a good listener and who isn't judgmental or likely to bombard you with advice. Such persons are hard to find but there may be someone in your family or among your friends who can be this listening helper. If not, a therapist or counselor can be a good choice but be sure to choose an experienced one.
 Look forward to the future and plan what you're going to do - be organized. It's a bad day not a bad life. The more days between you and what happened, the more distant it becomes and the greater the realization that life goes on, and it's a choice as to how you live that life.
 To forget the bad things you must remember the good things. Book tickets for your favourite act, plan a trip, start a new hobby––have something to look forward to.
 If you're single, go partner searching. It will help to have someone by you. Sometimes being reassured that you're loved and getting a hug can make everything better. If you're not single, or not keen for romance, consider doing some volunteer work. It can be really morale boosting to be helpful to others and to realize the good that you're doing.


Start teaching something you're good at. Offer free classes to people who want to learn about something you enjoy doing, such as knitting, writing for wikis or doing walking history tours.
 If the thoughts keep sabotaging you, dig into a load of work that needs doing. Darn those socks, clean out the fridge, mow the lawn, finish the essay, write a new business plan, and so forth. Do what needs to be done and your mind will be better for it.


Keep busy by baking. What better than focusing on making something you'll love eating at the end?
Go to the gym, exercise or go for a long walk. Exercise can free your mind for a time, especially when you're focused on the exercise or caught up in seeing different things around you.
 If someone else caused the bad situation you keep replaying over and over, seek to forgive the person. This can help you to stop obsessing about it and to move on.

