 If you have annoying siblings coming in and out of your room yelling, or you have a cell phone ready to ring at any moment, you are bound to waste time. Remove all distractions as best as you can. Study in a quiet and comfortable room or go to the library or a friend's house to study.;
, After reading a lot or solving a lot of problems, your brain needs to relax for a bit, but don't let the breaks consist more than 5 to 10 minutes long. A bathroom break or a walk around your home are the best options.
 This includes homework, unfinished classwork, and projects. Finish your assignments that are due sooner as quickly as you can but still have them neat and presentable. In other words, prioritize your work into two different piles, "Due Sooner" and "Due Later". Always work on the "Due Sooner" pile first. .
 Teachers normally have better impressions of students with better looking papers even if it is not as good as a messy one. However this will not get you better grades unless the assignment is subjective or part of the mark is for neatness and organization. A good impression will make the teacher and yourself more comfortable to talk to each other and let the teacher help you, which, in the long run, will give you a much higher chance with a better grade.
 Did you know that the average person spends up to 4 years of their life waiting? Use any spare waiting time to study. You don't have to be a hardcore nerd, reading out of a textbook in the doctor's office; bring a piece of paper with notes written on them or bring your math workbook and do your homework. Not only will this help you prepare for your test(s), it will also less likely make you bored.
 This is cheating, and you can't get into good universities by cheating. But enjoying a class will actually make the class be and seem class easier

, Even if it is just 5 points added to your grade. When it adds up, you will get a solid 1-2 maybe 3% higher average which never hurts.
 Feeling confident is proven to help to be more serious and make you study harder the night before.
 It is not mimicking if you don't copy their every move and plan. Just asking them how they study is fine.
 You can observe and do the opposite of what they're doing. Maybe even give them a hand in showing them how math is done.
 It takes about 5 minutes for an unorganized person to find their things. Now imagine if you have a lot of homework! A good 20-30 minutes will be wasted if you are not organized. In 20 minutes you could learn a few new words in a new language!

, Nothing beats a better school day when your brain is on full blast and your stomach not growling.
 If not, review them at study hall and/or at home. Reviewing them once a day for 5 minutes will highly increase your chances for remembering them. If you didn't take notes, create or write on index cards at home getting your information from your textbook, and follow the same process.
 It doesn't hurt to "learn" something twice. It will also be explained to you more clearly while already knowing what you are going to learn.
 Your learning is not limited to a certified teacher. Your friend might understand the subject more than you, or your parents may have majored in math or literature so ask for help!

, It seems pretty obvious, but some students are too shy to get help or just don't care enough to do so. It will ensure that you understand all the material so you will be fully prepared to get an "A". You study all you want, but if you don't get help and understand what you're learning, you won't get the grades you are striving for.