 This method relies on the fabric tucked away inside the hem of your jeans. Depending on how much fabric is tucked away, this method can only make your jeans longer by an inch (2.54 centimeters) or so. As such, this method is better for those jeans that only need to be a little bit longer. Here's a list of what you'll need:


Jeans
Seam ripper
Tape measure
Scissors
Thread
Sewing machine
Cotton fabric
Sewing pins

, You will notice that there are fold lines along the bottom edge. If you want, you can iron them out, but keep in mind that they will never really go away., Take your tape measure, and measure across the bottom of the pant leg, from inseam to outer seam.
 Each rectangle needs to be about 2.5 inches (6.35 centimeters) tall and 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) longer than the bottom of your pant leg. This will be enough to hem one pant leg.


You can use any color or pattern you want. You can match the fabric to your jeans, or use a contrasting color.
Lighter fabric, such as cotton, will be easier to sew with.
 Pin the right sides together. Sew along both of the narrow ends using a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance. Do not sew along the long edges. This will be your lining.
 The top edge of the lining needs to align with the bottom edge of the pant leg. Make sure that the side seams of the lining are aligned with the seams on the pant leg. Pin everything in place.
 Slide the pant leg onto the sewing machine arm. You may notice that your jeans have several fold lines. Sew along the fold line closest to the raw edge. Sew all the way around the bottom of the pant leg, turning the leg as you go. Tie the ends of the thread off into tight knots and snip any excess thread off.


If you can't find a fold line, then use a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance.
 Iron the hem towards the top of the pants, away from the lining. Keep the pant leg inside out.
 Pin and iron the hem flat, then remove the pins. This will be the hem, so you won't see any raw edges inside your pant leg.
 The seam between the lining and the jean fabric is now the bottom of your pants. Press the seam with an iron.
 Slide the pant leg back onto the sewing machine. Try to sew as close to the folded edge of the lining as possible. When you are done, tie the threads into tight knots and snip off any excess.
 Your jeans are now a little bit longer than before. The inside is also neatly hemmed.The cuffs will still have fold lines. Over time, the lines will fade, but they will never completely disappear. They will be less noticeable light lighter-colored jeans, however.,