 You must schedule a time to have an in-person interview with a local SSA representative.


You can find the location and phone number of your nearest SSA office by using the SSA office locator at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp.
 Before your appointment, you may want to read the information contained in the starter kit so you have a better understanding of the process.


The starter kit is available online at https://www.ssa.gov/disability/Documents/SSA-1170-KIT.pdf. If you don't have the ability to download the starter kit online, you also can call your local SSA office and have one mailed to you, or stop by the office and pick one up.
The starter kit answers common questions about Social Security benefits and disability law, explains the application process, and tells you what benefits you might receive if your application is approved., The checklist in the starter kit contains a list of documents you will need to take with you to your interview.Most of these documents relate to your disability, including your medical treatment and health care providers. You also will need information about the work you performed before you became disabled and the income you earned.You can use the checklist to mark documents you have as you gather them, as well as make note of other documents you may have to request from doctors or employers., The medical and job worksheet included in the starter kit can help speed up your interview.


The worksheet will ask questions about your medical conditions that limit your ability to work, the names and contact information of any health care providers you've seen for those medical conditions, the medicines you're taking, and any tests that you've had.The worksheet also asks for your job history, including up to five jobs you've had over the last 15 years before you became disabled., Take your documents and worksheet to your interview, which you should expect to take about an hour.


Make sure the documents you take with you are all originals – not copies. The SSA representative who interviews you will make copies for your file and give your originals back., The local representative will ask you questions about yourself, your work, and your disability to complete your application.


The questions will cover much of the information you included on your worksheet, as well as questions about yourself and your family.If you don't have sufficient information to answer a question asked in the interview, just say so. The representative will help you find the information you need., After your interview, it may take between three and five months for the SSA to make a decision on your application.


After an initial review, your application is sent to a state agency to be analyzed by medical and vocational experts. They will review your records and talk to your doctors to determine whether you meet Social Security's disability criteria.You may have to complete an additional medical examination before your application will be approved.