 It's not a foregone conclusion that you have to wear makeup. It is a choice whether or not to use makeup and for some people, it just doesn't work out or interest them. If you want to wear makeup, be sure that it is because it pleases you to do so, not just because your friends are doing it or you feel pressured by other people to do it.;
, Just as it is a choice to wear or not wear makeup, you can decide to wear a little or a lot of makeup. It's entirely up to you, and there are even tutorials on wearing makeup so as to look as if you're not wearing any (the natural look) or wearing very little makeup but making the most of the little you do wear. However, it is a good idea to prefer "less is best" when first wearing makeup, to give you time to develop your application skills, to find your style and to avoid shocking people when they see you in makeup for the first time.
 You might want to wear it daily, just for special events or every now and then. You probably won't want to wear it for sports, outdoor activities such as camping, swimming or hiking. You probably want it for formal events such as your prom or a party. Usually it isn't appropriate to wear it to school or for some after-school activities.
 Also understand what each element is for. Makeup consists of such items as:


Foundation/powder: For covering the face to make it appear of one consistency.
Concealer: For covering up blemishes such as under-eye dark circles or a large pimple. If your skin is fine, you don't need concealer or foundation. Same with bronzer if you are naturally tanned. Find the concealer and foundation that matches your skin color.
Eyeshadow, eyeliner: For enhancing the eyes.
Mascara: For adding definition and darker color to your eyelashes.
Blush/blusher: For adding color to your cheeks and cheekbones. Some people also use bronzer for adding color.
Lipstick: For adding color to your lips.
Lip gloss: For adding shine to your lips.
Makeup brushes, wipes, pads, etc.: To assist with the application and removal of makeup.
 If you think Aunt Sally's purple lipstick is awful, you might not like what she picks out for you, so go with someone who has good fashion sense in your eyes. For starters, purchase foundation, concealer, maybe some powder, and some lip gloss. Also get eyeliner, mascara and eyeshadow. And be sure to get makeup remover and wipes to round up all that you need to start with.


If you want to do some tricky makeup, buy a concealer that is lighter than your skin and one that is darker than your skin.
Buy a shade of brown eyeliner that is a close color to your eyelashes if you want a natural look.
If you have enough money, buy some gold or white eyeliner.
Mascara should be just a little bit darker than your lashes.
Nude lip gloss is a good choice if you want no one to notice but you'd like enhanced lips.
Avoid buying products that are glittery; these are not natural looking, they're messy and they're not a good place to start for beginners.
 Get a makeup bag or container to keep the makeup in for storage. You may also like to have a small makeup bag for portable use.
 It will come with practice, but it is best to start with small amounts and gradually build up your application skills. Have an experienced person show you what to do and help you to work out what works best for your face.
 Find a spot in your house where you can see your face with ease, that has excellent lighting and where you won't be bumping into things as you move your arms about to apply the makeup.
 They often have great tips on how to apply makeup and what brands and colors might work well for you.


Check out wikiHow's selection of makeup articles for illustrated examples of how to apply makeup. For example, see How to Apply Makeup, How to Apply Eye Makeup, How to Apply Makeup (for Teen Girls) and How to Apply Base Makeup.
 Since you don't normally wear makeup, putting on a whole lot of it may surprise people and it can also look fake and tacky if you don't know exactly what you're doing. Start off with a little lip gloss, some clear mascara, and a little powder or blush.
 Try these on at home first and ask others what they think. Learn which colors look best on you at which times of day and for which occasions. That lipstick might look good at a school dance, but it might look overdone during a school day.
 You must take it all off before you go to sleep. Usually, soap isn't enough, so get makeup remover when you buy the makeup.

