 Before you take any action against your landlord, you need to have as much documentation of the discrimination as possible to strengthen your position.Intentional discrimination is far easier to prove than unintentional discrimination, but also rarer to find. For example, if your landlord finds out you're Muslim and refuses to renew your lease because he says he doesn't rent to Muslims, that would be intentional discrimination.
However, you also should keep in mind that if your case is simply your word against your landlord's, it's not very strong and you won't be likely to win. You do need some sort of objective evidence of the discrimination, such as a written letter.
You may be able to find evidence of discrimination by talking to other tenants about their experiences. If others have experienced similar discrimination, you may be able to show a pattern of discriminatory conduct on the part of your landlord.;
, Send a firm letter in a professional tone raising the issue of discrimination, discussing your concerns, and offering possible solutions to the problem.Before you sit down to write your letter, think about what it is you really want out of the situation, and whether you really want to continue renting from someone who has expressed a discriminatory attitude.
You can write an email or type a letter and print it – but if you do so, make a copy of it before you send it so you have it for your records.
If you're concerned about knowing that your landlord has received your letter, you might consider using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
Stick to the facts in your letter, rather than making accusations or insulting your landlord personally.
Let your landlord know that you know your rights and you believe his or her behavior constitutes discrimination in violation of state and federal law.
Figure out what you want out of the situation and let your landlord know. For example, if you want to renew the lease on your apartment and your landlord refuses, tell him or her that all you want to do is renew your lease.
If you've been a good tenant in the past, remind your landlord of this. Keep in mind that your landlord is first and foremost a business person. If you haven't caused any problems or disruptions and have kept the property in good condition, these facts may overcome any discriminatory thoughts or beliefs in your landlord's mind.
 You may be able to work out a solution to your problems with your landlord without escalating the situation, perhaps with the help of a mediator.Many areas have community mediation centers where you can find a neutral, third-party mediator to facilitate a productive and civilized discussion between you and your landlord.
Some cities also have mediation centers specifically for landlord-tenant disputes.
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has a list of tenant rights' organizations in each state. Go to the list at http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/rental_assistance/tenantrights and click your state to find out what resources are available.
 Even though you may be unable to negotiate a resolution to the problem with your landlord on your own, a strong letter from an experienced attorney may convince your landlord to fall into line without you having to sue.Most attorneys will provide a free initial consultation. A tenants' rights attorney may be willing to write a demand letter to your landlord that would have more of an effect than your letter did, or negotiate a resolution to the problem for you.
Although you probably will have to pay the attorney a fee to write a letter for you, attorneys often will write you a demand letter for a flat fee. If the letter gets results, you'll have saved a significant amount of time and money by not having to file a lawsuit.
 HUD has 10 regional offices across the country, each of which assists people who live in neighboring states and territories.To find your local office, go to http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/housing_discrimination and click on the "Contact Your Local Office" tab.
Keep in mind that you don't necessarily have to be able to visit the local office in person. Some offices cover vast geographical areas, such as the Seattle office, which deals with housing issues in Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
In most cases, interviews and investigations will be conducted over the phone and through the mail.
You also may want to file a complaint with your state or local housing office. HUD has a list of state government agencies available at http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/states. Click the name of your state to find out what resources are available.
 HUD provides an initial complaint form with basic information that you can complete online to begin the process.The initial form requires you to include your name and personal contact information. You then must describe what happened to you and why you believe you are being discriminated against.
You also must include the name and address of your landlord, as well as the date and location where the alleged act of discrimination occurred.
You also can provide the same initial information to HUD by calling 1-800-669-9777.
 After you've completed your initial complaint, an intake specialist will be assigned to your case and will call you with further questions about your situation.Intake interviews typically are conducted over the telephone. The specialist will discuss your complaint and collect facts about the discrimination you've experienced.
After your interview, the specialist will evaluate your case and determine whether HUD has the authority to investigate the situation.
If the specialist determines HUD should investigate your complaint, he or she will assist you in completing a formal complaint to begin the investigation. Once the formal complaint is written up, the specialist will send the form to you for your signature.
In some cases the specialist may determine that another agency is better able to assist you with your complaint. Your information will be forwarded and an agent will contact you within 30 days.
 If HUD accepts your complaint for investigation, it will forward your complaint to your landlord for a response and begin investigation of the situation.After you've signed the formal complaint form, HUD sends notice to your landlord along with a copy of the complaint.
Within 10 days of receiving the complaint from HUD, your landlord must send a written response to the complaint.
The HUD investigator will interview you, your landlord, and any other witnesses. He or she may visit your building or complex if necessary, as well as collecting any documents that are relevant to your complaint.
If your landlord is not willing to cooperate, the HUD investigator does have authority to subpoena testimony or compel documents.
At the completion of the investigation, HUD may find no reasonable cause to believe that discrimination has occurred. If that happens, HUD will close the case.
If you disagree with HUD's determination, you can submit a request for reconsideration to the Director of the Office of Enforcement, FHEO, 451 7th Street, SW, Room 5214, Washington, DC 20410.
 Federal law requires HUD to bring you and your landlord together in a mediation-like process that aims to resolve your dispute and protect the public's interest.Regardless of the outcome of mediation, agreement between you and your landlord to participate in the conciliation process will end HUD's investigation of your complaint.
Participation in HUD's conciliation process is completely voluntary. However, any agreement you and your landlord reach will become a written contract, the terms of which may be enforced by the U.S. Department of Justice.
 If you get to the point that you're contemplating filing a tenant discrimination lawsuit, an attorney with experience handling tenant discrimination cases may be indispensable in your fight to protect your rights.Although many landlord-tenant disputes are resolved in small claims court, where you don't need an attorney, the amount at stake in a tenant discrimination lawsuit typically exceeds the upper limit for small claims.
If you have a low income and are concerned about your ability to pay attorney's fees, you might want to begin your search at your local legal aid office. Tenants' rights organizations also often have attorneys who will work with you on a tenant discrimination suit.
If you have a particularly strong case, you also may be able to find an attorney who is willing to work on contingency. This means your attorney won't charge you anything up front, but will take a percentage of your settlement or award if you win your case.
Take advantage of free initial consultations to talk to several attorneys before you make your final decision. Look for an attorney who has experience representing tenants in discrimination cases similar to yours.
 Your attorney will need all the information you have to accurately compile the list of allegations against your landlord.The first part of your complaint will tell the court who you are, who your landlord is, and why the court has jurisdiction over your case. Which court you file your lawsuit in will depend in part on the law you're alleging your landlord has violated.
For example, if you're alleging that your landlord violated federal law, you typically would need to file your lawsuit in federal court.
The main part of your complaint will focus on your allegations against your landlord, set forth in numbered paragraphs which each contain a single fact or statement. All of these allegations together must constitute a violation of state, federal, or local law.
The last part of your complaint lists the amount of damages to which you believe you are entitled, or any other action you want the court to take. For example, you may want the court to order your landlord to renew your lease, or return your security deposit.
 You must take your complaint and any other required documents to the clerk of the court where you want your case to be heard to initiate your lawsuit.The clerk will stamp your documents "filed" with the date and keep the originals for the court files. Copies will be returned to you for your own records and to deliver to your landlord.
Your case will be assigned to a judge and given a case number. Any documents filed with the court in your case must have this case number.
The clerk charges filing fees that typically are several hundred dollars, although the exact amount differs among courts. You are responsible for these costs, but if you have an attorney working on contingency, he or she will pay the filing fees and add the amount to the costs that will be deducted off the top of any settlement or award you receive.
 Once you've filed your complaint, you must have it delivered to your landlord using the proper legal process so he or she has notice of your lawsuit and the opportunity to respond.In some jurisdictions you may be able to serve the complaint using certified mail with returned receipt requested, but most courts require you to complete service of an initial complaint by having the documents hand-delivered to the person you're suing.
In federal court, service typically is completed by a U.S. Marshal, while state courts use sheriff's deputies.
Typically you'll begin the process of having your landlord served immediately after you file the complaint. Rules in federal and state courts give you a limited amount of time to complete service after a complaint is filed, but no longer than 120 days.
 After your landlord is served with your complaint, he or she has between 20 and 30 days to file an answer or other motion or you may win your lawsuit by default.Your landlord typically will file an answer denying most if not all of the allegations in your complaint. The answer also may include affirmative defenses, which are reasons your landlord asserts he or she is not liable for damages to you even if all of the allegations generally are true.
Your landlord also may file a motion to dismiss or motion for summary judgment. These types of motions ask the court to rule that even if all the allegations in your complaint are true, they don't add up to a violation of the law for which you can receive monetary damages or other relief.
If a motion to dismiss is filed, you typically must file a response and attend a hearing before the judge to prove that your case has merit and should proceed to trial.
 At any time during the litigation process, your landlord may come to you with an offer to settle the case rather than continue on to trial.Particularly if your landlord has filed a motion to dismiss, he or she may wait until after the judge has ruled on that motion before presenting a settlement offer. If the judge declines to dismiss your lawsuit, your landlord may have a greater motivation to settle because a judge has ruled that your claim has merit.
Your attorney must present any settlement offers to you when he or she receives them, and may provide you with advice on whether to accept or reject the offer. However, the final decision will always be yours.
Since very few civil cases actually go to trial, the reality is that your case probably will settle before trial.

