 Find a 10 or 20 gallon (37.9 or 75.7 L) aquarium. A 5 gallon (18.9 L) tank is too small for a regular habitat depending on the size of the toad, but will work in temporary conditions.;
,


Fill the tank with 3–4 inches (7.6–10.2 cm) of organic potting soil, preferably with peat moss. Two inches works if you have other refuges for the toad such as a leafy plant or tilted piece of bark. Most pet stores carry ground coconut fiber or forest bark bedding which is an excellent substrate.
Find a medium-sized rock or a piece of slate and wedge it at an angle, near a corner of the tank as the toad may want to burrow underneath a rock.
Put one or two hollow logs and some moss in the tank if you want a natural environment for the toad, or you may use fish tank props to decorate it.
 Using a Tupperware® container that is at least two toads wide and four toads long (big enough for him to swim around in), bury it so the top is level with the dirt, and fill it with filtered/unchlorinated water. Amphibians are sensitive to chlorine so do not use straight chlorinated city tap water; bottled water is okay to use. You can get distilled water at the drug or grocery store.
 Never leave the tank without the lid on it. Never use a cardboard lid.
, Toads will basically eat any small insect that fits into their mouths. One good rule is to feed the toad every other day.


For a small toad: 2 little bugs per day OR one small slug OR 1 pinhead crickets
Medium toad: 2 small bugs per day OR regular size slug OR 2 small crickets
Large toad: 3 small bugs per day OR large slug OR 3 small crickets

, Do not attempt to feed dead insects as they decompose quickly and there is no point feeding something dead that risks harboring dangerous bacteria.


Toads are predators and have voracious appetites. An adult toad in your garden will eat up to 25 mosquitoes a night. In captivity, a well cared for toad will be fat. A skinny toad is a starving toad. Many pet/bait shops sell crickets. You can buy around 10 crickets and keep them in small kritter keeper with a few apple slices and some hiding spots like egg carton egg holders.
 Go for insects such as small beetles, pill bugs and crickets to supply your pet.


Toads love the little gray roly-poly bugs that can often be found under moist bark or wood pieces on the ground, under rocks, and in other places like that. They are easy to supply, or even cultivate on your own- just take a large container and punch holes in the top, place rotting leaves and bark in with some crumpled paper, and dump in the bugs. They will usually do fine and multiply.
 Change water daily (they use this dish as a toilet), remove any uneaten bugs (crickets can actually nibble on the toad's skin while it is sleeping) and shake dirt or sand off decorations.


If the dirt in your toad's aquarium becomes dry, use a spray bottle to moisten it. Toads also enjoy a misting every now and then. Don't turn the dirt into mud! Just make sure it is not dry.



If your toad suddenly disappears, do not worry. He may be burrowed deep in the substrate to cool off or just to take a nap. He will come back up when he feels the need to bathe or air out.
 The oils on your hands can harm the animal.



Layer the bottom with 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) of sand then 1-1 1/2 inches of soil.
Pull small plants by the root and place them in the soil. Add some small stones, pebbles, and twigs.
Poke air holes in the container's lid.
 Find some insects and place them in the habitat.
 Enjoy watching your toad before letting him go.


If handling the toad, wash your hands thoroughly with mild soap before and after handling.

