 This can be the hardest part about talking to a guy, is that it can feel like everyone is watching you. Most often, this isn’t true. People are most often too absorbed in their own lives and preoccupations to notice whether you’re nervous or doing something weird.However, most of the time when people are shy, the shyness isn’t visible to others.Taking time to be in the moment can help with this. Focus on your breathing, and do your best to focus on the task at hand.;
, While this is easy to say, it is hard to do, especially when you’re young. It can seem that if you don’t fit in generally, you won’t have friends, or you won’t have the “best” friends. However, your real friends will like you for who you are. Worthwhile guys will like you for who you are. They will like your quirks and your passions—the things that make you you.A worthwhile guy might say, "I think it's cool that you're not afraid to be yourself." Even so, that opinion shouldn't be needed to validate your choices. You make your choices for a reason.
 Breathing is a natural way to calm you down. Breathing deeply can help calm the heart and lower your stress response. No one will notice you breathing a little deeper, and you’ll feel better for doing so., Instead of worrying about what others think about you or what could go wrong, or any other anxiety that pops into your head, focus on the moment. Listen to what people say. Watch their facial expressions. It helps to keep eye contact if you can. By focusing on the moment, you have less time to worry about what’s worrying you., Simply talking to guys can make it easier. If you have a negative reaction, or they act in a bullying manner, avoid them, and find other guys to talk to. Not all of the success of a social interaction rests with you. Remember, you can only control what you bring to the conversation.Say something about something you noticed about them. For instance, you could say, "I noticed that you wear skater shoes. Do you like to skateboard?" or "That was a cool drawing you did in art class. Where'd you get that idea?" Getting them talking about something they like can be a good way to give yourself time to get more comfortable in the social situation.

