 You can reinforce your own understanding of the subject by helping your classmates improve their understanding of the homework or lab work. Start by asking “Was there a specific part of the assignment you had trouble with?” You can also diminish the number of classmates that look to you for answers if they know that your help requires that they work.


Ask your classmate about their study habits. You may be able to explain how they can do homework more effectively.
 Offer to work with the student that will not leave you alone. You can involve other students in a discussion of the more confusing parts of the assignment. Say “I find this subject difficult as well,” and focus on discussing the challenging points of the assignment. Be ready to answer their request for help with an alternative: “I won’t give you answers, but we can try to work together through a problem I didn’t finish.” Or answer their request by asking about their work: “Show me your work for the parts you did complete.”


Pay special attention not to emphasize the depth of your understanding. Your goal is to work with the student, not to give them answers. Make sure that they are actively involved.
 Ask “What parts of the assignment were you comfortable with?” Make sure you ask questions of each member of the group. While discussing the assignment, be sure to ascertain the depth of your peers' understanding. This conversation is the start of a potential study group that can make your classmates less dependent on your help., Once the conversation gets going, direct the group to the first step of the first problem. You can say “Hey, that sounds like a good way to solve the first question.” Make sure that everyone is involved, even if it slows the process down. Interject small pointers in order to direct the group to the right answer, and give everyone a chance to understand each step.
 Encourage the impromptu group to work together. Point out that they are covering challenging points. Use your grasp of the topic to steer everyone to a consensus and then confirm "Yeah, that's what I got."

, If you would like to work with them, offer to organize the study group. If you would like to continue studying independently, say “Hey, you guys can keep working together! With this study group, you can be sure that you’ll always complete your homework.” Praise their efforts and minimize your role so that they will be confident even without your leadership.
 The teacher’s recognition will help solidify the group, and it will emphasize each student’s responsibility for participating. Make your collective intentions clear and accept any guidance or help that your teacher may offer. Many high school teachers approve of study groups, and in college they are often the norm.

