 Your dog's paws can be harmed if he is not using the right board. Foam boards are bad for dogs as it tears their skin after a few uses. Your dog may chew on a foam board, and foam boards have no traction, so they use wax, which is terrible for a dog's paws as sand and debris get in the webs of your dog's paws and could be harmful. Make sure you get a "dog surfboard". The hard surface dog surfboards are great and come with many safety features such as a standard ocean rescue safety release handle on the tail for choosing the right waves or hanging on for the ride. They also come with Soft Traction throughout the board, which provides not just traction but also serves as a cushion in case of a wipe out! The hard Dog Surfboards, are great because you can design your own colors, logo's, pics of dog or any artwork you can think of! They are totally customized for your dog, which you can't get with any soft board. Harder top boards float much better and do not fold or bend nor crease. Soft boards  are a little less stable and slippery which causes the dog to move forward on the board thus causing the surfboard to nose dive.;
, Ask your local surf shop for a "Dog Surfboard" not a giant foam board, a real authentic Dog Surfboard, or Google Dog Surfboards, and Dog Wetsuits, something will pop up!


Get your dog some gear too. Suitable items include a dog life vest, dog wetsuits, dog beach towels, water and salt waterproof bungee leashes, pet tent (for a rest in while you keep surfing), and Travel Pet Bed for the beach!

, Begin somewhere easy, like a swimming pool or a lake on a really flat wave day. Throw your dog's favorite fetch toy into the water and see if he retrieves it. If he does, he is probably a water-loving dog. Having other dogs that like the water will also encourage your dog into the water.


Make sure you know how to surf. It won't make much sense to your dog if you're not sharing the experience and know what to do too!
This sport involves a lot of exertion in the water, and the waves can be rough, so be sure that you and your dog are both strong swimmers before attempting to surf.
 Talk to him, call to him, and encourage him to come into the water and play nearby while watching what you're doing.


Play with your dog in the water.
Let your dog play on the board.

Develop your dog's trust (the number one element for success); don't start off too fast and make sure that it is fun for your dog.
 Test your dog's balance to see where he likes to place himself on the board. Some smaller dogs like the nose of the board, some heavier dogs have a better center of gravity and like the middle to the back of the board. Depending on size, however, your dog should be roughly about two-thirds of the way back, with his tail over the board's fin.


If your dog is too far forward, the board will nosedive under the wave, unless you use a hard top dog surfboard with traction such as "Scrappy" below in the picture.
If your dog is too far back, the nose will come out of the water and the board won't catch the wave.
 The dog PFD will provide your dog with greater flotation when he wipes out in the surf. Many dog life vests have a handle on top that lets you gently pull your canine pal back on the board or out of the water when needed.
 On a longboard, get on the board with the dog and paddle into the waves. You should be behind the dog for best results when paddling through the breakers. On a shortboard or boogie board, put the dog on the board and push him out through the breakers.
 Start with small waves, roughly 1–2 feet (0.3–0.6 m) (30cm - 60cm). Even champion surfing dogs don't tackle surf much bigger than 3–4 feet (0.91–1.2 m) (90cm - 120cm).

Push off and shred. Catching the wave is a knack that requires timing, finesse, patience and lots of repetition.
Get your dog started in the wave each time and then let him surf the wave on his own. Try to get the dog started right when the waves starts to curl.






Now your dog and you are surfing! Bow Wow Bunga, dude!

