 Start by running some water lightly over your dreadlocks in the shower. There’s no need to completely saturate them, as the more water your locks absorb, the harder it will be for the shampoo to infiltrate them. For best results, use warm (not too hot) water.;
, Squeeze a modest amount of shampoo into your palm. It’s better to use a little shampoo at a time so you can control how much soap actually goes into your locks—you can always use more later if it’s not enough. If you’re using a solid bar shampoo, rub it between your hands until it forms a rich lather.Always use a shampoo that doesn’t leave a residue of any kind. Dreadlocks should not be maintained using gels, waxes and other additives, and a residue-forming shampoo will likewise only add to buildup rather than washing it away.
Look for natural, organic types of shampoo that are free of chemicals which help soften and style.
 Press both hands into your scalp and distribute the shampoo into the spaces between the roots of the dreadlocks. Use the tips of your fingers to give your scalp a good scrub to free dead skin and remove excess sebum.Don’t neglect to clean and care for the roots. Since this is where your dreadlocks attach, they need to be strong and healthy.
 Let the shampoo sit for 1-2 minutes. Then, tilt your head downward so that the lather runs through your locks as you rinse. Gently squeeze the shampoo lather into the dreadlocks. Make sure that there’s no shampoo residue remaining in your hair when you’re finished washing.If you want, you can use a little extra shampoo to touch up each lock individually. Just don’t overdo it, or it will be more time-consuming to rinse and cause loose hairs to frizz.
 After you get out of the shower, you’ll want to make sure that you let your dreadlocks dry completely. Squeeze each lock with a towel to press out the water absorbed into them. Allow your locks to air dry, or use a hair dryer on a low heat setting to speed the process along and ensure that they’re not left damp. If too much moisture remains in the locks, they can start to come unlocked and smell, or even grow mold.”Dread rot” is when moisture becomes trapped in the matted hair for so long that it begins to mildew.
As your dreadlocks continue to set up and tighten, you may have to start using a hair dryer more often after washing to ensure that the hair inside the locks is getting dry.