 If you live in New York, your agent should also live in New York. If you live in Chicago, your agent should be Chicago-based. Although it may be tempting to have an agent half a world away, where actors and agents are commonplace, your agent needs to be able to communicate with you quickly and effectively. This is far more difficult to do if there is a large distance between the two of you.If you live in a small town, there may not be an agency in the immediate vicinity. In this case, search in the city closest to you.
To truly make it in the acting business, a move may be required. Although not every actor must live in Los Angeles or New York, living in a large city will lend itself to a successful career far more than living in a little town will.;
, Don’t immediately hire the first agent you meet with. There are a wide range of communication and solicitation styles, and you need to find an agent you get along with, and build a trusting relationship. Set up interviews with multiple agents across several agencies.Ask questions. Is your agent representing anyone else? Does your agent currently have any successful clients--or have they had any in the past? Is there a particular realm of acting your agent specializes in, such as stage, television, or film?
Let the agents you are interviewing know that you are interviewing others, as it can help keep pricing negotiations low, and will avoid creating false expectations.
 Although your agent is, in effect, working for you, they need to know that you are a legitimate client, and that you can be successful. When searching for an agent, treat it as though you are also interviewing for a job. While you need to find an agent you can trust, you also need to be able to bring something to the table for an agent to take an interest in your goals.Do not inflate your resume. If you don’t have any experience, communicate this to your prospective agent. If the agency does not accept individuals with no experience, they may be able to refer you to a smaller agency better suited to your immediate needs.
 Not every talent agent is going to mesh well with you, nor are you going to like every agent you run into. If your goal is to develop a thriving stage acting career, you need an agent familiar with stage acting, not an agent well-versed in television auditions. Make your wants and needs clear from the outset, and research the agent or agency that will best suit your goals.


Don’t immediately dismiss an agent you get along well with because they don’t have a lot of experience in your chosen field--particularly if you don’t have a lot of experience, yourself. They may be able to help you just as much, and may be far more eager to prove themselves.
 Finding the right agent for you may take some time. If you have met with numerous agencies and still can’t find a good match, be patient. Consider looking outside of your immediate area to surrounding towns or cities. Your agent is going to be a long-time partner as you build your resume and portfolio; you want someone reliable and trustworthy. This is not the time to make hasty, ill-researched decisions.This is also true of current agent relationships; if you find that your agent is no longer doing their job properly, or that the two of you are no longer compatible, sever the working relationship and search for an agent better suited to your needs.
 Each audition you go on, you will be required to present your resume, either attached to your headshot, or printed directly on the back of your headshot. Make sure your resume is relevant. If any of your non-acting jobs are relevant to the part you are auditioning for, feel free to include these. If not, however, avoid them. Your resume should not be bogged down by every single job you’ve ever held.


Keep your resume to a single page. If it extends past one page, simplify your descriptions. If your jobs extend past one page, file them down to the most relevant ones.
 Failing to do so will set you apart in a way you certainly don’t want. Enlist the help of a professional photographer, and get good-quality, professional headshots made.Keep your headshot simple. Clean lines, a simple shirt, and a classic hairstyle will be best. Allow your age, coloring, and any perceived “flaws” to be seen; casting directors need to know what you look like. If your headshot contains wild colors, props, or garish lighting, the effect will be more jarring than memorable.
 Although you can certainly waltz in and audition for a leading role, the likelihood of being chosen with no experience is low. Start small, and gradually work your way up, simultaneously building your confidence and familiarity with the industry.If you are seeking a break into film or television, audition for single-line parts or even background parts. This way, you can familiarize yourself with television and film sets, the process of producing, and the process of acting on screen.
If stage is your goal, start by auditioning for a chorus line, or even apply to be a stage hand. Again, this will give you a window into your chosen profession, and will allow you to make friends and gain insight into the acting process.
 Auditions are not the time to act on a whim. Before you audition, learn everything you can about the character and project. Know your character’s basic physical characteristics, as well as their background. Familiarize yourself as much as possible with the director, source material, and storyline.Step into the part. Your audition is not a time to be you; it is, instead, a time for you to step into the shoes of your character. Take this time to truly embody the character you are auditioning for. Remember: the casting board is not looking for your personality--they are looking for the character’s ideal fit.
If you are attending a cold read, advance preparation is not going to be possible. When you receive your script for a cold read, quickly scan through and determine who you are, where you are, and the overall feel of your character. Use gestures, inflection, and facial expressions to deliver a strong impression of the character in question.
 Not every audition is going to result in a part, or even a call back. Although it can be discouraging, try again. Every time you can, go in and audition. Make your face a familiar one among casting companies and audition halls. Consistency and tenacity are both important factors in breaking into the acting business., When you start out, every role is important. Whether your resume is on paper, via a website, or via a film reel, you want your presence to be felt. Once you have a few roles under your belt, you can begin to streamline your portfolio.Although acting is a creative career, be professional in creating your resume. While your personality might be powerful, you want the casting board to know you are a professional. Treat your resume and portfolio accordingly.
 Although it can be helpful to show how versatile you are, tailor your portfolio to your job whenever possible. You do not have to delete numerous roles to fit the atmosphere of the project you are auditioning for; instead, try to keep similar genres grouped together.If you only have a few shows to demonstrate your talent, that is fine. Include all of your roles and what they entailed.
If you have numerous roles you have acted in, begin to pare down your portfolio, using only the roles you want to continue playing. This will give casting directors and your agent a better idea of roles that will fit you and your goals.
 Acting has many faces. If you have acted in a television commercial, on the stage, and in film, include all of these in your portfolio. If you have enough experience to edit your roles down to a tailored portfolio, great! Use as many mediums as you can within that pared-down framework.Don’t be afraid to do commercials if you want to be a stage actor, and don’t shy away from the stage if your ultimate goal is film. Any type of acting can provide you with invaluable experience.
 A website is a simple way to showcase your talent and portfolio. There are many inexpensive web hosting services, and even some free ones. If you do not want to create an entire website, be sure to be active on social media under your given name.Blogs and YouTube channels can also be helpful in making yourself known. A blog can simply detail your experiences as you work to break into the acting world, while a channel can provide a way for you to highlight any film, television, or commercial roles you’ve had.
 The key to networking is persistence and assertiveness. Whenever possible, introduce yourself to your peers and superiors. Make sure your name is known and has a positive association; you don’t want to be remembered as the person who elbowed their way to say hello to a famous actor.When you introduce yourself, explain who you are and what you are doing. If you are a stagehand, identify yourself as such. While you might feel silly introducing yourself to the highest rung on the so-called ladder, while you are the lowest rung, few people will be angry or annoyed by a quick, polite “hello.”

, Part of networking is making human connections. Share the story of how you got into acting, or your unique background, and display a genuine interest in the stories of others. Everyone, from stagehands and camera crew members, to the directors and producers, wants to be heard. Lend a listening ear, and watch your network grow.Although you should share, and should ask questions, beware launching into a soliloquy. If need be, practice what you might say to others about your motivation and background.
Showing interest and being nosy are two very different things. Ask others questions about themselves, but do not press if they are not comfortable providing details.
 Keep the numbers and contact information of the people you’ve worked with. Make sure you are forging a relationship with the people around you. Few loners make it in the acting industry, so don’t be afraid to go out, mingle, and catch up with old coworkers.Be respectful of your time, too; you do not have to go to parties and get-togethers every single night to stay relevant. Instead, put in appearances where you feel you would be appreciated, or at parties with mutual friends.
 Be a helpful person on set, not a diva. Work hard, and make sure you are taking the wants and needs of others into account. Part of having a solid network is being an asset to others.


Offer to help people run lines, have conversations with crew members, and perform a kind gesture or two during your time working on a project. You can do something as small as bringing in a mixed bagel box--it will not go unnoticed.
 Ask for help when you need it. If a trusted acquaintance is a staff member at a powerful agency, kindly ask for tips on how to catch the agency’s eye. If a beloved friend is working on the set of a movie, ask if any positions need to be filled.Do not demand help. Requesting a few pointers or an introduction is one thing; demanding aid is something else entirely. If you have not spoken to an old coworker in 8 months, it is not appropriate to contact them, asking for a job.
Networks, while helpful, are not the equivalent of a pool of servants. While people may be happy to help you or provide you with favors, never expect anything of a friend or coworker.
 Extend the courtesy of doing favors to others. If a valued coworker asks you to write a reference letter or act as a standing reference, say yes (provided you had positive experiences with the person in question). You should never treat your networking aims as though you live in a vacuum. You, too, play an integral role in networking, and you, too, have something to bring to the table.