 The lunge position requires you to stand with your feet pointing directly ahead hip-width apart. Place one foot about half a meter (two feet) forward of the other. It doesn’t matter if you put your right foot forward of your left or vice versa. Your back foot should be bent at the toe, and your heel should be up at about a 45 degree angle relative to the ground.Find a soft surface, such as a patch of grass, some carpeted or padded floor, or a rubber track. Avoid doing jump lunges on cement.;
, Drop your hips until both knees form right angles. Push your front-most knee out slightly to the side. Keep your back knee and thigh parallel with your body. Do not allow your forward-most knee to extend beyond the ends of your toes.Place your hands on your hips, head, or at your sides., The lunge position enables you to jump with tremendous force. From a lunge position, move as if to stand, but do so quickly. Summon a lot of power to explosively push yourself off the ground with your feet. Pop straight into the air. Once in midair, quickly move your back foot to the frontal position and your front foot to the back.For instance, if -- in your initial lunge position -- your left foot was behind you and your right foot was in front of you, you should move your right foot behind you and place your left foot in front of you.
Jump up, not forward.
 Place your feet at the same distance that you did when assuming the initial lunge position. You should land on your toes without bending your knees further. In other words, since you’ve already adjusted your legs to assume the lunge position in midair, your landing should simply drop you down to return to the position you started in.Your landing should be quiet. This indicates your body is absorbing the shock of the landing and not stressing your joints.
 You should be able to do eight in about 15 to 30 seconds.


When you first begin doing jump lunges, do three to five. As you improve your technique, slowly add one jump lunge each week until you’re doing about eight jump lunges.
You could also increase the difficulty of the jump lunge by making your lunges slightly deeper as you get better.

