


Achieve synergy in work and career by continuing to pursue education that will advance you in both of these areas and give you a sense of fulfillment. Stay current on the latest business and technological advancements in your career field and complete ongoing education that allows you to continuously expand your skill set.;
,


Clear and effective communication with coworkers and supervisors can help you find energizing synergy in work and career. Colleagues that know your goals will be able to support you and work with you to find synergy, while supervisors that see you striving for excellence will appreciate your drive and initiative.



The people you work with will have a big impact on your ability to attain synergy in your career and work. Work with like-minded individuals who are striving to better themselves in work and career like you are instead of people that are satisfied with the status quo. Working with people who have similar goals of positive synergy will inspire you and keep you on track.



Find an outlet outside of work for your frustrations or extra energy. This could be an exercise class, a sports league or a regular personal activity such as biking or running. Activities like these will allow you to expel negative energy outside the workplace so you can be positive when working.



Take time for activities that you enjoy outside of work. Take a painting class, join a book club or take dance lessons. Doing things you enjoy will help you find balance between happiness in your career and satisfaction in your private life.



Keep yourself physically healthy so you have the most energy and focus possible when tackling your synergy goals. Exercise regularly, eat healthy and get plenty of sleep. If you're physically well, you will be better equipped mentally to achieve synergy at work and in your career.



Stay knowledgeable about your chosen career field as well as the mission and goals of the company you work for. You will be able to find energizing synergy in your career and work easier if you have clear company goals to focus on and a mission to help your employer and yourself reach them.

