 To deal with this situation, it's important to first understand what bullying is. If you are regularly being picked on and teased,it might be bullying. Bullying is intentional and inappropriate. You should remember that it is not your fault. No one has the right to make you feel bad on purpose.Signs of bullying include name calling and jokes that are hurtful instead of funny.
If you are purposefully being excluded from social groups, that is another form of bullying.
Bullying can also be physical. If you are being hurt, or threatened with physical action, make sure to ask for help from an adult you trust.
 It can be tiring to regularly feel like you're in a position where you need to make a comeback to defend yourself. Stress can be exhausting and has a lot of negative impacts on your physical and emotional health. There are several things you can do to deal with stress.Make sure you are getting enough rest. It's easier to deal with tough situations if your body and mind are able to fully recharge at night. Adults should get 7-8 hours of sleep each night, and teens should get 1-2 hours more.
Take deep breaths. When you find yourself in a tense situation, take a minute to breathe deeply. This will help clear your mind and give you time to regain your composure.
Get moving. Regular exercise is shown to reduce stress and help individuals cope with problems.
 One of the most effective ways to handle bullying is to avoid him altogether. If possible, change your routine so that you minimize contact with the person bothering you. Try taking a different route to your locker or your desk. If it's impossible to avoid him altogether, consider walking away when he confronts you. Instead of making a sassy comeback, just turn your back and leave if you are teased. This will show that you are not dignifying this behavior with your attention.
 If you are having a tough time, one of the best things you can do is remember that you are not alone. Talking about your feelings is one of the most effective ways to cope with problems. Ask a family member to listen to what you have to say and offer some advice.You can also talk to your friends. A good friend will be willing to hear you out.
Teachers, counselors, or coworkers can also be excellent resources.

