 In addition to a photo, you're going to need paper for the card. Any type will do, but if you plan to use photo paper to print a copy of the the photo, a heavier type, such as construction paper, is a better option that basic printer paper. You'll also need paper to print a copy of the photo, scissors for trimming, and a glue stick for adhering the photo.


You can also add extra embellishments to the card, such as stickers, stamps, and scrapbook supplies.
 Look through your digital photos to find one that is appropriate for the occasion. For example, you might use a baby photo or recent snapshot of the person whose birthday it is. You can use a photo of birthday cake that you might have, or a picture of the addressee’s favorite location, such as the beach.You can use a single photo or multiple photos. For example, you might want to place a baby photo side by side with a recent picture of the person who you’re giving the card to.
 Take the piece of paper that you've chosen for your card, and fold it in half. If you're using multiple photos for the card, it's best to only fold it once. If you're using a single picture, you may want to fold the paper in half twice., Once you’ve settled on the photo(s) that you want to use, print a copy of it from your computer. Use scissors to trim the picture so it will fit on the card once it’s folded.You can use photo paper or printer paper to print the copy of your photo(s) on.
Depending on the look that you’re going for, you may want to apply some type of filter to the photo with photo editing software before printing it. For example, you might create a black and white copy for an artsy look or use a sepia tone to give the photo an old-fashioned feel.
When you trim the photo, you can cut it into any shape that you like. Keep it rectangular, or trim it into a heart or star shape if you prefer.
 When you’ve trimmed the photo to the desired shape and size, use a glue stick to attach it to the front of the card. Make sure to leave some room to write “Happy Birthday” or any other message that you might want on the front of the card when you place it.Make a more eye-catching card by decorating around the photo. You can draw a design around it, or use embellishments, such as stickers, stamps, and scrapbook supplies, to dress up the card.
 After you’ve placed the photo on the front of the card, you can personalize the card with a message on the inside. You may want to consider adding another photo to the card’s interior.