 Once you get good on the normal difficulty setting, play only on the realistic setting. Terrorist Hunt is personally harder than fighting real players online when playing with the difficulty set to realistic and the enemy density set to high. This is because there are much more terrorists against you than if you had a full game with real people; plus the AI can spawn behind you and take you out without you even realizing it.;
, It is important to react quickly if an enemy has opened fire on you. Try to find the nearest cover and locate the position of the enemy (it is much easier to do so in RSV2 because when players fire their weapon, they appear on radar, just like Call of Duty) . Terrorist Hunt is a great way to work on your reaction time because there are many enemies against you and ambushes can happen fast.
 soldier that matches the best with your skills. First decide if you like speed or strength more. If you would rather be quick, don't put much armor on your character, only use the light armors or none at all. Remember, the less armor you have, the more vulnerable your player is. Pay very close attention to your Protection and Mobility meters while equipping the armor for your character. Or, if you wish to have the best protection, build a character with only heavy armor. The drawback is you will move slower, but you really don't move too slow. If you can't decide between speed and strength, build a character than has both the Protection and Mobility meters even at the center, so you move at a fairly quick speed, but also have a good amount of armor.
 The stats don't match the weapons very accurately (unless the stats are very, very high, like the G3 or MTAR 21). The only way to tell if a weapon is truly good for you is to experiment and try them all out to find the best.
 If they are noobs or aren't using mics, don't expect to win... unless they're really good players. They might be, you never know. Remember that just because someone is the rank of Elite, doesn't mean they are good. They may have just played Terrorist Hunt non-stop each day to slowly gain experience and slowly rank up.
 Calypso Casino - very popular for the game-type Attack & Defend, probably the most popular). Find the best routes to get around the map and also the alternative routes if it's too dangerous to move along your usual path. Knowing the best routes really helps for Attack & Defend, so you can get to the Intel quickly and get back to the extraction point without too much trouble.
 Grenades can be the fine line between life and death for you. Use fragmentation grenades and incendiary grenades a lot. They work well for taking care of enemies behind cover or when it's too dangerous to pop out from your own cover to aim with your gun. C4 is very fun to use. You can lay traps, just place a stick of C4 somewhere and wait for someone to walk by then detonate it. It's very useful to plant C4 within lethal range of the Intel in Attack & Defend because as soon as the game tells you the enemy has nabbed the Intel, detonate the C4 and you may successfully kill the carrier just before they get away.
 Those colors are your enemy, unless you are very good and being spotted isn't too much of a problem for you. When you become an Elite you unlock the ability to create your own camouflage so you can make rainbow camouflage or whatever the heck you want to do.

