 You just need the outline, so don't shade in the picture. This will be the outline for your mosaic, so the simpler the image is, the better. Great examples include: stars, moons, hearts, and flowers.


Construction paper or printer paper will work just fine, but you can also use cardstock or thin cardboard for something sturdier.;
, Construction paper is the most popular, but you can also use scrapbook paper, paint chips, magazine pages, or even cereal boxes! What colors you need depends on your design. You don't have to use all of the colors of the rainbow. You could just use different shades of the same color, such as: light blue, medium blue, and dark blue.
 The pieces should be small, about the size of your thumbnail. You can make squares, rectangles, triangles, or even thin strips. The pieces don't have to be the same size. In fact, try to cut some smaller ones too. This way, you can fit them into tight corners.


Sort your shapes by color and put them into small piles or cups. This will make it easier to find the color you need., Leave a small gap between each one. You can apply the glue directly to the sheet of paper, or you can apply it to the back of your tile instead. If you are using irregular shapes, including triangles, make sure that the straightest edge is on the outside of the outline—otherwise, your shape will look jagged.


If you are using white school glue, apply it with a paintbrush. This will keep things less messy.If you are applying the glue directly to the paper, work only in small sections at a time, or the glue will dry too fast., If your shape has designs on the inside, like spots on a butterfly wing, outline those designs first with more tiles before filling them in.


Don't be afraid to cut some pieces down to help them fit!
For a more professional touch, continue aligning the pieces along the outline, going smaller and smaller with each row until you reach the center.
 If you used different colors for your shape (this includes different shades of the same color), consider using just one color for the background. This will make your shape the focus.


You can also leave the background blank.
 If you'd like to make your mosaic last longer, coat it with an acrylic sealer or a brush-on decoupage glue, such as Mod Podge. Let it dry before moving on.,