 Dark grays, like charcoal and graphite, look much more formal than light gray washes. The darker shades of gray tend to flatter most body shapes and provide a much sleeker look overall. You can make dark gray jeans adhere to a business casual dress code when they are slim-fitting. A tapered ankle can work, but a flared leg will look a little more polished.For the most formal effect, look for jeans that have a well-pressed look. To stiffen yours up, try spraying a little starch on the jeans before you iron them.
 Get a polished, casual-Friday look by wearing dark gray jeans with a loose-fitting black or white silk blouse.If blouses aren’t your thing, a long-sleeved button down shirt with a slim-fit can create a similar vibe. Complete the look by adding a fitted black blazer on top.


Choose a nice pair of dress shoes, like patent black heels, wing-tips or loafers, to go along with this outfit.
A stark white blouse worn with a cropped, waist length blazer in black or graphite also pairs well with office-ready gray jeans.
 Pairing dark gray jeans with a dark gray or black top creates an air of sophistication.Sleek silhouettes emphasize this even more. For example, you could wear a pair of charcoal gray skinny jeans with a black, fitted blouse or tank top and create a fairly formal vibe. In cooler weather you could top this off with a well-cut blazer or black pea coat.


Black leather (or faux leather) loafers or boots, along with black accessories, complete this sophisticated look.
 Choose a blazer made with a casual fabric and try to avoid more formal materials. For example, a corduroy blazer would be an appropriate choice, but a wool blazer would not work well. Go for a blazer that has a relaxed cut – you want something with a soft shoulder and only the slightest taper at the waist. Pair the blazer with very dark gray jeans that have a slim-fitting (but not skinny) cut.To mix it up, try a blazer in a bolder color, such as rust.
You could also experiment with bold patterns, like windowpane checks or plaids, as long as the jeans remain dark gray and fit well.

