 To overcome discouragement, you have to choose optimism and positivity. Even though this might feel forced or like you’re “faking it” at first, eventually your efforts will pay off. Rather than thinking you will fail at achieving your goal before you even start, believing that you can achieve it if you go slowly and work hard will help you accomplish your goal.If you have 50lbs to lose, for example, it can seem overwhelming. However, if you reframe your weight loss goal in a positive light and imagine that you only have to lose 5lbs ten times, then your goal seems more doable. Optimism and positive thinking are key to mentally framing your goals and subsequently achieving them.
 Anger over past mistakes or injustices will discourage you and make you feel inadequate. Acknowledge your anger and remember that while it’s okay to feel that way, it isn’t beneficial for you. Move past your anger and focus on your goals.Anger is often a manifestation of other emotions like frustration, insecurity, injustice, or feeling hurt. Try to channel your anger constructively. Healthy ways to Control Anger include deep breathing and taking a time out, for example.Relaxing distractions like reading or journaling are also helpful outlets for venting frustrations.
 Fear, just like anger, is toxic to encouragement and happiness. If you live in fear of failure or never accomplishing important goals, it can feel like your fears are paralyzing. Incorporating anxiety alleviating techniques is key to moving beyond your fears and avoiding discouragement and fear. It's important to address your fears so that you can adequately Deal With Anxiety.


For example, if you have to fly for work and you're afraid to fly, this can disrupt your plans to earn an excellent evaluation at work. Using exposure therapies and cognitive behavioral therapy helps you calm your fears and desensitizes you to the intimidating experience. Use Cognitive Behavioral Theory to help you face your fears and anxieties head-on., Comparing yourself to friends, family, or colleagues breeds anxiety and discouragement. You don’t know the struggles and discouragement those people went through to achieve what they have. You can only do your best, so focus inwardly on what you can do to achieve your goals. Avoid outward, surface-level comparisons to others, which only serve to discourage and distract you from accomplishing your goals.