 Communicate regularly with your child, and ask them to keep you updated on their family happenings too. Misunderstandings and resentment can arise if people are left out of discussions or not informed of plans.If you live far away from each other, consider having a weekly phone call or Skype session with your child and their spouse.
It’s especially important to communicate early and frequently about time-sensitive topics like holiday plans.
 If you interact with your child’s in-laws frequently, create boundaries that will help you keep the relationship positive and enjoyable for everyone involved. Setting a few ground rules can prevent conflicts later on.If your child’s in-laws do or say things that you find inconsiderate or uncomfortable, consider talking to your child and their spouse about it. Your son- or daughter-in-law is probably the best person to handle issues with their parents.
For instance, if you had made plans to eat dinner with your child and their family, but the in-laws encroach on your plans, you might express your frustration. Ask your child and their spouse to ask that they respect your plans.
 If you have a conflict with your child’s in-laws, reach out to make amends right away. Ignoring the problem will damage the relationship more over time.You don’t have to become best friends with your child’s in-laws, but for the sake of future family well-being, it’s a good idea to try to keep the peace.
 Take advantage of family gatherings or other events where everyone is present to speak to your child's in-laws about upcoming plans that are important to you such as holiday traditions or family reunions.

You might say, "Rose, David, we wanted to make sure you guys knew about our yearly visit to the pumpkin patch. It falls on your weekend to get the kids, but we're willing to switch so that you don't lose a visit. Plus, you all are welcome to join us. It's great fun!"

, If your child is getting married and you’re helping to plan the wedding, stay in touch with their future in-laws throughout the process. Make sure everyone is on the same page about the preparations being made.Planning a wedding can be a good way to make friends with your child’s future in-laws.
If you and the in-laws disagree on an aspect of wedding planning, look for a solution early instead of leaving it until the last minute. If you can’t find a compromise, consider deferring to the engaged couple’s wishes.

