 You will need to wash your hair before drying it, but do not wash your hair every day if possible. When you do wash it, do not use shampoo every time. Look for shampoo that does not have alcohol or sulfates. Do not aggressively rub the shampoo into your hair. Instead, let the water run through it, and gently massage your scalp. Buy a shampoo that is 100% sulfate free. Sulfates are usually too harsh on curls, and alcohol dries your hair out.
You can go three days without washing your hair if it is thick.
A few good shampoos for curly hair are: Garnier Fructis Curl and Shine Fortifying Shampoo, Curl Junkie Curl Assurance Gentle Cleansing Shampoo, and Curly Solutions Treatment Shampoo.;
, Take a soft towel and gently squeeze and pat the excess water out of your hair. Do not use too much force while using a towel because it can cause breakage. Your hair should still be wet, but not sopping.You can use a soft, cotton t-shirt instead of a towel to further prevent breakage.
Consider investing in a towel specifically made for hair drying.
 It takes natural oils longer to travel from the scalp to the ends of curly hair, which makes curly hair more vulnerable to damage. That is why it is important to condition your hair well. Look for a leave-in conditioner that is made for curly hair. Use a wide-tooth comb to evenly distribute the product throughout your hair. You should deep condition with a masque every week. A few good masques for curly hair are: Ouidad Curl Recovery Melt-down Extreme Repair Mask, DevaCurl Heaven in Hair, and Jessicurl Deep Conditioning Treatment., Apply a styling product while your hair is still wet. Using a styling product before drying will help your hair maintain full, bouncy curls. The type of styling product you use depends on your hair type. Distribute the product through your hair from root to ends, scrunch, and then squeeze your hair upwards, towards your scalp. Sprays are best for those with soft curls.
Use thicker gels for medium to big curls. A thick gel should have a consistency similar to shampoo and be fairly easy to spread in your hands.
Try dense gels for tight coils. A dense gel will probably be a bit sticky and more difficult spread.Don’t use more than a dime-size portion of product. Too much product will make your curls crunchy., You should use a heat-protectant product no matter what your hair type is, as the heat of blow drying has damaging effects on hair. Heat-protectant products come in both creams and sprays. To use it, divide your hair into four sections with clips or bobby pins. Then, coat each section thoroughly with the product of your choice.


Some recommended heat-protectant products are: Wella Thermal Image Heat Protectant Spray, Tom & Guy Heat Protectant Mist, and Carol’s Daughter Choclat Smoothing Blow Dry Cream., Some hair dryers come with an attachable diffuser, but you may have to buy one separately. A diffuser is a must for curly hair because it dries curls evenly for a full, uniform look. A hair dryer without a diffuser only focuses on one section of hair at a time, which disrupts the curl pattern.A diffuser will also help to prevent frizz.
 You should not dry all of your hair at once. Instead, part it into three sections. The amount of sections may be less or more depending on the thickness of your hair, though. Part your hair in the middle and make two buns on either side of your head. Leave the back section of your hair in a ponytail or down.Dividing your hair into sections will make sure the heat is distributed evenly while you are drying it.Make sure the sections are clean and neat. Use bobby pins, barrettes, pins, or ponytail holders. Don’t make any section larger than what your pin, barrette, or hair tie can easily hold.
 A high heat setting is more damaging than a lower setting, and it makes your hair harder to style. Use a low heat setting to start off with. You can switch to a medium heat once your hair begins to dry., Choose a top section of your hair, take it down, and apply the diffuser to the roots. Constantly move your hair dryer around, and work from root to end on each section of hair. The ends are the most easily damaged part of your hair, so allow them to air dry as long as possible.Keeping the hair dryer in one place for too long promotes damage.
 Once your hair is dry, bend over and flip your hair. Press the “cool” button, and blast your hair on that setting for a few minutes. Flipping it over and blowing it upside down will add some volume to your hair.Do not do this step if you are satisfied with the volume of your hair.
 Once your hair is dry, apply a pomade or oil to your hair to promote smoothness and tame any excess frizz. Take your hair in you hands as if you were putting it in a ponytail, apply the product from roots to the ends, and then let go. Then, massage your scalp for added volume.It is recommended to use a pea-sized drop of product, or only use a few spritzes if you’re using a spray. If that is not enough to coat your hair, then apply a few more drops until every section of hair is covered.
If possible, search for organic products that do not have alcohol in them. A few organic styling products are: Nashi Hair Spray, Saach Organic Herbal Hair Oil, and Far Botanicals Smoothing Preservation Hair Butter., Avoid brushing your hair until the next time you wash it. If possible, completely avoid using a brush. The bristles of a brush contribute to fraying your hair, therefore promoting frizz. Keeping your brush away from your hair will keep your curls fresh and shapely.Comb out tangles with a wide-tooth comb.
 Curls can lose their volume pretty quickly, but there are a few things you can do to prevent them from going limp. Along with avoiding a brush, you should also avoid running your fingers through your hair to prevent frizz. To renew volume, spray your hair lightly with water and blow dry on a low heat setting for a few minutes. This will reactivate your styling products.You can make an anti-frizz spray by adding four parts water and one part conditioner to a spray bottle.

