 It's not good if you get something wrong in the fan fiction that was set by the creator(s), not to mention all of the hardcore fans you will have to deal with if you got something wrong in your story.;
,,!

, It can help you see what somebody has already done.
 These can be just random tidbits of information, or a whole scene in your head.
 It may not seem good at the moment, but later you can rework it to make it better or find somewhere in the story it could work.
 Write things down. Write down what you see, hear, taste, smell, and feel.
 Figure out what you're doing wrong and improve your writing, but keep in mind that not everyone will like your fan fiction, no matter how good it is.
 Depending on your audience, you may want to change the vocabulary, add or not use explanations about things from the actual story you are making a fan-fiction about, or remove or add more adult themes.
 This is your story. You get to choose what happens. You're only borrowing the characters. Imagination is important.
 Everyone else might think it's good, and any constructive criticism they give can help you with your writing.
 Don't hate your Harry Potter fan fiction, for example, just because you aren't as talented as J.K. Rowling.
 If you can't look forward to writing your story, then you shouldn't force yourself to write something you no longer like just to finish it. But it's always okay to feel a bit depressed about your story for a bit.
 Unless for some reason you no longer have interest in the subject you are writing about, or if you have been too busy, if you give up on your fan-fiction, you will be left with half of a good story, and if you decide to go back to it, say, a year later, your writing style probably would have changed somewhat, and you would have to rewrite your whole story if you wanted the style to be consistent.
 Send your story to a friend or fellow writer, as long as they're proficient in English. No matter how good your story is, simple writing mistakes are distracting, and distract form the experience of your readers.

