 Acetaminophen (Tylenol), Ibuprofen (Advil), or Naproxen (Aleve) have all been shown to be beneficial in reducing the pain of a sore throat.Ask your doctor before you take them if you are on blood thinners or other prescription medication.;
, Although this has not been proven in any conventional medical trials, it is something that is known to help with sore throats.Mix a quarter to half of a teaspoon of salt into a cup of moderately warm water. Swish and swirl this in the back of your mouth near your throat for at least 30 seconds several times a day.
 Look for the active ingredients benzocaine or phenol (either one works, both are topical anesthetics). A throat spray can help to numb an inflamed throat for a few hours., Studies have shown that they can cut the duration of a cold by half when taken at the first signs of a cold. The lozenges will also reduce inflammation, stuffiness and soreness.


If you wait more than two days after your cold has begun, the zinc lozenges are unlikely to help in terms of shortening the duration of your cold.
Regardless of when you take them, lozenges can help with symptom relief. This is because they typically contain topical anesthetic (which gently numbs the throat), and can also help with alleviate any dryness.Because lozenges (cough drops) stay in your throat longer than a salt water gargle or a throat spray, they are considered one of the most effective means of soothing a sore throat., The minty mixture will numb and soothe your throat., There are daytime and nighttime varieties. A cough syrup should coat your throat, reducing inflammation and numbing the pain for an hour or two.


Choose a cough syrup that also treats your other symptoms.
Use as the package directions indicate, reducing the dose according to age and length of the cold.
Don’t take anti-inflammatories in addition to cough syrup, since most solutions contain them already.You can look for an all-in-one solution instead of each individual medication.
 Things such as warm tea and soups can be soothing to the throat, and similarly cold foods such as ice cream or popsicles can help to numb the throat and alleviate pain., These include:


Chamomile tea, which has soothing qualities.Hot water with a tablespoon of honey, a tablespoon of cinnamon, a teaspoon of lemon juice, and a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar.
Each of the ingredients in the hot water mixture above (honey, cinnamon, lemon juice, and apple cider vinegar) have been suggested as naturally soothing remedies for a sore throat, and also potentially helpful at clearing out the infection more quickly.
It is not the most tasty of mixtures, but it is worth a shot to see if it helps your throat feel better!
Note that you can take the honey part on its own too; eating honey on its own has been scientifically shown to help reduce cough, and to help with wound healing which may be soothing for a sore throat as well.Note that honey should never be given to children under 12 months, as this puts them at risk of infant botulism.

