 The biggest single way to upset your parents is to transform yourself into a goth overnight. To avoid this, embrace a systematic plan to look goth over an extended period. Incorporate clothes that identify you as goth one piece at a time and over many months.Create a six-month plan.
Start with one item.
Change or start using makeup slowly.;
, By incorporating some bright colors, you’ll send the signal that although you are goth, you’re not going overboard. Ultimately, you can still look goth without wearing all black. Bright colored clothes will not only sooth your parents, but will add real flare to your style. Consider:


Neon colors.
Traditional reds, oranges, blues, greens, and purples.
Colors that fit the season.
 While the color scheme of your goth style might frighten your parents, you can temper this by embracing a somewhat conservative approach. In addition, avoid showing too much skin or wearing clothes that are torn.Young women can wear long black skirts and blouses.
Young men can wear black jeans and black button down shirts.
 Try to be more creative than just dressing in black cotton clothes. Consider different fabrics and other styles that can add a gothic flare to any wardrobe. Consider wearing:


Velvet
Lace
Chiffon
Satin
Victorian era clothes

, If you want to wear black shoes, find some that are relatively standard. Avoid going over board and finding the craziest goth-style shoes you can. Ultimately, your parents won't be happy to pay for expensive shoes that they think make you look weird. Focus on:


Black tennis shoes
Modest black boots
Relatively low black heels

, Gothic-themed accessories can help you transform your existing wardrobe into a one with a gothic flare. By accessorizing goth, you’ll make a personal and fashion statement without signaling a fundamental change in your appearance to your parents. Wear:


A black jacket
Dark scarves
Jewelry like snake bone hairpins, a spider ring, or a bat bracelet
Belts
Black tights, leggings, gloves, or glovelets., Apply makeup in a traditional approach. Avoid using too much makeup to darken your eyes. In addition, consider makeup that will emphasize your skin tone rather than mute it. Ultimately, bright and lively makeup can soften any unease your parents have toward your goth appearance.


Use blush to accentuate your natural color.
Apply a moderate amount of eye liner.
 Although one of the hallmarks of the goth style is dark black hair, you should put off dyeing your hair black right away. Instead, you could choose another fun color or gothic-style hairdo.


Think about dying your hair a non-traditional color, like silver.
Keep your natural hair color but get purple, silver, or blue highlights.
If you do choose to dye your hair, temper it by wearing bright colors. In addition, you should also consider dying your hair a few months into your transformation into a goth. Let your parents get used to other aspects of your goth style first.
 Many people who embrace the gothic style get tattoos and piercing to help them express their style. Depending on your age and where you live, you may be able to get tattoos or piercings without your parents’ permission. However, doing this will likely upset your parents. As a result, put these off until you move out of your parents’ home., Just because you're goth, doesn't mean you have to change your personality. Ultimately, the goth style is a reflection of your individuality, rather than a standard you need to conform to. In the end, your parents will be much more happy if you act like yourself, even if you do look different.
 Go out of your way to get top grades. By acing your classes, you’ll send the signal to your parents that your appearance has nothing to do with your performance in school. In the end, you may find that your parents are proud of you despite any disapproval they have toward your gothic lifestyle.If your parents articulate displeasure with your gothic appearance, promise them you’ll get good grades and behave well.
 The single easiest way to scare your parents about your new fashion sense is to start hanging out with people who get into trouble at school or with the law. This is important, as your parents will associate your style with the bad behavior of your friends. Instead, look for friends who share your style and are model students and members of the community.Stay away from friends who get arrested or suspended from school.
Stay away from friends who curse in front of your parents, are rude to adults and others, or are prone to violence.
Avoid people who use drugs.
 While the way you look might alienate your parents, the way you talk and how you accept their guidance may be even more important. By respecting them as your elders, guardians, and providers, you’ll likely gain some goodwill and maybe even leniency toward the way you dress.Don’t vocally reject your parents religion, dress, style, or any other major aspect of how they identify.
Avoid challenging your parents’ positions on things like your curfew.
Never curse at or insult your parents.
It may be tempting to attack your parents style if you think they are attacking yours, however, this will be counterproductive. Instead, defend your style while accepting theirs.

