 This should be the file for which you want to change the background. Compatible formats include Bitmap (BMP), Digital Decompression (JPEG), and Graphics Interchange Format (GIF). To open the image:


Click "File" in the upper-left corner of the screen. The "File" button is located to the left of the "Home" tab.
Click "Open..." in the menu that appears.
Search for the file on your computer, either by checking the folders in the lefthand sidebar or by typing the filename into the search bar.
Double-click the file to open it.;
, If the image is larger than your screen, move it to the bottom-left corner. Zoom in to 800 percent by clicking the magnifying glass icon (on the toolbar) and then selecting 8.


Zooming will be particularly helpful if the image you're selecting has a specific or rough outline.
, It is the dashed outline of a shape located in the "Image" section of the home toolbar.
 This will allow you to make a clear distinction between the image you want in your foreground and the image you want as your background.
 Failure to do this will result in the background from the original picture being pasted over the new background.


Click the "Transparent Selection" button at the bottom of the menu where you clicked "Free-Form Selection"., Carefully click and drag your mouse around the image that you would like to select. Release the mouse when you have completed the outline.


Don't release the mouse until the selection is complete, or your selection will be inaccurate.
Don't worry too much about accuracy. You can use the eraser tool to erase the redundant triangles and spots., Click the eraser tool and select the smallest square on the menu that appears. Erase all of the spots around the shape that you missed whilst deleting the rectangles. You now have a green-screened object.
 This button is located in the "Home" toolbar and is marked with a pair of scissors. When you click cut, you'll notice the image you selected disappear from the rectangular selection that you made. Don't worry - this just means the image has been copied to your clipboard, and is ready to be transferred somewhere else.
 Click the "File" button and click on "Open". Then, double-click on the image you would like to use as your background.
 Press Ctrl + V to paste the image you have saved to your clipboard on top of a new image. You've successfully changed its background!

