 Start with singing a note that comes most naturally to you. Test your ability to carry the note by singing it as high as you can without straining. Then, go as low as you can without straining. For added practice, sing your favorite tune at the highest pitch and lowest pitch you can. Smile while you sing for a brighter, clearer vocal sound. Once you learn your range, identify your voice type.


If you’re female, and your voice is high, your voice will be considered a Soprano. If it’s low, it will be considered an alto. If you’re male and your voice is high, your voice will be considered a Tenor. If it’s low, it will be considered Bass. Practice at least one singing/warm-up exercise for at least 10 minutes a day.Listen to your pitch, and focus on your tone to deliver the best sound for your voice. Challenge yourself by singing in different pitches, volumes and speeds.
Be comfortable and learn to sing well with your own voice before teaching others. You will need to make your voice versatile, and know how to sing in many different ranges and styles.;
, Research and find vocal coaches in your area. Scan their websites or call them to find out what services they specialize in. Request to meet with them, and if possible, ask them to evaluate your voice for a class that fits you best. Take the lessons on a weekly basis, or as recommended by your vocal coach for best results.


You might also pursue professional vocal or opera training from a performing or liberal arts school for professional results. Be mindful that lessons can be pricy, and run as much as $30 for a 30 minute session. Getting vocal training is often seen as a prerequisite, as many vocal coaches begin their careers as professional singers.
 Pursue a college degree in music, preferably from a performing arts school or a program that offers singing and vocal work, as well as teaching and education classes. Learn music theory and how it applies to sounds. Learn how to read notes, in a class, or creatively using online apps. Take yourself out to musical concerts and train yourself to listen to harmony, tone and other important elements of music. Become familiar with a variety of singing voices and vocal styles.


Learn to play an instrument, like the piano or guitar, to use as a guide to study notes and pitch. Start with playing simple notes or songs, like Mary Had A Little Lamb to learn the keys. Practice matching your voice to the musical keys. Use online tutorials, or take lessons from a professional, if needed.

