 Make sure the guest has webkinz and tell them to bring it! It can be embarrassing if they have no webkinz and everyone else does, so still invite them even if they don't have webkinz. Also, if they are a new user, explain things to them! They probably won't have or understand things like rare items, or trading.;
, Try to make recipes instead of regular old food from the W shop. Cheeseburgers, milkshakes, and chicken nuggets are not original! But Soccer Floats, Cara Milkshakes, and Yummy Tummy Tumblers are!

, Some ideas are:


Jelly Bean Challenge. Count jellybeans as you put them in a jar, keep the number handy, and give the closest or exact guess a prize of your choice!
Wheel of Wow. Cut out a circle of paper, make prizes (actually have the prizes), and attach a paper clip to the middle. Spin it, award prizes, and you're done.
Wishing Well. Take a bucket, tub, pool, or sink full of water and get small plastic containers (preferably the ones you get cheap toys from machines in, but whatever you can find is fine), and add prizes like "10 kinzcash" or "100 kinzcash" blindfold them and tell them to pick a prize. If they get 1,000 or higher give them a special prize.
DiceKinz. Make a board and have them roll dices to see how far they can move. Then have defenses like "Kick" or whatever and use them however you want!
Super Models. Make clothes and dress up the webkinz. Judge them!
Chef Challenge. It's easy, but will require cooking, or fake food. If it's real, eat it and grade it, but get adult supervision! If it's fake, grade it by its looks. If it's like fake bread and a cookie, give it a lower grade, and if it's something you'd eat if it were real, grade it higher.
Quizzy's Webkinz. Put together some questions and give each person 20 seconds and 10 questions (unless they're having a lot of trouble with it). First person with under 6 seconds gets 5 points, 7-9 seconds gets 4 points, 10-13 seconds gets 3 points, 13-15 seconds gets 2 points, 15-18 seconds gets 1 point, and higher than that gets no points!
Where's Wacky. Make cards, make them find matches! Easy to set up and clean up!

, Make them look pretty realistic to the ones online. Here are some ideas:


Set up a clubhouse! You can just add a Trading Room (where they can trade their rare items) or just whatever room they want.
Have a "W" shop! Have easy items like homemade beds for the pets to sleep in at night, clothes (at a toy store, or if you can sew), toys and other stuff sold at the W shop. Award kinzcash after games and let them go to the W shop whenever they want to!
Consider adding a Curio Shop. Add items that are more uncommon! Also add Gem Hunt, where they find gems hidden around somewhere!
Make a KinzPost. They can send stuff to friends like gifts or a nice little note.
Today's Activities! Make fun activities like giving out coupons, Quick Draws, or games. Activities like "Orange Juice for 20% off" is boring! Make the stuff fun!

, For beds, take a shoebox, decorate it, add a fabric blanket and a stuffed fabric pillow. For a sleeping bag, take a long piece of fabric (That will fit your webkinz), fold it and sew the ends except for one end so the webkinz will get inside the sleeping bag and their head will stick out.
 Pop in a popular movie somewhat animal related like "Alvin and the Chipmunks" or "Space Buddies."

, Have a new Today's Activities tab, and give everyone another wheel of wow spin, round on the Wishing well, more gem mining, and another job (if you decided to make an employment office). For breakfast, have whatever, and even have fake food for your webkinz to eat! Before they go, give them a gift bag full of goodies, and have the webkinz say goodbye.

