 You can use a measuring tape or anything else to get it to about 3m.









If you don't have a measuring cord, use your body to approximate! When stretched out to either side, the distance between your fingertips should be approximately equal to your height. If you are close to 5 feet (1.5 m) tall, cutting a cord that is about the same length as two of your arm spans will do the trick.;
,, For a tighter measurement, lace the non looped end through the looped end, so that the paracord stays around your wrist.
 Use string, yarn, or something similar to mark the circumference of your wrist on the bracelet.









If the cord or string will fit around a button or other item that you will use as a clasp, you can add it to the cord directly now. Place it at the top end, where the tie is. Alternatively, you can add this in a later step.
 You should now have a loop with 2 long strands coming off. Double check that the bracelet will fit by wrapping the looped end around your wrist. If it is too small or too big, adjust the tie that you made in the previous step.
 Pass the first of the longer strands ( Strand 1) through the loop, then over the second length of string (Strand 2).
 Strands 1 and 2 should now have switched places.
, Begin again with strand 1. Note that this time strand 1 will be going right to left instead of left to right. Alternating the side from which you start will help the bracelet lie flat across your wrist.
 Again, strand 2 will come from the opposite side as it did in the first knot. Go over the loop and under the opposite strand.
 Stop when you have about 3 centimeter (1.2 in) left at the end of the loop. Then, cut off any excess cord.









Melt the cut ends of 1 and 2 so that they fuse with the weave. This will stop the bracelet from unraveling when you wear it.
 Sew your button on the end of the bracelet that does not have a loop. You can adjust the fit of your bracelet by changing the placement of your button.









If the bracelet seems too small, sew the button as close to the end of the bracelet as possible. If it seems too big, sew the button further in on the bracelet.
Be sure you test the size of your button before you sew it on. If it is small enough to fit through the loop on the bracelet without any help, you'll need a bigger button. Likewise, if the button cannot fit through the loop at all, you will not be able to put the bracelet on.
 If you cannot untie it, feel free to cut it instead.
 Wrap the bracelet around your wrist and fasten it by slipping the button through the loop.








