 When a dog has too much energy, they can direct that energy toward an unwanted behavior, like humping. If you can thoroughly drain the dog's energy each day with structured exercise, you can help prevent your dog from using their energy on that behavior.Walking your dog is crucial. You can drain a lot of energy by letting your dog run around in a backyard on their own, but walking forces your dog to exercise physically and mentally.
 Some pet owners think it's cute when their dog humps something like a stuffed animal, but if you want your dog to stop humping other dogs or people, you need to stop the behavior in all forms. Encouraging or allowing the behavior in one form will create an inconsistency in your training, making it less effective.You may end up encouraging the behavior without even realizing it. For example, if you laugh or show signs of happiness whenever your dog mounts their favorite plush toy, you are indirectly praising your dog for the behavior.
 Watch your dog and observe how they act immediately before starting the mounting behavior. When you start to notice these signs, immediately distract your dog with a toy or game before it can engage in the behavior itself.Common signs that your dog may start humping include panting, licking, whining, pawing, or rubbing against something.
 If your dog humps other dogs, you may try to train them to obey your commands around other dogs. You may teach them to stay when told, come to you, or to stop.When you see your dog about to hump another dog, you can use one of your commands to interrupt the behavior. Make sure to give your dog a treat for the correct behavior.
 Some dogs will start humping for attention when guests visit. If you suspect that this might be an issue, teach your dog an acceptable trick to perform for company, like sitting or begging, and make sure that this trick earns your dog the same amount of attention.If the trick receives positive attention while the mounting receives negative attention, your dog is more likely to want to perform the trick.
Consider rewarding your dog with a treat or toy after it performs the trick to reinforce the positive behavior.
 Humping can also be a response to stress. If you notice that your dog displays this behavior when faced with a source of anxiety, avoid putting your dog in that stressful situation. If the situation is unavoidable, look for ways to make the experience less stressful.For example, petting and grooming can be a trigger for some dogs, in which case, you should limit the time spent doing these activities to a degree your dog can tolerate.
If visitors are your dog's trigger, keep the dog in a room until the initial energy and excitement of the visit calms down. Let the dog out once it and all of your visitors are calm.
 If your dog frequently humps you, they are trying to exert dominance over you. To stop this behavior, you need to let your dog know that you're the boss. Standard obedience training is a healthy and effective way to establish this.Obedience training can also help dogs focus and release their energy on something more productive and welcome than mounting.
Standard obedience training includes basic commands like “heel,” “sit,” “down,” and “stay.” The overall goal of an obedience training program is to train your dog to listen to you no matter what the command might be.

