 Take the hand you want to make the peace sign with, and hold it in front of you, open palmed, with your palm facing away from your body.


Rake your fingers, excluding your pointer and middle finger, and fold them into your palm like you are making a fist.
Make sure your thumb is over your other fingers. Raise your index and middle fingers. The index finger is the closest finger to your thumb. It doesn’t matter which hand you use. This is how you make the standard peace sign with your hand,
Your extended index and middle fingers should form a “V.”;
, Keep your clenched fingers and palm pointed away from your body. This is very important.


When you keep your palm facing inward toward yourself, the gesture can be perceived as offensive in some cultures, almost a double middle finger.
Make sure you put your pointer finger and your middle finger out at the same time. If you put your middle finger out first it can mean something very bad in English (and in many other languages).
Don't stick out your little finger; this, too, has an alternate, obscene interpretation.
 When done correctly, the peace sign became a counter-cultural symbol of peace in the Vietnam War. Most people raise their hand in the air while making it.


Some people consider the meaning of the symbol to be a call for an end to war, and some people think of it as a general call for peace in the world.
Some politicians have made the sign with both hands while raising both arms (Richard Nixon, Dwight Eisenhower).
This can be a cliche, though, that brings to mind Nixon. Many people just raise one arm when making the sign.
 When some people see the peace sign, they think of it as a “V” sign that means victory, especially in war. The V sign is also made by holding up the two fingers closest to the thumb in a V formation.


It doesn’t matter which hand you use. Allied troops started using this hand sign to indicate victory during World War II.Winston Churchill used the sign to indicate victory. So did Nixon, in the context of Vietnam. Protesters who were against Vietnam then started using the same sign and saying “peace” as they did it instead, to protest the war. They wanted to change the hand gesture to a symbol of peace.
The point is to be aware that the hand signal has both a history in the anti-war movement and in representing victory during war.
 This sign is another hand signal that derived from the television show, Star Trek. Its meaning is “live long and prosper.”To make it, press together the two fingers closest to your thumb at the same time you press together the two fingers farthest away from your thumb.
The middle of your hand will form the “V” shape when you do this with your fingers. You should keep your thumb extended outward as you do so.
Historically, the Vulcan was a pagan deity, a sun god who was linked to powerful energy such as thunderbolts.