 Arguments can chip away at a relationship over time. Whenever you can, avoid them at any cost. If something is trivial, it is not worth hurting the other person’s feelings or your relationship with them. Choosing your battles wisely will show a great deal of appreciation for the person.For example, if someone says to you something like, “Your hair is a mess today,” then it probably isn’t worth addressing.
If, however, someone stole money from you, you probably need to have a constructive conversation about boundaries.
 If you do have an argument, apologize. This will show that you accept some of the blame for the disagreement and appreciate the other person enough to admit that. This can go a long way in showing your appreciation for them., Surprising the other person will show that you have thought about them. It also shows that you know them well enough to surprise them with something that they enjoy. An unexpected gift, meal, or trip can show someone that you really appreciate them.For example, stopping by with takeout from a favorite restaurant or cooking a friend’s favorite meal will show them that you appreciate them.
People will also feel appreciated if you pick them up a small gift while you are travelling. It shows that you were thinking of them.
 When someone you care about needs you, it is important to make time for them. Sometimes you may need to drop what you are doing immediately, and other times you can commit to grabbing lunch later in the week. You should always keep your commitments to the people you appreciate, or they will begin to feel like they are not important to you.


For example, if a friend needs your help moving over the weekend, you should try to clear your schedule and help them out.
 When you spend time with someone you are close to, give them your full attention. Avoid distractions like cell phones or televisions and engage in conversation. Actively listen to the other person and show a genuine interest in what they are saying.


For example, if you have lunch with your parents, turn your cell phone off at the table.
Use the power of touch. If the person is a close friend or relative, give them a pat on the back, a hug, or a kiss on the cheek. With an intimate partner, try a backrub, snuggling on the sofa, or kissing.

