 Knowing why you’d like to be noticed will help you to better understand your motivations. Sometimes being noticed is helpful when making a first impression during an interview or networking. Being noticed can also be helpful in social situations when you wanting to make connections, develop friendships, or start romantic relationships. Other times, wanting to be noticed may be an indication that some of your needs are not being met, such as feeling loved and feeling like you belong.


This might be an indication that you should work on starting, maintaining, or mending relationship to meet this need.;
, According to Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, basic human needs begin with physiological needs like food, water, and sleep. The next level is safety, in which you need security in life such as a job, a home, and your health. The third level is the need for friendship and belonging and the last two levels are esteem and self-actualization, which involve self-esteem, respect, creativity, and morality. You can see love and belonging is right above security and safety, so being noticed and loved is highly important to our mental well-being.


If you feel like you have never been noticed, or you have a lack of friendship or connection in your life, you inherent need for love and affection will spur you to want to be noticed in order to foster relationships that will get you these components of life., Journaling is a great way to process your motivations for wanting to be noticed. Writing down the instances where you felt you were unnoticed, and your feelings and circumstances surrounding the event, will provide insight into why you’d like to change this aspect of your social encounters. It will also help you with the changing the way you think in order to change the way you act. Journaling not only helps to clarify your thoughts and feelings, it also helps to reduce stress and improve immune health.Write an entry describing a time when you did not feel noticed. How did the experience impact your behaviors and encounters with others?
Also write an entry describe your ideal social situation in which you are fully noticed in the ways you want. How are you acting? What are you talking about? Who is noticing you? Why do you think you are being noticed in this situation?

