 Is your cut is less than 1/4 inch deep? Did it come from a from a reasonably clean source such as a kitchen knife or your razor? Are the edges fairly straight? If the answer to these questions is "yes," you can probably treat your cut yourself. See a doctor for treatment if your cut falls into any of the following categories:


Large areas of skin have been torn, the cut is jagged or gaping, or you can see bone, tendon, or muscle in the cut.
The cut is a puncture wound, or the object that cut you was made of rusty metal. You will need a tetanus shot if it has been more than five years since your last booster.
You are unable to remove all dirt and debris from the cut.
The cut is from an animal or human bite.
The area you've injured feels numb.;
, Cleaning your hands with warm water and soap will help prevent infection. Consider donning disposable protective gloves if you have some available -- and especially if you are treating another person's injury., Most minor cuts will stop bleeding on their own. If this does not seem to be happening right away, use medical gauze or a clean cloth and press firmly on the wound until the bleeding stops.Note that cuts on your hands or head may bleed more heavily than elsewhere due to the extra blood vessels present in these parts of your body.Seek medical assistance if you are unable to stop the bleeding after a few minutes.
 You can wash the area around the cut with soap and water. Avoid getting soap into the cut itself, however, as this can cause irritation and discomfort.


Avoid using hydrogen peroxide, iodine, or rubbing alcohol to rinse your wound. Medical professionals have determined they are not necessary, and they can irritate your injury., Rinse a pair of tweezers with rubbing alcohol and then use them to remove debris particles such as gravel or splinters., A thin layer of antibiotic ointment will help protect the wound, discourage infection, and keep it moist for more effective healing.


Note that using antibiotic ointment will not actually speed the healing process.
Some people have skin sensitive to the ingredients in antibiotic ointment. If you notice a mild rash, discontinue use of the ointment., If you have liquid bandage handy, it’s a great way to seal up cuts and scratches and keep them from getting infection. Bring the sides of the cut together with your fingers and apply liquid bandage evenly over the cut., Use a bandage, medical gauze and tape, or a liquid bandage product to cover your cut. This will keep it clean and help you avoid infection.


Minor scratches or scrapes may be left uncovered, as exposing the injury to air will aid in healing.Liquid bandage products seal your cut after one application. They are applied by painting the bandage solution over your (thoroughly cleaned) cut and allowing time for the solution to dry and form a seal. Liquid bandages are waterproof and will last several days, falling off naturally as the cut heals. Avoid rubbing or scrubbing the site of the bandage., This should be done at least once a day, or whenever the bandage gets wet or dirty. If you are allergic to bandage adhesive, consider using paper tape, rolled gauze, or a loose elastic bandage., If you notice swelling, unusual firmness, redness, red streaks, warmth, or drainage, in the cut area, see a doctor. These are usually signs of infection.