 Pedigreed cats are bred by cat breeders and the cats have to meet certain breed standards according to the cat association with which they are registered. The breed standard defines the appearance of an ideal specimen of that particular breed, and usually describes size, body type, and head type. It also defines the facial features including the shape of the muzzle, the placement of the eyes and nose, ear size and type, eye shape and color. Other factors may include the tail length and type, coat length, texture, color, and pattern(s), and sometimes even personality.


There are over 100 breeds of pedigreed cat worldwide, and that's not accounting for the coat and color variations within the breeds, or emerging new breeds.
A pedigreed cat has papers that trace its family tree back four or five (or more) generations, depending on the association, and tend to produce offspring that meet the standard.;
, Random bred cats are usually of unknown parentage and vary a great deal in size, body style, head type, ear and eye variation, tail length and type, coat length and density, colors and patterns, and personality.If a cat doesn't come with papers from the association or associations with which it was registered when born or purchased, it is not a pedigreed cat. This can be confusing since at times pedigreed cats are referred to as "purebreds." This is a misleading term since a pedigreed cat is no more "pure" than the scruffiest alley cat.
 A cat’s main identifiers are the length, pattern and/or color of its coat. Therefore, it is important to study and describe the coat of the cat that you want to identify. For example, is it short and gray or long and two-toned?


Knowing whether the cat that you want to identify is longhair or shorthair can help you to narrow down your choices as you try to identify the cat. Most cats tend to be divided into longhairs and shorthairs, although some breeds have both hair lengths. Sometimes you will also see mention of medium length hair.
 Some breed types have very specific facial identifiers that may help you to identify a cat’s breed. For example, does the cat have a short snout? Blue eyes? Long ears? A pointed or long looking face? Or some other distinct features? Observe and make notes about these features to help you identify the breed.
 Some cats have distinct personalities that may help you to determine the breed as well. For example, is the cat shy? Loving? Energetic? Talkative? Or something else? Consider the cat’s personality and use this information to narrow the field even further.
