 Research personality traits and compatibility with your circumstances before you get a Miniature Schnauzer. A few trademark characteristics include being physically energetic and mentally active. Miniature Schnauzers also don't like being left alone for long periods of time.You should also consider how much space, exercise, and attention a dog will need. Make sure you can meet his needs.;
, If you're looking for an adult Miniature Schnauzer, you may be able to find one at an animal shelter. You can also ask your vet about any breed specific rescue shelters in your area who might have Miniature Schnauzers in need of homes. If you want to get a puppy, contact a few breeders and ask about upcoming litters.If you're getting a puppy, remember that he'll only be a puppy for a few months, but he'll be a dog for up to 20 years.
 Check to see if the breeder socializes the puppies from an early age, which exposes them to a wide range of sights and sounds. It's also helpful if the breeder rears the pups within the house, so they're used to the hustle and bustle of a home.If the pups are reared in an outdoor kennel, ask about how much contact the pups have with everyday stimuli such as washing machines, vacuums, hairdryers, people and pets.
 On your visit, try not to be put off by the parents barking when you arrive. Miniature Schnauzers are vocal, good guard dogs, which makes them protective of their puppies. (You'll have to teach your Miniature Schnauzer how and when barking is OK.) Make sure you can see the puppies with their mothers. If you can't see her, don't consider buying from the breeder.No matter how good the excuse or reason that she isn't there, walk away. The mother not being available to view is a classic warning sign of a puppy mill pup.
 Personality may be one of the most important factors for you in choosing a dog. If you're getting one from a breeder, listen to the breeder's opinion and don't be blinded by the cuteness of a puppy. Breeders should also have temperament response tests and genetic screening information available. Other important factors to consider when selecting your Miniature Schnauzer include:


Coat: Choose from black, salt and pepper (varying shades of gray), black and silver, and white.
Sex: Male or female. Consider if there are many dogs of the same sex in your area (you would probably get the opposite so they can be friends, especially with two males).
Temperament: Look for a puppy that's not shy or overly brave, and is calm when around several other puppies from a different litter. If the puppy cowers in the corner when you first approach him, he may be afraid and lack confidence. If the puppy approaches you, this shows he's confident., If you have chosen a puppy, you will probably have to wait a few weeks until he is ready to go home at 8 or 9 weeks of age. The ideal time for taking a puppy home is between 10 and 12 weeks. This way, he can get his first round of immunizations. Also, a conscientious breeder will have socialized the puppy to being around new people, strange dogs, and started the dog well on his way to house and kennel training by then.


You have a reason to be cautious if breeders are offering you the puppy when it feels as it is too young.
 Ask your veterinarian to recommend an appropriate dog food and suggest a suitable daily quantity for your particular Miniature Schnauzer. You'll need to look for a packaged food that's labelled as meeting AAFCO or area appropriate health standards. In the meantime, keep using the diet that your dog has been following and make any changes gradually. If you have a new puppy, ask the breeder to give you 4 to 5 days worth of food that your puppy is used to. You can gradually mix in the food you want your puppy to have, so that your puppy has a smooth transition without stomach trouble.Miniature Schnauzers are genetically predisposed to high cholesterol, which means they are at risk of developing a painful condition called pancreatitis.
Episodes of pancreatitis are triggered by high fat foods, so avoid feeding your Miniature Schnauzers on high fat foods such as sausages, burgers or other rich meats. Some same pork is poisonous to this breed too., Since Miniature Schnauzers are known to love their food and gain weight easily, you'll need to make sure he gets plenty of exercise to stay healthy. Your puppy will need to eat 3 to 4 times a day and relieve himself after meals, walks, and every 2 to 3 hours until he goes to sleep tired at the end of the day. This will drop to 1 to 2 times daily and every 4 to 6 hours by the time he's 2 years old.


Once he's an adult, you'll need to make sure your Miniature Schnauzer is eating one or two times a day and getting at least two 30 minute walks a day., Start housetraining your puppy on his first day in your home by showing him the toilet spot and praising him when he uses it successfully. Don't be afraid to try simple "Sit" exercises with even a young puppy. Miniature Schnauzers can start learning basic commands as early as 10 weeks old. They're also very intelligent and should catch on quickly.


Don't push your dog to the point that he gets frustrated. Instead, try to have fun and mentally stimulate him while housetraining him., Your Miniature Schnauzer will adapt to a daily routine, but only as long as you meet his biological needs: to eat frequently, relieve himself after each meal, and get enough exercise every single day.For best behavior, walk this breed of dog twice a day for 30 minutes each, adjusting the walks to end before he's exhausted. You should also mentally stimulate him by playing games and incorporating training sessions into the routine. Don't forget to reward your dog with treats.


A simple routine might include a morning walk, taking him home, and playing by teaching him to respond to both hand gestures and voice commands.
 Your Mini Schnauzer should go to the vet for his full set of vaccinations to protect against infections diseases. Your vet will know what diseases are common in your area and what your dog should be vaccinated against.You may also talk with your vet about implanting an ID microchip under your dog's skin. This is a permanent form of identification that proves you own your dog and makes tracking your dog easier if he's lost.
 If you don't plan on breeding from your dog, talk with your veterinarian about the benefits of desexing him. Neutering males eliminates the risk of testicular cancer and can prevent aggressive or antisocial behavior. If done before the second season, desexing can protect female dogs against breast cancer and eliminates the possibility of womb infections later in life.Since desexing your dog prevents unwanted puppies, you won't need to care for them, find homes for them, or contribute to the large number of abandoned dogs.

