 Just make sure that the contractors you choose were referred to you. You need someone you can trust who can get the work done at the quote he initially gave you.;
, This way you can shop around and get home-improvement savings. Just have the contractor write down exactly what is needed, and then you can go online and research pricing of materials before buying them. This way you only have to pay the contractor for the labor and he can't add a percentage to material costs.
 For instance, if you are looking to update your countertops, then consider purchasing remnants from a stone manufacturer and see what they have for leftovers. You can save a lot of money by purchasing left over material that manufacturers have a difficult time selling, although your selection will be limited. You can do the same with other materials such as wood flooring, lumber, carpeting and fabric.
 Even if you don't have any do-it-yourself experience, you can still pick some jobs to do yourself, such as removing fixtures in a bathroom or kitchen, or preparing rooms before contractors come in. If there is any way that you can do some of the labor so that you can pay less in that department, then do it. There are so many resources online that can show you how to do certain things, like tiling, carpeting and laying down laminate flooring; you just need to take the time to learn.
 If you save up for a project, you will pay less for it. If you need to get the job done immediately and you cannot wait until you save the cash, then take advantage of a 0 interest deal. Purchase the materials with a 0 percent interest credit card and then save up the cash so that you have it ready to pay the balance off before the interest kicks in. Make sure that you can save the amount by then, however, or you will be stuck with a credit card bill with a high interest rate. If you cannot save the amount, and the improvement project is not needed, then wait and start a home-improvement fund.
 For example, rather than purchasing new kitchen cabinets, consider refinishing your current cabinets if they are still in good shape, and updating them with new hardware. This gives your kitchen a whole new look without having to replace the cabinets.

