 There are certain behaviors that may indicate inhalant abuse. These include odd smells of chemicals on your child's breath or in his room. You may also find stashed or hidden paint cans or cleaning materials around his room or around your house. He may also have stains or marks left on his hands, his clothes, or on his face from paint or markers used as inhalants., There are materials that are associated with the dispersal of inhalants. Inhalant abuse can be done using the inside of a paper or plastic bag, in balloons, or through a saturated cloth.


Look for these materials in your child's room or notice if he carries them around., Immediately after inhaling the product, the person experiences a sense of euphoria as well as dizziness or faintness. They will also have incoherent or slurred speaking and poor coordination.Following this initial feeling of being high, many who abuse inhalants will experience:


Sleepiness
Lack of inhibition
Irritation
Faintness
Hallucinations or delusionsNausea
Slurred speech
Changes in mood
Decreased appetite, If your child has been abusing inhalants for a long time, there are additional symptoms that might arise. Long-term inhalant abuse can produce apathy, depression, and poor judgment.Because inhalants affect the nervous system and increase levels of dopamine, causing great pleasure and reward, inhalant abuse can become habitual and addictive., Long-term inhalant abuse has been linked to a greater risk of STDs, including HIV/AIDS and hepatitis. There is a link between inhalant abuse and developing tumors as well as a decreased immune system.Additional dangers include bone marrow loss, hearing loss, and heart and lung damage.In some cases, inhalant abuse can cause death when the person uses very potent or highly concentrated substance, which causes suffocation or heart attack.This has been termed sudden sniffing death. Chemicals that are associated with sudden sniffing death included chemicals from air conditioning coolant, butane, electronic contact cleaners, some aerosols, and propane.