 This is a problem and that you want to fix it. You are reading this now, so that's a big step forward. It means you want to fix this yourself, not because one of your parents is forcing you to.;
, Yes, every scrap of paper, and everything else, including your week-old lunch.
 Take a small, clean cloth and simply brush off dust from the bottom and ends of your backpack or bag. Turn it inside out if you can to get rid of all the crumbs, dirt or whatever else has gathered in there.
 If you have any pieces of paper left in the backpack, take them out and recycle them. If they are important notes keep them or copy them on to a separate piece of paper.
 Organise your books in order of the lessons. Don't cram the books inside. Be patient.
 If possible, keep your food and drink in a separate compartment to your school books.
 Now that you've finished organising your backpack, it's time for studying! Find a neat, clean, fresh, place that you are comfortable in.
, Active studying is the only way to remember the information. That means taking short notes or key words, highlighting or underlining important sentences. Read it out loud to yourself or make a recording of yourself reading it aloud which you can play back to yourself as part of your revision. Then quiz yourself or ask someone to quiz you.
 Take a five minute break then take another lesson to study for forty minutes. Set a timer to motivate yourself.
 If you're not that hungry, at least have a glass of water or milk. It will refresh your mind. You can also do about 5 jumping jacks to make that blood flow!

, This time, choose a slightly difficult subject like science or geography perhaps and start revising actively.
 Try your absolute hardest to understand everything. Make out a timetable so that you cover every subject at least twice a week and spend time at all your subjects.
 At school ask your teachers about this and that. Question them and make your weakest subject your best subject!

, That night, after the teachers have explained everything, go over it and give yourself a pop quiz (if you are creative, then make an exam cover with your name written on it for fun).
 It will help you remember everything. Trust me, it works.
