 Simply go to your favorite search engine and click on images. Then type the type of images you’re looking for. Try to find at least five pictures that have to do with your topic. Make sure all the pictures really circulate around your point. You don’t want all sparkly, colorful pictures, or all soothing, quiet pictures. You must have an equal variety in order to have a nice balance. Think about what kind of a mood you want to set with this graphic.


If you find one you like, right click on it and press ‘Save as’. If that doesn't work you can take a screenshot of the picture. That will save it onto your computer, and make it available to you in further stages.





;
,

Open up Microsoft Word on your computer and open a fresh document. Click “Insert” at the top and open the “Picture” submenu. Then click on “From File”.






Chose the pictures you want to use from your images, and then, without any resizing, put all of the pictures in rows. See how they can relate to each other in a graphic. Which pictures would look good together? How can you make any pictures stand out? Is there any image you want to trash? Think it over. This is all about observation. On the next page of your document, take some notes on what you want to express in the graphic. Organize your thoughts.
 Save what you wrote on Microsoft Word and keep it open.
 This is where you start building a skeleton of your finished product. Considering and observing your previous notes and the layout of your images, open up all the ones you decided you wanted. This is the point where you decide the size and placement of the graphic. This is the bare bones of your graphic. Do not add any paint or text onto the graphic yet, just organize your pictures.
 Create an account on Lunapic. This is an easy program that doesn’t need special downloading or knowledge to work. Simply sign up, then go to the homepage of the website and upload your recent skeleton. The screen will take you to the editing center, where you can customize and pretty much create your graphic. Look on your sidebar (the little strip with all your tasks on it), and press the picture of the cursive T. Now here are some things to consider for text:


Make sure your text fits your specific theme. For example, if your graphic reads “Save the Earth”, you might want to use a green font. If it says, “Fashion”, you might want to use a sparkly pink font. The website gives many different shapes, colors, and styles that can help portray your message even further. But it’s up to you to pick and chose.






The placing of your text should not be random. The words need to be readable! Try to put them in a blank space, where no colored pictures can get in the way. It’s discouraging for viewers to have to squint to see text.






Size matters as well. Words that are too small make bad impressions- who wants to read with a magnifying glass? In addition, large text can also be distracting and too bold. You need something medium sized (depending on the graphic, somewhere between 30-47 usually works well, but pick and chose yourself).
 This is the time where you jazz up your collection of pictures and text, to a graphic. Using the paint tools on the sidebar are fine for constructing, but you need to be smart about it. The “Paint” and “Pencil” tools tend to look unprofessional, but if you’re going for a more graffiti, carefree style then they are the way to go. Don’t want that? Try creating your own small decorations using the provided basic shapes such as circles, squares, lines, etc. See if you can make a pretty flower border, or maybe a bolt of lighting just using those specific shapes. You have to practice this type of stuff to make your graphic look nice.
 This actually isn’t necessary, but if you feel your graphic needs a little something more- then this is the way to go. To add effects, simply go to the animation menu at the top, and take your pick. Remember: the effect should match your theme, and even up with the pictures. Balance is essential for a great graphic. Test out all effects to make sure that the effect is eye popping enough to be noticed, but not so wild that it draws attention away from the point.
 See if the graphic is really what you wanted it to be. Since this is a Normal Text Graphic, you're not going to have to go through any extra steps. Review it and make sure it’s the correct size and quality.
 Go to the bottom of your screen and press “save”. Then get the code for the graphic and use it! It’s that easy.

