 Identify a person's name with a fact about him. By doing this, you will be able to recall his name by viewing a mental image of the person and his personality or job. For example, if you meet a client named Tyler who sells printer toner, say to yourself, "Tyler sells toner." Although this sentence may sound simple, it will help you remember his name in the long run.


If there isn't a catchy phrase associated with the person's name, create a mental image of him performing an activity that he enjoys. For example, if you meet a man named Dylan who is a fan of baseball, imagine him wearing a baseball cap. When you meet him again, you will have an image to associate with him., By repeating it a few times, you will plant it into your memory. Although you should actively participate in the conversation, focus on recalling his name. When listening to him speak, think, "Danny told me about his new car."Mentally play with the name to help it stick. Over exaggerate the syllables, break it into parts, or associate a bit of it with other words. For example, the name Natalie can be exaggerated to sound like "Naaat-ahhh-leee." Also, it can be made into nonsense words, such as, "Nat-Tall-Lee," "Nat-bat," or "Lee-key." Different combinations will help ingrain her name into your memory. , Connect the name of the person with someone in your life, such as a celebrity, a friend, or a family member. You can do this by noting that he has the same hair color, style, etc. Make the connection as close as possible in order to remember why you associated them.


For example, you meet a new classmate. You could connect him with your high school lab partner because they both have the same name and hair color. You could also associate him with a movie character because they both have the same appearance. Note that the connection doesn't have to make sense to anyone but you.State your connection out loud. For example, once the person introduces himself, you could say, "My sister just named her son !" You will not only contribute to the conversation but also help you recall his name.
 Often, people forget names because their attentions are divided. Meeting someone with the intention to remember the name will increase your chances of doing so. Focus your attention on the person to whom you are being introduced to. Consciously think about how you care about the introduction, as well as the goal to remember his name. , A mnemonic device is a verbal phrase or visual cue that helps you remember information. Apply this method using the person's name. For example, if you meet a man named Derek who likes to workout, create a phrase such as, "Dude Enjoys Really Energetic Kickboxing." This associates his name with words that describe a fact that you learned about him.


You can make the phrases as simple or as hard as you want. As long as they stick in your head, they will help you remember the person's name.