 If you know how many carrots you need to shred, then you can just use that amount. However, if your recipe calls for a certain amount of shredded carrot without specifying how many carrots to use, then you may need to estimate.


Keep in mind that one pound of carrots is about the same as two and a half cups of shredded carrots and one large carrot is about the same as one cup of shredded carrots., Take the carrots you've picked for shredding and wash them under cool water. Cut off the top and bottom edge of the carrot in ¼ to ½ inch pieces. Take a vegetable peeler and remove the skins of the carrots.


Make sure to rub your hands along the carrots when you wash them to get off any excess dirt, germs, or chemicals that may be on the surface.
If you don't have a vegetable peeler, you can use a knife instead. Be careful not to cut off too much of the meat of the carrot when you peel them this way.
 Take the peeled carrots and cut them into 3 inch long pieces. This is to ensure that they are small enough pieces that they can easily fit in the food processor feed tube./images/thumb/2/2b/Shred-Carrots-Step-9-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Shred-Carrots-Step-9-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/2/2b/Shred-Carrots-Step-9-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Shred-Carrots-Step-9-Version-3.jpg









You can also use baby carrots in a food processor. They are small enough to fit in the feed tube of the food processor and will shred nicely.
 Every large food processor comes with a shredding blade. Find the shredding blade for the food processor. It should be a large metal disk with raised grater marks on one side. Once you find it, fit it into the food processor.


The blade will sit at the very top of the food processor bowl. This is so the shredded carrots can fall off underneath it into the bowl without building up under the blade.
 Now that you have the blade on the food processor, you need to put on the lid of the food processor that has the raised column on it. Fit the safety lid on the lid as well, but remove the cylinder inside the lid.


The opening that remains is where you will stuff the carrots.
 Once the lid and safety lid is in place, turn on the food processor. Stick the first three inch piece into the tube at the top of the lid. Using the cylinder, push down the carrot against the shredding blade. Keep pushing it down until the whole carrot is shredded. Repeat until all of your carrots are shredded.


Do not push down the carrots with your fingers. You can cut your finger or even lose a finger. Always use the plastic cylinder that came with the food processor.
Once you are done shredding the carrots, turn off the food processor and wait for the blade to stop moving. Then, take off the top and remove the blade to get to the shredded carrots.If you own a small food processor, you can still use it to shred carrots. Put the blade into the food processor and lock the bowl and blade into the processor. Then add the peeled and cut carrots. Secure the top and then pulse the food processor until the carrots are small enough for your recipe.

