 Before you begin an exercise program, make sure your doctor approves. This applies if you were exercising before you were pregnant or if you are starting a new routine.Benefits of exercising while pregnant include prevention of back pain and discomfort, improved sleep, prevention of excess weight gain, increased endurance and muscle strength, and improvements in your mood and energy levels.


Your doctor will help you develop a personalized exercise plan that takes into account your previous exercise habits and any other medical problems you may have.
Exercising could be harmful if you have a low placenta, a weak cervix, a previous history of miscarriages, or a history of early labor., Walking, low-impact aerobics, swimming, and cycling on a stationary bike are recommended. You should be able to talk while you are exercising. If you are unable to talk, you may be exercising to vigorously.If you exercised regularly before getting pregnant, you should be able to continue the exercise for most of your pregnancy. Exceptions to this may be those who participated in dangerous, high-intensity, or very strenuous activities. If you previously jogged, swam, danced, biked, or practiced yoga, chances are it will be safe and beneficial for you to continue.
If you were inactive before pregnancy, it is still advisable to begin light forms of exercise, such as taking regular walks or swimming a few laps. You should start with 5 minutes of physical activity a day and build up until you can do at least 30 minutes a day.You should always warm up and cool down and drink plenty of fluids while you are exercising., Prenatal yoga incorporates many exercises that will help you with strength, flexibility, relaxation, and breathing.Yoga is a nice compliment to aerobic exercise and is a great way to meet other pregnant women.


Look for instructors who are trained in prenatal yoga. If your instructor is not trained, let them know that you are pregnant. You may need to modify poses as your pregnancy progresses.
Avoid hot yoga which will cause your body temperature to increase too much. If you are new to yoga, you should avoid power yoga., This position puts pressure on a major vein, your vena cava, and can decrease blood flow to your brain, heart, and uterus.. This can make you feel dizzy or have shortness of breath.
 Scuba diving, contact sports, activities that may cause injury to your abdominal area, and activities with a high risk of falling should be avoided. Strength training is fine, but you should not be lifting extremely heavy weights (nothing over 20 pounds).


Avoid exercising outside on extremely hot and humid days.
 Pay attention to how you feel during exercise. If anything does not feel right, you should stop immediately. Your body is constantly changing and requires more oxygen and energy than before you were pregnant. You should never exercise until you are exhausted.Keep in mind that extra pregnancy weight puts more stress on your joints and changes your center of gravity. Pregnancy hormones also cause your ligaments to loosen which increases your risk of injury.
Make sure you are eating enough because exercise burns calories. The recommended 300 extra calories per day may not be enough if you are exercising regularly.Monitor your weight gain and make adjustments to your diet.
Stop exercising if you have any of these symptoms: pelvic pain, vaginal bleeding, chest pain, abnormal vaginal fluid, muscle weakness, irregular or rapid heartbeat, abdominal pain, feel dizzy or lightheaded.Contact your doctor if your symptoms continue after you stop exercising.

