 If you saw a mouse running by out of the corner of your eye, see if you can figure out where it went. Mice are pretty fast, and chasing them around the house usually isn’t the best way to catch them and remove them. Instead, track the mouse to its nest so you can catch it using a trap.


If you didn’t see where the mouse went, look for the nest. A mouse’s nest is usually composed of scraps of cloth, paper, hair, and other odds and ends. It will have a musty smell. Look in the back corners of closets, under the sink, behind the refrigerator, in cracks in the wall and in any other dark, hidden places.
You may also be able to track down the mouse by looking for droppings. Mouse droppings look like pieces of black rice. If you see some droppings, the nest is probably nearby.;
, Humane mouse traps let you trap a mouse without killing it. You can then take the trap to a nearby park or forest and release the mouse into the wild. Humane traps work by using bait to lure the mouse into a maze-like tunnel. When the mouse is inside, the trap closes behind it, making it impossible for the mouse to escape.









Humane mouse traps tend to be a little more expensive than the snap traps, but like snap traps they’re reusable, so it’s worth the investment.
Bait the trap according to the instructions using peanut butter or cheese.
Set the trap near the mouse’s nest and wait for the mouse to come take the bait.
Check the trap every day to see if a mouse is inside.
 If the mouse is running around in plain sight, you might not want to wait to trap it. Close the doors to the room you’re in and stuff towels underneath them so the mouse can’t go anywhere. Grab a sturdy box, bowl or crate and wait patiently for the right moment to cover the mouse with it.









Once you successfully trap the mouse, slide a thin piece of cardboard under the trap. Fold the edges of the cardboard up and tape them to the side of the trap with duct tape. Turn the trap upside down so that the mice is at the bottom of the box or bowl and can’t scramble out.
If you don't want to run around chasing it, try a homemade bucket trap. Get a bucket and balance its rim on a piece of wood, pencil, pen or similar object. Tie a piece of string around the handle. Place peanut butter or any of the mouse's favorite food types under the bucket. When the mouse comes out to eat the food, pull the string trapping him. Then slide a magazine under the box and carefully turn over.
 Don’t just take the mouse into your backyard to release it. Walk, bike or drive your trap at least a mile from your house, since you don’t want it to come right back inside. Release the mouse in a park or a patch of woods. When you’re ready to release the mouse, just open the trap and let it hop out.
 There’s one final humane way you can try to get a mouse out of your house: just shoo it outside! Sometimes a mouse will wander in and run around, confused and wanting to leave just as much as you want it to. Help it along by using a broom to scoot it toward an open door. This may require chasing the mouse around a bit before you’re able to get it outside. However, when all’s said and done, it’s faster than trying to trap and release it.









Of course, if you use this method, the mouse might decide to come right back in, especially if it got inside through a gap in the door or a hole in your foundation. If your house isn’t sealed against mice, take measures to seal it up and use repellents so mice won’t wander in.

