 Recycle4Charity is one of the oldest online virtual recycling centers in the United States. At Recycle4Charity, you are provided with free prepaid UPS shipping boxes and labels. You can send empty toner and ink cartridges in for free and the money from your cartridges goes to charity.Recycle4Charity donates money to charities of their choosing. For 2016, they are supporting Smile Train, which helps poor children in the United States get free cleft lip/palate surgery.If you're looking to start a donation program through your business, you may be able to pick your own charity program if your company qualifies. For more information, you can e-mail Recycle4Charity at info@recycle4charity.com.;
, Empties4Cash functions a lot like Recycle4Charity. You get free prepaid UPS boxes, which you can use to mail in empty ink cartridges. You will receive cash back for your cartridges 2 weeks after your shipment arrives. However, you can also choose to support one of the causes listed on the Empties4Cash website, sending the money from your donations to a charity.If you click on the "Support a Cause" button on the Empties4Cash website, you will find a list of the charities Empties4Cash works with. You can select a charity from the list you wish to donate your cartridges to.Once you choose the cause you want to support, you'll send an e-mail with your first name, last name, and shipping address. This information is not released to outside sources and is only used to streamline the recycling process.
 Cartridges for Kids is a recycling program that pays schools and non-profit organizations the cash it receives by collecting recyclables from electronics, including ink and toner cartridges. You do have to make sure the cartridges you're donating have at least a $15 value before mailing them to the Cartridges for Kids headquarters. You can browse price listings on the Cartridges for Kids website to make sure your cartridges add up to at least $15.You can have shipping labels for your package e-mailed to you, and then print them out at a local print shop. You can request labels by e-mailing CFK@CFKtoday.com. Labels should include all the necessary information to get your cartridges to Cartridges for Kids.
 Recycle4Charity and Empties4Cash both allow you to receive a check or cash for your donations. If you're not interested in supporting any of the charities listed, consider getting cash back for your cartridges and simply donating that cash to a charity of your choice.


Check with your local recycling center. See if you can recycle ink cartridges for cash. You can then use this cash to donate to a charity of your choosing.

