 Call or write your family and ask if they can visit you sometime during the holidays. If you are in prison far away from your home, ask your loved ones far enough in advance so that they can make plans and save money for a visit.You could write or say, “I know that travel can be difficult, but I would love to see you around Christmas if it’s possible. It would mean so much to me.”
If your facility has longer visiting hours over the holidays, let your family know.Be realistic in your expectations. If it is difficult for your loved ones to travel to you because of distance, time, or money, accept it and don’t be angry with them.
Don't put the entire focus on just one day. If your loved ones can’t be there on Christmas, see if there is another day during the holiday season that they may be able to visit.
 It may help you feel more connected to your family and friends if you are able to talk to them over the holidays. Because phone calls are expensive, you may wish to write a letter beforehand announcing your plans to call. Make sure you are permitted to call the phone number you want to.


You could write, “I will try to call you at Grandma’s on Christmas Eve. I know you will all be gathered for dinner, and I hope I can talk to you and Grandma then.”

, Several charitable organizations help inmates send their children presents during the holiday season. You will need to plan ahead to ensure presents will get to your kids on time.


The Salvation Army will help prisoners send toys to their children over the holidays.Prison Fellowship’s Angel Tree Program does the same. Sign up for the Angel Tree Program takes place in August.You could also have family members shop for presents for your children on your behalf. You could send a holiday card for your children to another family member to attach to the present.
 Send holiday greetings to your loved ones. Letters are great ways to communicate. You can take your time getting your words just right, and the recipient of your letter can read your words over and over again.


Decorate your letter with holiday drawings.
Write some of your favorite holiday memories you shared with the recipient.
Let the recipient know how much you miss them and are thinking of them.
 The holidays are a time for giving and sharing. Even though you are in prison, you still have things you can give to a friend or someone who has less: a snack from the commissary, a listening ear, or helping them out with a class they are taking.


When you give to others, you also feel a boost in your mood. Being generous can help you feel less depressed.Take advantage of any service opportunities your facility may have to help other people.

