 Be an extrovert, start conversations with others, and socialize. Be talkative, but stop to listen to what others have to say instead of constantly talking over them. Be loud, and talk a lot - but not too much. Be aware of the point where people are starting to get annoyed because they can't get a word in edgewise around you, and then stop talking.;
, With confidence comes charisma, and others naturally flock to people with charisma. Be confident and don't worry about what other people think. Be yourself and love yourself.
 Tell jokes, write funny jokes or stories, or simply be random and spontaneous. Watch funny TV shows to get ideas. If you find something on TV really funny, quote it in front of your friends to make them laugh. Remember not to make jokes at other people's expense - this will hurt their feelings and annoy them, and they'll think that you're obnoxious.
 A sweet, loud person is much more endearing than a mean loud one. Work on being there for your friends, listening to others, and helping with and anticipating their needs. Give gifts, help out a friend who needs a boost, and be there when your loved ones need you. This will make all the difference.
 Be happy and friendly; people don't want to be around people who are negative and who bring them down. Don't complain a lot, be positive! Be nice and friendly to people you just met. Be the kind of person that cheers up others. Always see the glass as half full instead of half empty, and find the positive aspects of every situation.
 Gregariousness is great, but in more serious positions it can be insensitive. Learn to listen well to others, and be serious when you need to.
 Have as much fun as possible. Live in the moment and be carefree. Don't take jokes too seriously yourself. Go to parties, throw parties, go to school dances, go to concerts and have a blast while you're there! Enjoy what life has to offer! Live your life while you can. Have as much fun as a person can possibly have! If you are having fun everyone will have fun too.
 Make a lot of friends, dump the ones who are bad friends, and love the ones who are good. You can never please everybody, so stick with the ones who like you. Get with your friends and be a good friend to them. These are the people who love you for who you are, weird loudness and all!

