 A Clover trap is a netted trap that is large enough for a deer. The trap consists of a metal frame covered on all sides but the bottom with a linked netting. A trip wire runs parallel to the back wall that releases the front netting, allowing it to fall and trap the deer.You can purchase a Clover trap or make one on your own. Ensure that you use netting that won’t risk harming the deer as opposed to covering the frame with chain link or chicken wire., Before actually setting the trip wire, you should place the trap and pre-bait it.Place shelled yellow corn around the entrance and inside the trap for several days before setting it. This gives the deer time to find the bait and feel out the trap. Any deer will return to the trap for more food with less hesitance regarding entering the trap.
 When you notice that the bait you’ve been placing toward the back of the trap is getting eaten, then you’re ready to set the trap. Place more bait and set the trip wire connected to the net door of the trap. Place the bait beneath the trip wire at the back of the trap. This ensures that the deer will release the trap when it lowers its head to reach the bait., One of the greatest benefits of the Clover trap is that you don’t have to sit in a blind waiting to release it, but you still have an obligation to check the trap often. Even though the netting on the trap won’t harm the deer, it does leave the deer open to attack by predators, so you should check the trap at least once a day., You should hood the deer first before attempting to handle it because the animal will be more sedate when it can’t see the human presence.Researchers who handle deer inside Clover traps are trained professionals.It is not recommended that you try to handle the deer due to risk of injury to both yourself and the animal.


Most Clover trap designs are collapsible, making it easy to push the trap downward. This will force the animal to the ground without any room to kick, making it easier to hood and safely handle the deer.If a professional handler must actually enter the Clover trap with the deer, the professional will bring the deer down to its side with a bear hug maneuver from the deer’s back and pin the deer’s front legs to its body while avoiding the hind legs.Protective coveralls and a helmet with a face mask are highly recommended, as is leaving any direct deer handling to a trained professional.