 Guided meditation can be very helpful for beginners because someone else leads you in your effort to relax and enter a meditative state. These are usually narrated through instruction, stories, imagery or music and can be accessed via a sound file (mp3, CD/DVD, ect.) on your computer, phone, tablet or by video.


Guided meditation uses the senses. You utilize smells, sights, sounds and textures to visualize various methods of relaxation. Often, you follow along as a guide offers directions on how to breathe, relax muscle groups and create a sensation of inner peace., There are many audio apps, CD/DVD and other forms of meditation available now that use binaural beats to facilitate deep meditation very quickly. These beats synchronize brain waves so that the frequencies are altered to help the mind reach various states of consciousness., Concentrative meditation has you focusing your attention on an image, object, sound or positive mantra. You can think of a peaceful beach, a bright apple or a calming word or phrase. The idea is that what you choose to focus on helps block out distracting thoughts.


For your mantra, repeat a word or phrase that calms you. You can choose something like “I feel at peace” or “I love myself” but really anything that makes you feel better will work. You can say it out loud or silently, whichever you prefer.It can be helpful to place a hand on your stomach so you can feel your breathing while you practice controlled breaths, visualizing or mantra repetition.
Consider Japa meditation. It utilizes the repetition of a Sanskrit term or word along with a beaded rosary to meditate. You may also want to try passage meditation, which uses spiritual or inspirational passages to focus and achieve meditation.
 Meditating this way focuses your attention on the present moment. You bring awareness to what is happening right now and your experience during meditation, such as your breathing. You recognize what you feel, think and what is happening around you without actively trying to change it.


While you meditate, observe the thoughts going through your head and what you feel but don’t judge or try to stop them. Let your thoughts and emotions pass on their own. Mindfulness meditation works because you are able to forget the past and the future. Stress results from thinking too much about things that are out of our control—things that already happened and things that may happen. With this type of meditation, you are able to stop worrying about everything.
You can bring your thoughts and feelings back to mindful meditation by focusing on the present moment. Pay attention to your body. Is your breathing deep and slow? Are your fingers touching? You don’t stop wandering thoughts or feelings--just think about what is happening now.Try practicing a loving kindness meditation. This is a deep desire for well-being and happiness for yourself. You focus on the feeling of love and well-being in the moment. Then you extend that feeling out to everyone else in the world.
 Yoga and T’ai Chi are well-known stress relief meditative practices that use movement and breathing to promote well-being. Research shows that they are effective ways to meditate and maintain health.Yoga uses different movements and a series of postures along with controlled breathing exercises to reduce stress and help you relax. The poses require balance and concentration so you are less able to think about stressors.
T’ai Chi is a Chinese martial arts that uses a gentle series of postures and movements to meditate. The movements are self-paced and done slowly in a graceful manner alongside controlled breathing.Walk and meditate. Slow down your pace and focus on your legs and feet. Observe what the movement feels like as you move your leg and your foot touches the ground. Note whatever sensations arise. If it helps, you can try silently repeating action words that have to do with walking—"lift", "move", "foot down", ect.

