 It can be hard to get comfortable to sleep when you don't have a bed to lie down in (at the airport, for instance). Sometimes there is simply no feasible place to lie down, so you may have to opt for a chair or sitting against a wall. If possible recline at a 135-degree angle for the most comfort. Avoid sleeping sitting straight up or leaning forward because this may cause undue pressure on your back and neck and it may also contribute to pain in those areas., A pillow helps make any unusual sleeping situation better. A travel pillow is best if you have to sit up while sleeping, such as on an airplane. If you're in an airport without a pillow, it might be time to splurge on a pillow at one of the travel shops.If you don't have a pillow, you can make one out of any clothing you have., Often, on short trips, or during unexpected waits (such as in an emergency room), you may not have thought to bring a blanket. If you have a jacket or coat, you can put it over you to provide extra heat. This will help you stay warm while trying to sleep., Or better yet, use a sleep mask. However, if you are caught unexpectedly needing to sleep without a bed, the likelihood is that you won't have a sleep mask on you. Don't worry, any lightweight, opaque fabric big enough to cover the eyes can help. This method works best if you are lying down or reclining. However, if you must sit, you may need to find something to drape over your head and face, such as a towel, that won't slide down., If you really want to be able to sleep in a public place, you'll need to secure your belongings. Make sure small valuables are in pockets, or covered in your lap. For larger belongings, such as a duffle bag or suitcase, you may try keeping one foot down in the strap, or placing the luggage between your feet if it isn't too big. If you can plan ahead of time, you can put locks on the luggage. If you are lying down, you may want to use it as a pillow.Sometimes, airports have storage lockers you can use. If you are really worried about your belongings, consider this option when available.Never sleep in an area where you do not feel safe, especially if you are alone.

