 Sitting around and feeling down will show on your face. But getting up and doing something about it will wipe the unhappy look right off your face. If you're feeling unhappy, go do something about it. Just moving around will clear the unhappy look from your face as you concentrate on actions, not emotions., When you feel like you must move a mile a minute or fall behind everything. While happy people are often busy and productive, they don't let work or deadlines take up all of their mental energy. Stop, take a deep breath, and move a little bit slower.


If you're constantly feeling overwhelmed, trim away 1-2 responsibilities. Feeling productive is good -- feeling overworked isn't., The outside world, of course, affects our happiness. But you'll have a much harder time looking happy if you are fixated on good grades, a new bonus, a winning sports team, or any other external "source" of happiness. Remind yourself that happiness is an internal emotion, as much a choice as any other look or feeling, whenever the outside world wants to rain on your parade.


Keep in mind the things you can actually change or improve, and the bad things that happen that are completely out of your control. If you can't change or fix something (like a losing sports team), you can't be unhappy about it. Unhappiness fixes nothing on its own.
 Everyone should have a few people they can tell almost anything. They can be family, friends, or even a mental health professional -- what is most important is feeling like these people have your back. When you get stressed or feel unhappy, seek out these people. They'll help you get your mojo back.
 Helping other people, and making other people happy, is one of the most powerful ways to take control of your own happiness as well.When you're feeling unhappy, find someone to do a small favor for, even if it is just holding the door. The boost in happiness will spread to your face and posture, helping you to look happy even after the moment is long over.
 Some signs of happy people, such as the "glow" they emit or their carefree posture, are the result of total body health, not a mental switch is thrown on and off. Increasingly, studies show that your mental and physical health are deeply related, so taking care of one will always benefit the other. Looking happy is a lifetime goal, not a simple box to check off, so make an effort to incorporate the following into your life:


Exercise for at least 30-60 minutes 4-5 times a week.
Well-balanced meals, high in fruits and vegetables.
Taking dedicated time each week away from work to relax.
Keeping a clean and reasonably organized living space.