 Avoiding your emotions may provide temporary relief, but ultimately, ignoring or denying how you feel will cause more problems than it fixes. Research has even shown that cancer patients who avoid processing their emotions deteriorate more quickly than those who accept and process what they’re feeling.Examples of avoidance strategies include the following:


Making yourself too busy to think about the issue
Denying that the problem exists
Ignoring the problem or refusing to talk about it
Using distractions to make you feel better (TV, alcohol, food, gambling, etc.)
Focusing on the worst-case scenario

, The emotions connected to a difficult or traumatic life event can be incredibly painful, and it can seem overwhelming to know where to start when trying to process these deep feelings. However, there are four stages of emotional processing that all individuals need to go through in order to initiate recovery.‘’Circuit-breaking.’’ This stage often occurs soon after the trauma and is sometimes described as feeling “numb” or “in shock.” When your body is overloaded, as with traumatic events, your systems shut down. Your brain loses between 50-90% of its peak functioning.Your other body systems may also shut down, so that you experience sudden symptoms, such as sleeplessness or headaches, that you didn’t have previously. You may also see other symptoms you had subside, such as arthritis and even acne.
‘’Return of feelings.’’ Once the initial numbness subsides -- and that varies dramatically according to each individual -- feelings will return. They may gradually return, or they may hit you all at once. You may also experience wild fluctuation between emotional states during this stage, where your feelings vary day-to-day and even moment-to-moment.
‘’Constructive action.’’ This stage is strongly linked to stage 2, and you will find it difficult to do one without the other. As you become more in touch with your feelings, take actions to restore your sense of power and meaning. For example, if you used to be in an emotionally abusive relationship, you might wish to volunteer at the local women’s shelter. Taking actions that are meaningful to you will counteract the sense of helplessness or loss of control that often underlies emotional frailty.
‘’Reintegration.’’ This stage cannot occur until the first three have been experienced. In this stage, you become in touch with your emotions and values. You learn to practice “value-congruent” living, in which you live according to your core principles (honesty, compassion, assertiveness, etc.).
 Expressing your feelings to someone else is important to processing them. This is different from merely talking about your experience, however. Sometimes, people will talk in a very disconnected way about difficult or traumatic things that have happened to them, as though the things had happened to someone else. This disconnection prevents you from truly processing your emotions about what happened.Mindfulness techniques can help you stay present in the moment as you discuss a difficult or traumatic event. Using mindfulness techniques can help you regulate your emotions so that you don't break down. They can keep you from ruminating, or "obsessing" over a particular feeling or emotion. They can also reduce anxiety and depressive symptoms, making it easier for you to process your feelings.See Method 1 for how to practice mindfulness techniques.
Many treatments for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, for example, encourage clients to recall trauma in a controlled way to help them process the feelings that trauma may have caused.While talking with friends or family may be sufficient for some people, others may need to seek professional mental health assistance. There is no shame in this! Counselors and therapists are there to provide support and acceptance so that you can be honest with your feelings.
 Personal expression, whether it is through art, music, dance, writing, or talking with others, has been shown to be useful when working through difficult life events. By engaging with your emotions in more than one way, you are encouraged to explore and understand them.Focus on activities that you find safe and soothing. Exploring negative emotions in a safe, positive environment will help you process them and recover.If you are uncomfortable or unsure of how to express your emotions in this way, you may wish to consult a professional expressive arts therapist, at least at first. Many professional counselors and therapists also have some training in this area., Trying to handle trauma or stress by yourself can be overwhelming. Research has repeatedly demonstrated that social and personal support helps recovery.Talking with close friends and family, a professional therapist or counselor, a member of your religious faith, and/or a support group are all good ways to get support from others.


Seek support from those who accept you just as you are. If you have emotionally scarring things from your past, the last thing you need is to open up and be vulnerable to someone who will judge you. Share with people you trust, who will offer you their unconditional love and support.
 When you think about your past experiences, recognize them as learning experiences and sources of strength, instead of viewing them as weakness. Even difficult and stressful events can teach you how to develop your emotional resilience and respond more effectively in the future.Here are some questions you could consider asking yourself:What kinds of experiences or events are the most stressful for me?
What were my reactions to these experiences?
In what ways have I been affected by these experiences?
What have I learned about myself and how I interact with others from this experience?
Would it be helpful for me to help someone else process a similar experience?
How have I overcome obstacles in the past?
What can I apply from those actions to future obstacles?

