 Examine your life and consider a situation that is troublesome. This issue will be used as a tool, that will allow you to discover how you approach it, how you view yourself, and enable you to make changes for the better.An example of this situation may be an argument, a big presentation, or a major life change.
 When thinking of the stressful or troubling situation you have selected, pay careful attention to your thoughts as you do. Knowing how you think and feel will allow you to later evaluate those tendencies and make any changes you would like.You may find your thoughts are rational, being based in facts and logic.
Your thoughts might also be irrational or based on inaccurate information.
Your thoughts may be positive, negative or neutral. For now, select the negative thoughts to work with.
 As you examine your thoughts, pay attention to any negative ones or other thoughts that may be based on misunderstandings or inaccurate information. Try to understand that these thoughts might not be the only way to view your situation. Look for some of the following examples of negative thinking about yourself:Equating feelings with facts. You may get a feeling that someone doesn't like you, but the fact is, you don't know what that person is really thinking.
Ending with negative conclusions, despite not having an reason or evidence to do so. Maybe you assume your boss will turn you down for a promotion even though you've never been turned down in the past.
Only focusing on the negative. After a performance evaluation, you might dwell on the one critical comment and forget about the positive feedback you received.
Talking to or about yourself negatively. You might tell yourself that you messed up after having a stressful conversation with someone.
Turning positive thoughts into negative ones, degrading your successes or accomplishments. Perhaps you tend to be self-deprecating, even when you have reason to celebrate an achievement.
 Once you have successfully identified some negative or inaccurate thoughts you may have, you can start to replace them with healthy ones that build self-worth and self appreciation. Try replacing your negative thoughts with these positive alternatives:Forgive and love yourself. Chances are you wouldn't put someone else down for a mistake or failure, so don't do the same to yourself.If you make a mistake, tell yourself that you can learn from it.
Be hopeful and positive. Tell yourself that even though something may be difficult, you are capable and ready to give it your best.
You can choose how you react to negative thoughts. If you're feeling stressed, think about concrete ways you can make the stressful situation easier on yourself.
Focus on the things that are going well or have been successful.
 For the best results, contact a therapist or psychotherapist and schedule and appointment. They can help you to build new and healthy mental habits, focusing on positive and self-esteem building thoughts rather than negative ones.Ask your therapist if cognitive behavioral therapy will be helpful for you.
Using cognitive behavioral therapy can help you deal with negative thinking and allow you to remember that you are important.
Although you can get started with the basic techniques of cognitive behavioral therapy, working with your therapist can help you get the best results.

