 Human beings cannot exist in a vacuum - without caring for certain physical needs, humans will soon die. Take care of your basic well being or you'll have a very hard time meaningfully pursuing the more advanced steps. At bare minimum, humans need to:



Breathe oxygen. Human beings' most pressing need is to breathe air containing oxygen almost constantly. At the absolute longest, humans can go only about 20 minutes without air;most can only last a fraction of that time.
Eat edible foods and drink water. Humans eat food for energy and to provide vital nutrients for essential body processes. At a minimum, humans should consume adequate amounts of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats, as well as several essential vitamins and minerals. Humans also drink water, as it is crucial for many internal processes. The precise amounts of food and water you should consume as a human varies based on your size and your level of physical activity.

Sleep. Humans still aren't completely sure what the purpose of sleep is, though we do know that it's vital for physical and mental performance.The healthiest adult humans usually sleep 7-8 hours a night.Maintain homeostasis. Essentially, humans need to keep their external environment from interfering with their internal body. This can take many forms - for instance, wearing clothes to regulate body temperature and repairing wounds with sutures, wounds, etc.;
, A human's second responsibility, after meeting his or her innate requirements for life, is to eke out his or her safety. To thrive, humans can't be worried about whether they will starve or die - such thoughts will override any attempts to reach higher levels of human accomplishment. Here are just a few ways to ensure you're "safe" as a human:


Avoid danger. Don't stay near places or situations that can cause physical damage to your body. Injuries can affect your physical health and even cause you to die.

Get or build a home. Humans need a place to live that offers protection from the elements. At the bare minimum, this place should have four walls and a place to sleep.
Pursue a living. Most of the planet earth uses money. Money can be exchanged for goods and services, including food, clothing, and shelter. Most humans eventually get a job to receive a dependable stream of money.
 Famous human Aristotle is remembered as saying: "Man is by nature a social animal; an individual who is unsocial naturally and not accidentally is either beneath our notice or more than human."In your life as a human, you will meet people. Some will make you feel good - these are "friends." You will feel a sexual attraction to some: Such a person is a "romantic interest", who can develop into a spouse. A life lived alone is not a fulfilling one - spend time cultivating healthy friendships and pursuing romances for a richer, more emotional life.


To maintain friendships, you'll need to "hang out" with your friends. Invite them over for brunch. Talk about sports. Forge a bond with your friends - help them when they need it, and they'll be around to help you.
Most romantic relationships start when one person asks another out. See our list of articles on asking humans out for guidance.
 Humans feel better when they consider themselves valuable and they know that others consider them valuable. It's easiest to respect yourself and for others to respect you if you've achieved something. Try to strive for success, whether it's at your job or in other activities that you practice for fun (these are called "hobbies.") Know and be confident in your own abilities. Respect humans who respect you.


Friendships and romantic relationships can help boost your self-esteem when you feel sad, but self-esteem begins within. Don't depend on other peoples' approval for your self-esteem.
 Once humans are physically secure, have a foundation of healthy relationships, and have a good self-image, they may begin to ponder questions such as "Why are we here?" Different humans ascribe a variety of purposes to human life. Many humans adopt a set of moral principals or develop their own. Others embark on creative endeavors, expressing their innermost thoughts through art. Others still try to make sense of the universe through science or philosophy. There's no right way to make the most of your existence, but here are just a few ideas:


Subscribe to an existing (or develop your own) philosophy and/or religion.

Write, draw, play music, or dance.
Become an innovator in your craft.
Experience (and care for) nature.
Whatever you choose to do, try to make your mark on the world. Improve the earth for those who come after you in some way, however small.
 Love is difficult to define; the Merriam-Webster dictionary defines it as a feeling of intense affection, attachment, and/or desire for another human.Many humans say that the best thing in life is to love (and be loved by) other human beings. Many humans even get married to commit to a life of loving someone else. Others still start families and have children so that they can love someone from the beginning of his or her life to the point that they die. There's no right way to live a love-filled life - all you can do is follow your heart and embrace love's mysterious, inexplicable humanity.

