 Controlling anxiety associated with swimming is a key step to preventing drowning.Aim to reduce your stress about swimming gradually.


First simply learn to practice deep breathing. Then, depending on the severity of your fear of pools or bodies of water, you can progress to doing this practice while looking at picture of water or looking at a pool. Finally, once you're more comfortable, get in the shallow end of a pool and only focus on taking relaxing breaths.
To practice deep breathing, find a comfortable spot to sit, such as a chair or cushion. Relax your shoulders and exhale heavily. Now, inhale air through your nose for 4 counts. Hold it for 1 or 2 counts, then slowly release the air through your mouth for 4 more counts. Take a brief pause and then repeat the exercise for approximately 5 minutes, or until you feel relaxed.To ensure you are breathing correctly, place one hand on your chest and one on your abdomen. You should notice the hand on your abdomen expanding and then collapsing with each breath. The hand on your chest should move only a little.
 Use this practice to imagine yourself swimming. There are many ways to practice visualization. In this method, the goal is envision yourself comfortably and confidently getting into a pool.


Be warned, if you are frightened by even the thought of swimming, you may need to seek the assistance of a mental health therapist to help you. Don't practice visualization on your own if you are not yet comfortable with the idea of being near water.
Lie on a sofa or bed in a relaxed position with your arms resting at your sides. Start by taking a few deep, cleansing breaths. If at any point, you notice your anxiety increasing, stop the visualization process and continue to take deep, relaxing breaths.
Think of yourself sitting in a chair beside a pool. Look around you. You see a life guard who is there to protect you. You feel warm and safe due to his presence. You hear the laughter of people on the far end as they play around in the waves. You smell the chlorine. Soak in all of these sensations.
Now, stand up. Feel the concrete beneath your feet. Hear the gentle crashing sound of the waves as you walk closer to the shallow end of the pool. Stand at the edge. Notice how the other swimmers are happy and confident. Channel their energy. Believe that you, too, can feel happy and confident about swimming.
Dip one of your feet in the water. Notice the relative warmth (or coolness) of the water. Listen to the splashing sound your foot makes. Take a seat on the edge and lower both feet into the water. Sit there just taking in the feeling of your feet being in the water.
Use the ladder to step down into the water. Feel the cold shock of the steel as your fingers move along the rails. Notice how the water feels against your skin as it climbs to your waist. Move up against a wall. You don't have to do anything else, just once again breathe deeply and notice how confident and relaxed you feel in the water.
 One way to feel more comfortable in water is to ask a friend with strong swimming skills to assist you with these relaxation activities. Your friend can sit with you as you practice your breathing. Or, hold your hand as you walk through the visualization exercise.


Having a physical and emotional support system can help you feel less stressed about swimming since you are not doing the activity on your own. If you should need it, a helping hand is nearby., Feeling weightless in water is often a contributor to why some people fear swimming. The feeling of being in water is so different than being on the ground. This happen because gravity behaves in reverse in water. This weightless feeling, commonly known as buoyancy, helps you naturally float in water.Once you recognize that if you relax your limbs, you will automatically rise to the surface, you can move past fears of sinking.