 Some entire movies are improvised, some plays are. Sometimes a group gets together to improvise one scene or find ways to improve a scene. Sometimes a drama lesson can be a while series of different improvised scenes. A class leader may ask everyone to stand and improvise a moonwalk as an ice breaker. You might be put into small groups and given a set time to put together a scene. Improvisation covers a lot! Make sure you know exactly what you have to be good at.;
, Often in improvisation, you will be given a topic or scenario which determines what, where and who you are. Stay in character. Whoever has decided the scenario, wants to see your interpretation of it, not something completely off topic that you prefer to perform. Keep it appropriate. Don't introduce the fact you have a super power if you are supposed to be showing how to close a sale or pretend the room is starting to flood when you're meant to be being your interpretation of a clock that needs winding.
 Yes, some amusing words may get a laugh, but don't lose a good story line by trying to be too funny, unless that's your character. If you work with a partner, don't end up in a comedy contest, trying to be better than your partner.
 Focus on your acting; not the audience.
 Don't let fear hold you back. It can be scary to stand up in front of a crowd. Take a speech class to practice this and help you get over stage fright.
 If someone in your group says, "I'm the best soccer player ever!", don't cut him/her off and say, "Really? I thought you were a gymnast!" because you know that's what they really do. Remember the rest of the groups is improvising too.
 That always ends the show. Being energetic is great, in the right situation, but screaming and shouting or running around excessively just isn't always realistic.
 Being nervous can ruin the improvised scene. Relaxing and enjoying yourself can make the audience enjoy you.
 Imagine how that character would move, would react, would speak, would think, would feel. Show that in your actions.
 There are a lot of improvisation games that were show cased in the popular TV show Who's Line is it Anyway. Research that. Or try other options such acting a scene where everyone who speaks has to include a colour in their sentences. Or you can start a scene and as soon as the actors are in an opportune position, someone says pause, takes a character out, and starts the scene again at a completely different situations inspired by the position of the actors.

