 If a resolution cannot be reached by complying with the joint venture agreement, or if some disputes need to be handled outside of the contract's terms, you might need to file a lawsuit to resolve the alleged violation. If you are planning on filing a lawsuit, understand that you will be suing your joint venture partner, which will likely permanently alter your relationship and ability to do business together. However, in some situations, it may be your only option. Before you bring a lawsuit, you need to hire a qualified lawyer to help you.


To hire a qualified contracts lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After you answer a few questions, you will be put in contact with various qualified contract lawyers in your area.
make sure your lawyer has a good understanding of both business and contract law. When you litigate a case based on the violation of a joint venture agreement, your case will likely deal with business issues (e.g., intellectual property, distributions, stocks) as well as contractual issues (e.g., material breaches, objective manifestations, fraud). Therefore, it is important to hire a lawyer who is knowledgeable about everything that might come up.
Before you hire a lawyer, be sure you discuss their fee arrangements. If you agree to hire a lawyer, make sure you get the representation agreement, including the fee arrangement, in writing.
 A complaint is the formal legal document that initiates a lawsuit. Your complaint will need to be drafted in accordance with the local rules of the court you will be filing in. Depending on the specifics of your case (i.e., where each party is from and how much you are looking to recoup in damages), you might file in either state or federal court. Talk to your attorney to determine where you should sue. Regardless, every complaint will need to contain at least the following information:A caption, which will include the name of the court you are filing in and the parties to the lawsuit.
A jury demand if you want your case heard by a jury.
A statement of jurisdiction, which will tell the court why they have the ability to hear your case. If you are in state court, you might simply have to state that you are suing another party for breach of contract under a specific legal theory. If you are in federal court, you might have to state that you meet the requirements for diversity jurisdiction (i.e., you and your partner are citizens of different states and the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000).
A statement of facts, which is a brief description of the events that led to the lawsuit.
The remedy sought, which will describe what you want the judge to do if you win. In most cases, this will be an amount of money (called damages).
 After your complaint has been drafted, you will take it to the courthouse and file it with the clerk of courts. You will usually need to file your original plus at least two copies. At the time of filing, you will also need to pay a filing fee (usually around $350) or ask for a fee waiver. Once the filing fee is paid or waived your complaint will be stamped as "filed" and you will be handed an official civil cover sheet and summons.


The civil cover sheet should be filled out and handed back to the clerk. The civil cover sheet provides the court with background information about your case so they know how to handle it (e.g., what judge to give it to, how to schedule it, what case number to assign it).
The summons will already be filled out and will contain the court's signature and seal. The summons is a form that tells the defendant they have been sued and requests a response within a certain period of time (usually between 21 and 30 days)., Once your lawsuit has been formally filed, you will need to notify the defendant that they are being sued. To do this, you need to serve them with a copy of your complaint and summons. This needs to be done within 120 days of filing your lawsuit. To effectively serve the defendant, you need to have someone over the age of 18 who is unrelated to the case complete the service. For a small fee, you can usually hire the sheriff's office or the US Marshals to complete service for you.


Once you hire someone to serve the defendant, they will have to give the defendant a copy of your complaint and summons in accordance with the law. Usually the server will be able to either personally hand a copy, or leave a copy, with the defendant. If the defendant cannot be found, the server may be able to mail a copy to them.
Once service is complete, the server will have to complete the back of the summons, which is called the proof of service. The proof of service must be returned to you and you must file it with the court., The defendant will have around 21 days to respond to your lawsuit after they are served. Most defendant's will respond by filing an answer, which is a formal response to all of the allegations in your complaint. Within the answer, the defendant will admit or deny all of your allegations and will raise any defenses they may have. In addition, a defendant might file counterclaims if he or she believes you have breached the joint venture contract.


When you are served with the defendant's answer, read it carefully and make sure your lawyer sees it. The answer will give you great insight into how the defendant plans to attack your lawsuit. If you know what the defendant is planning on doing, you will be better able to defend against it., One of the most important parts of litigation (discovery) occurs soon after the complaint and answer are exchanged. During discovery, you and the defendant will have an opportunity to exchange information in order to prepare for trial. You will be able to talk with witnesses, gain access to documents, see what the defendant plans on saying at trial, and see how strong your case is. In order to effectively take part in discovery, you will be able to use the following tools:Informal discovery, which will likely involve interviewing witnesses, obtaining publicly available documents, and taking pictures.
Depositions, which are formal in-person interviews with witnesses and parties. The interviews are conducted under oath and the answers can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are formal written questions posed to witnesses and parties. Their answers must be written under oath and the answers can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are formal requests for documents that are not publicly available. Examples might include internal memos, emails, text message, and phone records.
Requests for admissions, which are requests asking the defendant to admit or deny the existence of a specific fact or document.
 As soon as discovery concludes, the defendant will likely file a motion for summary judgment. In order to succeed, the defendant will have to persuade the judge that there are no genuine issues of material fact and they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant will have to persuade the court that, even if it made every factual assumption in your favor, you would still lose the case.


You can defend against this motion by presenting affidavits and evidence tending to persuade the court that genuine factual disputes do exist that need to be handled at trial. If you succeed, the litigation will continue., If you have made it past the summary judgment phase of litigation, you are getting close to a trial and you might want to consider settling. Trials are expensive and time consuming endeavors and even if you win, you might not get enough money to recoup the costs of litigation. Therefore, try negotiating with your partner in order to try and resolve the dispute amicably. If informal negotiations don't work, you might try mediation or arbitration.
 When a settlement cannot be reached at this stage of the litigation, a trial is almost inevitable. After a trial schedule is set by your judge, you will choose a jury (if you invoked your right to one) through a process called "voire dire." After a jury is empaneled, you will start the trial by making an opening statement. The purpose of your opening statement is to tell the court a story that gives some context to the trial. After both parties have made opening statements, you will present your case.


When you present your case, you will offer up evidence through witness testimony and physical exhibits. Your evidence should prove all of the elements of your breach of contract case, which will vary depending on your legal theory.
Once you present your case, the defendant will have an opportunity to do the same. After he or she questions each witness, you will have an opportunity to cross-examine them in order to poke holes in the defendant's case.
Once both parties have presented their cases, you will be able to make a closing argument. Your closing argument should summarize the evidence and make it clear why you have won.
When the trial is over, the court will deliberate and make a decision. The court's decision, called a verdict, will be announced in open court. If you win, you will be awarded damages for the joint venture violation caused by the defendant.