 Learn your skills, or abilities, for your class. These abilities will let you fight better and more skillfully by giving you powerful moves and defenses. Learn your skills by leveling your character: the higher your level, the more powerful a fighter you will be.


Actions are activated skills. These can be assigned to particular buttons for use in battles. Learn new actions as you progress between the different levels. View and assign these abilities through the Actions menu, nested in the main menu.
Traits are similar to actions, except that they are passive abilities, rather than active ones. This means that they are always in effect.
 When battling enemies, you will want to stay out of the way of their attacks if possible. If you are a ranged fighter, make sure you stay ranged. If you do have a reason to fight up close with an enemy, look out for glowing shapes on the ground around you. This is their area of attack and will show up right before they execute an attack. If the shape is red, that means it will hurt you and you need to get out of the way!


As you gain levels and fight harder enemies, the amount of time you have to get out of the way will be less and less. Don’t worry, they give you plenty of time in the beginning to get used to the system.
 Combos are actions used in a particular order to execute powerful moves which can really help turn a battle. You will probably not have access to any combos until you’ve gained several levels, however, as you’ll need many abilities to use in combination!

, With games like this one, it is very important to work with other people to beat enemies. Each class has it’s own strengths and weaknesses and when players from a variety of classes play in balanced teams, dispatching enemies will come with ease! Consider joining a free company (player guild) or forming your own team with your friends.


You can even use features of the game to make fighting with your teammates even easier. For example, enemies can be marked, which will allow you and your teammates to coordinate attacks.
Use limit breaks. If you fight in a party of four or more, you’ll get to use the limit gauge. As you deal damage and heal allies, you’ll fill the gauge until a special move is unlocked. What the move will be will depend on the class of the player activating it, but these moves are very useful and should be taken advantage of.

