 Storm Bolt is Muradin’s Q ability, a ranged skillshot that stuns and damages the first target it hits. This versatile ability gives Muradin a hard-hitting disable that he can use from afar – land the first blow in a duel, catch a fleeing enemy or cancel the channeling abilities of other heroes (e.g. Azmodan’s All Shall Burn, Nazeebo’s Ravenous Spirit, E.T.C.’s Mosh Pit etc.).;
, Thunder Clap is Muradin’s W ability, which deals damage in an area around him and slows all affected targets by 25%. This makes Thunder Clap very good at slowing heroes and prevent them from fleeing. The thing about Thunder Clap though is that it has so much utility depending on the talents you pick. It can shut down melee heroes that depend on auto-attack, it can echo for a second miniature clap, it can be cast more often the more targets are hit, it can heal you for each target hit or it can deal a significant amount of damage if only a single enemy gets caught in it.
 Dwarf Toss is Muradin’s E ability, which makes Muradin to jump to a target location while dealing damage to all affected targets. This skill allows Muradin to close the gap between him and a fleeing hero or to get out of a bad situation if he is caught out of position. It will be up to you to decide when to use it, although try to avoid committing to a blind jump when you can’t see where the other enemy heroes are on your minimap.
 Avatar is Muradin’s first ultimate ability, which grants him bonus health for 20 seconds while causing each basic attack to stun for a brief amount of time. This skill allows Muradin to walk right up to the frontline and take a ton of hits for the team. The ministun helps slow down fleeing heroes while also ruining the day for ones that have channeling abilities, what with each hit stunning and interrupting them.
 Haymaker is Muradin’s second ultimate ability, which knocks a hero back while doing damage in the process. As an added bonus, any enemies hit by the targeted hero are knocked back as well; receiving some damage in the process. If used correctly, this skill can let you reposition enemy heroes to either knock them out of a team fight for a few seconds or to punt them closer to the jaws of your waiting allies.
 Second Wind is Muradin’s trait, which passively restores his health when he has not taken damage in the last four seconds. This restoration accelerates when he is below 40% health – 50% if talented. This gives Muradin the ability to re-enter a fight after hanging back for a short period of time, which works especially when since his abilities can help him disengage from combat at will., AKA the anti-autoattack tank, this build is designed to mitigate the damage from heroes that rely on basic attacks to deal their damage (e.g. Illidan, Zeratul, Raynor, Valla, Sgt. Hammer, The Lost Vikings etc.) If the enemy team has ranged autoattack heroes, pick Block and Avatar. If the enemy has melee autoattack heroes, pick Reverberation instead to punish autoattack heroes that get near you. Skullcracker and Avatar also help you slow down the attack of these auto-attack heroes by stunning them for brief windows of time – further reducing their damage output as you brawl against each other.


Talent Build: Block OR Reverberation > Third Wind > Skullcracker > Avatar > Healing Static > Imposing Presence > Unstoppable Force

, This build is all about negating ability-based damage while making it easier for Muradin to fall back, recover health and rejoin the fight. Block, Avatar, Spell Shield and Hardened Shield will allow you to better withstand bursts of damage directed at you. Landing Momentum and Dwarf Launch serve two purposes: to help you escape after absorbing damage, and then to come back and better re-engage once you’ve healed up enough. This build is thus ideal against enemy teams that rely on hard-hitting ability damage (e.g. Jaina, Kael’thas, Kerrigan, Nova, Falstad, Zeratul etc.)


Talent Build: Block > Third Wind > Landing Momentum > Avatar > Spell Shield > Dwarf Launch > Hardened Shield

, This build is all about bringing and keeping your opponents where you want them to be – either to prevent them from hurting your teammates or to bring them closer so that your teammates can chew them up. Infused Hammer lets you toss out Storm Bolt so that you can save more mana for Thunder Clap and Dwarf Toss. Those two skills in turn will be heavily talented to let you better position yourself, isolate enemies with all the slows, and then knock them away from their teammates with Hay Maker. Pick Grand Slam if you think you can jump safely into the enemy team’s formation to knock two squishy heroes to your teammates. Pick Rewind for a safer approach, since you can jump into their formation, unleash the rest of your skills, hit Rewind and let loose another Storm Bolt and Thunder Clap before jumping back out of their formation with a refreshed Dwarf Toss. All this makes the Controller very tricky to use – but also very rewarding if you manage to play it right.


Talent Build: Infused Hammer > Thunder Burn > Landing Momentum > Hay Maker > Thunder Strike > Dwarf Launch > Grand Slam OR Rewind

, This build is as simple as the Controller is complex. Walk in, hit people until they die and jump out when you take too much damage. Block/Reverberation gives added survivability against ranged and melee basic attacks. Thunder Burn, Skullcracker and Avatar all stand to gain from the 75% damage bonus of Give ‘em the Axe. Burning Rage adds even more damage simply by walking around. Rewind gives you the ability to further throw down disabling abilities and open up a path of escape with a refreshed Dwarf Toss. You won’t be as tough with this route, but this build will punish enemy teams who tend to ignore the warriors to focus down assassins or supports.


Talent Build: Block OR Reverberation > Thunder Burn > Skullcracker > Avatar > Burning Rage > Give ‘em the Axe! > Rewind

, This utility build specializes in dealing with large crowds of minions. It shines when your enemy is pushing too aggressively and is able to mass up a large number of minions and summoned creatures to batter down your gates.(e.g. specialists like Zagara, Azmodan, Sylvanas, Gazlowe, Abathur etc.) You can also regain a surprisingly large chunk of health with Healing Static and Crowd Control due to all the enemy units on the screen - not to mention the cooldown reduction from Battle Momentum and the ability refresh of Rewind.


Talent Build: Reverberation > Crowd Control > Battle Momentum > Avatar > Healing Static > Heavy Impact > Rewind

