 For this trap, you will need a few more items, but the basic premise is very similar to the trash can trap. This trap works well if you don’t have elevated tables or counters your pet rat will have access to. Before you get started, locate the following:


A wood plank or beam
A large bucket
Metal wire
An empty soda can
Peanut butter
Duct tape (optional)

, For this trap, you will be hanging the soda can across the top of the bucket in a way that allows it to spin freely. Once your rat reaches the can, it will attempt to eat the bait by placing weight on the can, thus spinning it and dropping the rat into the bucket.


Poke or drill a hole through the bottom of the soda can using a Phillip’s head screwdriver or drill.
Run the metal wire through the hole in the bottom of the can and the open lid.
 The can and wire should stretch across the diameter of the bucket in the center so your rat won’t be able to reach an edge to prevent itself from falling. If you are using a five-gallon utility bucket, you will not need to use the duct tape.


Run the metal wire through the handle holes on the bucket so the can is hanging across the top of the bucket horizontally.
If you are not using a bucket with handle holes, simply duct tape the ends of the wire to either side of the bucket so the can is hung across the top horizontally.
Make sure the can spins freely on the wire.
 You need to use peanut butter to bait this trap as most other kinds of baits would fall off of the can. You can always add things to the peanut butter that you know your rat likes as well. The peanut butter will serve as a glue to keep the bait in place.


Spread the peanut butter onto the top of the can that’s hanging across the open bucket.
If the can does not spin easily, the rat will be able to just eat the peanut butter and be on its way.
 Make sure the plank of wood is long enough to keep the walk up the bucket from being too steep. You may want to position the bucket and plank near a wall to avoid tripping over it as you come and go, as well as to help make sure the plank of wood does not fall off the bucket.


Place the plank of wood on the bucket so it creates a nice walkway up to the top of the bucket.
Position the end of the plank just far enough away from the can that the rat will be able to reach the peanut butter, but won’t be able to eat it without stepping off the plank.
 Check back on your trap regularly to see if you’ve caught your rat! You may hear the sound of your rat falling as it lands in the bucket, but the fall shouldn’t injure it. If you are worried about your rat being trapped overnight, you may not want to leave the trap set as you sleep.


Check every two hours or so to make sure your rat doesn’t have to go too long without water.
Remove the rat from the bucket with two hands to keep him from escaping again.

