 This is the person whom will team up with you for the next four years regarding education and beyond. They will ask you what you envision on doing in the future, your goals, and your career decisions. Draw out a plan of realistic choices that you feel confident doing. Be fully aware that future careers do change for many, even in college, so don't harvest yourself on a specific goal.;
, Many to all colleges prefer students to succeed and have the standard subjects, such as math, literature, history, and science for the "base" degree. More higher technical degrees then unravel into more specifics in each subject, depending on which path one wishes to follow.
 Work with them to pinpoint what school courses to take and pass to fit those college subjects the best. Sift through the selections of high school electives that match with the specific degree that you are going for.


Ask your counselor if you can fit in college prep, advanced placement classes, etc. Know that you may need to take exams or have prerequisites.
 Colleges want people whom will involve themselves in their school and has shown dedication in the past. Extracurricular activities doesn't need to be specifically in school. Search for clubs or volunteer work around your local town. Listing down these things, how long you have been doing them, etc will show the college(s) that you have the ability to manage your time with other events aside from homework.
 Your cumulative GPA (grade point average) is very important for colleges, as each one requires a minimum in order to enter or be accepted.
 On average, there's about 25-35 students per teacher in a high school class. However, in college, it will exceed between 25 to 100+ per professor. Classes are done in any given environment, whether it's in actual science laboratory or auditorium. If you do not pay attention in school, it would be wise to adjust your listening and note taking skills early, as the professor will talk quickly and won't be able to say something twice. Most college students bring tape recorders or laptops to type out notes on.
 Outline their requirements and any prerequisites that you might need. Ask around your family and friends on their experiences with college (or community college). This is also the time to start thinking and planning out financial needs. Determine and sketch up your plans:

Where are you residing? Are you planning to team up with friends for rent, stay with your parents/guardians, or residing on campus. Know that residing on campus always requires housing and meals.






Tuition and fees. Normally, colleges and universities determine tuition based on the amount of credits you are planning to take. There are specialty courses that have their own payment, as well as sub-courses.






Books. Unlike high school where books are provided to you with ease, each college professor requires you to get specific textbooks and other necessary items. You might discover that paying for books is higher than one can believe; so try to plan on purchasing used books, which can be purchased online or through previous students. You might even be treasured by friends or siblings whom have taken those courses and achieve free books.







Financial aid and scholarships. Financial aid for college gives a lift to budgets and assists you greatly. Most programs requires you to maintain a minimum grade point average to retain them. Apply for scholarships early.
 A lot of high schools have you take these either in your junior or senior year and most colleges accepts at least one of them as a requirement. Know that you must pass with a certain score on them, for certain degrees.
 Get to know the structures, buildings, admission, parking areas, any housing placements. Take advance of any tours provided by the college(s). Pick up any admission or information packets while you are there.
 Don't apply to colleges that do not appeal to you, might exceed your experiences/goals, etc. Over half of the students typically find themselves going to college in a different state than their home. Note that most to all colleges have application deadlines, so be sure to have everything organized and ready. This is the time to prove on paper to them why you wish to attend the college, what activities you have done, and so forth. Always keep a copy for yourself for each application to avoid any stress if anything gets misplaced, etc. It will just be one less thing to worry about.

