 Measure 3 cups (360 g) unbleached all-purpose flour into a large mixing bowl and add 1 teaspoon of kosher salt and 1 tablespoon of ground cinnamon. Whisk the dry ingredients to incorporate the cinnamon.Set the dry mixture aside while you make the wet dough mixture.
 Soften 1 cup (226 g) unsalted butter and put it into a large mixing bowl. Add 1/2 cup (100 g) brown sugar and 3/4 cup (175 g) granulated sugar. Beat the butter and sugars using a hand or stand mixer with a paddle attachment. Cream the mixture on medium speed for about 1 minute.The mixture should become lighter in color and a little fluffy.
 Add 1 egg to the bowl with the creamed butter and sugar along with 1 teaspoon of pure vanilla extract. Zest 1 lemon and add it to the mixture. Beat the egg, vanilla, and lemon zest into the mixture on low speed.You'll probably need to stop and scrape down the sides of the bowl to ensure that the zest and vanilla are completely mixed in.
 Slowly stir in the dry mixture on low speed, so it doesn't fly out of the mixing bowl. Keep stirring until the dry mixture is incorporated and the dough forms. It should start pulling away from the sides of the bowl. Pat the dough into a disk shape and wrap it in plastic wrap. Refrigerate the dough for 1 hour.Chilling the dough will make the cookies tender and flaky.
 Once the dough has chilled, turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out a few rimmed baking sheets and spray them with cooking spray. Tear a few sheets of parchment paper and lay them on the baking sheets. Set these aside while you roll out the dough.You can remove the dough from the refrigerator at this point, so it softens a little. This will make it easier to roll out.
 Pour in 2 tablespoons of milk and use a fork to whisk the egg wash. Set the egg wash aside while you make the sweet topping.The egg wash will help the cinnamon sugar topping stick to the cookies and will give them a rich golden color.
 To make the sweet topping, get out a small prep bowl and measure out 1/4 cup (50 g) granulated sugar into it. Add 1 tablespoon of ground cinnamon and use a spoon to stir the topping. Set the sweet topping aside while you roll out the cookies.The cinnamon should be completely stirred into the sugar.
 Unwrap the dough and divide it into three pieces. Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and place one of the pieces on it. Use a rolling pin to roll the piece into a rectangle that's 1/8th-inch (3 mm) thick. Take a knife or fluted pastry wheel and cut the dough into long rectangles that are 1 1/2 to 2-inches (3 to 5 cm) long. Repeat this with the two other pieces of dough.You can also use cookie cutters to just cut out shapes. Or you can cut the dough into squares instead of rectangles.
 Set all of the pastry rectangles on the prepared baking sheets. Leave 1/2-inch (12 mm) of space between the rectangles. Dip a pastry brush in the egg wash and brush the wash over each rectangle. Sprinkle them with the cinnamon sugar mixture.Sprinkle a lot of the sweet mixture over the pastry squares, since this will also help them crisp up.
 Put the baking sheets in the oven and cook the cookies for 10 to 12 minutes. They should turn dark brown. Remove the baking sheets from the oven and let the cookies cool for a few minutes on the sheet before you remove them to a wire rack. Let the cookies completely cool before serving or storing them.To help the cookies bake evenly, you may want to rotate the baking sheets halfway through the cooking time.
You can store the cookies for up to 2 weeks, if they're in an airtight container.

