 Don’t try to open your cat’s mouth when it is riled up, playful, or upset. You should also avoid waking your cat up to open its mouth, as it could scare the cat. Instead, just pick a time when the cat is calm and happy and wants to be around you., You need to think about where and how you will hold your cat and how and where you will hold any medications you are going to give it, if you are doing that. Ideally you will do this on a tabletop. Make sure there is nothing breakable nearby on the table, as your cat may break loose and knock things over.


Place the towel or blanket on the table and spread it out. You will use the towel or blanket to wrap the cat up so it can't move.
You will also want to have a syringe (without a needle attached) full of water on hand if you are giving your cat a pill. This will help to wash down the pill.
Keep the pill in your more dexterous hand. Get your arms at the same height as your cat.
 Pick up the cat and place it in the middle of the towel, holding it down in a laying position on its belly. Bring one side of the towel up over the body, then bring the other side up over snugly. Bring the back end up towards the front making sure it’s snug.Finally wrap the front of the towel around the cat’s back snugly. This should only leave the cat's head sticking out. Make sure the material is snugly wrapped around the cat in order to keep legs and claws inside the material.
Try and calm the cat if it is fighting you. Some cats will put up with being wrapped up extremely well, while others will fight you tremendously. Gauge your specific cat and judge whether you can wrap it and calm it down or if you just need to wrap it up right before you open its mouth.
 If giving the cat medicine, hold the cat with your non-dominant hand while you pick up the medication with your dominant hand. If you have a helper, have them hold the wrapped cat for you. If you don’t, slide your elbow and forearm of your non-dominant hand alongside the cat’s wrapped body until you are holding it between your arm and your chest while the wrapped cat is still on the table., Put your thumb on one side and your forefinger on the other side of your cat's mouth along the cheeks where the jaw hinges. You will be able to just barely be able to feel the teeth through the cheeks.
 Basically you are pushing your fingers between the upper and lower jaw while applying downwards pressure. This pressure will be uncomfortable for the cat so it will open its mouth.
 Using your pointer finger and thumb, put the pill toward the back of the mouth over the tongue in one quick movement. Then quickly withdraw your fingers so you don’t get bit. If you are worried about getting bit, you can purchase a pill popper that is like a long syringe with a plunger that you place the pill in and pass this into the cat’s mouth.Don’t just shove a pill down the back of your cat’s throat. The pill could be accidently shoved into the cat’s windpipe causing choking. Conversely, damage could be done to the back of the throat if it is forced down it’s esophagus., Let go of the cat’s mouth and hold its top jaw or face so that its nose points upward. Rub your cat's throat gently to trigger the swallowing reflex.


Use a syringe to place a small amount of water in the commissure between the lips to encourage the pill to “go down” the esophagus. This prevents the pill from irritating or “sticking” in the throat and damaging the tissues.
DO NOT shoot the water down the back of the throat or the cat may inhale the water into it’s lungs.
 You don't want your cat to injure itself while trying to get away, so you should try to calm it down a bit before releasing it. Also, don't forget to give your cat a lot of praise and some tasty treats as a reward for good behavior.