 There are a number of places you can find police dogs to adopt, including law enforcement agencies, non-profit agencies, and shelters.


Contact your local police department. They may not have any retired police dogs available for adoption, but may be able to get you in contact with some places that do.
Look into law enforcement agencies that work with police dogs. Law enforcement agencies such as the National Police Canine Association, the North American Police Work Dog Association, and the United States War Dog Association may be good places to start.Check online ads. Sometimes retired police dogs may be available on websites such as K-9 Classifieds.Contact non-profit organizations and animal shelters that specialize in locating retired police dogs that need adoption. Think about adopting a retired police dog as a rescue from places such as Mission K-9 Rescue or Universal K-9.Contact branches of the military. Working military dogs also need homes after they’ve completed their service.;
, Retired police dogs are often not available for adoption by the public due to their unique training.


Keep in mind that many retired police dogs are not available for public adoption because their training can make them dangerous for civilians to handle. They may be housed with their former partners after their "careers" are over.You might find a dog with a police or military background who wasn't suited to the job. These dogs may still retain some of their initial training.
Realize that even if you are able to find a dog, there’s a long wait. If you want to adopt a retired military dog, for example, you may wait 6 months or more., These agencies are very busy. Additionally, it takes a long time to adopt a retired police dog, so it’s important to get started early.


Find an agency near you. Try to find an adoption agency in your area if possible. It will be easier to adopt the dog if it’s nearby.
Visit the facility where the retired police dog is kept. See where the dog is kept, since that may tell you something about the dog’s healthy and safety.
Visit the dog if possible. You may be able to visit the dog you wish to adopt. Try to get to know the dog and see if it’s a match.

