 Make it clear to the child that if a situation does not involve them, they should not report it. For instance, if a child is doodling in their notebook while the teacher is talking, they should not report this improper behavior since the teacher can choose to discipline that child if they wish.For example, you might say, “If a situation does not involve you, do not report it. If your classmate is doodling in their notebook while the teacher is talking, there’s no need to report this. The teacher can choose to discipline that child if they wish.”
Other situations where tattling is unnecessary include situations where the child could solve the problem themselves. Encourage the tattletale to exhaust all possible avenues for problem resolution before discussing it with an adult.
For instance, if the tattletale complains that their classmate is bothering them, suggest to the tattletale child that next time it happens, they should ask their classmate to kindly be quiet. Suggest that the tattletale child say, “Please be quiet.”

, Explain to the tattletale child that if their safety, or the health and safety of another student is at risk, they should immediately report the situation to you or another adult. For instance, if the child sees two children fighting with knives, they should report it immediately to an adult in charge.Boil it down for the tattletale by reminding them that tattling is intended to get someone in trouble, while reporting appropriately (“telling”) is designed to get someone out of trouble.
 When your receive a negative report from the tattletale, ask them to think about why they’re bringing this information to you. Ask them directly: “Are you trying to help your friend? Or are you trying to get them in trouble?”If they answer that they’re trying to help their friend, push them further by asking, “How does it help your friend if I find out about what they were doing?” Highlight the contradictions and falsehoods in the tattletale’s explanation and remind them that lying is unacceptable.
If the tattletale child admits that they were primarily interested in seeing their friend get in trouble, you should reply, “That is not a good use of your time or mine. Please do not tattle on others again.”

, Explain to the tattletale that by tattling, they run the risk of being targeted by bullies and called unkind names like snitch or spy. You could say, “Tattling might cause bullies to target you, and lead others to call you names like snitch or spy.” Ask “How do those mean names make you feel?”You can follow up by asking “How would you like being tattled on?” When they reply that they would not, remind them that they should always treat others as they want to be treated.
Inform the child additionally that tattling will not help them gain friends.
 Another way to discourage tattling is to talk about the value of privacy and secrets. Say "Your friends might not trust you with secrets or important feelings if they think you're going to tell them to other people."

