 If you've been charged as a result of the altercation you had with the elderly person, you do not want to go to trial. The jury typically will be more sympathetic towards the elderly person, even if they were the aggressor.Many states reclassify the degrees of assault if a person over the age of 65 is involved. This means even if you were charged with a misdemeanor, you may be charged with a felony if the altercation involved an elderly person.
If you have a strong case of self defense, you can discuss it with the prosecutor. However, keep in mind that most prosecutors know that the jury will be very sympathetic towards the elderly person, regardless of the evidence you have.
If you don't have a criminal history or any record of violent incidents in your past, you may be able to get the charges knocked down to the misdemeanor level. It also may be possible to get the charges dropped, but don't count on it.
Your attorney will help you work with the prosecutor to assure that your side of the story is told and you stay out of jail.
 If the elderly person was injured in the altercation, offering to pay their medical bills can help ease the situation and may keep them from trying to sue you for more.It may seem unfair that you have to pay the medical bills for someone who started a fight with you. But keep in mind that the law typically is not going to see it your way.
This is especially true if you are young and able-bodied. You're going to have a hard time convincing anyone, absent extraordinary evidence, that the elderly person assaulted you first.
For this reason, you're typically better off making an offer while you can to control the damage and limit your liability.
Any offer should be in writing, and should specify exactly which medical bills you're willing to pay, and for how long. Otherwise you may end up paying for this person's medical care for years.
 Particularly if the elderly person has taken you up on your offer to cover their medical bills, a release can protect you from future liability. You can even make it a mutual release in which you both promise not to sue each other for damages resulting from the altercation.If the elderly person has not yet sued you, a release can prevent them from doing so. This document also is called a "covenant not to sue."
If you've hired a civil attorney, get them to draw up a document for you and get in contact with the elderly person or their representative.
You also can find forms and templates online that you can use to draft a document yourself. You may want to have an attorney look over it to make sure it contains everything it needs to be effective in your state.
Keep in mind that in most cases, it's not going to be advisable for you to sue the elderly person, even if you were the victim of the assault. If you have questions or concerns, talk to a civil assault attorney about your options.
 If the elderly person has already filed a lawsuit against you, the most painless way to get out of it is through mediation. A neutral third party will work with you and the elderly person to find a mutually agreeable resolution to your dispute.Most cities have community mediation clinics that provide mediation services at a relatively low cost.
You probably feel it's unfair that you should have to pay anything at all to the elderly person when they were the one who assaulted you.
Through mediation, you may be able to get them to admit that they were the aggressor and get out of the situation better than you would if you took the fight to court.
During mediation, remain calm and try to maintain an air of understanding. If you lash out at the person or get defensive, it puts you in a weaker position by making you appear more aggressive.
Mediation is confidential and voluntary. This means if you aren't able to come to an agreement, you won't be forced to accept something you don't like. Anything said in mediation, stays in mediation and can't be used against you later on.
 Any agreement you make with the elderly person to resolve your dispute should be in writing. This ensures that the settlement is legally binding on all parties.Read through any settlement agreement carefully before you sign it. If you've hired an attorney, have them look over it as well.
Depending on whether the elderly person has already filed a lawsuit against you, the settlement agreement itself may not be confidential. Keep this in mind if the agreement includes any apologies or admissions of guilt.
Generally speaking, you don't want to agree to anything that includes a statement where you admit that you were at fault – either for the altercation as a whole or for the elderly person's injuries.
If you're satisfied with the agreement and both you and the elderly person sign it, make sure you have copies of the signed agreement for your records in case anything comes up later.

