;
, This lets a baby's brain process what she or he has taken in.


All babies are different; some crave sitting in your lap and reading, others could not care less at this age. Offer an activity at several peaceful times and if the baby rejects it completely, go on to something they do like. Come back to the ignored activity in a few weeks.
 For gross motor stimulation, your baby is concentrating on learning to walk. Make sure the environment is a safe one: no sharp corners, and the like. Baby gates at tops and bottoms of stairs, that sort of thing. Babies this age also like "tumbling" with an adult, briefly being upside down (but safe), rolling them like a log across the floor. Dads love to toss babies in the air, and moms seem to hate it. Just beware of ceiling fans!


Riding toys powered by the baby's walking steps are great.
 For fine motor skills, nothing beats feeding. (Wash the baby's hands before eating!) Cheerios are great at helping a baby go from the raking grasp of a baby to the pincer grasp of a one year old. Let your baby feed herself with appropriate finger foods like cut up seedless grapes, banana bites, etc.


Shape sorters are also great for babies this age, as are the push toys like popcorn poppers.
, As well, they like rhythm band toys like a tambourine (not that they'll play it in rhythm, but you never know).
 Smells are a big deal to babies, and are very primitive. Say the word, "Tangerine", break the tangerine piece underneath the baby's nose, and then let her eat the bite.
 Speech is well developed by one though most parents don't know that. Babies should be babbling and if not, get about 18 inches (45.7 cm) from their face and echo what they say. They know what they are talking about, even if you don't. And lose the pacifier except during nap and bedtime. You can't talk with your mouth plugged up. If your baby isn't making babbling sounds at 1 year, do bring it up with the pediatrician.
 Show your baby a bottle and say "Bottle" looking the baby right in the eye. If a parent has a big bushy beard, realize the baby isn't "seeing" how to say things!

, Babies don't need a mommy to play with them all the time. they need time to entertain themselves and do what is on their agenda.
 "Free range" children that never nap and go to bed at 11 pm usually aren't real happy campers and I'm not sure they learn as well as babies who keep to a sensible schedule. (sensible doesn't mean using a stopwatch).
 Clap and smile when she does (unless of course it is when she's thrown the cat into the bathwater and you have to get it out). Nothing succeeds like success.
 A little girl whose daddy was helping her get out of the swimming pool, said to him; "I need to practice if I'm ever going to learn it, Daddy," she said, wanting to be independent. He wisely stood by and let her wrestle safely with the problem. He didn't abandon her, he stood by and cheered when she did it herself.
 A one year old can take off her socks. When you undress her, tell her to take off her socks. Don't do it for her. It might be faster that time, but your are trying to make her independent. Once a child has learned how to do a task, let them do it. Never do for a child what a child can do for herself (unless she's sick).
 And most babies love tickle time, no matter how old they are!

, They'll be grown in the blink of an eye.

