 Do not include unnecessary things in your list. Everything should be in limited quantity which you can consume before it expires. Purchasing an item and not consuming it before it expires is sheer wastage of money.;
, Store weekly circulars can be found either as an insert in the local newspaper or inside the store. Take note of the sale's beginning and end dates.


Plan upcoming meals and make grocery shopping lists based on the current sale items.



Some stores do things like double or triple value grocery coupons, but maybe only on specified days; accept competitor or expired coupons; allow you to stack a manufacturer and store coupon for the same item; give overage for coupons worth more than the priced item or even honor another store's advertised sales price.
 Clip grocery coupons from various sources such as the Sunday newspaper coupon inserts and in-store electronic coupons or print coupons from various Internet sources.You should look for genuine discount on the items you need. When you go to market, you come across hundreds of discount offers and deals. So, prudently observe them and make the most of the discount.


Usually, stores offer discount on the eatables and other things which are going to expire, so make sure you consume them before they expire.
Organize which grocery coupons you'll need to match your grocery shopping lists. It's ideal to use coupons for items that are also on sale that week and stock up on regularly used items.
 This will give you a goal to increase your savings.


Be flexible with brands. In almost all cases the store brand label is less expensive than a name brand.
 Many stores post the unit price of an item along with the total price. Compare the unit price to those of different brand-name items to get the best value.
 Don't pay extra for the convenience unless absolutely necessary.
 Despite having a lot of benefits online shopping has a drawback that you cannot see or feel the product you are buying. Therefore, you should always buy branded items online where you can be assured about the quality of the product where you can contact customer care department regarding your complaints.
 Doing this helps curb impulse buys and may even force you to put items back on the shelf if your total is adding up to more than your budget.
 Most of the online stores issue coupon codes to offer discounts to their customers. You can redeem these coupon codes every time you shop online. Canny online shoppers always look for coupon codes when they shop online. You can search these coupons on search engine with keywords like myntra coupons, jabong coupons, flipkart coupons, foodpanda coupons etc.
 Not all items ring up at the price they say they will. Many large chain stores will compensate you with the item for free if it rings up incorrectly at the register.
 Tempting discounts are available these days. Most of the people get ripped off and lose their hard earned money by falling prey to any tempting discount offer. Check the authenticity of the discount and quality of the product you are going to buy. Do not trust just any vendor, especially in the case of tempting discount offers.
 You need to be shrewd to save money. Visit multiple online stores before purchasing a product and look for the best discount deal or offer for the same product of same brand or any other reliable brand. This helps you to pay the lowest possible price. It has been surveyed that 95% people look for discount coupons and deals before purchasing since it is the most feasible way to save money.

