 You can buy shampoo or soap that is specifically made for horses. However, these shampoos can be expensive. Using baby shampoo is a safe and effective replacement that can help save you money. Whenever you need to wash your horse, use baby shampoo to cut down on cost. You can also make your own baby shampoo or soap with this recipe:1 oz of liquid castile soap
4 oz of water
Add lavender oil or orange essential oil for aroma;
, Fly repellents are a good idea to use on your horse, helping to keep flies away from your horse's eyes, face, and body. However, these fly repellents can cost a lot of money when buying them pre-made. To save money, try making your own fly repellents at home. The following recipe can be just as effective as a store bought fly repellent: Mix 1 teaspoon of eucalyptus oil, 1 teaspoon lavender oil, 1 teaspoon sandalwood oil and 1 teaspoon tea tree oil
Put this mixture into a 1 liter spray bottle
Add 250ml of white wine vinegar
Fill the rest up with water

, Keeping mud off your horse can require a lot of energy. You could try applying a mud guard product to help keep the mud from sticking. However, you can save money by using baby oil instead of a store bought mud guard. Baby oil will help keep your horse clean and looking great, while saving you money.Baby oil can also be used as a mane and tail detangler. Apply the baby oil after bathing or brushing.
To make your own mud guard, mix 1 part mineral oil with eight parts water., Your horses hooves can get dirty quickly, especially if it has been raining. Cleaning them often using commercially bought cleaners can get expensive quickly. If you want to save some money, try using vegetable oil as a safe and affordable alternative. The vegetable oil will help keep the hooves clean and healthy.You can also use coconut oil., Farrier's services can be very valuable and worthwhile investments. However, they can sometimes drive up the costs of caring for your horse. If you want to cut down on the cost of farrier services, try asking them for other options. They may be able to work with you to reduce cost and still upkeep your horse's cleanliness and health.Some farriers might be more affordable than others.
Your farrier may not need to replace your horse's shoes as often.
Your horse may not need a full set of shoes.
 Bedding is a necessary part of caring for your horse when it's in the stable. In order to keep your horse and its stall clean, you will need to replace the bedding often. For this reason, bedding can often become very costly. There are two main options you have when providing bedding: rubber bedding and straw bedding. Each will come with their own pros and cons. For example:Rubber bedding costs more upfront, but it will last much longer and won't need to be replaced often.
Straw bedding is cheaper, but you'll have to keep buying it and replacing it.
Turning your horse out can help lower the cost of bedding., Whatever supplies you need, try shopping around for the best deals. Make a list of all the items you need and looking around for offers with the lowest prices. Even small items can add up, so take a close look at everything you need to save you the most money on supplies and equipment.Look at “dollar” stores for things like sponges or storage boxes.
Check online for any deals on brushes or other grooming necessities.
Always keep an eye out for sales or coupons.
Try negotiating with local businesses or contacts.

