 For a case of hives that is mild to moderate, antihistamines are often used. Antihistamines help block histamine, which leads to the hives.These may be over-the-counter (OTC) medications or prescription antihistamines including:Non-sedating antihistamines like Loratadine (Claritin, Claritin D, Alavert), Fexofenadine (Allegra, Allegra D), Cetirizine (Zyrtec, Zyrtec-D), and Clemastine (Tavist)
Sedating antihistamines like Diphenhydramine (Benadryl), Brompheniramine (Dimetane), and Chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton)
OTC corticosteroids in nasal sprays, such as Triamcinolone acetonide (Nasacort)
Prescription corticosteroids, like Prednisone, Prednisolone, Cortisol, and Methylprednisolone
Mast-cell stabilizers, such as Cromolyn sodium (Nasalcrom)
Leukotriene inhibitors, like Montelukast (Singulair)
Topical immune-modulating substances, like Tacrolimus (Protopic) and Pimecrolimus (Elidel)

, You can rub a soothing lotion onto the hives on your face. Calamine lotion can be applied to hives to relieve the itching as often as needed. Rinse off the calamine lotion with cool water.You can also use a cotton cloth or ball soaked in either Pepto Bismol or Milk of Magnesia and use like a lotion. Dab the soaked cotton ball onto the hives. Leave on for five to 10 minutes and rinse off with cool water.
 In rare cases, hives can cause swelling in the throat and can cause an emergency situation that requires epinephrine. An EpiPen can be used for those who are severely allergic and require epinephrine to avoid anaphylaxis, a severe allergic reaction that may occur with or without the appearance of hives. The symptoms of an anaphylactic reaction include:Skin rashes which may include hives. There may be itching, and flushed or pale skin.
A sense of warmth
The sensation or feeling a lump in the throat
Wheezing or other difficulty in breathing
A swollen tongue or throat
A rapid pulse and heartbeat
Nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea
Dizziness or fainting

, If you are unsure what causes your hives, or home remedies aren’t relieving them, you should see your doctor. You may need to see an allergist to figure out the specific allergens that trigger your hives. Your doctor may be able to prescribe you stronger medication to treat your hives.


Angioedema is a deeper form of swelling in the skin that often occurs around the face. It is a deeper swelling than hives and occurs anywhere on the body, but when it appears on the face, it commonly occurs around the eyes and lips. Angioedema can be very dangerous because it can also cause swelling around the throat. If you experience any form of hives around the face and also feel any tightening of your throat, any changes in your voice, or any difficulty swallowing or breathing, this could be a medical emergency. You should call for help immediately.If you think you may have angioedema, seek medical attention immediately.

