 Real estate that is represented by a realtor will not work if you are trying to get a finder’s fee. The realtor essentially takes your place as the intermediary. You might find properties for sale by owner on websites like Craigslist or other classified real estate sites. You also might find property by driving around neighborhoods that you think have potential.;
, Some owners are explicit that they will offer a finder’s fee in their advertisement. Call or email them for the exact details of what they would pay and how they are hoping to move forward. Others are not explicit about whether they would pay you-- contact them to ask if they would pay a finder’s fee., Make sure that you have in writing that the customer agrees to pay you the agreed upon fee once you have provided the service and the property has successfully been sold.Always negotiate your rates before you begin to locate properties. It might be a set amount, or it could be a percentage. Keep in mind that that without a contract, you probably have no legal recourse if the seller decides that he or she does not want to pay your fee., For those owners who have given you permission to try and find a buyer, inform them that you want to see what their property is like so that you have all the available information. As you’re touring the site, take notes about the features. Ask permission to take photos., Tell them about the property and show the photos. Talk to them about what they are interested in purchasing so that you can keep looking for their criteria in the future., Create a website with the properties for which you are attempting to find interested buyers. Include well-written descriptions of the homes and photographs.
 Post them on the classified websites with links to the descriptions and photographs on your website. Consider posting the information in the local Sunday paper real estate section., If all goes well, you have facilitated a sale. Hopefully your work is done at this point. If the sale falls through, however, you’ll be back to work finding a potential buyer to introduce to the seller.
 If your introduction was successful, you will be getting paid. Depending on how you have created your written agreement, you will probably get paid when the sale goes through., After the introduction, your work is done. Now you need to be moving on to the next groups of buyers and sellers.

