;
,, Whenever you receive an assignment or task, don't underestimate yourself! Brainstorm. Think and write down the first things that come to your mind. You may find some interesting things. Foster those ideas. Don't just write them off as silly, stupid, or irrational. Think, "Could I actually do this?". If the answer is yes, go for it. You never know what can come out of a simple idea.
 Everything you do should be in your own way. If you're going to a meeting, you probably don't want to overdo it and wear bright, distracting colors. However, you could add an extra accessory to your outfit to make it less dull. You shouldn't be afraid to try new things.
 Things not bought in stores are very creative and noticeable. People stop and think "Where did she get that?", or "Wow that looks cool! I've never seen that before!" There are also plenty of DIY websites. Find one that looks interesting, and try it out! You can even put your own spin on things.
 It will sharpen your skills so you're creative when you're not even trying to be. If you're given a PowerPoint project make your graph look cool and add some funky symbols!

, Cultivate an appreciation for art, listen to music, and read! All of those things involve some measure of creativity to make them. Look at surrealism in art, listen to non-mainstream bands, or read fantasy books. All of the above will fuel your mind with mystical ideas and force it to begin to think of things in other ways.
, When you look at it at the end of the day you will be surprised at just how much you have thought. And use these ideas! Don't hush them just because they seem stupid! The man who said "I think it would be cool if people rode around in big metal tins fueled by oil that were on wheels." probably sounded crazy to his friends but now just about every American owns a car! If you find something cool in your ideas, work on it. Do it start to finish!

, You will get a lot of exposure and ideas will float around. In the end you will have shaped and molded the raw idea until it is a masterpiece ready for showing to the world.
 Criticism is a great way to learn and improve. However, don't let it make you think you're not worth doing what you love. There are many critics that will bluntly tell you that you're not good at something. And then again, many may praise you a bit too much. Either way, keep that head held high! You can still achieve your goals. Remember, critics are people too with many, many flaws.
 Certain colors inspire certain emotions; learn to use them! For example:


Black – authority, discipline, strength and promoting independence.
Blue – cool, calming, relaxing, and promotes feelings of tranquility and peace.
Green – balance, refreshing, normalizing, and promotes emotional growth.
Orange – cheerful, commanding, and stimulates goodwill, conversation and appetites.
Pink – calming, accepting, and encourages affection and socialization.
Purple – comforting, spiritual, and generates mystery and a good sense of intuition.
Red – empowerment, stimulation, drama, competition and passion.
White – purification, energy, unity, and gives vigor to other colors it is used in combination with.
Yellow – cheerful, expanding, and increases energy.

