 When you file a return using electronic filing — or using tax preparation software —your return is much less likely to have errors. The IRS estimates that there's about a 20% error rate with tax returns filled out by hand, whereas tax preparation software only has a 1% error rate.If you're worried about making mistakes on your tax return, stick with tax preparation software.


If you have a complicated tax return, you may benefit from filing manually because you will be able to provide the IRS with 100% of the information rather than the 40% that a tax software program would transmit. Therefore, if you have a complex situation requiring lots of extra forms and schedules, a paper form might be better for you.If your tax return is complex, consider hiring a professional, such as an accountant, to help protect against errors in your manual return.
 Due to the preference for electronic preparation, taxpayers no longer receive tax packages in the mail. You can pick one up at your local library or post office. You can also download the necessary tax forms from the IRS website.
 Each form has specific instructions. You will need to read the instructions and follow them carefully. Use a pen with black ink to complete the forms. Start by filling in sections relating to your income — from your job, contracts, assets, or equity — and then move on to any deductions that you can subtract from your tax debt.


Check for the following to get the best results:

Math errors - always check and double check your math on your return.
Double check that your social security number is correctly written on the return.
If you are married, check to see whether filing joint/separate returns is more beneficial.
If you are single and have a dependent who lives with you, make sure you check to see if you can qualify as a head of household.
Make sure that you claim all of your dependents, such as elderly parents who are living with you.
Make sure that you sign and date your return and enter your occupation.


Attach all supporting schedules with your tax return.
Write your Social Security Number at the bottom of each page in the specified section.
Sign and date each return before mailing it in.
 Follow the instructions provided with your forms to calculate your taxes owed. You may be able to apply deductions and credits depending on how you filled out the other sections of your tax return.
 Check for mathematical errors and incorrect or missing information. You may want to hire a professional to go over your taxes and catch any errors before you send them in. Hiring a professional to look over your return will cost a bit more than filing without a review, but a professional may catch errors that you have overlooked. These errors might cost you money or even cause you to be audited.
 Mail your tax returns using certified mail on or before the filing deadline, which is usually April 15th. Use the addresses provided in your instructions to mail your federal and state returns separately.
 If you owe money, you can make a payment by authorizing an electronic funds withdrawal from a checking or savings account, by credit card or debit card, by mailing a check or money order (made out to the United States Treasury) using Form 1040-V, Payment Voucher, or by enrolling in the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), which is a secure government website that allows users to make federal tax payments and schedule tax payments in advance via the internet or phone., If you think that you will need an extension, you can request one online or by mail. Keep in mind that you must file your request for an extension by the due date for your return, which is usually April 15th. If you apply for an extension, you may be allowed 6 more moths to file your tax return.To get an extension by mail, file apaper Form 4868. Complete the form and then mail the form to the address shown in the form instructions.
To get an extension online, complete an electronic version of Form 4868 using the tax software that you have purchased.
Keep in mind that an extension of time to file is not an extension of time to pay. When you file a Form 4868, you may have to pay part or all of your estimated income taxes owed.
If you are unable to pay the full amount of tax due with your tax return because of financial hardship, you should still file the tax return on time. When you file, you can make a “good faith” payment of as much of the tax due as you can afford to pay.
If you believe that you will be able to pay in full within 120 days, you should call 1-800-829-1040 to establish the request to have extra time.
If you cannot pay within 120 days, you should complete Form 9465 or Form 9465-FS to request paying the remaining tax in installments.

