 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile devices. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button to start.;
, Find level 350 on the game map that appears, and hit the level button to continue into the board.
 Once you’re in, study how your board is laid out. Do you have any good moves that can get you some special candies early on? How about good matches that can break the meringues at the bottom?

, If you don’t like your board, go ahead an exit. You won’t lose a life as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet.
 The two candy cannons at both far-end columns will drop candy time bombs once the candies underneath them are freed up. Having candy time bombs in the mix will add some challenge as you need to diffuse them before they run out. This will take your focus and moves away from clearing the jellies, which is your main goal. Avoid the candy cannons, at least during the early moves, so you can focus on the jellies. ,, When detonated, wrapped candies will clear all surrounding eight candies, and help you break the icing and jellies at the bottom of the playing board. If possible, try to match wrapped + wrapped to clear double the amount of jellies.


Create wrapped candies by matching five same-colored candies in a T shape, L shape, or + shape.
 When matched with another candy, a color bomb will clear all other candies on the board of the same color, and improve your odds for making matches.


Create color bombs by matching five same-colored candies in a row.
 When detonated, striped candies will clear all candies from the same rows or columns, depending on the direction in which the stripes on the candies are facing.


Create striped candies by matching four of the same-colored candies in a row. To create vertical striped candies that wipe out columns, move the fourth candy into the match in an upward or downward vertical direction; to create horizontal striped candies that wipe out rows, move the fourth candy into the match in a left or right horizontal direction.
 Whether you intentionally or accidentally unblock the candy cannons, you can use special candies to clear candy bombs and jellies simultaneously.Combine wrapped + stripped to clear all candy bombs and jellies from the surrounding three rows and three columns.
Combine color bomb + wrapped to turn all candies the same color as the wrapped candy into more wrapped candies that immediately detonate.
Combine color bomb + striped to turn all candies the same color as the striped candy into more striped candies that immediately detonate.
Combine color bomb + color bomb to wipe all existing candies and candy bombs from the playing board.
 Clearing the jellies at the bottom will result in candies cascading down from the top of the playing board, and can improve your odds for the creation of unexpected, automatic candy matches that can help clear additional jellies.

