 Attend the funeral and/or memorial service of your friend. Write a letter to your departed friend to get your feelings out and in the open. You should realize that it is normal to feel confused and hurt after a friend dies, and avoiding that pain will not make it go away. Instead, recognize your pain so that you can move on and heal., Many people focus memories of friends and family around how or when they died. Remembering them in this way can be painful. Instead, talk about stories of their life. Remember the things that you did together, and the things that they enjoyed doing the most. You might even set aside a day each year (their birthday for example) to visit their resting place or just have a moment of silence in their honor.Celebrating your friend is different from mourning them. It should not be about the pain of your loss, but about the joy of having had them in your life.
 Once you have had a chance to grieve, it will be time to start moving past the pain. Do something lively and exciting to distract yourself, and little by little, you will start to feel normal again. When thoughts of your friend do come up, refocus them to be about happy memories rather than painful ones.The time it takes a person to mourn will be different depending on the person and the relationship they had with their friend. You are not on any specific timetable.
For example, you could try activities like exercise, going out with friends, trying new foods, or travelling to new places.
Make sure to be gentle with yourself if you find that your grief comes in waves over time.
 Talk to people that you trust. You can open up to them about how you feel, or simply talk about other things to give your mind a break. If they offer to take you out or spend time with you, take them up on the offer and make an effort to enjoy yourself, even if only for a short time., A support group can help you deal with the loss of your friend. You will meet other people that are going through similar situations, and hear their stories. Even if you do not gain any advice or close friendships, you will understand that you are not the only person going through this kind of pain. Knowing that you are not alone is often enough to give you the strength to keep going.Look in your newspaper, ask around town, or check online to find support groups that are a good fit.
 Find things to smile about. Do something for someone, raise money for charity, or just do something that you think is fun. Realize that your life does go on, and that your friend would want you to enjoy it. Expect to still have bad days, but strive to have good days in the meantime.If you are suffering from severe depression, having thoughts of hurting yourself or others, or cannot move past the loss of your friend, you may need to seek professional help. Your doctor can help you manage your emotions or recommend you to a mental health professional.
If you are considering hurting yourself, then call 1-800-273-8255 to talk to someone any time.