 In some states or countries, it is possible to return glass drink bottles for a small refund price. This refund price may be as small as 5 to 20 cents (or similar) but when you collect dozens and maybe hundreds of these bottles, the cash funds soon add up., Choose a good location, such as a well populated beach, a park or other place where people gather often and go detecting. Be sure to comply with local laws and perhaps try to do the detection work when it's not so busy, such as evenings and non-vacation weekdays. You might find some valuables that can be resold but be careful to acknowledge that if it's really valuable, it is probably something that you should notify the police of in case someone is looking for it., Clean them up, then offer them for sale to keen golfers at the entrance to the golf course. Always obey rules about collecting and selling golf balls at the relevant location though, as some places may forbid this., For example, you could purchase items from dollar stores, thrift stores and used item stores, then resell these online. If you can add value to the items, such as by doing them up, repackaging them or turning them into a collection, you'll attract more buyers and make more money., Make floral arrangements or nature art and craft items from the plants and sell these at a local market or online. Or, strike new plants from cuttings and sell these when they've grown (a slow process but something useful as an addition to a market stall). Things to be aware of include:

Don't take endangered species plants and don't take plants from a place without permission. Don't trespass onto private properties, always seek permission.
Find ideas for great arrangements or arts and crafts ideas from the internet––wikiHow has various suggestions to get you started.
 Buy drinks, chewing gum, chips, etc., that area already in packages. You could purchase these from cheap stores, then place an additional price on them. Set up away from the event (to avoid being caught up in their rules about sales) but where you will catch foot traffic from people parking away and walking to the event. If your prices are reasonable, people will be interested in purchasing your items.

Always comply with the local rules about selling drinks and food, and about street sales locations. In some places this may break local regulations, so find out first.
This may be a better option in areas where there are less supplies around, such as country festivals or music shows held away from city hubs.

