 There are several styles of beer that work well in a citrus-based punch preparation. The ubiquitous American-style light lager (think Budweiser, Coors, Miller, et cetera) has a mild flavor that perks up wonderfully in a citrus punch.


Wheat beers, such as Hefeweizen and Belgian Whites, are often served with wedges of lemon or orange precisely because they pair so well with citrus. Widely available brands of wheat beer include Blue Moon, Hoegaarden, and Paulaner.
For a richer flavor in your punch, you can use hop-heavy beer styles like pale ale and IPA. Avoid using very malty or intense styles of beer such as porter or stout, as these will quickly overwhelm the citrus and weigh down your punch.;
, A simple syrup is an effective way to provide sweetness to a punch. In this recipe, the simple syrup will be infused with an intense flavor using lemon peel.


Bring equal parts water and sugar to a simmer in a saucepan. Stir until the sugar has completely dissolved.
Add a few strips of lemon peel to the mixture. Simmer for about 10 minutes, and then allow the mixture to come to room temperature while the lemon peel infuses.
 When the simple syrup has cooled, remove the lemon peel and pour the mixture into a punch bowl. The next ingredient to add to the punch is citrus juice, preferably freshly squeezed.


A good option is using equal parts grapefruit and lemon juices. Grapefruit juice can be purchased in bottled form, but lemon juice tastes much fresher if you juice the lemons yourself.
You can juice the citrus over a strainer to prevent the seeds and pulp of the fruit from entering the punch bowl.
 When you are ready to serve the punch, pour a generous amount of beer into the punch bowl. Adding the beer too early will allow it to lose its carbonation, making the beer punch taste flat.


You can adjust the ratios of simple syrup, citrus juice, and beer to your taste. A good starting point is 3 parts beer, 2 parts citrus juice, and 1 part simple syrup. Adjusting these ratios will allow you to make the punch more sweet or more tart.
Serve the beer punch over ice in tall glasses or beer mugs. Garnish with a lemon wedge if desired.

