 Some tasks just aren’t very rewarding in and of themselves, but they still need to be done. Motivate yourself by creating a system of goals and rewards to keep you moving towards the finish line.


For instance, you could make plans to go out with your friends after finishing the first draft of your paper, or visit your favorite coffee shop after you finish cleaning the kitchen., If you’re dreading the thought of cleaning your room or going for a morning jog, put on some high-energy tunes. Music has a big effect on your mood and motivation. It can make you more alert, put you in a more optimistic frame of mind, and help you feel more engaged with a boring task.Pumped up music is basically anything that gets your heart-beating and your body moving. Dance music can provide a source of entertainment and distraction from an unpleasant task. Think along the lines of Kanye West's "Stronger" for lyrics that make you want to get stuff done. Or, try Taylor Swift's "Shake it Off" for a nice, kick-butt confidence boost to complete the task at hand.
 Teaming up with other people can dramatically increase your odds of succeeding at a task. Enlisting the support of others keeps you on track, provides social and emotional support, and gives you a sense of accountability.If you’re having trouble finding someone to team up with in real life, consider seeking out an online group for support and accountability.
Approach a friend and say "Hey, I have to help my dad clean out the garage today. Want to join in? We can put on some tunes and have lunch at the pizzeria?"

, One of the best ways to force yourself to stick with a task is to make yourself accountable to other people. Telling your coworkers or Facebook friends about your plans will give you extra motivation to finish successfully.Sharing your goals with other people may also make those goals seem more real and tangible to you, making it easier to get started.
Post on your social media pages about what you're doing. Say, "I'm giving up sugar for a month. I need to overcome my sugar addiction. Who's with me?" You may even find a buddy online to do the task with you and help hold you accountable.

