 Hang a hammock more permanently indoors or outdoors in an area with a lack of suitable trees. Use a hanging kit to mount the hammock between any two structures that contain wooden studs or other sturdy wood material.


Find a space with a distance of about 112 inches between your two structures, where you can attach the anchors for the hammock about 50 inches off the ground. Lay your hammock down on the floor between the structures for reference, or hold it up in the space to make sure.
Note that the hanging kit from ENO is designed for use with strong wooden structures, like the wooden studs in a home wall. If you wish to hang your hammock from other structures, you should choose different screws and fittings designed for that material.Never install the hanging kit into trees, as it can severely damage them.
 If you’re hanging your hammock from two walls, you need to locate wooden studs for the hardware. Use a hammer and nail to help you find studs, or an electronic stud finder if you have one.


With a hammer, tap gently along the wall and place your hand just above where you’re tapping to feel the vibration of the impact. When you tap where there is a stud, the vibration will be much less and the sound will be a dull thud.
You can also use features in a room to determine where studs are. Either edge of a window or door frame will always be on studs, and you can measure 16” (typically) away from the center of any known stud to find the next one.
To test any location you believe to have a stud, hammer a thin nail into the wall. If it meets resistance about ½ inch into it, there is a stud there. If it meets no resistance, there is just hollow sheetrock, which will NOT be suitable for holding up your hammock., Use a pencil to mark where you want your hammock to hang from each wall (about 50 inches from the floor is recommended). Then drill a hole in the center of each stud with a 5/16” drill bit.


Make sure you will be drilling into the center of a stud by making several more test holes close together on the wall. When you find the edge of the stud, measure ¾ inch in to mark the center, as a standard stud is 1 ½” wide.
Using a drill with 5/16” drill bit, drill straight into the stud for 3 inches., Use a 9/16” wrench or a socket driver to tighten the included hardware into the wall. You will tighten down an anchor with a lag screw into each of your drilled holes.


Tighten the lag screw until the anchor is snug against the wall, slightly compressing the sheetrock without damaging it.
Replace the aluminum carabiners that come with your ENO hammock with the heavy-duty steel carabiners provided with the hanging kit. Then attach the carabiners directly to the anchors to hang your hammock., Use a hammock stand for your hammock if you want a very simple process for hanging. Opt for a stand if you don’t have options for installing the hanging kit or using straps on trees, such as in an open indoor or outdoor area.


Purchase a hammock stand from ENO for easiest setup. Choose from a standard solo hammock stand, one that can hold three different hammocks, or a Roadie stand that can be held up by the wheels of a car for road trips.You can use other hammock stands for ENO hammocks if you wish, as long as the frame is about 10 feet long.