 The shade of a room’s walls can greatly affect not only the look but also the feel of a space. For example, if you want an open, roomy area, keep the walls a bright, neutral color like white, eggshell, or cream. These colors are more reflective and help maximize any natural light in the room.You can even paint the wall trim or moldings a lighter color than your walls, which will make the walls appear further back. Thus making the room appear bigger.;
, If you want to combat the amount of open space and make the room feel a bit cozier, paint the walls a dark color. Darker colors absorb light and will make a room appear smaller than it is.Try a charcoal gray or slate blue. You can even paint the ceiling a darker color, which will make it feel lower., Most accent walls are the first walls you see when entering a room. However, you can choose any wall you want. Try a wall that is visually interesting, for example, one with a fireplace or unique molding. Choose bright or bold color like brick red or evergreen, or a contrasting color to the other wall paint. This wall will draw the eye and break the room up., When choosing lighting for a vaulted ceiling, you want to make sure you are highlighting the ceiling rather than drawing away from it. Try to stay away from any light fixture that shines light directly downward and instead install a fixture like a chandelier that throws light in all directions.
 If you want the ceiling to be the focal point of a room, go for a light fixture that's minimalistic. For example, you can use recessed lighting for a sophisticated look that's unobtrusive. It won't draw from the beauty of the ceiling, but will still provide a significant coverage of light in the room.You can also try spotlighting for a more modern look.
 Most rooms with vaulted ceilings have tall windows that provide a multitude of natural light. However, you can increase this light by adding skylights or putting in mirrors to reflect the light around the room.


Try placing mirrors on opposite walls to bounce light back and forth.
 To keep a room spacious, leave windows open and uncovered. Try utilizing blinds in a bright white that don't draw much attention. However, if you want to bring more intimacy or closeness to a room, install curtains. Not only do these add softness to a space, they can also work to draw the eye where you want it. For example, if you choose curtains that fit the entire length of the wall, it will help draw the eye upwards. On the other hand, if you want to reduce how tall the room feels, choose shorter curtains.You can also make windows appear larger by setting the curtains on the outside of the edges of the windows.
The color and pattern of your curtains are a good way to add a bit of personality, too.
 When working with a lot of wall space, break the area up into pieces. The common rule is to visualize the space split into thirds, which will help you plan out how to place pieces. Decorate the bottom and middle thirds and leave the top one blank. For example, plants, sculptures, and other floor pieces would be part of the bottom third of the wall. Art, tapestries, and mirrors would go in the middle third. Leaving the last third of the space empty to help prevent cluttering., Since the wall area in a room with vaulted ceilings is usually spacious, it's best to stick with larger pieces. After all, putting up small items can make the space seem even bigger than it is and end up looking awkward. You can organize your art however you’d like, but keep each painting or gallery wall at or around eye level for people to enjoy., Large vertical items like grandfather clocks or potted plants can add a lot of character to a room. Try keeping them along the walls for a border effect or place them inward to mimic columns. You can also add large sculptures, bookcases, or floor lamps to utilize the space., If you have the chance, try playing with the look of the ceiling. For example, you can add wooden barrel beams or exposed trusses for an old world style. You can also change the texture by covering the ceiling in distressed wood or copper.