 You might also want to duplicate the background layer to ensure you don't ruin your original image. To duplicate, click on the layer in your panel and press Ctrl+J or ⌘ Cmd+J to make a second copy of your original. This way, if you make any mistakes, you can easily come back to your original., Some text, like that on a white background, just needs to be deleted. Some need a more complicated replacement. Photoshop has a lot of tools for seamlessly removing text, but you need to be sure you're using the right one. Look at the following scenarios before removing to figure out what works best for you:



Un-rendered text: If there is still a "T" in the layers panel where the text is, it means the text is still editable. Press "T" to turn on the text tool, then click on the text in the image to replace it. This is only if you added the text yourself earlier.
 Then use a brush to paint over the old text.



Complex background: You'll need to use complex tools to seamlessly replicate the background. The rest of the tutorial will be geared towards these complex jobs, and the tools needed to replace the text., You'll want precise, close control over the image, cutting it out closely so that you don't have to replace much of the background behind it. The closer you get, the better your final product will look.
 If your text is against a background, like the words on a soda can, use the selection tools to surround the text as closely as possible. Simply use your favorite selection tool to capture the text you want replaced. The little dancing line should hug tightly to your text.


Surround the text, then use "Select" → "Refine Edge" to get a perfect selection.
If you're struggling with selection tools, check out this Wikihow on removing items from images in Photoshop.

Alternatively, Ctrl/Cmd-click the a layer of pure text to select it. If your text is already it's own layer, hold either Ctrl or ⌘ Cmd and click the thumbnail (it usually looks like a "T") to select all the text immediately., To do so, click on "Select" → "Expand." You want a small border around the text -- this is the background that will be used to replace the text.
 This beautiful feature analyzes the image behind the text, then randomly replicates it in place of the words, letting you write in the new text later. To use it, make sure that:


You have your text surrounded by a selection -- the moving dotted edge.
You have 5-10 pixels of space around the text.
You have the layer selected with the appropriate background., The fill menu gives you different ways to fill in all the pixels you've just selected. They will seamlessly replace your text. The menu should have slots for "Use" and "Blending.", Content Aware means that Photoshop will analyze the pixels already in the selection and use those to make a new background. It should be preselected, but grab it from the drop-down menu if need be., This fill is random, so if it doesn't quite fit you can go back to "Edit" → "Fill" and try it again for better results. If you're still struggling, try out:


Go to "Refine Edge" before the "Fill" and feather the edges of your selection. This will help it blend in better.
Edit the "Blending Mode" in the fill menu. Lower the opacity to 50% and try 2-3 fills on top of each other for a more random effect.
Use the Paintbrush and Gradient Tools, along with the eyedropper, to paint over any issues., If you know the font or want to choose your own, you can simply add it in now by pressing "T" to bring up the Type Tool. However, if you want the exact font, you'll need to do a little digging. You can download fonts for free online and add them to Photoshop (as .ttf files, most commonly). You can also look up specific fonts using the website WhatTheFont, which finds a font in the image you uploaded.
 While most fonts need to be tweaked, a simple replacement job might be done as soon as you type in your new font. Select the right font, color, and then write out the text. Place it roughly where it needs to go, then right click on the type in the layers pallet and select "Rasterize Type..."


Rasterizing type makes it easier to adjust. However, you can no longer change the actual words once rasterized, so make sure everything is spelled right.
 To get to free transform, make sure your next text is selected in the layers menu. Then press Ctrl+T or ⌘ Cmd+T to transform the text. You can also select "Edit" → "Free Transform." This box allows you to resize the object, but that is not all:


Click on any point to change the size of the text from the point.
Hold ⇧ Shift to keep the total proportions the same while resizing.
Hold Ctrl or ⌘ Cmd while clicking a point to pivot or angle that point, allowing you to give the points perspective.
Hold Alt or ⌥ Opt to stretch, squeeze, or flip the text., Say, for example, that you want to replace text around a soda can. Getting the exact bend is going to be impossible without some finer control than "Free Transform" can offer. Instead, open up "Filter" → "Liquify." From here, use the brush to slowly curve the text exactly how you need it.


Make the brush as big as possible to adjust the entire block of text at the same time.
Lower the brush pressure for more subtle effects.