 If you lash out in an emotional way, you will startle or anger your child’s other parent, making it more difficult to resolve the parenting conflict in a rational way. Do not curse at your child’s other parent, use foul language, or intimidate them verbally or physically.Keep unkind opinions and feelings to yourself, or find a way to express them in a constructive way.
Do not make snide comments to the spouse of your child’s other parent (if they have remarried), or to your own spouse if they are not your child’s biological parent about the appropriateness of contributing to the solution of a parenting conflict. For instance, avoid saying, “You’re not my child’s real father.” This could be hurtful and will make it harder to solve the parenting conflict.
Unkind words to your child’s other parent are also not helpful. Avoid saying things like, “You don’t care about our child.”
When you give respect, you can get respect.
 If you feel frustrated by your child’s other parent and their apparent unwillingness to cooperate with you in order to solve parenting conflicts, you should express that feeling in a polite and constructive way. For instance, if you and your spouse are having a parenting conflict, you might say, “I am frustrated that we're clashing over this. I hope we can resolve it soon for the good of our child.”Other feelings you might experience during a parental conflict include disappointment, embarrassment, shame, anger, and hatred.
Remember, if you are a parent of a child who is not your biological child, your opinion and feelings matter, too. Both of the child’s biological parents should be open to hearing what you have to say regarding any parenting conflicts.
 When there is a parenting conflict, your child’s other parent might have feelings about it. It is important to recognize and acknowledge these feelings in order for the problem to be fully resolved.Do not simply pay attention to the conflict as described and neglect the feelings that the conflict inspired.
For example, if your child’s other parent says, “I feel really frustrated that Junior’s bedtime at your house is different than bedtime at my house,” do not simply say, “Let’s work on finding a bedtime we can both agree on.”
Instead, start by acknowledging how your child’s other parent feels. You might say, “I hear that you're frustrated. Let’s talk about it more and find an amicable solution.”
If you and your spouse are having a parenting conflict, but they are not the biological parent of the child you share custody of, their opinion matters, too. Do not make them feel that their feelings are unimportant when solving parenting conflicts. This may be difficult at first, and their involvement may be somewhat limited. But as you get to know them and work together, the involvement of the non-biological parent should grow (with your support).
 When solving parenting conflicts, it is important to make your meaning clear through nonverbal as well as verbal communication. Additionally, it is important that you pay proper attention to the facial expressions and gestures that your child’s other parent might display.For instance, you can use a reassuring tone of voice or knit your brow in concern when explaining your side of the parenting conflict.
If appropriate given the state of your relationship with your child’s other parent, you might choose to gently squeeze their arm when solving your parenting conflicts. This shows them that you understand and care about their concerns.
When your child’s other parent speaks, you might find that you keep your hands at your sides rather than crossed in front of you (which could be read as a defensive posture).
Look directly at your child’s other parent, making eye contact. Nod encouragingly as they explain the conflict as they see it. Use encouraging words and sounds like “Yeah,” or “Mm-hmm” as they explain themselves.
 Solving parenting conflicts can be stressful. Managing that stress while solving parenting conflicts is an important way to ensure that the conflict ends in a healthy and positive way. There are many ways to manage your stress. For instance:Try yoga. Yoga is an ancient art that originated in India. It involves moving the body to various positions for a predetermined amount of time and places great emphasis on breathing.
Get some exercise. Exercises like running, walking, weight-lifting, or swimming are great for helping you relax and manage stress. Try to get at least 2.5 hours of stress-relieving exercise each week.
Try breathing techniques. Breathe in for three seconds through the nose, then out for five seconds through the mouth. Repeat three to five times or until you are comfortable and relaxed.

