 You must understand the primary organelles (cell components, essentially like the organs of the cell), their relation to one another, and the differences between plant and animal cells if you are going to construct an accurate 3D model.


You must know the different organelles if you are going to model them. Vitally, you must understand their shape. The colors usually given to the different cell components in text books are used for contrast and usually bear no resemblance to reality, so in that instance you can be creative. But you must develop the correct shapes in order to model them.
It is also important to know how the various cell structures relate to one another. For example, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is always located close to the nucleus because if processes the proteins that are used in DNA replication. You must understand this fact as you are creating your model.Know the differences between plant and animal cells. Most importantly, plant cells have an exterior cell wall made of cellulose, contain very large vacuoles (a membrane-bound collection of water and enzymes), and possess chloroplasts (the portions of the plant cell that convert sunlight into usable energy).;
, Will your model be a transparent representation, with the cell components suspended in a see-through material? Will it instead be a cutaway model, giving the appearance of a cell that has been cut in half but containing organelles that provide a three-dimensional appearance? Instructions on how to construct two alternative styles of model appear later in this article, but will be summarized here:


The first option is a fully three-dimensional representation of a cell, with all of the organelles suspended in clear gelatin.
The second option involves using craft materials to construct a cut-away model that shows a cell with a section removed to facilitate viewing.
 The materials will obviously vary depending on the type of model you have decided to construct.


It is easiest to use items that already have the general shape of the object you are modeling--say, something roughly circular for a cell nucleus.
Of course, many of the organelles are shaped so strangely that it may be impossible to find something that already has the same appearance. In this case you should think of materials that are flexible and can be fitted to whatever appearance you need.
 Will your 3D model be edible? What types of colors will you use for each organelle? Never lose sight of the vital elements that must be represented in this project, but the form of your model does not always have to limit its style and creativity.

