 Applying in person is not usually necessary, but certain conditions will require you to renew in person.


If your current passport is damaged or you cannot mail it, you will need to apply in person.
You will also need to apply in person if your passport was issued when you were a minor under 16 years of age, or if it was issued more than 15 years ago.
If you cannot provide legal documentation to verify a name change, you cannot apply by mail.
You must apply with a U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulate if you live outside of the United States or Canada.
 This form, Application For A U.S. Passport, is the same form used for first-time applicants. You must complete it in black ink, but you can either fill it out online and print itor fill out a blank copy by hand.


Indicate where you applied and the date of application.
Specify whether you are renewing a U.S. Passport Book, U.S. Passport Card, or both. Also indicate if you want a 28-page book or 52-page book.
Include your biographical information. This includes your last name, first name, and middle name, along with your date of birth, sex, place of birth, and social security number. You must also list other names you have used, regardless of whether they appear on your current passport or not.
Write down your contact information. Include your e-mail address, phone number, and mailing address.
Include your parental information. This includes your both your mother's and father's name, date of birth, place of birth, sex, and citizenship status.
Fill out the rest of the form. The form will ask for your height, hair color, eye color, occupation, employer or school if applicable, additional contact phone numbers, permanent address, emergency contact, travel plans, and marital status.
You will also need to indicate that you have previously been issued a passport.
Do not sign the form before submitting it. This form must be signed and dated in person.
 Turn your renewal form in at an Acceptance Agency or Passport Agency.


You can find your nearest Acceptance Agency online. These facilities usually include post offices, clerks of court, public libraries, and other government offices.Go to a Passport Agency if you need your passport renewed within 2 weeks or less. An appointment is required, and you can schedule one at your nearest agency by calling 1-877-487-2778., This evidence will be kept as your application is processed and returned once your renewed passport arrives in the mail.


Primary evidence can include a previously issued, undamaged U.S. Passport.
If you cannot present your most recent passport, you can also use a certified birth certificate, consular report of birth abroad, naturalization certificate, or certificate of citizenship.
 In addition to proof of citizenship, you must also present proof of your identity.


A previously issued, undamaged U.S. Passport can act as identification.
Other sources of ID include a naturalization certificate, valid driver's license, government ID, or military ID.
 You must submit a photocopy of the identification source you present at the time of renewal.


The photocopy must be on plain white paper stock. Use standard 8-1/2- by 11-inch (22- by 28-cm) paper.
The copy must show both the front and back of the ID, but it can only contain images on one side.
Do not decrease the size of the image and do not use larger or smaller paper. The paper must also be free of other markings.
 As of March 2013, an adult passport book and card cost $140 to renew. The book alone costs $110, and the card alone costs $30.


If applying for an expedited passport renewal, you will need to pay an additional $60 fee.
You can pay using a major credit car, debit or check card, check, bank draft, or money order. Do not try to pay with cash., The photograph must be in color, printed on photo quality paper, and 2 by 2 inches (51 by 51 mm) in size.


The photo must also be sized so that the head is between 1 inch (2.5 cm) and 1 3/8 inches (25 and 35 mm) from the bottom of the chin to the top of the head.
The photo can be no older than 6 months.
You should take the photo in plain, everyday clothing, and you should wear a neutral expression with your eyes open.
 As of early March 2013, routine applications are processed within 4 to 6 weeks.


Expedited passport renewals usually take between 2 and 3 weeks.

