 Once you have set up networking tools, you will need to then put them into action. Go through contacts on your professional networks and on any professional business associations you belong to. Send out introductory emails to these contacts so you are on their radar. You may note a current project you are working on that may be of interest to them or you may offer them your expertise.Be respectful, friendly, and brief in the introductory email. State your professional role and note what you can offer to the person or what you would like to request from them. Follow all the rules and guidelines of a professional business email.
 Another option is to start a private conversation with a contact on a networking site like LinkedIn. Doing this can serve as an informal introduction that still comes off as professional and friendly. Send a brief “hello” as well as comment about a recent post the person made on the networking site. Or offer your services for a position that the person posted on the site earlier in the day.Keep the tone of the message friendly but professional. Make the message short and to the point, while still being sociable.
 You should also use your professional social media pages to network with others. Follow potential clients or employers on social media. Comment on their posts and “like” them. Do this consistently so they are aware of your social media presence.You can also post content that you think will attract the attention of your social media followers, which can then help you connect and network. For example, you may post content about copy editing for corporate briefs on Facebook as a way to gain the attention of potential corporate employers.
 To be an effective networker online, you need to have an online presence that is constant and active. Update your social media pages on a daily basis or several times a day. Make sure your profiles on networking sites are current. Post new content regularly to any professional blogs or social media pages you have.


Having a constant and active online presence will also ensure that you are made aware of job opportunities or potential clients right away, especially if you are part of a good networking community. This can allow you to take your career to the next level and network better as a telecommuter.
 When you are attending networking events in person, make sure you always introduce yourself to others at the event with confidence. Maintain eye contact and open body language, with your arms relaxed at your sides and your chin up. Turn your body towards the person you are addressing and smile to engage them in conversation.


Use a firm handshake when meeting someone and say something pleasant like, "Hello my name is . Nice to meet you," or "Hi there, I'm a small business owner in the area. Nice to meet you."

