 You’ll need a working VCR, an analog-to-digital video converter, a computer with a DVD burner, blank DVD-Rs, movie editing software, and DVD burning software.


This method will take several hours of work for one hour of video—but you likely have most of the equipment already, besides the converter. This method also gives you the flexibility to edit the video as much as you want, adding transitions, special effects, music, etc.
Analog-to-digital video converters cost anywhere from $15 to $75 and can be found at electronic stores or online. The more expensive converters come bundled with advanced editing software.
 An analog-to-dv converter has a USB connection on one side, and red, white and yellow RCA cables on the other. Connect the RCA cables to the corresponding colors on the back of your VCR and connect the USB cable to your computer.
 This software comes standard with Mac and most versions of Windows, and is also available for download. There are also more advanced versions that you can purchase, if you’re looking for more advanced movie-making features.


On a Mac, this is iMovie.
On a PC, the is Movie Maker. Movie Maker comes standard in Windows Vista, XP, and 7. Windows 8 and 10 users can download it., This can take a lot of time and hard drive space. Two hours of footage will create a 1Gb - 2Gb MPEG file.


In iMovie, select File > New Movie and select a theme. Then select the “import video” button at the top (this looks like a downward pointing arrow). Follow the prompts to import your video.In Movie Maker, select File > Import from Digital Video Camera, and follow the prompts to import your video.
 Here is where the benefits of this method pay off. You can edit your video and add menus and chapters before burning your DVD.



On a Mac, select File > Share > File and save your movie file. You’ll need to download and install burn software if you don’t already have it, such as Burn for OS.. Use this application to export your movie to DVD.
On a PC, you can do this in Movie Maker. Click the menu icon in the top left corner, select Save Movie > Burn DVD. Follow the prompts to burn your DVD.
 This could interrupt the DVD burning process and mess up your movie.


On a Mac, you can do this under System Preferences > Energy Saver. On “Turn Display Off” move the setting to “Never” and select “Prevent Computer from Sleeping Automatically”. Make sure to restore these settings back to the default after you’re finished—your computer does need sleep!
On a PC, go to Start > Control Panel > System and Security > Power Options > Select a power plan > Change plan settings > Change advanced power settings > Advanced settings. Change both “Sleep after” and “Hibernate after” to “Never”. Make sure and restore these settings to the default after you’re finished!

