 One surefire way to spend way too much money is to listen to the guys in the store. Most of them are music experts and get way too excited about little things you won't need, making you think it's better. To avoid this, research some good brands that are still quite cheap. Write them down on a list (see below). Remember to stick within your budget too, don't waste all your money. Say you're looking for a guitar––some recommendations for things to watch out for include:


Guitars. Gibson and Fender are good makes, although they're quite pricey. If you don't want to spend the extra cash, maybe settle for an Ibanez or Epiphone. These makes tend to be good quality and not way too much money. Stagg is another cheap but good make.
Amps. Diezel, VHT, Soldano, and Bogner are all good brands but like Gibson guitars, they can be crazy expensive. Randall or THD can be a nice alternative, they're good amps and quite a step down in price. Epiphone Valve Jr is quite a cheap amp and doesn't do much, although it's of good quality and lasts a long time.
Straps. You don't need a crazy expensive strap, just a plain one will do. Go for one that's quite strong.
Strings. Slinky stings are good and can be found very cheap online or in some music stores. Bass strings tend to be more expensive as they're a fair bit thicker.;
, If you're only playing in your bedroom, then there's no point buying equipment that can blow the roof off a concert. A fairly simple way to save money is to only buy what you'll need. If you're just playing at home, a 10-15 watt amp will do you just fine. Obviously, if you're playing live, you'll need something a bit bigger. This goes for instruments too, a Pearl drum kit performs great live but for home, something simpler and smaller will do.
 One of the reasons that most people spend more money than they need is that they go to a store and buy everything in sight, mostly because they're unsure what they're really after and the sales pitch is irresistible. From guitars to amps to mics, there is plenty of gear for sale that you may never use. To avoid buying gear you don't need, make a list of everything that you need now. That means don't bother buying the studio equipment in case you get famous ten years down the line.


Write down the instrument you want. List any other bits to go with it such as a tuner, a strap, a case, an amp and microphones. Anything else is to be considered extraneous to your current needs.

