 Yes, sometimes a Sue is a Sue even if you do give a genuine flaw. Flaws should balance their strengths.;
, Rather, make her face the consequences. She may become disliked among other characters. She may no longer be treated as a hero and may need to try hard to get her title back. She may lose the respect of some of her acquaintances and friends. She may languish in self-doubt. And she should learn from her mistakes.
 What kind of men does she like? What kind of people does she befriend most easily? What music does she like? How do her tastes in music, books, movies and video games match or differ from those of her friends? Does she read superhero comics or does she prefer anime? Is she good in her nature, or evil? Or does she exhibit a mixture of both?

, Decide whether she feels glad or sad and think about how her temperament runs. Maybe she is hot-tempered, or maybe she is steady in her mood. Is she a daydreamer? Anti-social? Hyperactive? Immature? Is she quick to start a quarrel from nothing or does she only rarely lose her patience? Once you have decided these things, illustrate each through descriptions of activities she engages in or through dialogue.
 Does she think she is beautiful or does she wish her hair colour was different or chin smaller? Flesh out your character. Make her whole.
 Ask her to tell something about herself. You may be surprised how alive she may come. There are some things even the author may not know.
 She should have at least a few enemies, who are on the same side, and her enemies should be somehow important to the story.
 Probably, but let it take a while. After all, they've only just met. And let them argue a little. Even the best relationships are fraught with the occasional argument.
 Why not make your Mary Sue a Bad Girl? Have her fall for the villain's less desirable traits, rather than inventing heroic traits he shouldn't have. And remember who HE is. If he falls for her, it's likely that the relationship starts out very shallow.

