 For example, if you want to change the time to 5 am, type "setHour 05".
 If you want to age them, type in aging on.
 Type in stretchskeleton (number). The actual height of a Sim is 1.0. For a smaller Sim, use 0.5. If you want a little taller, use 1.1.
 Go into the neighborhood view and type in intprop maxnumofvisitingsims(number). So if you want 15 Sims, you would put "intprop maxnumofvisitingsims15".
 Use the boolprop cheat. Hold down the "Shift" key and click on any Sim. Choose "Spawn", "More", and "Sim Modder". A baby should pop-up. Click on the baby and click "Set Age". It will give you the option of toddler, child, teen, adult, and elder.


If you turn a pregnant adult sim into anything but an adult, they will no longer be pregnant. To get a pregnant teenager, you must download the hack.
 Type in "MoveObjects on" without the " (It is also case sensitive) into the cheat menu. Kill one of your sims that you don't want. If you have a sim that you want to keep, make sure that there is someone very close to them that can plea to the grim reaper. As soon as you see the grim reaper, go To buy mode and pick him up. Pick him up and hold down shift. Without letting go of the shift button, put the Grim Reaper back down and you should be holding a clone of your Grim Reaper. Then place him where you want him. Plea to the real grim reaper to save your loved one. You better hope that they love them as much as you think they do otherwise your sim is gone! You can also kill a neighbour walking past. But sometimes it will still be one of your other Sims from a different family so be careful there. Note: You cannot control the grim reaper, but it is still really fun and like I made two of them and put them as statues at my Sims house.
 Type in move_objects on in the house view. Hold down the "Shift" key and click on the refrigerator. Click on "Restock". Your fridge will be completely full again.
 Get the Dr. Vu's Automatched Cosmetic Surgeon career reward to re-make your Sim's face. (To get this reward quickly, hold ctrl+c+shift and type unlockCareerRewards into the cheat box.) Then make your Sim go up to the mirror and click 'Change Appearance' to change your Sims hair, make-up and facial hair. Then go to the wardrobe, click 'Plan Outfits'. (You can go to the tailors to get new outfits.) Then type boolProp testingCheatsEnabled true into the cheat box, hold shift and click on your Sim. Click 'Set Aspiration' and choose a new aspiration. Then click on where you want their Sim's personality to be and what their interests to be.
 You type in "boolproptestingcheatsenabled true" without the marks into the cheat box. Then hold shift and click on a certain Sim. Then click Rodney's creator. Then click on die by flies. Make a teenage Sim who is not related to the sim beg the grim reaper. After the Grim Reaper goes, click some other way of dying. Have the teenage Sim beg for them again. When the Grim Reaper begins to go away, click die by fire. And because it is so fast, the Grim Reaper won't come back and they will disappear! You can't take care of them any more, but if you go out to neighborhood view and look at the family photo, they will still be there!

, Hold SHIFT and click on the mailbox go on more make sure you have your child selected then you should see something that says Kid gets A+ report card click on that then the school bus should come past and not stop then your kid SHOULD have a A+ report card.
 Click on the child's homework and move it so that it is back into their hands after they have laid it down (if you don't catch them right after school they usually lay it down next to the computer desks, if you don't have a desk it should be in their bedrooms). Once the homework is back in their hands, make the do another option that involves picking up. Cleaning, painting are usually good options. Then, the homework will disappear and you won't have to make the child study anymore. The grades will go up per day just like you were making them do their homework. The only downfall is that you have to do this every day, but it's the easiest way in my opinion. Especially since the children have a low FUN gauge after they've been at school all day and it's hard to make them do their homework.
