 Melatonin is a natural hormone produced by your pineal gland located in your brain. It acts like a neurotransmitter, or chemical messenger, to activate certain pathways in your brain. Its role in establishing a sleep cycle has been recognized; however, recent research indicates it may be involved in other body functions as well.


In the USA, melatonin is available over-the-counter as a dietary supplement and is therefore not regulated by the FDA. In most countries it is a prescription medication or it is unavailable.
Other sleeping aids generally present several problems such as building tolerance, which means they eventually becomes less effective and you have to increase the dose. In this regard, melatonin presents a better alternative because it is a natural hormone for which you don't build up a tolerance.;
, Melatonin can been used for circadian rhythm sleep disorders such as delayed sleep-wake phase disorder, which results in the inability to fall asleep before 2:00 am or later. It can also be used to help with sleep problems related to working night shifts, general insomnia, and jet lag.Generally, melatonin is safe to take in an appropriate amount, often 1 mg or less, to help with these issues. However, if your sleep problems are severe or persist, talk to your doctor first.
If you are on any other medications, you should also talk to your doctor before taking melatonin, as they may interact., There are some common side effects for melatonin. You may experience daytime sleepiness, headaches, or dizziness. There are also some less common side effects that you may experience. These include abdominal discomfort, mild anxiety, irritability, confusion and short-lasting feelings of depression.If you experience any persistent side effects, talk to your doctor.
 Melatonin comes in many forms. It comes in regular tablets or capsules. These can be time-release tablets, which slowly absorb into your body over a long period of time. These formulations may help with staying asleep during the night. You can also get sublingual, or quick dissolve, tablets, which dissolve under your tongue and go directly into your system instead of getting absorbed by your GI tract.This means the melatonin will act faster than regular tablets or capsules.


You can also get melatonin in liquid form. Similar to sublingual, the liquid form may be absorbed directly and will act faster than regular tablets or capsules.
Some pharmacies may also carry melatonin in other forms such as gummies, soft gels, or creams., When taking melatonin, you should contact your doctor if your insomnia persists or is affecting your daily activities. In addition, if you are on medications for diabetes, blood thinners, medications that suppress the immune system, blood pressure medications, medications to control seizures, or birth control pills, you should contact your doctor before taking melatonin.