 Sometimes, people who pick on others don't expect much of a response. Try throwing in some sarcasm, as this may surprise the person bullying you. People often target those they think will just take abuse, so a sarcastic comment can stop a bully in their tracks.For example, pretend the insult was actually a compliment. Say something like, "Wow! Thank you so much for noticing. I really appreciate it.";
, You can respond to a specific comment with a specific, sarcastic comment. For example, if someone says something like, "You have such a pretty face. It's a shame about your weight." Try to respond with something like, "You have a great face too. It's a shame about your personality."Be careful, however, not to make comments that are too biting, especially if you're not in a place where you feel safe. You don't want to end up putting your safety at risk.
 Someone else's weight is between them and their doctor. Another person has no right to comment on your weight if they don't have medical training. Call attention to this. This will make the other person feel silly at having raised the issue.For example, say you're in ninth grade and someone in your class says something like, "You could really use to lose about 30 pounds." Respond with something like, "Wow! I can't believe you've been through medical school and you're only 14. Because only a doctor could possibly know how much weight I need to lose."

, Sometimes, it's best not to offer a comeback. Some bullies thrive on a reaction. If you've responded with witty comebacks and are still getting teased, start simply ignoring the bullies. See if this deters them from targeting you in the future.If someone makes a rude comment about your weight, pretend like you did not hear it. If they continue to make rude comments, simply leave the room.
If you need to cry after ignoring someone, that's okay. It's normal to feel bad if someone hurts your feelings. While you can ignore a bully in the moment, let your feelings out later if necessary.

