, Taxes on corporations, or on "mom and pop businesses" are always necessarily passed on to you, the consumer.
 Dozens of taxes that you pay, increasing your costs, are listed below.


If candidates of both parties (Democrats and Republicans plus independents) are against deficits -- why are there ongoing deficits?

, Hardly any taxes existed early in the 20th century and increased throughout the last 100 years since the U.S. Income Tax was first imposed (under Article I, section 8, clause 1 of the U.S. Constitution) during the Civil War, then again in the 1890s, and again after the Sixteenth Amendment was ratified in 1913.Income tax in the United States Before that the United States cities, states and the nation had the most opportunity in the world, with low taxes, with little or no national debt. What happened?


Some of your taxes: 1. Accounts Receivable Tax, 2. Building Permit Tax, 3. CDL License Tax, 4. Cigarette Tax, 5. Corporate Income Tax, 6. Dog License Tax/Fee, 7. Excise Taxes, 8. Federal Income Tax, 9. Federal Unemployment Tax (FUTA), 10. Fishing License Tax, 11. Food License Tax/Fee, 12. Fuel Permit Tax, 13. Gasoline Tax, 14. Gross Receipts Tax, 15. Hunting License Tax, 16. Inheritance Tax, 17. Inventory Tax, 18. IRS Interest Charges, 19. IRS Penalties, 20. Liquor Tax, 21. Luxury Taxes, 22. Marriage License Tax, 23. Medicare Tax, 24. Personal Property Tax, 25. Property Tax/Real Estate Tax, 26. Service Charge Tax, 27, Employer's Payments to Social Security Tax (FICA), 28. Road Usage Tax, 29. Sales Tax, 30. Recreational Vehicle Tax, 31. School Tax, 32. State Income Tax, 33. State Unemployment Tax (SUTA), 34. Telephone Federal Excise Tax, 35. Telephone Federal Universal Service Fee Tax, 36. Telephone Federal, State and Local Surcharge Taxes, 37. Telephone Minimum Usage Surcharge Tax, 38. Telephone Recurring and Non-recurring Charges Tax, 39. Telephone State and Local Tax, 40. Telephone Usage Charge Tax, 41. Utility Taxes, 42. Vehicle License Registration Tax, 43. Vehicle Sales Tax, 44. Watercraft Registration Tax, 45. Well Permit Tax, 46. Workers Compensation Tax, 47. State Fees on Local Traffic Tickets, 48. Hotel Room Tax, 49. Market Prepared Food Tax, 50. Restaurant Fees, 50. Restaurant Food Taxes,.
, Consider whether to blame:


Those who campaign against problems - but who actually created them and continue to make them worse: Career politicians with their daily inaction, or ineffective actions.
Those who proposes the federal budget: The U. S. President and his office. Blame the White House for running the government badly.
The ones who criticize the U. S. President for creating the deficits.

The president proposes spending and the budget. He cannot vote for the laws or funds or force the Congress -- who does vote them up or down -- to accept his plans and/or budgets.

It's their fiscal policy (taxes and spending). Congress sets that fiscal policy; plus they oversee and can indirectly influence or control monetary policy which is set by the Federal Reserve Bank.
 That 545 excludes the members of the Federal Reserve Board which was created by the Congress. In 1913, Congress delegated its Constitutional duty to provide a sound currency off onto a federally chartered, but private, central bank.
That also excludes the special interests like organizations and lobbyists. They have no legal authority. They have no ability to coerce a senator, a congressman, or a president to do one thing. If they offer a politician a large contribution to vote for their ideas -- the politician has the power to accept or reject it. But, no matter what the lobbyists promises, it is the legislator's responsibility to determine how he votes.;
, If there is are unfair taxes: blame congress.
Unfair red ink (overspending) is because they don't "put the budget in the black". Your taxes and fees have to pay for their decision, good or indiscretion.
Wars, and undeclared wars -- when the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marines are engaged it is because "the majority of the 545 allow that". Whether politicians are acceptable rests upon their power to declare war, and to rule on the way it is done. Of course, wars cost money and lives.
Very high retirement checks for the 545 are because "they setup their perks" that way or do not object loudly enough.
 This supreme law of the land gives sole responsibility to the U. S. House of Representatives for originating taxes and spending (appropriations) bills. If the senate originates them, the House will not accept that. The speaker of the House who handles coordinating this responsibility is elected by House colleagues as the leader of the majority party in the House. The Senate can make changes and then it has to be agreed between the two.


The Speaker and fellow House members, not the president, can approve any budget that they want. If the president vetoes it, they can pass it over his veto if they agree to with a 2/3 vote of the members.
 Complex domestic problem solutions and failings are largely traceable to those 545 people. Consider:


Working through the ballot box by helping your candidates and voting for your ideals.
Writing letters to officials, editors,...
Calling talk shows on radio and TV: hold news and television shows accountable for not exposing bad policies that are not exposed.
,, These cannot prevent their trying to do what they took their oath to do.
 They can be held accountable by you as one of their individual bosses.
 Working together you can vote great numbers of them out of office and clean up their messes.
 You're it!

