 The best thing you can do for your friend is to be there and available for them. Show your friend that you care and support them. Make sure they know they are loved and that you are there for anything they might need. When you are talking to them, don't worry about saying all the right things. Know that silence is okay too.Your very presence will be comforting for them.


Call to check in on them.
Stop by their home for a visit.
Try and be available to them if they want to talk or need your help.
 It is taking a lot of trust and courage to even tell you about what happened, so if your friend confides in you, listen to them.They may go over and over the assault, replaying it or trying to figure out what they could have done differently. Try to listen without judging your friend as often as they need.Avoid pressing them for details or information. Let your friend control the pace and content of talking about the incident. They will tell you in their own time.


Listening is helpful to a survivor whether the rape just occurred or whether it occurred years ago. It may be necessary for a survivor to tell their story to new friends or in new relationships, and listening in this way validates their courage in talking about it and their trust in you.
 Questioning their story can make it appear like you don't believe them, or worse, that you blame them for it. Let them know that you are with them and will be by their side no matter what.


Never question whether or not it was rape.
Never question them about what they were wearing.
Never question them about why they were where they were or the situation they were in.
 Make sure you are very careful with physical contact. They have been through a traumatic experience of feeling physically violated. This may have changed the way they feel about physical contact from others. They may be extra sensitive to contact or touch because of it.Never touch them without asking first. Any contact, no matter who it is coming from may be unwanted or uncomfortable.


If you want to comfort them, ask “Can I hug you?” or “Would a hug help?”
You will have a strong urge to physically comfort them or be close to them if they are upset or crying. Keep in mind that it is about what they need.
If they are your girlfriend or boyfriend, never try to cheer them up with physical affection.
 In addition to the physical healing your friend will have to go through, there are potentially a lot of mental and emotional issues that they have to cope with as well that can last significantly longer.Finding a therapist or a counselor, especially one who has experience with rape and sexual assault may really help. You can help by working with them to locate one in their area that accepts their insurance or offering to drive them to their appointment. Some things they may struggle with can include:They may feel guilt or shame over the assault, or even blame themselves for what happened.
A survivor may experience symptoms of Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) including flashbacks, nightmares, mood swings, and difficulty concentrating.
They may experience depression.
Your friend may struggle with who to tell or how others are reacting to the assault.
They may need help identifying, keeping track of, and avoiding their triggers.
 Self-blame is a common reaction among rape survivors.No matter what they have been told or what society thinks, they did not cause this. If your friend communicates to you they think it is their fault, counter it with a positive statement.


If they say, "I shouldn't have been alone with them," just remind your friend that they trusted the person they were with and that trust was violated.
If they say, “I shouldn't have had so much to drink,” tell them that drinking or even being drunk is not a sign that it is okay to take advantage of someone.
Tell them, “No matter what the circumstances were, this is not your fault.”

