 It will also make you appear as if you'll fit into the work environment.You can check with the human resources department. They can let you know if there is a dress code and if there isn't ask them what people typically wear to work.
One of the best things you can do is meet an employee from the company. Not only can you get a sense of the work environment and not just what people wear. It will give you an edge when you're at the interview.;
, You want to show that you take the job interview seriously. Even if the workplace tends towards jeans and t-shirts, you still want to dress up. You don't have to wear a suit, but should go for something conservative.For example: if you're interviewing for an office job you should probably dress up in a pantsuit or dress suit.
If you're interviewing for something a little more unusual, wear something a little nicer than you normally would. For example: if you're a woman interviewing for a job at a coffee shop, wear a skirt and a nice top (like a sweater); if you're a guy you might wear a pair of nice slacks and a sweater or button down shirt.
 It's important that you boost your confidence when you're going to an interview because this will make you come across better in the interview. Of course make sure that you strike a balance between something that makes you feel confident and what looks professional.


Check that you don’t have to adjust your clothing (like tugging at your skirt, etc.) and that your clothes don’t ride up inappropriately when you sit down.
You should definitely have worn this outfit before, if only to get comfortable in it. Wearing it for the first time when you go to get interviewed will mean that you'll feel and look ill at ease.
 While your interviewer might not notice if your shoes work with the outfit, they will definitely notice if the shoes look out of place or scruffy. Make sure that your shoes are cleaned and shined and match what you're wearing.Shoes that are scuffed or scruffy-looking, or dirty are a definite don't. You also want to make sure that your shoes aren't massively uncomfortable, because that will translate into discomfort during the interview.
For women, some good ideas for interview shoes are power flats (something clean and professional looking; nothing sparkly or out there), or low, comfortable heels. You don't want heels that make you tower over everyone or that you might wear for a night out clubbing. It makes you look irresponsible.
For men, you should go for a pair of loafers or dress shoes as your interview shoes. Make sure, of course, that they aren't scruffy looking and that they are clean and match what you're wearing (no brown with black, for example).
 When you look like you've just tumbled out of bed, or haven't washed in over a week, you're signalling to the interviewer that you're careless (even if you aren't).


Grooming shows that you care about your professional appearance, which tells the interviewer that you are going to care how you appear as a member of their organization.
Make sure that your hair and make-up is appropriate for company. It's best for an interview to keep it subtle. Don't slather on a ton of make-up (the "natural" look is best, unless it's for an interview at a department or make-up store). Make sure your hair looks clean and tamed, as much as possible.
 This is one that a lot of people forget to do. You might be called back for a second interview and you don't want to have to wear the same outfit. Even if the base is the same for both outfits, you want to distinguish them from each other.


For example, you might wear the same black dress slacks and dress shoes, but a different button-down shirt and tie.

