 Historical figures that are locally important and less-widely known might not return many usable results in global or national internet databases and archives. For local historical figures, newspaper and other local press can be your best source of information.


Your local library is typically the best place to look for newspaper archives for your city or state.
Many university libraries also have links to archived American periodicals, including major newspapers. These can be helpful when researching a specific event that might have involved your historical figure.Most libraries now offer easy-to-use searchable databases, but consult your local librarian if you need help tracking down an archival periodical.
 If you have any questions or run into any obstacles while conducting your research, you can consult your local librarian. A research librarian at your nearby library will help you narrow search terms, point you in the direction of the most relevant resources, and provide you with other valuable research tips.


Try saying, "Hello, I'm doing some research on Pablo Picasso, and I was hoping you could show me how to search the library for an art history text book about modern art."
Ask the librarian if they have knowledge about your historical figure or their historical era. Ask them, "Would you happen to have any expertise or interest in Thomas Jefferson, or maybe you might know of someone on staff who does? If so, maybe you could help me go with the most authoritative sources?"
A local librarian might also be able to put you in touch with nearby scholars or historians with expertise on the figure you’re researching. Ask them if they have any contacts who are professors or teachers in the relevant field.
 Find out if a local professor, historian, or other scholar has any expertise on the figure you’re researching. If you’re really interested in the person you’re researching, you might find it valuable to have a conversation with someone who’s dedicated their life’s work to that person or a related topic. Local university department websites offer faculty listings that typically include professors’ specializations and interests. If you’ve done substantial research but want to dig deeper, consulting a local expert could be the way to go.


The department website will most likely list faculty emails, or a general email for the department. Write a quick email and say, "Hi there, I've been conducting research on Pablo Picasso and saw that you teach a class at the university about him. I have some questions about some letters and journal entries he wrote, and am curious about how these personal experiences might have influenced his painting.
Ask in your email, "I would so appreciate a conversation if you're available, and hope you might be able to point me in the direction of a good source on how his life events found their way into his art."
Try to demonstrate that you've already done a little reading by asking specific questions about particular events or theories involving your historical figure.
Ask if it’s okay to visit during their office hours, if they might have time to answer some questions over a coffee, or if asking them questions via phone or email would be best.
Even though professors and other local experts can be busy, they’re generally eager to talk about the people or topics they’ve study. Whether you’re a student or not, they will most likely be excited to hear that someone has a deep interest in their area of specialty.
 Whether the nearest local institution is a community college or a university, it might offer some courses on the historical figure you’re researching. If historical research is of deep interest to you or a serious hobby, it could be fun and informative to take a class.


Check out course listings to see if any are dedicated to your specific figure. Enroll in individual courses for credit, or audit them if getting course credit isn’t important. Consult your local institution’s website for more specific information on admissions, enrollment, and auditing classes.
If there are no classes that focus on your historical person, then look for survey classes that deal with the figure’s time period or whatever relevant historical movements that involve them.
Getting in touch with the professor and asking them to sit in on a particular class session or two can help you save money and time.
For example, if you’re not interested in or don’t have time for an entire course on early twentieth-century art, but know there will be a couple lectures on Picasso, ask the professor teaching the course if it’s possible to sit in on the lecture. Get in touch with professors or students in your social network who might be knowledgeable about classes that deal with your area of research interest.

