 In Europe, people are much more into locally grown food and local restaurants. It is hard to go through any major city in Europe such as London, Paris, or Florence without seeing people selling local produce on the side of the street. Find the farmer's market in your town and buy as much fresh food as possible. Also start eating at locally owned eateries. , The average portion size in American restaurants is much larger than most in Europe. Even with home cooked meals, in Europe they eat much smaller portions during each meal. Try to change the portions that you eat. You can make less food at home with smaller portions at each meal. If you go out, try splitting your portions with someone else or taking the leftovers home for lunch the next day.


In France, they each much smaller portions than in America. For breakfast, the French simply have a piece of fruit or a croissant with their cafe latte, if they have breakfast at all. They have larger lunches, where they eat pasta, protein, vegetables, and fruit, typically in large groups. For dinner, the French likely have another small meal with their families, full of fruits, vegetables, and protein. Take your time while you eat smaller portions of foods that you truly enjoy., European desserts are known for being decadent and delicious. Look for a bakery that specializes in European treats. Find some recipes for traditional European desserts. You also might be able to find imported options at the grocery store.Search for an Italian bakery near you. Italian bakeries are known for cannoli, which come in flavors such as traditional ricotta, chocolate, strawberry, limoncello, and even caramel pecan and pumpkin. These bakeries also carry ricotta pie, meringues, florentine cookies, and lobster tails, which are multi-layer pastries.
If you can't find a bakery in your area, try making some recipes at home. Try a traditional German streusel or Black Forrest cake. Make sure you look for recipes that detail how to bake them in the same way they are made in Germany. You want your desserts to be just like they are when they are made by locals.
You can sometimes find European dessert options at a grocery store. Many American companies have put out their own line of gelato, which is kind of like a creamy sorbet and ice cream fusion popular all over Europe, especially Italy.
 There are many foods and brands in Europe that aren't available in America. Even brands that are available in America taste different in Europe. Look for a world market or grocery store that sells imported foods. If you can't find a store, look for international stores online that ship to America.


Look for gourmet cheeses such as Italian Asiago, Parmesan, and Mozzarella or French Brie or Cantalet. Pair them with honey, nuts, or grapes. Try to find imported brands like il Giardino or Henri Hutin instead of the brands distributed in America.Some of the best chocolates you can get are from Belgium. Try Valerie's Gaufre Choco Wafel or Ambiente White Praline chocolate bar.
American candies such as Starburst and KitKat offer different flavors in other countries. Starbursts offers the black currant flavor in Ireland. KitKats in Italy are offered in caramel flavor. Try to find a store that sells these imported candies in order to enjoy the variations of flavors.

