 You can make the pancakes more flavorful and unique by adding extra ingredients to the batter, such as: pumpkin pie spice, ground cinnamon, apple pie spice, and vanilla extract. Before you start frying pancakes, add one teaspoon of your chosen flavor to the batter and mix it together.
 You can make your pancakes more flavorful by adding other ingredients into the batter before you fry it. Use about ½ cup of whatever ingredient you choose. You can add more to your liking—just make sure that the batter is still smooth, or it will not spread out properly on the frying pan. Here are some ideas:


You can use berries, such as blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries. You can also use sliced-up bananas or grated apples.
You can add some chocolate chips to the batter as well.
 While maple syrup is the most popular pancake topping, you can also use other sweet toppings instead: chocolate sauce, fruit jams, honey, or chocolate-hazelnut spread.
 You can also top your pancakes with nuts, fruits, and other items. Use a handful of whatever topping you choose. Here are some ideas:


You can use berries, such as blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries. You can also use sliced-up bananas.
You can use chopped up nuts, such as walnuts and pecans.
You can also use other ingredients, such as a small cube of butter, fried and crumbled bacon, or a handful of chocolate chips.
 You can also change the flavor of your pancake by substituting park or some of the ingredients:


To make whole-wheat pancakes, use ¾ cup (105 grams) of regular, all-purpose flour, and ¾ cup (105 gram) of whole wheat flour.
To make buttermilk or yogurt pancakes, use butter milk or plain yogurt instead of regular milk.
 You may use fresh, sliced strawberries, or you can prepare a strawberry-sugar mixture. To do this, slice up some strawberries before you start making the pancake batter, and add some sugar to the strawberries. You will need 2 cups of strawberries and ¼ cup of sugar. Mix them together in a bowl and store it into the fridge until you are ready to eat the pancakes., You will need four strips of fried bacon, crumbled, and 1.2 cup of chopped pecans. Fry them with some shortening for two minutes. Combine with 1 ½ cup of maple syrup and keep warm until the pancakes are ready to be served., Perfect for Fall, these pancakes have a hint of spices and a burst of pumpkin. Prepare the pancake batter as usual (refer to the section on preparing basic pancake batter), but add 1 teaspoon of pumpkin pie spice to the dry ingredients (flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt), and 6 tablespoons of canned pumpkin to the liquid ingredients (milk, cooking oil, and eggs).You can also make your own pumpkin spice by combining ½ ground cinnamon, ¼ teaspoon ground ginger, ¼ teaspoon ground allspice, and 1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg.