 Puppies are lots of work and if this is your first sighthound or even your first dog, consider adopting a retired racer. They are a very adaptable breed so when you bring the dog home it will be a blank slate.;
,


Keep the Greyhound on the lead and take him or her around the house. If you have glass doors, it's advised you tap the glass and let the dog (still on the lead) touch the glass with his or hers nose so they know not to run into it.
Then let your new dog loose and don't make a big fuss because it could make the dog nervous.
Let him or her sniff the dog bed and let them explore, if they want to go to you they can but don't go to them because they're still a bit nervous.
After they've had a good look around let them out in the designated area and let them go to the loo, praise them and give them a treat for doing so.
 For the first few days out and about, it's recommended that your new Greyhound wears a muzzle so he cannot nip at any other dogs or wild rabbits.




Greyhounds are not aggressive dogs and are the complete opposite, they are calm and affectionate. But because of their prey drive from racing, they can take off after wild rabbits or any other small animals.
Greyhounds could nip other dogs in an act of self defence. In kennels, they're normally used to other Greyhounds for kennel mates but if another smaller dog of a different breed or a bigger dog runs up to the Greyhound without it being in his or hers eyesight it could spook your dog. If the other dog nips back, it could be fatal because Greyhounds' flesh is very thin.
 This is probably one of the first nights ever for your dog to be alone, let him or her get settled 10-20 minutes before you go to sleep. For the first couple of nights, it would be better to keep a light on or a radio turned down so he or she does not feel alone. Your dog will soon realise that it's also their kennel as well as your home and will sleep like a log!

, It's very important to keep your Greyhounds health in good shape.


Groom him or her regularly and using a special dog toothbrush and toothpaste (Do not use human toothpaste. It's poisonous to dogs.) Brush their teeth once a week. It's very important, because Greyhounds do not drool. They keep all the saliva in their mouths which can quicken tar build up on the teeth and gums.
It's also important to clean the dogs ears and clip their claws to make sure they're in no pain and can live life to the fullest.
