 Your company may employ salaried employees or hourly employees who work a fixed number of hours each pay period. Work with an ADP representative to set up Automatic Pay for these employees. This way, you won’t have to enter their pay data each pay period.


You can make changes to an employee’s salary or number of hours any time you need to.
 This is the process for entering data for your salaried and hourly employees who are no set up for Automatic Pay. You enter paydata in batches, which are groups of employees. You can use previously-created batches, or you can create and customize new batches.


Click on “Process” in the task bar at the top of the page. In the pop-up menu, under “Payroll,” select “Payroll Cycle.” You will be directed to the Payroll Cycle page.
Click on the “Enter Paydata icon” and select “Paydata” from the popup menu. You will be directed to a window where you can create a payroll batch.
If you have already grouped employees into batches, the batches will be displayed in this window. Select the batch for which you want to enter paydata and click on “Go to Payroll Cycle.”
If you want to create a new batch, click on the green “add” button. Add an alphanumeric code to identify the batch, and write a description so you know which category of employees is included in the batch. Select the paydata grid you want to use, depending on how you want your paydata displayed. Click on “next,” and you will be directed to a page that lists all of the employees in the company. Select the checkboxes next to the names of the employees you want to include and click on “Create Batch.”
You will now see the paydata grid for the batch. Here is where you can enter any paydata information.
 Find the column entitled “Reg. Hours.” Enter the number of regular hours each employee worked. The system will automatically calculate the gross salary, deductions and net salary for the pay period. Click on the “save” button frequently to save data you have entered. When you are done, click on the “done” button.


Enter the number of overtime hours in the “O/T Earnings” column.
Enter any sick or vacation hours in the appropriate columns.
 The system keeps salary and tax data for each employee and automatically calculates this information based on the number of hours you input. Also, employees set up for Automatic Pay automatically receive a paycheck. However, sometimes you need to make one-time changes. You can manually input these changes in the paydata grid.


If an employee is set up for Automatic Pay but you need to change their salary or hours for this pay period, include the employee in the batch. Input the appropriate salary information in the paydata grid. This will override the Automatic Pay for the employee for this pay period.
To input one-time deductions, such as a contribution to the United Way, click on “insert” and select “column.” In the popup window, select “Adjust Deduction” for the Paydata Field and choose the type of deduction for “Code/Type.” The name of the column heading will automatically update. Click “done,” and you will see the column in the paydata grid. Enter the dollar amount in that column for the employee.
 Select the employee for whom you want to create the additional check. Information for that employee’s regular pay for this pay period is already entered. Now, enter a second row for that employee to create a new check. Click on “insert” and select “new row.” A second row will appear with the same employee name. Now you can enter paydata for the additional check.


Enter the tax frequency information, which calculates taxes based on the type of pay. For example, bonuses are taxed at different rates than regular pay.
Find the column that describes the type of pay (such as “bonus” or “retroactive pay”) and enter the dollar amount.

