 The most convenient method of disposing of a totaled car is letting your insurance company handle its sale. If you’re knowledgeable about car parts, though, and think you can make more off the car than your insurance company is offering, or if the car is old and not insured, you might want to sell your totaled vehicle yourself.If your car is insured and your company has declared it a total loss, you’ll need to let them know that you intend to keep the vehicle. They’ll still cut you a check for the car, but they’ll deduct the estimated amount of money that they would have received for it from a junkyard or dealership.
 Once a vehicle has been determined a total loss, it requires documentation—usually called a salvage certificate—that effectively records its damage and history as a totaled car. You can obtain this salvage certificate by going to your local motor vehicle agency and asking them to issue it in exchange for your old car title.Different states and countries have varying salvage auto regulations, so be sure to check your particular state’s or province’s guidelines to make sure you’re filling out all the proper documentation.
In some places, the Department of Motor Vehicles will charge you a small fee for the salvage certificate. In Illinois, for example, a salvage certificate costs four dollars., With your salvage certificate in hand, you can sell your totaled car to a private party or company. A car dealership is the first place to try when doing this, as many dealerships will pay cash for salvaged vehicles in order to make repairs, auction it off, or dismantle and sell it for parts. This practice can be so profitable that some dealerships deal exclusively in salvage cars, so it doesn’t hurt to check with a few dealerships around town and compare their offers.Just be sure to explain that your car is a salvage vehicle, as this ‘brand’ or status of the car makes it more difficult to insure and sell in the future.
 If you don’t get any bites from car dealerships, check with local junkyards to find out how much they’ll pay for your salvage vehicle. Just don’t snap up the very first offer, as different yards will offer different prices depending on their needs, abilities, and expertise.Most salvage yards will have their own, set rates for buying vehicles if they intend to crush it down for scrap metal. In this scenario, you can expect around $75 per ton for your car.Also consider other factors, such as whether or not the junkyard will pick up your car for free, or if you’ll be expected to dispose of non-metal materials, such as tires, before turning over your vehicle.
 Depending on whether or not your car still runs, you can either drive your car to the junkyard, have someone pick it up, or have it towed by the junkyard. Just be sure to find out ahead of time whether or not the junkyard charges a fee for pick-up or towing.Also double-check your car before handing it over to make sure you haven’t left any personal belongings in the trunk or main interior.
 Once you’ve received cash or a check from the junkyard, you’ll sign over the title or salvage certificate to its new owner. If you don’t have the vehicle’s title, you can probably still sell the car, but you should let the junkyard know ahead of time that you don’t have it., Depending on where you live, you might need to finalize the transaction with further documentation. In some places, for example, you’ll need to relinquish the license plates and cancel your vehicle’s registration.If you live in the U.S., you’ll also want to call the DMV after a week or so to verify that the title has been transferred over to the junkyard. If the process is delayed, you could be liable for your vehicle well after you thought you had relinquished ownership.