 E-Verify is a system monitored and administered by the Department of Homeland Security to verify Social Security Numbers (SSNs) for employment eligibility. As an individual, if you are over 16 years old, you may wish to check your own SSN to verify that a prospective employer will not have a problem if you apply for a job.The self-check begins at https://www.uscis.gov/myE-Verify/self-check. Click on the button that says “Start Self Check.”;
, You will be presented with information about the security of the Self Check website, and about your use of it. You need to read all this material and then, at the bottom of the page, click the small box to verify that you agree. You will then have the option to continue in English or in Spanish. Make your selection and click the correct button., On the next screen, you will be asked to enter your name, address, birth date and social security number. When you are ready, click “Continue” at the bottom of the screen., The next screen will repeat what you have entered. Review it and make sure that it is all correct. If you need to correct anything, click on “Edit Information.” If it is accurate and you are ready to proceed, click on “Confirm Information.”, E-Verify uses an independent system to provide security. You will be asked some questions to help verify your identity before you are able to proceed with the process. When you are ready to proceed to the next screen, click “Continue.”, You will be asked four questions from a random question data bank. Some sample questions are, “Where was your SSN first issued?” and “What was the sale price of your first home?” Answer the questions honestly in order to continue with the search.
 On the following screen, you will be asked your current citizenship status and the form of identification you intend to present to your employer (SSN card or passport). There are four choices for the citizenship status:U.S. Citizen
non-citizen national of the U.S.
lawful permanent resident
alien authorized to work in the U.S.
 After you complete all the prior steps, you will get a report. It will inform you that you are eligible to work in the U.S., or that you are not eligible. If the report says that you are not eligible, it will explain why and give you information about who to contact with any questions.This system is quick and free. From start to finish, you should have your results within just a few minutes.

