 Just as negativity can spread, so can positivity. Being around others who have a positive outlook on life can impact your own outlook as well. Develop the relationships in your life that make you feel good about yourself, that challenge you to grow and improve, and that push you towards positive lifestyle choices., There is an abundance of evidence that shows the impact of daily meditation on positive thinking. In fact, one study showed that mindfulness meditation coupled with yoga in a group of breast cancer patients led to positive changes in the patients' DNA structure.So, thinking mindfully can heal you from the inside out.


Find a quiet place where you can sit undisturbed for several minutes. Sit in a comfortable position. Take several cleansing deep breaths. You can simply focus on your breath or you can listen to a guided audio mediation specifically designed to foster positive thinking., Becoming more physically active generates brain chemical called endorphins that leave you feeling relaxed and more content. What's more, regular physical activity builds self-confidence, builds resistance to illness and disease, and controls weight - all factors that can have significant impact on your outlook.Research even shows that optimists are more likely to work out than pessimists.So, grab a pair of sneakers and walk your dog, go for a run or a hike, or turn on the radio and dance with your best friend.
 Getting an appropriate amount of shut-eye can also drastically influence your optimism. Aim for 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night. Improve your ability to relax by creating a winding-down ritual that includes soothing activities such as listening to soft music, reading, or taking a hot bath. Plus, rising and retiring at the same time each morning and night can improve your sleep habits.When people are sleep-deprived they experience a deficit in optimism, tending to be less hopeful and positive.Even children who get good quality and quantity sleep are more optimistic., When we experience negative thoughts and feelings, we often turn to alcohol or drugs to numb them. However, alcohol and many drugs are depressants, which may increase negative feeling and increase the likelihood of self-harm.


If your tendency to think negatively causes you to turn to alcohol and drugs, call a friend instead. Or, even better, reach out to a mental health professional who can help you overcome these thought patterns.

