 Teachers are like any other person, so it’s important to try to make a good first impression. Showing that you are a student interested in the class and in learning goes a long way to getting along well with your math teacher.


Introduce yourself to the teacher. Make sure he or she knows who you are personally in addition to being another student. Act friendly towards your teacher. Don’t be fake, but make eye contact, smile, and be generally warm towards him or her.
Be responsible. Show up on time and do your work. Make sure to always pay attention. Don’t put your head down or stare off into space. ;
, Many students do not get involved enough in class. Class is where you learn how to do your homework and tests. Make sure to stay interested and involved, which will help you learn more.


Sit near the front. Students who sit near the front can be more involved in class. If you sit in the back row, your teacher may think you are not interested in the class.
Ask if you have any questions. Teachers like it when students ask questions. It shows they’re paying attention and interested in learning. It’s important to be interactive with what you’re learning. Do not be shy about trying out a math problem in front of the class, even if you don't know how to do it. The point is to learn in class, not get every question right.
 Sometimes, students are afraid to ask for help. However, asking for help just means that you are learning. Make sure to ask plenty of questions of the teacher


Talk to your teacher on a regular basis. You should be keeping in contact with your teacher throughout the class. Don’t make the first time you talk to him or her when you are really struggling.
See if the teacher can offer additional teaching or tutoring. Some teachers may be able to help you out in addition to class hours.
Think about getting a tutor. If you’re really struggling with math, you may need to look into tutoring. Tutors are often around at your school or you can see if you can find a private tutor to help you understand your work. , When you’re in class, you should always be taking notes on what’s happening in class and anything important your teacher says. These notes are invaluable when you’re confused or studying later for a test. Write down any definitions and new concepts. When your teacher is introducing anything new, make sure to write down anything that seems important or any questions you may have.
Have an organized system of taking notes. Put a date and topic on each page of notes. Try to end each day of notes with major concepts learned and questions you still have.
Use your notes to review and study for tests. Keeping good notes will help you to do better on tests and to make sure you understanding how different concepts relate to one another.
 Try to remember that your teacher is not your friend. They are their to help you learn the material first and foremost.


Maintain a professional relationship with your teacher. Make sure to maintain boundaries, especially since school is your professional environment. Don't be overly friendly, since this will likely make your teacher uncomfortable.
Talk to your teachers about your life, but don't get too personal. They don't need to know anything about your personal life. Instead, try talking about shared interests or local sports teams.Realize that you may not get along with your teacher. Your personalities may clash. If that happens, just keep in mind that you only need to learn from your teacher and not become friends or even friendly. 