 Ensure you set realistic, doable goals about getting new stuff.This will help to guide you and set some goals to steer yourself back to where you want to be. Whilst things are bleak it helps to remain positive and a structured sets of goals and hopes will help you to avoid post-disaster blues.;
, If you still have a place, make sure the rent and bills are cared for first. Now, remember that list?

, Let us say you have lost absolutely everything. But you only get paid once a month! This means you may have to pick only one or two big purchases for each month. Make sure to put the things you need immediately in the first couple of slots on your list. Can't stand laying on the floor? Make 'bed' this month's purchase. Or you're in the middle of nowhere? Make 'used car' purchase #1.
 Only when the target items are safely in your possession, splurge on fancier foods, cigs, beer, whatever it is that broke you out.—Now is the time you can purchase that. It is best to try to hold on to some cash for basic needs like regular food and TP, but do what ya do.—It'll be alright.
 Pay your bills first, buy one big piece of getting-your-life back together next, and then you can relax and party.
 Bargain hunt. If someone is selling a good used one, snag it. You can check craigslist, yard sales, local thrift stores.—These will all help you get the best bang for your buck.


If you are in a college town you may even find after semesters that students will just chuck out their furniture. If you can obtain item #1 for cheap or free, you may even be able to purchase item #2 in the same month if you want. Take advantage of people who dump couches outside their houses, or old cabinets. Most of these items are usually not damaged beyond repair, so refurbish them and give them (and you) a second life.
 If you use this method you should be back on your feet, living comfortably in as little as a year, maybe a year and a half. Don't beat yourself up, though, if you drop off the train one month.—Just get back on and go down the tracks.
 Get rid of those who: insult you, make you doubt yourself, use sticky fingers, ask for too many loans, or influence you to to do anything you want to get away from, e.g., drinking too much, buying/selling drugs, stealing etc. Just move them out of your life whatever way you can. Do it sooner. You'll make better friends eventually.—No worries!

