 Not all alimony is the same. The type of alimony you pay will determine when and how you can seek to modify it. Take out your divorce decree and read it to see what type of alimony the judge awarded:Rehabilitative alimony. A court often grants this kind of alimony to allow a spouse to get an education in preparation for entering the job market. Rehabilitative alimony is set for a limited amount of time. At the end of this period, you can ask the court to review.
Permanent alimony. As the name implies, this type of support is meant to be permanent. You will probably need to identify a “substantial change in circumstances” in order to modify this type of alimony.
Reimbursement alimony. This type of alimony is meant to compensate a spouse who worked full-time to put a spouse through school. Sometimes, reimbursement alimony is given as a lump sum. It will be very hard to modify this type of alimony because your ex now refuses to work. Instead, this type of alimony was awarded as a reward for his or her past work.;
, Your ex-spouse’s refusal to work should have been relevant when the judge set the initial alimony amount. However, now you want to modify alimony, probably by reducing it. You don’t generally have a right to modify alimony. Instead, you need to check the following:


Your marital settlement agreement. If you agreed to pay alimony as part of a divorce settlement, then you might not be able to modify. It depends on what your settlement agreement says.For example, you might have agreed that alimony would be non-modifiable.
Your divorce decree. If the alimony is short-term rehabilitative, then the judge might have set a deadline for your ex-spouse to get a job. If so, then you can raise your ex’s refusal to work at the court hearing. However, make sure that the judge didn’t state that the alimony was non-modifiable.
 In many states, you can also modify alimony when there has been a “substantial change in circumstances.” The more circumstances you can point to, the better. You should look for the following, which will help you make a strong case to the judge:


Your ex’s financial position has improved. For example, he or she could have inherited money from relatives. You can also argue that he or she should be working because they completed a degree or have had offers of employment.
Your ex has moved in with someone. Usually, alimony will end when your ex gets married. In some states, it may be reduced when your ex-spouse cohabitates with a partner.You have lost your own job. You may be facing difficult financial circumstances that make modifying alimony appropriate. You should get proof that you were laid off, such as a termination notice from your employer.
You have retired. You can usually get a reduction in the alimony you pay when you retire.You have suffered a medical or another crisis. You might be able to get a modification if you have become suddenly ill and have high medical expenses or have been unable to work as much as you used to.
 You should have proof that your ex-spouse has the qualifications to find a job but has refused to get one. It’s okay if you can’t find hard evidence. After filing for a modification, you can seek “discovery,” which is a way to get documents and other information from your ex-spouse.However, for now, you should look for the following:


Proof that your ex has completed a degree. Look on the university or college’s website. Often, the name of graduates is published.
Information about your ex-spouse’s job history. As best as you can, write down what you remember about when and where he or she worked. Also write down how much your ex made in these jobs.
Evidence your ex has turned down jobs. For example, friends or family might still be in contact with your ex and tell you that they have turned down job offers.
 Each state’s alimony laws are different. Accordingly, only a qualified attorney can properly advise you about the alimony laws in your state. An attorney can also tell you whether you may seek modification because your ex refuses to work.


You can find a divorce attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Ask for a referral.
If you used a lawyer for your divorce, then reconnect. Call him or her up and explain that you want to modify your alimony.
Also think about hiring the lawyer to represent you. If your ex-spouse has a lawyer, then you will be at a disadvantage if you don’t have one.
 You need to ask a judge to modify the alimony award. You can do so by filing certain paperwork with the court. You will need a “petition” or “complaint.” You will also have to fill out other forms, such as a “financial affidavit” or “financial statement.”Most courts have “fill in the blank” forms you can use.


Stop into the court where you received your divorce decree and ask the court clerk for the forms. Tell him or her you want to modify alimony.
You can also look on the court’s website.
 One important document is the petition. You should provide the requested information neatly, using black ink. Each court’s petition form differs slightly from other court’s forms. However, you will typically be asked for the following information:names (of you and your ex)
date final judgment was entered in your divorce
how much you currently pay in alimony
circumstances that warrant modification
how you want the alimony modified
your signature (given under penalty of perjury)
signature of a notary public

, Once you complete all of the forms, put them in order. The forms might tell you the order to assemble them. You also will need to provide a copy of your original divorce decree or settlement agreement.


Make several copies of the entire packet when you are finished. You will need one copy for your records and another copy to send to your ex.
 Take the original (and the copies) to the court clerk. Ask him or her to file.The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date as well.


You may have to pay a filing fee.The amount will differ depending on the court.
If you can’t afford the fee, then ask the clerk for a fee waiver application.
 The judge probably requires a hearing before he or she will make a decision on modifying alimony. Each court schedules hearings in different ways. In some courts, you should ask for a hearing date when you file.


In other courts, you should wait until you hear back from your ex before deciding whether a hearing is necessary., You should serve a copy on your ex-spouse by hand delivery, which is called “personal service.”You can typically hire a private process server, who will make delivery for $45-75. Look in the phone book or online.


You can also usually have someone 18 or older hand deliver the papers, so long as the person isn’t involved in the dispute. For example, you could have a friend take them over.
Whoever makes service usually has to complete a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service” form. You can get this form from the court clerk. The server fills it out and returns it to you. Make a copy for your records and file the original with the court.
 Your ex has a certain amount of time to respond. If they do, they typically will file an answer to your petition. In this document, they will respond to all of the allegations made in your petition.


Your ex should deliver their response to you. If you have a lawyer, then he or she will get it. Ask your lawyer for a copy so that you have copies of all important documents filed in your case.
 Your ex might not respond. In that case, go to the clerk’s office and state that you want to file for a “default judgment.”Ask for the proper forms and fill them out.


With a default judgment, you win because your ex refused to respond in time. Default judgments aren’t available in all situations or in all courts. However, you can still check with the court clerk.
 Your judge may require a “case management conference” or other hearing in order to hash out preliminary issues. For example, you can request discovery if need be. You may also be ordered to attend mediation.You might have to attend a series of “status” hearings to discuss how the case is coming along and handle any issues that arise. The purpose of these hearings is to make sure that everyone gets the information they have requested in preparation for the full hearing on whether to modify alimony.
 Generally, you can have witnesses testify at the hearing on your behalf. For example, you might want someone to testify that they offered your ex a job but he or she refused. You can tell the witness the hearing date and time. You might also need to send them subpoenas, which you can get from the court clerk, to secure their attendance.


You should also identify any documents you want to introduce into evidence.For example, if you have a copy of a written job offer that your ex turned down, then you may want to introduce that into evidence.
 You want to look good for your hearing. However, you don’t want to look “too good.” You don’t want the judge to think you are drowning in money.Accordingly, you should follow these fashion tips:


Dress in “business casual.” Men can wear dress pants and a button-up shirt. Make sure the shirt is long-sleeved and has a collar. Tuck it in at the waist. Men can also wear ties and dress shoes with dark socks.
Women should wear dress slacks and a nice blouse or sweater. Leave the jewelry at home.
 You will go first (since you are asking the judge to modify alimony). You should explain why the alimony should be modified. For example, you can present evidence that your ex isn’t looking for work although he or she received temporary, rehabilitative alimony and has received training or a degree.


The judge may ask you questions. You should listen quietly when the judge is speaking.
 You have to be quiet as your ex presents their evidence. They should explain why they can’t look for work and/or why the alimony should be extended. Don’t interrupt.


You probably will be able to cross-examine your ex and their witnesses, so you should write down questions you want to ask on a piece of paper., After hearing all evidence, the judge will make a decision and sign an order.In some courts, the clerk will fill out the order. However, in other courts, the winning side needs to complete the order.


Make sure you get a signed copy of the order and keep it for your records.

