 Although it’s tempting to return the taunts, try to rise about the temptation. Returning taunts with insults of your own will only serve to escalate the situation. Do your best to remain calm.It can be helpful to count to 10 when you hear a comment about your body or weight. This can give you a moment to think and avoid snapping.
Consider three things when you hear what is perceived as a negative comment. Is the comment true? Who made the comment? Why would they make this comment?Some people may put others down due to their own insecurities. However, if the comment came from a friend or family member they may be genuinely concerned about your weight and coming from a place of support. Understanding the reasons behind a comment can taper some of the anger you may feel in regards to it.
Consider the person behind the comment. Is this person often negative? If so, try to let it go. Their comments reflect their own problems, not yours.;
, It can be hard not to lash out in frustration when getting comments about your weight. It might be helpful to think of a variety of witty comments to use in response when someone calls you skinny.


You can make quick, somewhat factual comments to combat rude remarks about your weight. If someone says something like, "How do you stay so thin?" or "How can you eat that and not gain weight?" respond with something like, "Everyone's metabolism is different" or "It's just the way my body works."You can also respond to a comment with a question. This can call attention to the inappropriate nature of such comments. For example, if someone says "You are so skinny!" say something like, "Why does that matter to you?" or "Why do you need to comment on that?" Vague, open-ended questions can also be helpful. Respond with something like, "Why do so many people put value on appearance?", The person teasing you will not expect this response, but it will certainly disarm them. It shows you are confident and uninterested in their impolite and unwanted insults.


You may feel unable to be funny on cue. Many people struggle with thinking of humorous comments in the moment. It can help to write down a list of the most common comments you get on your weight and spend some time thinking up funny responses.
It can be helpful to exaggerate the insult or comment to call attention to its inappropriate nature of the comment. If someone says something mean about your weight, say sarcastically, "Wow, if you think my appearance is bad it's a shame you're not taking time to get to know my personality. That would give you some great material.", Sometimes, the best way to respond to unwanted comments is simply by disengaging. Try your best to ignore comments about your weight.


While it may be difficult, try not to take offense at insults. People who want to make you uncomfortable or feel bad thrive on your response. Ignoring comments will make them realize they're not getting the reaction they want. It shows you're more powerful than the aggressor.If someone continues to make aggressive comments to you even as you ignore them, remove yourself from the situation. This is sometimes the best way to deal with teasing. Simply leave the room or environment to show the teaser you do not find their comments to be acceptable.
 Teasing can sometimes get out of hand in social media forums. People may feel more bold in their teasing when it’s not face-to-face. This kind of “cyberbullying” needs to be addressed.


Don’t respond in any way to the teasing and comments. Engaging with bullies online only encourages their venom.
Use the block functions of your social media outlets and email to stop future comments and get rid of aggressors.
Keep examples of the online teasing as a screenshot or email in case you need to show someone as evidence. In rare cases, cyberbullying gets intense enough that it requires police intervention.

