 If you are at home when it is broken into, then get to a safe place. Also protect yourself if someone tries to rob you in a parking lot or in another public space. You can protect yourself by complying with the robber and remaining calm. Robberies typically happen very quickly.If you were hurt during the robbery, then you should seek immediate medical attention. Call your local emergency services to request an ambulance, or else you can have someone else take you to the emergency room.;
, If you were robbed in person, then you should have some idea of what the thief looks like. As soon as possible, sit down and write out your description. Include basic information, such as gender, height, age, and race. But also note any distinctive characteristics, such as facial tattoos, deformities, or unusual ways of walking or talking.
 Once you are sure that you are safe, you should check to see what has been stolen. Write a list. If your purse is stolen, then write out everything that was in the purse: how much money, the names of credit cards, your phone, etc.


Write out a description of the property stolen as well. For example, if your car was stolen, then you will need to report the year and make, as well as the model, color and VIN number (if you have it)., If your car or apartment was broken into, then be sure not to clean up evidence of a forced entry. The police may need to see that evidence.Leave broken glass, busted doors, and overturned furniture exactly as you found them.
Step outside your house and call the police so that you don’t contaminate the scene. Use your cell phone, or, if you don’t have a cell phone, then use a neighbor’s phone.
If someone robbed you on the street, then they might leave evidence behind of who they are. For example, someone might have reached into your wallet to take the money but then dumped the wallet on the street. Be careful when handling the wallet—police could get fingerprints off it.
 You should call the police as soon as possible and report that you have been robbed. If your home or car was broken into, then an officer should come to the scene.


Be sure to write down the police report number. You will need this information later, if you submit a claim to your insurance company., You may need to stop into the police station and fill out a police report. You should go as soon as possible and make sure to leave the station with a copy of the report.
 You might have homeowner’s or renter’s insurance. If something is stolen from your home, then you should contact your insurance company within 24 hours.Be sure to gather receipts for big ticket items. You want to establish convincingly how much the item cost, so that you can recover the full amount.
Gather other relevant information, which you will need to make your insurance claim:where and when you purchased the item
how much it cost
the model and brand of the item



, When a purse or wallet is stolen, the thief gains access to your credit and debit cards. You should contact your bank and credit card companies as soon as possible.


To find the number, look at your bank or credit card statements and find the customer service number. Tell the representative on the other end of the line when the cards were taken from you. They should happily close the old accounts and open new ones.
 Identity theft is a special kind of theft. Instead of taking tangible property from you, the thief steals your identity. Typically, this happens when the thief gains access to your personal information, such as Social Security Number, date of birth, or bank account information. An identity thief can then take out loans or open credit cards in your name.


If you have been the victim of identity theft, then you need to report the theft to the police but also report to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). Visit the website IdentityTheft.gov for materials and information that help with reporting identity theft.
You can report identity theft to the FTC by calling 1-877-438-4338. There is also an online reporting option, which you can find by visiting the FTC Complaint Assistant and selecting “Identity Theft” as the category.
You can then choose your sub-category: Identity Theft, Attempted Identity Theft, Data Breach, or Lost Wallet or Purse.The assistant will walk you throw the reporting process.

