 In a large mixing bowl, stir together 1 cup (100 g) shredded mozzarella cheese, 2 cups (200 g) shredded cheddar cheese, and ¼ to ½ cup (25-50 g) green onions to your taste. When they’re well mixed, add in ¼ cup (60 ml) mayonnaise and 1 tablespoon (15 g) sour cream and stir until the ingredients are thoroughly combined.You can substitute your favorite cheeses, such as monterey jack, colby, provolone, or swiss, if you aren’t a fan of mozzarella and cheddar. Any combination will work.;
, In a separate, smaller bowl, combine ½ stick (57 g) of butter that’s been softened so it’s almost melting with 1 to 2 cloves of minced garlic. Blend together until the mixture is smooth.To soften the butter, cut it into small pieces and place it in a microwave-safe bowl. Start heating it at 10% power in the microwave for intervals of 20 seconds until it just starts to melt.If you don’t have fresh garlic, you can substitute for the cloves with ⅛ to ¼ teaspoon (approximately 1 g) of garlic powder., Once the butter and garlic are combined, stir them into the cheese mixture. You’ll wind up with an extremely thick paste-like texture, but blend well so all of the flavors are combined.A wooden spoon or a spatula works best for mixing the butter mixture and the cheese mixture together.
You can add other toppings to the cheesy bread’s spread, such as chopped black olives or chopped artichoke hearts.
 After you’ve combined the topping ingredients, make sure that your oven is ready for the bread. Preheat the broiler in your oven. In most cases, the broiler heating element is at the top of the oven, so place the oven rack in the highest position.Most broiler controls are separate from the oven temperature settings, so make sure that you set your oven correctly.
 Take a loaf of long crusty bread, such as Italian or French, and slice it in half lengthwise. Line a cookie sheet or baking pan with foil, and place the two halves of the bread, crust side down, on the sheet. Use a spatula to spread the cheese mixture over both pieces of bread until completely covered.You can use any type of bread that you like. Just make sure that it’s thick enough to support the weight of the topping spread.
 When both slices of bread are covered in the cheese spread, place the cookie sheet under the broiler. Allow the bread to broil for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the cheese melts and starts to brown.It usually helps the broiling process if you leave the oven door slightly ajar while you broil the bread. Check your oven’s instructions to see if that’s recommended for your model.
 Once the bread is finished broiling, allow it to sit for approximately 5 minutes or until it’s cool enough to handle. Use a bread knife to slice the two halves into pieces for serving.