 Many drain clogs can be removed using a plunger. If you haven't already given it a whirl, it's worth trying, so you can avoid the more time-consuming process of snaking your drain. Use this technique to see if a plunger can't do the trick:


Place the plunger over the drain. Make sure the rubber head is flush against the sink or bathtub around the drain so that it creates a seal.
Push the plunger so the rubber head inverts. Let it pop back up and push down again. Do this several times until water starts draining from the sink or bathtub.
If the water doesn't drain, put the plunger away and try something else.;
, Many clogs are located in the trap under the sink, and are easily removed if you clean out the trap, the screen that catches hair and other solid objects. Clean the trap by taking the following steps:


Place a bucket under the sink to catch water and other debris that will pour out when you detach the trap.
Remove the clean-out plug from the trap. It's usually located in the base of the bend. Push a wire coat hanger or another long, thin object into the hole and use it to scrape out debris and clean the clog.
If you don't have a clean-out plug, unscrew the trap using a pair of pliers. Clean out the debris and wash out the trap before replacing it.
If the clog is still there after cleaning the trap, move on to the next step.
 You'll need a drain auger or closet auger, a bucket, and rubber cleaning gloves. Have a few old towels around to clean up dirty water.
 If you have a tub screen or a hair trap covering your drain, place it out of the way.
 Rotate the handle clockwise as you push.


Grip the handle with both hands if you have trouble pushing.
As you lower the cable, move your grip down until it's about 3 inches (7.6 cm) from the drain opening. This close grip allows you to control your motions and feel for the clog easier.
 At some point you will feel resistance from the obstruction in your pipe.


It might seem as if the cable has hit a wall when you hit the pipe's curve. Keep pushing to snake the pipe past the curve.
You should be able to determine that what you've hit is the clog if you sense the clump giving way slightly as you press downward.
 Continue to turn the cable clockwise, and then pull up slightly to see if you've captured any of the clogged matter. Push and prod the clog so you can begin to break it up.


Work on the clog until you puncture through the other end. Continue turning the handle to break up the clog into smaller pieces.
If the clog won't seem to budge, it may be a solid object that you've hooked.
 Pull the snake out of the drain with care so you don't lose the clog if it's hooked on the snake.


Clean the mess off the snake with a towel as it emerges. Dump the drain matter into a bucket.
Keep pulling up as much of the clog as you can until the snake is free.
 Run the water through the drain. It may take a few second to wash away the remnants of the clog, but it should begin to flow quickly.


If the drain is still obstructed, you will need to try to locate the clog from another angle. Try snaking through the pipes directly under the sink. Unscrew the sink trap and insert the snake into the hole. Snake the pipe using the same technique you used to snake it through the drain opening.
If water still won't run through the drain after you've snaked it from the trap, it may have been pushed further down into your pipes. In this case, it's time to call the plumber.
 Cutting hair over the sink or washing heavy products down the drain can lead to clogs. Throw all solid objects in the trash instead, even if they're seemingly too small to cause clogs.
 Hair traps and drain screens work well to prevent clogs from happening. Make sure you have one in your sink and in the shower, so your hair doesn't get knotted inside the pipe.

