 Want to stay informed of new drug safety changes and recalls? By clicking the green button called “Stay Informed” on the MedWatch home page, you’ll be routed to several more options. This new page will allow you to subscribe to regular FDA updates on drugs and drug labeling through email or media like Twitter and RSS feeds. Signing up is simple and will make sure you get all the latest news.Follow the directions to sign up via email. Simply key your email address into the right box and hit the “Subscribe” button.
You can also follow MedWatch on Twitter or add it to your own website, blog, or personal page by copying and pasting the address of the site’s RSS feed to your own RSS reader software or browser.
 Like drugs, the FDA also provides up-to-date alerts on food recalls through email and other electronic media. Consider subscribing if you want the latest news on food products that have been recalled or that may be dangerous. From the Food section’s “Recalls, Outbreaks, and Emergencies” page, click the link “Get E-Mail Updates” to go to a subscription page. The FDA will then ask you to submit your email address and will send you an update each time there is a new alert.
You can also click on the “Food Safety and Alerts Widget” to display recall info directly on your personal webpage, blog, or other site or download the FDA’s mobile app, which sends recall alerts to your smartphone.
 The United States government carries much of the same FDA information on food recalls on a second site at www.foodsafety.gov. You can either find a link to this site from the “Recalls, Outbreaks, and Emergencies” page or search for it online. Here, you’ll also be able to read about the latest recalls and to sign up for updates.From the main page, select the tab “Recalls and Alerts.” You can find the latest food alerts under the heading “See Recent Recalls” on the dropdown list.
To sign up for automatic alerts, choose the heading “Get Automatic Alerts” and follow the instructions. You’ll be able to sign up there for updates via email, RSS feed, or a widget application.

