 Beginning as early as 3-5 years of age, children can start to learn the rudiments of saving money and using coupons is a great way to do that. They can earn coupons for things like helping, for being cooperative, for clearing their plate – the possibilities are endless. They can then save those coupons and exchange them for fun things to do. This is a great first lesson in saving.For instance, you can let them watch a thirty-minute cartoon for 1 coupon. To watch an animated movie they might need 4 coupons. Or 10 coupons gets them a trip to get pizza.
By building rewards that need to be worked toward, you teach them saving and the value of working toward a goal without them even knowing it’s happening. It becomes ingrained.;
, Label each jar with a different label: savings, spending, and sharing. This will allow them to see how money can be managed for the things they want as well as for helping others. Every time they get some money, divide it evenly between all three jars.The savings jar is for bigger things they want. Maybe it’s a toy or a video game or an expensive computer game. Have them set a goal for what it is they want and then work toward it.
Use the spending jar for little things, like stickers or gum or maybe an ice cream cone.
Sharing is a jar to use to help teach them about giving back. It could be to get a gift for a friend “just because”, or maybe to donate to the local shelter or food bank.
 It can be as big or as small as you want it to be. Every time you come home and have spare change, toss it in the jar. Encourage your child to do the same.


Every time you see change on the ground you should pick it up for the jar as well. Your child will start to do the same.
Once the jar is full you can make more fun of it. For instance, divide the total for different purposes: half goes into their bank account, half buys pizza for a movie night.
 Using a debit or credit card is too abstract for little ones so paying with a card fails to teach them anything. If, however, you have them put those coins in the slot, they see them go away and realize what it means to spend money at a parking meter and that it is not free., There are age-specific games on the internet that can help children of all ages learn about money. You have to admit, it’s probably more fun to learn from Elmo than boring old mom and dad.
 Generally speaking, the age range for beginning an allowance can be as early as three since studies show children that young can grasp the concept of cash and purchasing with it. Most parents, however, start a little later, such as 6 or 7 years of age.There are several different schools of thought on this, but in general parents provide allowances that average between $.50 – 1.00 per week multiplied by their age. Hence a 7 year-old would receive between $3.50 and $7 per week.
A good portion of families attach chores to allowance, chores that are non-negotiable and necessary as a member of the family.
To help them learn the value of money you can have a list of additional chores that they can do to earn extra money. For instance, the list could include: take out all trash from all trash cans, $1; give the dog a bath, $2; mow the lawn, $10.
 Now that they have more money they need to know what to do with it. Prepare for this in advance with your own list of things you know they want to get. Then sit down and explain to them, using a pen and paper, how to go about getting them.
 As children grow older they become more aware and understanding of the world around them. This is the perfect time to teach them to be a positive force in the community. Take money from that “sharing” jar and donate it to an organization in your community that could use your financial assistance.Most food banks and the like love to have kids come and help out so take it a step further and donate time as well. Nothing shows them how much good they can do than packing boxes and bags full of the food they see every day in your cabinets for people who can’t afford to buy it. This gives them a greater appreciation of money.
Be certain to reinforce this either during your car ride to/from volunteering or even while you are doing it.
Reinforce in them the idea that by giving you receive, both in the good feeling that helping others brings but in putting positive energy into their lives. Nothing creates success and happiness faster than cultivating positive energy.
 Add a fourth very important jar: investing. They can save their money in this jar to put in the bank or to buy the supplies they need to do a lemonade stand or some other moneymaking opportunity.Remember to divide their money equally between their jars. So if they get $10 per week, then $2.50 goes into each jar.
If they do decide to do a lemonade stand, help them with the math so they see how much money they’ll need. Contribute to the cause as well because this teaches them that as they grow older it is possible to find investors for their great ideas.
Encourage them to do a garage sale to sell all the toys they never play with anymore or the clothes they’ve outgrown. Then let them divide the money up evenly amongst their jars.
 Open an account for their investing savings. This will give them their first tangible step into the adult world of money management. They will be very excited to check that statement every month and you should be too as it encourages important habits and skills., This is a good time to let them know how great it is and how proud you are that they are managing their money. One way to do this is to match what they save. If they save money in their investing jar and keep it there, then at the end of the month you can match what they saved, doubling their money.If they are saving up for something in particular, have them find out each time they count their money how much they have, and how much they still need. You can toss a few extra bucks into this account if you see them working hard toward their goal.
You can add money for any jar or all of them if you’d like. The downside is, of course, they decide to buy that one special thing with ALL their jars, effectively putting you in the crosshairs of a very difficult decision.
An easy solution is at the end of every month, the investing jar goes into a bank account, the sharing jar is shared, and the spending and savings jars can be evolving. This way what they spend and save is their choice., This is easy to do and is a great physical representation that will remind them regularly of how far they’ve come and where they are headed. It also implants in their brains the importance of saving. You can chart how long to reach a goal, how much is saved, or any number of other specific things., They will understand that growing older brings with it more choices and more responsibilities and by talking to them you are giving them the respect you give to an adult. On top of that, the growing complexity of their lives probably means $10-15 a week isn’t enough. Explain to them under what circumstances you will give them additional money and what the total budget for the month is.


This is a great first step for learning to budget as an older, more mature teenager.
Learning the importance of financial independence and how to go about it will instill confidence and lead to an even more mature child.
You can also give them incentives by offering rewards for excellent behavior or terrific grades.
 Give them firm guidelines on how much they get. Once that number is discussed, they can access that money until it is used up. This will teach them to shop for the best deals rather than rushing out in one big shopping spree and spending it all at once. As a result, they will find out how much more they can get if they manage their budget and spending., Take the lemonade stand concept a step further and have them go around the neighborhood to weed gardens, rake lawns for leaves, and shovel snow off sidewalks and driveways for money. You can also have them walk people's dogs for a little bit of cash. There are a lot of small ways to earn extra money that can turn into a side business for an entrepreneurial child.
 It’s important to put money away, not only to spend but to create flexibility to deal with all of life’s unexpected events. Putting aside a set figure every time they get money, say 10-percent, is a great way to learn how to create a growing surplus of cash., Once again, there are many sites and programs that are sophisticated yet understandable for older children and teenagers. Use them to your advantage. These can explain everything from how to manage your checking account to how to budget for needs (bills) and wants (weekend at the beach).