 Depending on how elaborate your lie is, you may need to do some research to make sure you don’t get caught. The best option is always to keep the lie simple, such as “we’re going to the mall” or “I’m staying late after school to catch up with Nicholas!” No matter what your story is, be sure that it will hold up even if your parents do research.


For example, make sure that the mall is open when you say you’ll be there, and don’t say you’re staying at a friend’s house if your parents have that friend’s parents’ phone number.
 Let them ride in the car with you and show that you are a responsible driver. Doing this may help your parents to be less strict and to worry less when you are out.


If you don’t drive, then this step won’t apply to you. If you are having a friend pick you up, have them pick you up at school or at the end of your block instead of at your house.
 While some parents are going to be strict no matter what, sometimes a parent just wants to know that you have a good head on your shoulders. You can build trust with your parents by coming home at your curfew, completing chores on time, getting good grades, and introducing your parents to your friends.Another way to build trust is by talking with your parents about select personal issues, like a boy or girl that you like or a struggle you’re having with a friend. This can promote closeness and may make your parent give you a bit more freedom.If you know your parents won't like your friend, then introducing them could backfire. Use your judgment to decide if introducing a friend to your parents would help you build trust.
 Specifically, call your parents to check in when you arrive at a place that they can know about. This will ease their fears and help build trust. Tell them you’ll also call them when you’re on your way home. Try to avoid calling them when you are at the place where you’re not supposed to be. That way, you won’t be explicitly lying, and you reduce the chance of them hearing a background noise that doesn’t match where they think you are.Give your parents an estimated time frame of how long you’ll be gone. When you tell them, be prepared to explain why what you’re doing will take a long time. For example, you could say, “Mike and I are getting dinner. It might be a few hours because he is going through some difficult stuff that he wants to talk about. Is it okay if I get home at ______? I’ll call you when I’m on my way home.”

