 Nowadays this is not the case. Search the drugstore for cult favorites that are tried and true. Each brand has a niche that they are good at filling, so try those brands first.;
, Suggestions include: Revlon Colorstay for Oily/Combo skin and Covergirl's Outlast Stay Fabulous 3-in-1 foundations for oily and combination skin. For normal and dry skin looking for foundations, use L'Oreal's True Match Foundation, or for a dewy look, L'Oreal's True Match Lumi Healthy Luminous Foundation. If you prefer a powder foundation, try NYX's Stay Matte but Not Flat powder foundation.
 Try Wet N' Wild's Color Icon Shadows. These come in trios, five pans, and even eight pan palettes. They are soft and well pigmented, meaning you only need a little bit of shadow to get a good color payoff. Other suggestions include E.L.F.'s baked eyeshadows, which give off a beautiful pigment when used with a wet brush. Looking for cream shadows? Try Maybelline's Color Tattoos, or E.L.F.s cream eyeshadow.
 These are easy to find at the drugstore too. Suggested blushes include Milani's Baked Blushes (Luminoso is a Fan Favorite) and Rose Blushes,Wet N' Wild's Color Icon blushes, NYC's Mosaic Color Wheels, and E.L.F.'s blushes, especially the studio blushes and for cream blush E.L.F.s Hd blush packs a punch of color which means you only need the tiniest amount to create a long lasting look.
 The options are broad, but start with L'Oreal and Maybelline. Try the popular Maybelline's Great Lash, and the Falsies Mascara, or the L'Oreal Telescopic and Butterfly mascaras. Jordana's Best Lash is another mascara to try.
 Try NYC's Smooth Skin Bronzer in Sunny (Cult Favorite) or NYC's Color Mosaics for a matte bronzer, or for a shimmery one Milani has baked bronzers, as well as E.L.F.'s baked bronzers or their blush/bronzer Duos.
 Lip options are plentiful in the drugstore, and you can get anything from matte to glossy.  For matte lips try NYX Soft Matte Lip Creams, E.L.F.'s Matte Lip Color , or Maybelline's Color Sensational Creamy Matte Lipstick both providing a range of matte colors.


For the typical lipstick, try Milani's Color Statement Lipsticks, or Revlon, their shade Black Cherry has been suggested as a color that works on any skin tone, or you can try Jordana's Twist and Shine Moisturizing Balm Stain for long wearing and moist colors.  
For gloss lovers, try Jordana's Lip out Loud Glosses, which come in a range of colors and finishes as well as E.L.F.s Glossy Gloss, Hypershine Gloss, or Glitter Gloss.
 Suggestions include Maybelline's Dream Lumi Touch ,and their Instant Age Rewind Concealer.  For powder highlighters, try E.L.F.'s Baked Blush in Pinktastic or Moonlight Pearl, or their Studio Blush in Gotta Glow. Wet N' Wild's Reserve Your Cabana and Hard Candy's Tiki bronzers are great highlighters as well.
 Try Milani's Liquif'eye and Maybelline Eye Studio Master Drama pencil liners, or for Cream Wet N' Wild's Mega Eyes Crème Liner, or even Maybelline's Eye Studio Lasting Drama Gel Eyeliner.  If you want a liquid option try Essence's Liquid Eyeliner, E.L.F.'s Essential Liquid Eyeliner, or Jordana's FabuLiner.
 This will get you cheaper prices on various products.
 Ulta and Sephora have great travel items  (usually near the registers), and MAC offers all travel size items for a small price (includes Pigments, Lipgloss, Fix+, etc). Brands like Benefit and Too Faced also sell smaller sized products to let you test before you invest.
  While these may seem expensive, they usually contain loads of products which can allow you to get more for full size products for less.
, If you are interested in a product, before checking out check other stores for the same products, because the item you are buying at Ulta now just might be on sale at Sephora right now.
 While dupes might not have the same longevity, they have the same look as the one you want. Do an online search for some dupes before buying. For example, E.L.F.'s Studio Blushes are dupes for Nars Blushes, or their HD blushes can substitute for Makeup Forever's HD Blushes.
 Stores like Sephora have their own in house brands that often work just as well. They offer the same colors and types of products as the higher end makeup lines they carry at more affordable prices.
 Invest in the things you use more and buy cheaper alternatives for things you don't.

