 Leaving a shorter tail might result in the balloon popping halfway through the sculpting process, so make sure you have plenty of uninflated balloon at the end. Tie off the balloon with a knot.
 Twist the balloon a few inches from the knot to create a small segment that will be the monkey's face. Hold both segments in one hand to prevent them from untwisting.
 Start by making a second basic twist close to the first one so that you have a small segment in between the twists. Fold the segment so that the two twists line up. Use your free hand to grasp the folded segment and twist it three times to lock it in place. You've just made the monkey's first ear.
 A couple of inches from the first ear, make another basic twist to create a short segment. Hold it in one hand so that it doesn't untwist. This new short segment will be the monkey's forehead.
 Start by making a second basic twist close to the first one so that you have a new small segment between the twists. Fold this segment so that the two twists line up. Use you free hand to grasp the folded segment and twist it three times to lock it in place. This is the monkey's second ear.
 Carefully grasp the two ears by the twists at their bases. The forehead segment will be sticking out between them. Twist the ears together three times to lock them in place. The monkey's head is now complete: it has a nose, a forehead, and two ears.
 Make the first twist a few inches below the head to form the neck segment. Make two more twists lower down to form two segments that are equal in length. These will become the monkey's arms. Hold all of the segments in one hand to prevent them from untwisting.
 Fold the balloon at the twist between the two arm segments. Grasp the segments and twist them three times at the base of the neck segment to lock the arms and neck in place. The balloon should now resemble a monkey with a head, neck and arms.
 Make the first twist a few inches below the arms to form the body segment. Make two more twists lower down to form two segments that are equal in length. These will become the monkey's legs. Hold all of the segments in one hand to prevent them from untwisting.









Leave plenty of room at the end of the balloon for the tail, which should be the longest segment of all.
 Fold the balloon at the twist between the two leg segments. Grasp the segments and twist them together three times at the base of the body. The body and legs are now locked in place, and the tail is hanging down from the body.
 Choose a balloon in a contrasting color and inflate it completely, then tie it off. There's no need to leave a tail at the end. Slide it between the monkey's arms and legs so that the monkey appears to be climbing it.

