 Santa hats are very cheap and you can buy them practically everywhere around Christmas time! As soon as you wear it, you will look instantly festive and fashionable!;
, When it gets to December, scroll down to the music channels and there will always things like, 'Olly Murs top 20 Christmas songs' and many more! If you want to listen to the songs and carols you choose, whenever you want, you can burn your favourite ones onto a CD and play it on your laptop or CD player.
 There are many different Christmas movies with a variety of great actors and actresses in and it seems a shame to miss out! During the Christmas month, there will be many films on on the TV and because movies are long, it wastes time, so Christmas will come faster!

, You could make, snowflakes, paper chains, origami, paper hats and much more! Some of them are quite complex, so if you need some guidance on how to make these things, you can search on YouTube for tutorials.
 You could make cookies in the shape of objects, you could make brownies, you could make mince pies, you could make fairy cakes and put faces on them and much more! Hot cocoa is a very nice drink to have around wintertime because it warms up your throat and is very rich! You could also add marshmallows and whipped cream!

, Real trees are better than fake ones, but if you don't want to always hoover up the nettles, buy a fake one. They come in all different sizes and you can design it with many ornaments, such as: Tinsel (Red, gold, green and silver), ball-balls, fake snow and many mini chocolates! For the top, you could have a star, an angel or Santa, but a star is the most traditional.
 You can either be Santa, an angel, an elf or you could even be a reindeer! eBay, Amazon and dressing-up shops sell these kind of costumes and most of them are quite cheap.
 You can get them in many different chocolate brands and they are sold in every single supermarket around Christmas time! Another way of counting down the days is to search on the internet 'Christmas Countdown (Whatever year you are in)' and it tells you how many days, hours, minutes and seconds until the first second of Christmas!

, You could buy them for your family, friends and teachers! Make the present something suitable for the receiver and make it special! You could even make your own presents for people to throw in that extra amount of effort!

, You could do all the activities above and all come in a costume!

