 On the other hand, if she starts the conversation too often, she might not be interested, either. When a girl likes a guy, she will likely try to show her interest without being too obvious or looking too needy. As a result, she will start at least half of your conversations if not most, but probably won't start all of them. If a girl does start all of them, it could be a sign that she is not worried about seeming needy because she only sees you as a friend.;
, Even if the girl is tempted to hang on your every word, most girls will resist the urge. If anything, a girl who likes you is more likely to end a text conversation first in an effort to show that she is interesting and has an engaging social life even without you. When a girl ends most texting conversations with something like, "Gotta go, I'm heading to movie with my bff," she could be interested. If, however, she just stops texting instead of saying good-bye, she is probably not interested.
 A formal count is not necessary, of course, but make a mental note of how often she uses emoticons and which ones she uses most. The most often used emoticon a girl will flirt with is the winking face. The more often she uses an emoticon wink, the more likely it is that she has a thing for you. Standard smiles may or may not mean the same thing, but large smiles are another good sign. A blushing emoticon and a "kiss face" emoticon may also frequent her texts if she likes you

, If she quickly turns the conversation to herself, she might not be interested. Similarly, if she gives super quick answers like "K" or frequently leaves the conversation with little more than a "brb," she probably is not very interested. If she regularly jokes back with you when you say something funny, though, or asks you questions to keep the conversation, it demonstrates that she wants to keep talking to you for as long as possible.
, If most of her texts are practical, such as question about assignments, then she may not be interested. On the other hand, if her texts are personal and ask about your personal life, she might be interested. This is especially true if she recalls specific details you previously mentioned to her about your plans. Another promising type of text is the random question. Look for something of no significance, like, "Would you rather live on nothing but your least favorite food for a year or give up your favorite food for the rest of your life?" These questions are fairly unimportant, and if she asks a bunch of them, it could be a sign that she is looking for an excuse to talk to you because you are on her mind.
 Specifically, look at how often she uses exclamation points. More exclamation points indicates more excitement at the opportunity to talk to you, which could signify that she likes you. A "Hey you!" is infinitely more promising than a simple, "Hey."

, Not every girl does it, but many girls add extra vowels and consonants onto words. For instance, she might text words like "heyyyy," "riiiiiight," "pleeeeeaaassseee," "hiiiiii" or "byyyyeee." The idea is to mimic the elongation of words often used in real-life flirtatious banter.
 Any text laughter is a good sign, but there are some that are better signs than others. Standard abbreviations like "LOL," "ROTFL," or "LMAO" can be sent to just about anyone, friend or crush alike. A "haha" is a better sign, because she wants you to actually imagine her laughing. A "hehe" or "teehee" is even better. These two forms of text laughing are the equivalent of a real-life giggle, rather than a loud laugh, and a girl is more likely to text you a "giggle" if she wants to sound cute.
 A common hint dropped via text is the invitation to meet in person. An actual invite to a party is good, but an even better invitation is the random “on the fly” sort, in which she casually mentions something like, “I think I’ll head to the pool. Meet me there?” These messages may seem casual, but in actuality, they usually indicate that she wants to see you and only you, and now. A strong desire to see you is a pretty good hint that she is interested.

