 Perfectionists tend to notice details and they have high standards, so you may be tempted to place them in a management role.However, in some cases, this might not work out because of the different forms that perfectionism can take. Some of the different types of perfectionism include:Neurotic Perfectionism. These types of perfectionists crave the approval of others and they may worry incessantly that they will not get it. For example, a neurotic perfectionist might spend hours on a relatively unimportant email to his or her boss and agonize over every word and phrase.

Narcissistic Perfectionism. These types of perfectionists rely on the opinions of others for their sense of superiority. They are also fond of rules and order. For example, someone who is a narcissistic perfectionist might show off her knowledge of a procedure or rule to gain the approval of her coworkers or superiors.

Principled Perfectionism. These perfectionists are driven by morality and ethics. They might even try to impose their morality and ethics on other people in the workplace. For example, a principled perfectionist who is opposed to eating meat might shame other coworkers for what they are eating during lunchtime.

Hyper-Attentive Perfectionism. These perfectionists focus in on minor details to an unreasonable degree, and they may be bothered by external stimuli. For example, a hyper-attentive perfectionist might become unreasonably upset if a coworker asks her a question while she is composing an email and breaks her focus.;
, Many perfectionists are hard workers, which are admirable qualities for an employee to possess. However, some perfectionists have a tendency to hone in on small components of a project rather than looking at the big picture.Therefore, it might be helpful to select tasks carefully for these types of employees.


Give them tasks that are detail oriented and limited in scope, so they don't get a large project bogged down by too many details. Some perfectionists may not be willing to delegate to others, so it's best to let them work independently on projects that require a unified vision to be successful.
 If your employee is a neurotic or narcissistic perfectionist, then he or she will have a strong drive to please others. Therefore, explaining how their work style is affecting the team's overall performance may be an effective way to motivate the person.Phrase it in terms that show that you realize they have high standards, and that you appreciate those high standards.


For example, you might say something like, "You've got high standards, just like me, and that's what this organization needs. Just remember, good morale is critical to good production. A good rule of thumb is to give two compliments for every criticism."

, Some perfectionists are quite ambitious and may even desire to be perfect, which is either due to internal motivation or external motivation.If the person is treating other people in the workplace poorly, then you might explain to the person that managers who demoralize their subordinates struggle to advance in the workplace.The higher a person advances in the corporate hierarchy, the more they have to compromise in order for the good of the whole.


Try saying something like this: "You are always trying to make sure that all the details are attended to, and that every little thing is done exactly right. That's fantastic, because people have to get the little things right before they can get the big things right. You're well on your way to big things. Just remember, upper management is all about the big picture. The big picture is understanding that focusing on improving from 95% success to 100% success usually bogs you down. The tunnel vision costs you more than it does to simply move on to the next project."

