 A French braid is a classic hairstyle which is very quick and easy once you get the hang of it. It is perfect for school mornings as it looks pretty but will also keep your little girl's hair looking neat and tidy throughout the day.


Take a section of hair from the top center of her head, just above the forehead. Divide it into three evenly-sized strands, just as you would with a normal braid.
Hold two sections in your right hand and one section in your left hand. Cross the section in your left hand into the center of the other two, then cross the outside section in your right hand into the center of the other two -- just as you would with a normal braid.
Continue braiding in this fashion, but before you cross over each strand grab a new piece of hair from the loose hair on same side of your head and join it with the strand that's crossing over.
The smaller the strands, the more intricate your French braids will be. Keep incorporating new hair until all of the hair has been picked up, then finish with a normal braid and tie with an elastic.

Variation: Make a neat center parting them braid the hair on either side of the parting to create pigtail French braids.
 The fishtail braid is easier to master than the French braid, but still looks intricate and beautiful.


Sweep your little girl's hair to the side of her head and tie a low ponytail with a small elastic. Divide the hair in two.
Take a thin strand of hair from the outside of the left section. Bring it over the left section and under the right section, combining it with the hair in the right section.
Next take a thin strand of hair from the outside of the right section. Bring it over the right section and under the left section, combining it with the hair in the left section.
Continue doing this for as long as possible. When you reach the thin hair at the bottom of the ponytail, you may need to switch to a normal braid.
You can make the strands as small or as large as you like -- using thinner strands will take longer, but will result in a more intricate-looking braid. Try to keep the strands of hair as evenly sized as possible, as this will make the finished braid look neater.
Tie the end with a small elastic. You can leave the braid as it is, or you can carefully cut the elastic at the top of the hair for a looser braid.

Variation: Once you've mastered the fishtail technique, you can try doing a French fishtail braid. This starts out like a regular French braid, but turns into a fishtail braid once all of the hair has been picked up.
 This simple hairstyle looks adorable on little girls with very long hair -- it will make them feel like beautiful princesses!


Pull hair into a high, tight ponytail on the back of the head. Divide the hair into two halves. Do a basic braid in one half, securing with a small elastic.
Twist the other half, then wrap the braided hair around the twisted hair. secure at the end with a small elastic.Variation: Wrap a bow around the top of the ponytail for added princess-factor!

, This cute hairstyle involves twisting a braid around itself to make a flower shape. The braided flower makes a nice alternative to hair bows and plastic flowers.


Pull hair into a nice tight ponytail, either at the back or side of the head. Separate a section of hair from the top of the ponytail and do a basic braid all the way to the end, securing with a small elastic.
Start twisting the braid around itself, making sure to keep the braid flat so the pattern is visible. After each rotation, discretely secure the braid with a bobby bin.
When you get to the unbraided section at the end, twist the air and tuck it beneath the finished flower, securing with a bobby pin.

Variation: Leave the hair loose, then do three of these braided flowers in a row along the back of her head or in a cluster above one of her ears., This is a pretty hairstyle you can do on little girls with long hair. It looks like a braided headband going across the top of her head.


Part hair down the middle then make a second parting from ear to ear, so the hair is split into four sections.
Take a small section of hair from behind the ear on the right side of her head. Do a basic braid all the way down to the end, then secure with a small elastic.
Pull the braid over the top of the head and secure with a couple of bobby pins behind the left ear (or slightly higher, if necessary). Make sure it is secured nice and tight, so the braid doesn't slide off the top of her head.
Take the loose front section of hair on the right side of her head and twist it inwards (towards her head). Pull it to the back of her head so it covers the starting point of the braid. Clip to temporarily secure.
Do the same on the left side of her head to cover the end of the braid and the bobby pins. Remove the clip and tie the two twisted sections together with a small elastic. Cover the elastic with a pretty hair bow or flower clip.

Variation: You can also make a double braided headband by doing a second braid starting on the left side of her head and pulling it towards the right.