 Avoid situations or places where you tend to become a bit flirty. If you know that after a few drinks you don’t make the best decisions, then avoid going to bars without your partner or invite them to tag along. Avoid similar locations where you have been tempted in the past, like clubs., Be especially careful to avoid being alone with people who you have been romantic or sexual with in the past. If you have a coworker who you’re flirty with, don’t go with them alone to lunch. Never spend time with them outside of professional settings.If they invite you out to lunch, you can say something like “Actually, I have too much work to do, I’m sorry.” You can also see if other coworkers would like to tag along.
If you must be alone with them, leave the door open and meet in an open space. Keep your interactions professional.
 If you find yourself in a tough spot, bring up your partner casually in conversation. This will serve as a reminder to both you and others that you are not available. You don’t need to be showy about your relationship, but do continue to make them aware of it.For instance, if they bring up a particular show they like you can say “My boyfriend really likes that show, too! I don’t care for it that much.”

, This is a great way to show the world and to remind yourself of your commitment. If you have a moment when you’re eyeing someone else, you might look at that ring and reconsider these thoughts. If you cannot wear it while working, consider getting a tattoo.If you are not married, consider wearing some other symbol as a reminder to yourself. You might consider a bracelet or even a piece of yarn.
 Spend a little less time with your single friends while you are struggling with these desires. Your single friends’ unattached lifestyle might influence you to do something you'll regret. Opt for more time with your married friends, instead.

Do not disconnect completely from these friends. Simply avoid going out with them to bars; opt for activities like lunches and movies instead.

