 Put a large glass pitcher in the freezer several hours or up to a day before you plan to make the lemon or lime water. This will keep the water colder for longer. If you're serving the water in a plastic pitcher, there's no need to chill it before hand.


Chilling the pitcher gives it a frosty look that's perfect for cooling down guests on a hot summer day.
You can also place glasses in the freezer so that each of your guests has a drink that is as refreshing as possible.;
, Wash 2 lemons or 3 large limes. Remove any stickers from the fruit and place the citrus on a small cutting board. Use a small knife to carefully slice the fruit into thin slices. You may want to discard the ends of the fruit as well as any seeds.
 Gently squeeze the lemons (and limes, if you're using them) so they release a little juice and essential oil directly into the chilled pitcher. Don't squeeze them so much that the slices lose their round shape. Place all of the slices in the pitcher., If you'd like still water, pour in 2 quarts (1.9 liters) of cold, filtered water. If you'd like sparkling water, pour in 1 quart (0.9 liters) of seltzer water. Use a long-handled spoon to stir the citrus slices with the water.For sparkling water, you'll add another quart of seltzer just before serving.
 Put the pitcher of citrus water into the refrigerator. Chilling the water will infuse it with the lemon and lime flavors while making it colder. Chill the water for 2 to 4 hours.Keep in mind that the flavors of the water will be stronger the longer it chills.
 Scoop out the lemon slices and consider straining the lemon water through a mesh sieve if you notice seeds. If you want sparkling lemon water, add one more quart (0.9 liter) of seltzer water to the pitcher.Pour the citrus water into serving glasses. Add a few fresh slices of lemon or lime and ice cubes before you serve the drinks.Store the lemon water for up to 2 days in the refrigerator.
You can add fresh water to the sliced lemons that you removed from the pitcher, but the second batch of citrus water may not be as flavorful.

