 Search engines often rank things that are current or for sale high on the results, when you want to do historical, fact-based research. The following best practices will help you to get the best out of each search:


Make your terms specific. For example, if you know your class is discussing the English Industrial Revolution, type in "English Industrial Revolution date" instead of "Industrial Revolution dates," because the search results will be focused on English history rather than industrial revolutions in America, India or other countries.
Use correct spelling. If you have trouble with spelling, look a word up in the dictionary or run your homework questions through a spell check to try to catch any errors. Although some search engines can recognize when a commonly misspelled word appears and change it, this is uncommon with proper names like people and places.
Type in the word "AND" to specify that all search results must contain keywords. You can also type a plus sign, "+", in place of the word "and," so that the search engine knows to look for all terms together.
Type in the word "OR" between terms to specify that search results can contain either of the terms.
Type in the word "NOT" before a search term to exclude it from your search. You can also type the minus symbol before the word to exclude it. For example, typing "Industrial Revolution -India" will exclude search results that have the word "India" in them.
 Type in the URL address for some commonly used search engines into each tab. Use popular search engines, such as Google, Bing or Yahoo, but also try search engines specifically made for students.
 Try iseek.com, scholar.google.com, ojose.com, which is the online journal search engine and scirus.com for scientific research. While it is good to know how to navigate popular sites, these engines will save time in finding reputable sources.
 Search for video on Blinkx.com and for images on Picsearch.com, Pixsy.com and Retrievr.com.


Using specialized media and educational search engines will take you closer to finding reputable facts and sources. It is important to cite your sources, when asked, and to avoid using inaccurate or opinion-based websites.

