 Before you apply to marketing jobs, you will need to craft a resume that reflects your experience, education, and career goals. Make sure you tailor each resume you send out to the specific requirements of the job being advertised.
 You will need to create a cover letter to accompany your resume. The cover letter should speak to your qualifications and experience, and link both to the job to which you are applying. Do not send out a generic cover letter, as this can give off the impression you are not prepared for or interested in the specific job being advertised.


For example, if the job is in content creation, you will want to give specific examples of your experience in content creation in the cover letter.
 When you are beginning your career, or deciding to make a career change, it is important to apply to multiple positions. Send out your application materials to a number of companies seeking candidates with your interests, skill sets, and experience.


Apply to jobs in a wide variety of locations, as this will open up doors that might not exist locally.
Try applying to different types of jobs. For example, if you have expertise in both social media marketing and search engine marketing, try applying to positions in both fields.
 Before the interview, thoroughly research the company and position for which you are interviewing. Have a friend to practice with you prior to the interview, asking you sample interview questions. You should also have a list of questions prepared for the potential employer. On the day of the interview, dress professionally and be yourself.
 An internship is one of the best ways to gain valuable marketing experience. Apply to paid internships, and network with friends and family to learn about opportunities they might be aware of. If you can’t land a paid internship, considering working as an unpaid intern instead., One of the easiest ways to get valuable experience in marketing is by volunteering your time and skills. Look for local businesses and nonprofit organizations that might need help with their marketing and volunteer your services. This can help you create connections with local industry, which can help you find the right marketing job., Create connections with others in your field by attending industry events, staying active on social media, and forging professional relationships with others in your field. Networking can open up new doors and help you stay well informed about current trends and professional opportunities.Try attending a national conference geared toward your area of expertise.
Hit up local events where other marketing experts convene, like a local business happy hour or charity event.

