 There are some shampoos specifically designed to eliminate lice and nits. These shampoos are generally made so that they are safe for use on children. Depending on the severity of the child’s infestation, it may be necessary to use a medicated shampoo multiple times to eliminate lice and nits entirely. Generally these treatments are days apart.;
, Your doctor or pharmacist can prescribe topical medications for head lice infestations. Though most of these head lice medicines are safe for children, if you have any doubt, ask your pediatrician or doctor. Follow what is written on the package carefully. Never let the children handle the head lice medicine. Sometimes, just a one-time use is enough to get rid of all the lice in the hair.Most effective treatments are singular use, either over a period of 20 minutes or several hours. A follow up treatment may be indicated several days later

, Some people choose to employ the “wet combing” method, in which you apply olive oil, petroleum jelly, or mayonnaise to suffocate the lice, and then comb them out by hand. This is appropriate for children under 2 months, as they should not use medicated treatment. The "wet combing" method often does not work on older kids — if medicine doesn't work and you want wet combing, talk to your doctor first.As an alternative treatment, there are electronic combs designed to shock the bugs dead available for purchase from various retailers., When lice infestations are particularly severe, topical treatments may not be fully effective. If you find this to be the case with your child, your pediatrician should be able to prescribe a pill which effectively kills the remaining lice on your child’s head. , While it may not be the ideal solution, one surefire way to eliminate lice is to eliminate hair. Lice feed off of human blood drawn from the scalp, but they also need hair to plant their eggs. As the louse life-cycle is relatively short (about two days or so) shaving your child’s hair can prevent future generations of lice from appearing, stopping the infestation in its tracks.

