 You want a vase large enough to allow you to work with, but also stable enough to support the fixtures you are about to add. The overall vase size is up to you and depends on the location you want to place it. You may add an additional base.The standard lamp kit has dimensions of 8.75” tall x 1.75” deep x 5.75” wide. So keep this in mind when selecting your vase. If your vase has a wider opening this will be addressed later. If it is too narrow then you will need to choose a different vase.;
, Use a ruler or tape measure to calculate and mark the center of the base. Do the same for the vase. This is something to consider in conjunction with stability of the vase and planning for the power cord. The base needs to be larger than the bottom of the vase in square area for stability.You want a base that will allow for the power cord to exit out the bottom center or side.
 Use a 3/8″ drill bit and power drill. Drill into point where you marked the center of the vase’s bottom. Drill from outside to inside.Clear out excess materials so they don’t create a hazard later.
 Use the pipe kit portion of the Westinghouse kit. Choose the rubber adapter that will fit into the vase opening, but don’t put it into the vase yet.If none of the kit’s adapters are wide enough for your vase you can look for other adapters at a lighting or hardware store.
 Do this so that 1⁄4” extends beyond the rubber adapter. Put the locknut onto the opposite end of nipple and tighten it. Insert the whole adapter and nipple setup into the vase so that the 1⁄4” nipple portion is protruding upward. Slide the kit’s check ring and harp bottom over the nipple. Place the socket cap onto the nipple and tighten it., Tie this wire into an overhand knot with two free ends within the cap., Look for the ribbing or raised portion on the insulation. Connect one end of the free end of the knotted wire to the silver-colored terminal screw on one side. Connect the other free end of the knotted wire to the brass-colored terminal screw on the other side. Hold the wires partially hooked under each screw head while you tighten both terminal screws to make sure both ends of the conducting wires remain under the screw heads.Try getting one screw started enough to hold the first wire, and then start on the second one. Get the second screw turned enough to pinch the wire down. You can now more easily finish tightening both terminal screws.
 Make sure the brass shell has paper insulation. Pull the extra wire sticking out of the socket back into the lamp and snap the brass shell onto the socket cap.Rock the shell back and forth if necessary. Listen for a clicking sound to signal the shell is locked onto the cap.
 This will be what fits the shade on top. Slide the harp’s two prongs onto the harp saddle.A harp could be 10.5" x 0.13" x 4.25"

, Turn the bulb just enough so it starts to tighten, but don’t over-tighten.Don’t plug in the lamp just yet or you might blind yourself. This design is meant for up to 150 watts.
 The style of shade is up to you. The harp should come with a fastener (finial) on top to fit a hole on top of shades configured for it.Make sure the shade is not too narrow or short for the harp or vase.

