 This is a common issue in relationships causing anxiety and something your girlfriend may be struggling with as well.Even if your relationship is otherwise going well, this can occur.Know that bringing it out into the open, while difficult, will be ultimately better for your relationship than keeping it hidden.
 Work on making sure you are not suppressing how you feel. If these feelings and thoughts are genuinely causing distraction or problems for you, you should not try to simply forget them.It's important to be open and honest and deal with what your are feeling in your relationship. You want to be able to feel totally comfortable and confident with your girl.


By suppressing or ignoring your emotions you are risking they will come back up at a later time. By not opening up to your girlfriend and working through the problem you will just be shutting her out creating more potential issues between you two.
 If you have determined that the patterns, focus, and behavior are being caused by you, you may find that you'd like to bring it up to your girlfriend. Bringing it up will give you the chance to let her know what you have been thinking about, and how you feel. Try to be open minded and consider what your girlfriend has to say about the issue.


Mention how you feel and what's bothering you. “Hey, I've been overthinking something lately and it's really been bothering me, can we talk about it?”
Talk to her about anything in your past history that may be contributing to your reaction to these issues.“This may be bothering me because in the past I...”
See what her opinion is. “What do you think?”
Ask her to help. ”I'm feeling like I might need some more love and support to move past this. It would really help me if...”

, If you discover that the overthinking is due to your girlfriend bringing up the topic, it's time to talk. Let her know how you feel when she mentions her ex and give her a chance to explain. Take the conversation slowly, step by step and work towards coming to an agreement about how you can both change or how you can work on it to move forward.Open up the topic. “I've noticed something and it would really help me if we could talk about it so I can understand it better.”
Acknowledge that you understand what she has said, by repeating it back to her and stating, “okay, I understand.”
Advocate for yourself and how you feel. “When you bring up your ex or your past relationships, it makes me feel...”
Figure out a compromise. “What can we do, so that we can move forward?”

