 If you're making a slideshow for a school presentation, chances are you'll be providing a speech or lecture to go along with it. Kill two birds with one stone by starting with a clear outline for your presentation.


There are many ways to make an outline. The standard method uses indentation and a numbering/lettering system to organize information by level of importance, but feel free to use your own approach if you prefer.
Your speech will be more detailed than your outline, but your slideshow will be less detailed. Once you've got an outline ready, mark every major point, as well as every point at which you would like to have a picture or other multimedia element to serve as accompaniment. Plan to make a slide for each mark.

Use index cards or an outline for your speech. Don't use your slideshow as your guide, or you'll have to keep glancing at it, which looks unprofessional.
 Avoid bright colors, and stick to sans-serif fonts, like Arial, for titles and subtitles.


Black on white and white on black are the two least irritating color combinations for a slideshow presentation. They are easy to read and not distracting.

Neutral blue and gray shades with black or white text are also acceptable.
Avoid warm colors and clashing colors, as well as colors that are too similar to one another.


Serif fonts (such as Times New Roman) are acceptable for regular (non-titling) text, especially if many of your points will be longer than one line on the page. Whichever you choose, be sure to be consistent throughout the slideshow.
 Only add movies and music if they are directly appropriate to your topic, and keep them as short as possible. Pictures should be added when appropriate.


30 seconds is a good target length for movie and music files. You shouldn't let your media make your speech for you. Using longer videos and songs will get you a lower grade, because it'll seem like you're just trying to fill in a short speech so it hits the required minimum time.
There are two good ways to add pictures:

Add one picture per slide to slides that require text alongside the picture. Keep it reasonably sized and relevant to the slide.
Add up to four pictures per slide if the slide has no text, but only for the purpose of illustrating examples of something. This slide will be short; only flash it for a few seconds in your presentation and be sure to talk over it.
An image on the title page may also be appropriate, depending on the topic of your slideshow, but it isn't necessary to a good slideshow.



