 This is a relaxation technique that involves deep abdominal breathing. Breathing deeply increases the flow of oxygen to the brain, stimulating your parasympathetic nervous system; this helps activate your relaxation response, which slows your heartbeat, lowers your blood pressure, and relaxes your muscles.To engage in this relaxation technique: Place one hand on your lower abdomen just below your ribs and one on your chest.Inhale slowly through your nose. Try to breathe in for 4 seconds if you can. You should feel your stomach and chest expand as you inhale.
Hold the breath for 1-2 seconds. Then, slowly exhale through your nose or mouth. Try to exhale for 4 seconds if you can. Repeat this process around 8 times per minute for a few minutes or until you feel more relaxed.
 You may also try focusing your mind on a single soothing word such as calm or peace. Repeat this word in your mind several times over the course of 5 minutes. If you are having trouble focusing on the word, try visualizing a representation of that word. So, if your word is "calm," try to picture a tranquil lake. This can have a similar effect, activating your relaxation response., Studies show that getting exercise is a great way to combat stress and so feel more relaxed. Go for a run, go to the gym, or join in on an activity such as basketball, ball hockey, or softball to help you break a sweat and reduce your stress levels.Try listening to upbeat music as you exercise to improve your workout.
 Stress can cause you to tense your muscles, which can feedback and make you feel even more stressed. Using progressive muscle relaxation, or PMR, can allow you to release that tension and make you feel more relaxed. There are free PMR routines online that you can follow along with such as:

Berkeley's routine MIT's guide Find a quiet, comfortable place if you can, but this is not required for some PMR techniques.
Loosen tight clothing if you can. Sit comfortably and breathe in and out in even amounts as you do PMR.
Start with your facial muscles, as this is a common area of tension. Begin by opening your eyes as wide as they will go and hold that for five seconds, then slowly release the tension. Next, squeeze your eyes shut tightly for five seconds, then slowly release the tension. Give yourself 10 seconds to notice how these areas feel after performing those exercises.
Move to the next group. Purse your lips tightly for five seconds, then release slowly. Next, smile as wide as you possibly can for five seconds, then release slowly. Again, let yourself feel your now more relaxed muscles for around 10 seconds before moving on.
Continue to tense muscle groups for five seconds and then release the tension. Give yourself a 10 second relaxation break between groups.
Progress through the rest of your muscle groups as you see fit: neck, shoulders, arms, chest, stomach, buttocks, thighs, lower legs, feet, and toes.
If you don't have time for a full PMR exercise, try to do just your facial muscles. You can also try a quick hand massage, since we often carry stress-related tension in our hands.
 One way to combat stress is to engage with your family and friends. Studies show that social support can buffer against stress. Call up a friend or family member and make some plans with them. Discuss what is eating at you. If that doesn't work, try getting your mind off of your situation entirely and instead focus on enjoying your friend's company.

