 Consider how you could make your quote bold and definitive. A memorable quote draws clear distinctions and offers clear judgments about an issue, rather than making vague remarks.For instance, the following quotes are good examples of boldness:


John F. Kennedy said, “My fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.”Robin Sharma said, “Leadership is not about a title or a designation. It’s about impact, influence and inspiration. Impact involves getting results, influence is about spreading the passion you have for your work, and you have to inspire teammates and customers.”

, Your quote should not require a long explanation for people to get it. You should be able to say your quote and get an immediate response from an audience. If you find any references that your audience might not understand, you should cut them.For instance, if your quote includes acronyms or technical jargon, you might want to cut it.
If your quote contains references to specific programs that your audience might not be familiar with, you should consider cutting those references.
 Your quote should resonate with people’s ideas or feelings about the issue or theme you are addressing. When you say your quote, you want people to remark that they have the same idea or that they were thinking the same thing but didn’t know how to put it into words. This is sometimes called the “amen” factor., If you want to use your quote at a big talk, speech or include it in a publication, you should test it with a few people first. Say it to friends or colleagues to see whether it resonates with them. At this stage, you should try to get some constructive feedback. Ask your friends and colleagues what they like and dislike about the quote. Then, work on revising it until you find something memorable., Share your quote with friends, colleagues or online. If it resonates with folks, you can use it as part of your personal branding. It is good to have a few quotes, however, so you avoid overusing a particular phrase.