 Love can blind us. Your parents might be overreacting to the fact that you have a boyfriend. On the other hand, they probably have some legitimate concerns that you should take into consideration.Calmly and politely ask your parents why they do not approve of your boyfriend. Maybe a trait of his makes them feel anxious, and that anxiety could very well have validity and be something you should think more deeply about. Even if the reasons they give do not seem significant, listening to their doubts and fears will give you an idea of what you need to do to convince them that the relationship is okay after all.
 Good parents take the job of protecting their children very seriously, so it is only natural that they may have to struggle to accept the fact that you are growing up. Try having a little compassion for them.Along with being compassionate, you should also be respectful. No matter how the conversation goes, you should treat your parents with respect. If you can disagree with them about something in a respectful way, your parents are likely to feel less upset and may eventually be persuaded to change their minds.
 Figure out how much the relationship with your boyfriend means to you and how drastically your relationship with your parents might be strained if you continue dating. Weigh the pros and cons of all sides to reach a conclusion about what to do. Yes, of course you love your boyfriend, but your parents will be your parents for life., If you are unwilling to stop seeing your boyfriend, keep bringing the topic up to your parents. The more you talk things through, the better both sides will be able to understand each other. You may even get your parents to relent.You should also provide more opportunities for your parents to get to know your boyfriend. The more time they spend with him, the more accurate their perception of him will be. If he really is a good guy, they might eventually drop their guard long enough to see that.
 A good guy will understand that winning the approval of your parents is an important step in your relationship. Together, the two of you might be able to figure out some way of convincing your parents to confer their blessing upon you.If your parents have never met the guy, he might offer to introduce himself to them as a way of easing their minds.
If your parents offered specific reasons for why they do not approve of your boyfriend, letting him know about these reasons may prompt him to try to fix whatever behavior or condition has them feeling anxious.
 Discuss your relationship with your boyfriend's parents, and seek their approval. If they approve, they might be willing to talk to your parents and try to persuade them, too.This step can be especially beneficial if you are a teen, and he is your first boyfriend. Adults tend to relate to each other better than they relate to teenagers, so if two respectable adults approach your parents and defend your relationship, offering their assurances about their son in the process, your parents might be willing to take this new evidence into careful consideration.

