 Include the rug in part of your regular cleaning routine. It's safe to vacuum your cowhide rug as you would any other rug in your home. Vacuuming the rug can help keep it clean and prevent dirt or stains from building up in the first place. It's easiest and safest to use the hose attachments on your cowhide rug.
Always vacuum in the direction of the hair.
Make sure the brushes are not spinning on your vacuum.;
, It can be a good idea to take the rug outside and shake it off once in a while. Although your vacuum may get a lot of dirt and dust out of the rug, shaking it off outside can knock loose anything that might have been stuck deeper in the rug. Shaking the rug off is a simple method that you can use to keep your cowhide rug clean and lasting longer. Try to avoid beating the rug to break dirt loose.
Shake the rug with only enough force to remove dirt.
 If your cowhide rug is placed on the floor, it will be subjected to gradual wear and tear over time. If you never change its position on the floor, it may wear unevenly. This can cause your rug to look off-balance or make it look more worn out than it should be. Always remember to reposition the rug to keep any wearing spread out and even., Your cowhide rug can benefit from regular brushing, helping to keep it clean and looking great. Brushing can be a good method of removing dirt from all areas of the cowhide rug, cleaning places that a vacuum might miss. Try to include brushing your cowhide rug in your regular cleaning routine to help keep it looking its best.You can use a brush or broom with hard plastic bristles.
Try to brush with the direction of the hair, instead of against it.
 Although you may use a slight amount of water to steam clean the cowhide rug, you should never get it wet. If your cowhide rug is ever soaked in water, it may be severely damaged. Always keep exposure to water at a minimum when cleaning your cowhide rug to help keep it in great condition.Sun or air dry your rug if it does get soaked in water.
Never put your cowhide rug into a drying machine.

