 First, before you go to your parents and attempt the puppy eyes, there's a cleaner and more convincing way to do this. Think about your parent's jobs or thoughts about this so that you can address their likely concerns and rebuttals.;
, For example:


Get good grades
Take care of the stuff you already have
Don't be rude
Complete/ask for extra chores after the regulars are completed, and so on.
 Cover all the things that would be of benefit to you with such a device and how you'd take good care of it and pay for repairs or updates, if needed.


Show important key factors like "I could call or text you if school or dance gets out early," or "I could study or school without cutting off a computer when you need it," depending on the wanted electronic.
 Your 'User Agreement' should include:


How long you will be on your device
What you will download
What you won't do
What you will do
Whether you would be willing to share it with your siblings, if you have any.
If you'll allow them to restrict anything.
 Sit them down and present your research work to help them understand why it's important you get it.


Tell your parents what device you want to get.
Give your parents the price and location of the exact device you want to get.
 By the end of your presentation, your parents will probably start talking and come to a decision. Give them time to talk about it, whether its two days, weeks, or minutes, have patience before they decide. Sometimes if you're in a bigger family, then everyone could vote on if you should have the device/gadget/electronics. You could tell your parents to give it to you if you have better grades for a while, or if your becoming more mature or independent when your usually not. Only so many ideas of ways you can still get the device, if they disagree.


Don't constantly talk about it to your parents. They might get annoyed.
 They are wise, and will probably do what's best for you. They might let you have the electronics for a certain amount of time each day, or maybe you get it, but share it with a sibling. Try being happy that you even get to have it, because sometimes you don't get anything, no matter how much you wanted/needed it. Eventually you'd get the electronics when your old enough, it just depends on the occasion, on why you might not have the device.
 If you get one, keep to your 'User Agreement'.

