 A fairy princess is a regal, natural creature, so you may want to include flower themed accents to your costume, like a floral necklace or flowery bracelets. These accents, along with the following list of necessaries, can be bought at your local craft store. For this costume you'll need:


Fabric tape
Lace (or other gauzy, light fabric)
Pipe cleaners
Safety pins
Scissors
T-shirt
Tiara (optional)
Tutu
Wings, Take your lace and cut it into thin strips. Then you should stretch it across the front of your shirt to give a gauzy, frilled look to it. Attach your lace by safety pinning it along the sides of the back of the shirt, but you shouldn't have to worry about stretching the lace all the way around the back. The wings of your costume should block the back of the costume from view., Lay out your shirt and position on top. This will allow you to get a better image of how the wings will look. Once you have found a satisfactory position for your wings, you'll need to use your fabric tape to attach these if there are no straps.Simply tape your wings to the singlet at the narrow part at the center of the back of your costume. You may want to use your tape in an X pattern to attach your wings with greater stability.


Use fabric tape that matches the color of your shirt to make it less visible on the costume.
Depending on the construction of your wings, fabric tape might not be an option. If your wings don't hold, you may need to sew your wings to the shirt.
If you have difficulty finding pre-made wings, you can form lacey or gauzy fabric in the shape of wings and hold it in place with fabric tape.
You might use a short length of lace to fashion cute, tiny wings, or long flowing loops of lace to make majestic ones.
If you choose to create your wings with lace, any lace or gauzy fabric will do, but a stiffer fabric will be easier to style and tape to your singlet.
 Cut your lace into two long strips. Lay your singlet on a flat, uncluttered space, and cross the strips of lace in an X shape. Leave extra lace for the top halves of your cut lace, and loop the ends of these back to the middle of the back where the strips of lace cross.


Use your tape to adhere lace and loop ends, creating two wing-like loops at the top, and trailing bottom lace that imitates the bottom portion of a fairy wing.
 You can use a single pipe cleaner for the handle of your fairy wand, or you could twist a few together to give the handle of the want a little more weight and substance. Take another pipe cleaner and bend it into the shape of a star so that both ends meet at the bottom concave part between the two bottom points. Then twist the ends of your star to the top portion of your wand handle to complete the wand.Your costume might look great with a wand made from pipe cleaner that matches the color of your costume, or you may want to give this feature pop by choosing a contrast color instead.
 Check the height and stability of your wings. If the person wearing the costume is younger, you'll want the wings firmly attached so as not to be knocked off during play. Height is also an important factor; low wings might hide behind the back of the person wearing your costume. Take stock of your frills and make any adjustments you deem necessary.
 You may want to use some body glitter to give the wearer of this costume look truly enchanting. You should try on any floral bracelets or necklaces you have that match or accent the color of your top and tutu. You should also check the look of your tiara - you may want some glitter there, too!

