 When you have a high sugar, refined carb, and gluten-rich diet, you increase your chances of developing a yeast infection in your lungs. While you can take medications (see Method 2) to clear up the infection, you must alter your diet if you hope to keep the infection from developing again.
 Fructose, which is found in most fruits and honey, and artificial sweeteners like Saccharin and nutrasweet, should be cut out of your diet while you work on getting better. This is because these sweets can create a good growing environment for yeast, which combats the work you are doing to try to get rid of the yeast.Avoid consuming fruit during the first two weeks of your fight against yeast. Other foods like beets and potatoes, which are also high in sugar, should also be avoided.
 Packaged food that contains the following items should be avoided because these are all sugars or sugar alternatives.


Carob powder, Maltose/malt, Aspartame, Dextrose/ crystallized dextrin, Mannitol, Galactose, Disaccharides, Maltitol, Monosaccharides, Sorghum, Xylitol, Corn starch, Maltodextrin, Suamiel, Levulose, and Sucanat.
 Most people who suffer from yeast infections of the lungs are naturally intolerant to gluten. Gluten is an elastic protein that is present in triticale, oats, rye, wheat and barley. It is also present in baked goods.Gluten grains are actually a food source of the candida yeast because they have a similar structure to sugar and a high glycemic index.
 When yeast has infected your body, the yeast actually breaks down carbohydrates you consume and turns it into a form of ethyl alcohol. Drinking more alcohol while this process is occurring will only increase the number of yeast colonies in your body.


You should stop drinking alcohol of any kind for at least the first two months of your treatment. If you start drinking again after this time period, it should be in very small amounts.
 While combating the yeast in your body, you should tailor your diet to help speed up the healing process. While the diet itself is not a definitive cure, it can help neutralize the harm the yeast is causing your body.


The average yeast control diet contains little or no sugar, no processed food and very low carbohydrate consumption. High amount of proteins (except those derived from gluten and soya) must be consumed.
Eat vegetables like cabbage, lettuce, kale, mustard greens, horseradish, celery, pepper, broccoli, cauliflower, beans, onions, tomatoes and garlic.
Cook with coconut, fish, or palm oil, rather than butter.
Meat and fat in your diet should be derived from grass fed animals while fish should be free from contamination of mercury.

