 First you must acquaint and familiarize yourself with space that you go (the school or office, gym, pub, club etc) and also with the people (people in all your different classes and co-workers). You can achieve this by going through a yearbook, writing down people around you and looking them up online, or just paying attention to the order in which people are.;
, This means people that aren't considering dorks and people are aren't considered really popular. These people are usually nice but some can be clingy which is okay for now. Just make friends with at least three of these people. They usually have one semi-popular or popular friend. If your friend has negative attention because of the way they dress (too revealing maybe), act (maybe they eat like a pig), or something else you might want to stay away from being a best friend forever of them. Still be a friend, just not a super close one. Making these friends is super important in working your way up. Still don't be artificial with these friends. Get to know them and make them really good root friends that you can always turn to.
 You pass by hundreds of people a day.  How do you know if that person has the same interests as you; how do you know if you're meant to be friends? You guessed it; you don't. So just don't be afraid to put yourself out there and just maybe share some of your opinions with this person and compliment them. Try to casually figure out if you like the same sports teams, movie stars, or musicians without asking too many questions, and you can bond over that.
 If you want to be popular fast, it's important to be engaging when you talk to people and to make casual small talk. Ask people questions, smile and be friendly, and don't worry about people not liking you. The more people you know and talk to, the more popular you'll become. Do this quickly to be popular as fast as you can.
 As you get to know people more, you will spend more time with them and may even make them your friends. Make an effort to hang out with people as often as possible and to connect with them. Ask them if you can have their number or if you can add them on Facebook or something. Try to warm up to them and be around them often, always supporting them. If you want to be popular fast, don't hesitate for too long.
 Open up to your new friends. Show them that you trust them, and that you accept them for everything they are. Share some past experiences, and maybe even share some personal stuff if you guys are really close. Don't be afraid to spill it all out when you're around them and just build their trust.


Be a good friend to everyone. Now, just do this to everyone and make as many friends as possible. If you follow all these steps, you will for sure be either a good friend of theirs or a best friend.  If they turn out to be your best friend, that means you guys were probably meant to be best friends. Always hang out with them, talk with them, and be nice.
 Once you have made your first friends ,target their friends to extend your posse. Branch out to them and hang out with them. Get more and more friends. Never abandon your old ones though. If you abandon your old friends then you won't have near as many friends and a bad reputation along with it. Be equal and fair as far as friendship goes and try to make as many new friends as possible. If someone with a bad reputation is trying to be friends with you be friendly just don't be friends.
 Even the people who seem snarky to you can be really nice once you uncover them. Always try to find the good in people and be nice and friendly with everyone. Being kind is a good quality and is very attractive. No one likes mean people. Try to be caring and considerate with every person that you meet. Then you will create and establish not only a great clean reputation but also a nice strong trust with each person.
 Wear clothes that are in style but still you. Try to dress a little comfortable so people don't think that you are trying to hard. Yet, still have some style. Following trends can be good to some extent. Read fashion magazines, books, articles, and more to catch up on what's in style for your age group right now. Ask friends what they think if you are unsure (ask for a direct opinion, don't get hurt by it). Go online into chat rooms even and send them pictures of clothes that you like. See what the public thinks.
 Be clean. Take a shower every day, every other day, or even twice a week depending on if you do sports, your perspiration level, and other things. Always, no matter what, wear deodorant or anti-perspirants. Shave if you need to. Ask your parents if you are under 16 if you can shave. You want to be safe. Make sure to wash and moisturize your face. The best tip for your skin is to wash and put on sunblock. Yes sunblock. It has anti-aging properties as well as other great ingredients that are good for your skin. Put sunblock on all over before you head out. Even in winter because light shines off of snow and can be even deadlier than a hot summer day though it may not seem that way. Just make sure that you rub the sunblock in all the way, sometimes people still have an embarrassing white glob on their face or a half rubbed in white smidge. Anyway, hygiene is the key ingredient! No one will ever want to be around someone who stinks or someone that is dirty! Just think of your own preferences!

, Beyond normal hygiene there are some things that popular people do. The first thing is perfume, cologne, or body mist. Using these moderately is great and can be very attractive. If you want to use it, a slight bit of make up can go a long long way. Lip gloss or balm, some foundation if you have pimples, and some mascara (Some just prefer curling their lashes and sometimes adding vaseline to make them grow long). That is all you will need if you are under 18. Most teens think that you need to have like raccoon eyes or something. See a make up counter for more help!

, Conditioning is a must. Also get regular hair-cuts and style your 'do. You can learn how to on YouTube! Curl, crimp, straighten, there is a lot to hair. Go with what you like.

