 The best way to improve writing skills, no matter the writer's age, is through regular practice. Your child might be getting a lot of good practice at school. However, if your child's school provides limited writing practice or if you're homeschooling your child, you may want to include additional formal writing lessons at home.Even having your child write very straightforward things (such as what he did at school that day or what kinds of snacks he wants to eat) can be excellent writing practice. It doesn't always have to be creative writing practice to be effective.


Recognize, however, that sometimes children will be reluctant to write. Let them take some time away from writing if they need to (unless they have to complete a school assignment)., A daily journal can be a terrific way for a young writer to expand her vocabulary, develop a unique writing style, and learn how to express complicated thoughts in words.This builds essential skills and gives children an important outlet for sharing their thoughts and feelings., Sometimes the best writing practice is freewriting when your child simply writes whatever comes into her mind. However, if your child is a bit older and wants to write a longer or more ambitious story, encourage your child to make a writing plan first. Make sure your child has a sense of what she will write about, what the point of her story is, and (if relevant) what the assignment entails.Does she have a plan for the beginning, middle, and end of the story?

, Perfectionism can be harmful to your child's creativity and self-confidence. Rather than fixing your child's errors and mistakes, have your child reread his own writing and ask him what he thinks about it. Let him locate his own errors and encourage him to fix things himself.Never take over and rewrite his story yourself.For example, you could underline the words he has misspelled without giving him the correct spelling. Ask him to look up the correct spelling in the dictionary.
Be sure that you provide your child with positive feedback as well as gentle suggestions for improvements.
 One of the most important skills your child will learn is how to revise first drafts into final drafts. Encourage your child to make changes to his story and to work hard at improving it. For example, you can ask him to use sticky notes to build off of the first draft of a story in order to add more details, clarify his language, and vary his sentence structures.Let your child know that practice and perseverance are essential to the writing process.