 While fondant is beautiful, it costs more than traditional butter cream icing. It takes more steps and materials to make fondant, and it is more difficult to work with compared to buttercream icing. Some bakers even charge extra for working with fondant.Butter cream is not always less expensive. If you want butter cream with a smooth applique finish, it may cost as much as the fondant.
People often prefer the taste of butter cream icing to fondant as well.You can save money and make your guests happy.
 Naked cakes are cakes that do not have frosting at all. These cakes take less time and you avoid the cost of the actual frosting. If you go the no frosting route, you can try different flavors and fillings.


Naked cakes can be decorated with fresh flowers, fruit wedges, or a unique cake topper.You have many options for fillings such as fruit fillings,lemon curd, or chocolate ganache., Specialty cake and frosting flavors and seasonal flavors are more expensive than simple flavors. Simple flavors include vanilla, chocolate, and lemon. Specialty flavors include flavors such as red velvet, carrot cake, or seasonal flavors.If you want to use specialty flavors, use them only for the smaller tiers. For example, you could use vanilla for your largest tier and red velvet for a small tier.
Also limit your cake to two flavors and two fillings. Your baker will likely charge you more for three or more.
 Have your baker create a fully decorated cake using Styrofoam tiers. You can then serve your guests a sheet cake with with the same color frosting. If you want to have a cake cutting during your reception, make sure the bottom tier is edible.A fake cake is particularly handy if you have a cake that needs to be refrigerated (e.g. ice cream cake or whipped cream), a small guest list but want a large cake, or a huge amount of guests but only want to display a smaller cake (i.e. two-tier).
If you want a naked cake, you cannot use Styrofoam tiers as a substitute.
Keep in mind that you are still paying your baker for a fake cake and a sheet cake. An elaborate fake cake can become very expensive. Talk with your baker about the most cost-effective option.

