 You can find this option near the top left of your screen, above the "Inbox" option. This will open up a new email window.
 Once you've sent one email to the person using Gmail, you'll be able to access the address just by typing the first few letters of the address or the person's name. If you'd like to email multiple people, just write their email addresses and separate them by commas.
 Enter a subject in the subject box. Typing a subject of the email isn't mandatory, but if you don't type one in, then a box will pop up asking if you're okay with sending an email without a subject before you send the email.
 Write your message below the subject line. If you don't enter a message, a pop up will come up asking you if you'd like to send this message without a body.
 To send an attachment, simply click on the paperclip on the bottom of the email and access your computer's hard drive to search for the file you'd like to send. Once you find the file, just click "Choose" and the file should be uploaded to your email. This may take a moment, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your Internet connection.
 There is a variety of other information that you can insert to the email in addition to an attachment. Here's what else you can do:



Insert a photo. Hover your mouse to the right of the paperclip on the bottom of the email and a camera will appear. Click on this icon and search for the photo you'd like to send. When you're done, just click "Choose file."







Insert a link. Click on the button to the right of the camera and type in the name of the link you'd like to send via email.







Insert an emoticon. Click on the smiley face to the right of the link button to search through a variety of emoticons. Just click on the emoticon you'd like to use and it will appear in the email box.







Insert an invitation. To insert an invitation into the email, click on the calendar button to the right of the smiley face and an invitation will pop up. Just type in the relevant information about the event, such as the name of the event, the time, the location, and the description, and click on "Insert Invitation" and you're done.
 You can change the style of text by pressing the button that looks like a large "A" under the "Attach a File" link on the bottom of the email box. You can choose to have bold, italic, underlined, large, medium, or small font. You can also change the font. You can highlight the text you've written and select these options to change the text, or you can select the options and then begin typing. Here are the ways you can change your font and formatting:


Change the font. Your current font should be listed all the way on the bottom left. Click on the arrow to the right of the name of the font and search through the options until you find your desired font.







Change the size. To change the size of the words, just click on the "T" to the right of the font options, and select "small," "normal," "large," or "huge" for the size of your text.







Make your text bold. Click on the "B" to the right of the text size option.







Italicize your text. Click on the "I" to the right of the bold option.







Underline your words. Click on the "U" to the right of the italicize option.







Change your text color. Click on the "A" to the right of the underline option.







Add a List of Numbers or Bulletpoints. Click on the two buttons to the right of the "A".







Remove formatting. Click on the "Tx" button to remove the formatting for your text.







