 This technique may sound ridiculous, but drawing attention to your blushing publicly can actually help you feel more comfortable with it in social situations.


Formulate a one-sentence explanation for your blushing. If you want to be completely transparent about your blushing up front, before it even happens in a situation, you could say: “I just wanted to let you know that sometimes I start blushing when I’m feeling a little stressed or self-conscious. I am not sure exactly why it happens, but I wanted to let you in case it happens while we’re talking.”If you start to blush unexpectedly, you might say something like: “Oh my gosh! I’m so embarrassed, I’m blushing right now.” Others probably will not find this particularly strange or even notable, and they may even try to alleviate your stress. Revealing what is happening for you in the moment will probably help you feel less self-conscious.;
, You may feel ashamed and responsible for your blushing reaction, and this may lead you to worry about others’ reaction to your blushing. However, blushing is not your fault; it is an unconscious reaction to some type of anxiety, and it is completely normal for each individual to have different physical reactions to stressful situations.


You may try telling yourself: “Blushing is stressful, but it is not my fault this is happening.” Releasing this responsibility will likely help you feel less worried about others’ reactions., Visualizing a social situation as anxiety provoking due to your blushing can cause you to build up even more stress about the event. Therefore, use techniques to rehearse any social events to help you feel more relaxed about managing these situations.Close your eyes and visualize the social event. Imagine how you look and feel at the event. Envision your cool and confident demeanor while talking to other people in order to send a message to your mind that you need and want to be self-assured during this situation.
Another way you can use mental rehearsal is to visualize social or professional situations that have already happened and “re-write history” by changing the outcome. Perhaps you went to an event that caused you significant anxiety and led to blushing while talking to people at the event. Close your eyes and visualize this scenario again, but this time imagine yourself from a detached perspective interacting with everyone with confidence and without blushing. This technique will help you believe that outcomes other than blushing are possible.
 If you are afraid of blushing in a social situation, you may start to shut down and withdraw in communal settings. Therefore, actively set goals before going into social situations in order to practice overcoming your anxiety of blushing.Before going to your next social event, set three small and manageable goals for your interactions. For example, you could tell yourself: "I am going to talk to three different people, I’m going to try to tell two jokes, and I will put myself in the center of attention one time."
Evaluate your progress after each group interaction, and decide if you are ready to set new goals for your next scenario.

