 Build a tree-pit snow shelter if you are in a wilderness area with deep snow and evergreen trees, and you have a tool to dig with. Dig around the tree to the ground level to create a shelter where the branches act as a roof.


Look for an evergreen tree that has thick, bushy branches that extend wide from the tree for the best overhead coverage.
Dig down in a circle around the trunk, no wider than the tree’s branches. Dig to a level you can comfortably sit or lay down into, or until you reach the ground.
Pack down the snow at the top and sides of your hole to prevent any caving in. Cut or break off evergreen branches to line the bottom of the hole and provide thicker overhead coverage if needed., Mound up snow and carve out a space big enough for your body to create a small cave that will insulate you from wind and snowstorms. Make a snow pile a few feet longer than your body height and tall enough that you can dig into it without the top collapsing.


After building a mound of snow, let it sit for several hours or pack it down so that it is solidified and will be easier to dig a cave without snow collapsing.
Dig down and into the snow until you have a corridor long and wide enough to fit your whole body inside. Make sure all walls of the cave remain about a foot thick to prevent them from collapsing.
Line the inside with evergreen branches for insulation and comfort. You can also close the entrance with more branches.
For this and any other snow shelter, a shovel is best used for digging, but a cup or bowl, ski or snowshoe, or other sturdy item can be used in a pinch., Access cooler temperatures in the sand and protect yourself from the sun and wind by digging a trench into the sand. Cover the pit with any plastic sheeting you may have, or sand supported by driftwood or branches.


Dig out a trench long enough for your body and as low as you can, running north to south so it gets as little sun as possible throughout the day.
Mound up sand on three sides of the trench to make a deeper pit. Then lay a tarp or other plastic sheeting over the mounds and weigh down with sand, or lay down driftwood, branches, or another flat material to support sand for a roof.
Make sure you build your sand pit well above the water line or high tide mark if you’re on a beach.