 If your boyfriend is cheating, he will become overly protective of his phone and computer. Does he get upset if you touch his phone or computer?His phone is probably what he uses to communicate with the other person he is seeing, and he wants to keep you as far away from his stuff as possible.


If you ask "Who was that calling/texting you?" he may say, “nobody,” or “don’t worry about it.”
Does he delete text message threads or Facebook messages before he lets you use his phone?
Does he run to answer the phone before you can see who is calling?;
, If your boyfriend is cheating, he has to make time for this other person in his schedule and change his routine.You probably know his usual schedule. If he starts hanging out with his guy friends more, studying late, or working late nights, he may be cheating.Your boyfriend will begin to choose all of these activities over spending time with you. You will no longer be a priority., Does your boyfriend close the door when you are around? Does he take his phone calls in another room? If your partner is cheating, he will begin to distance himself from you.Look for secrecy in any area of his life.Has he started hanging out with people that you don’t know?
If you ask him about where he is going or how his day was, does he only give a short answer with no details?, If your boyfriend is cheating, he may become less affectionate. Does he no longer want to hold hands, cuddle, kiss, or have sex? Is he no longer interested in the physical aspect of your relationship?


Keep in mind that your boyfriend could be less affectionate due to stress or health issues. Take into account the other signs before you decide that he is less affectionate because he is cheating., Your boyfriend may begin to change his behavior because he feels guilty about cheating. These behaviors can be positive or negative. Typical changes include:Buying gifts for no reason.
Going out of his way to be helpful and caring.
Picking fights with you.
Being more moody.
Smelling differently (e.g. another person’s perfume or cologne)
Paying extra attention to his appearance (e.g. clothing, new haircut, going to the gym)
Lying about things that are both big and small.Saying different phrases that he usually would not.
Keep in mind that cheating is not the only explanation for unusual behavior.

