 If your slipping problems are coming from an older pair of shoes, the issue may not be that your sole isn't worn enough, but rather that it is too worn. In this case, you may want to consider adding material to the bottom of your shoes to give you more grip. Perhaps the most "professional" way to do this is to apply shoe pads designed specifically for this purpose to the soles of your shoes.


These textured pads typically attach to the material of the sole with an adhesive. Note that some users complain that this adhesive can leave shoes with a "sticky" feeling once the pads come off.
Grip pads are sold at many higher-end wardrobe supply stores for fairly cheap — usually no more than $10 or so for a single set., In addition to adhesive pads, there are also spray products designed to be used on the soles of shoes to give them more grip. These products, usually sold as "traction sprays" or "grip sprays," can vary in quality, so talk to an employee or spend time reading customer testimonials before making a purchase.


Traction sprays are usually sold at the same places at grip pads for a slightly higher cost — usually about $10-20.
 Don't want to spend money on traction-adding products? Several products that you probably already have in your own home may also give good results. However, it's important to note that these improvised solutions are not guaranteed to work as well as the professional ones above. One home remedy is hairspray — simply spray a generous coat on the soles of your shoes for a little extra "stick" (especially on smooth-bottomed dress shoes.) Give the hairspray at least half a minute or so to dry and become tacky before walking in the shoes.


Keep in mind that this solution is temporary and will require re-application. In addition, hairspray may rinse off in wet weather., "Puff" paint (also called "dimensional fabric" paint) is a type of paint that's frequently used in arts and crafts products for children like making tee shirts. When puff paint dries, it gains a somewhat rough, textured quality, making it a good choice for adding grip to the bottoms of shoes. Simply apply a thin coat to the sole, leave the sole for a few hours to dry, and test out your solution!


While puff paint should last longer than hairspray, it will need to be re-applied semi regularly for maximum effectiveness.
If you have the time, consider painting a design into your shoe — it's a great way to make your shoes truly unique and express your creativity.
 One simple "last resort" technique for improving the traction of your shoes is to simply stick a few rolls of masking tape on their soles. Lay two rolls of tape in an "X" pattern on the widest, flattest parts of your soles for maximum effect.


Be aware that, as the tape loses its adhesive quality, you may need to add more masking tape.
 If you've got a pair of shoes that is especially expensive or that you treasure too much to modify with the tricks above, consider bringing it to a professional cobbler or shoe repairer. These professionals may be able to fix your shoes by modifying or replacing their soles.


Note, however, that the services of a cobbler often do not come cheap. Depending on the quality of your shoe and the difficulty of the work being done, a single pair of shoes can cost over $100 to fix.Thus, this solution is best saved for your very nicest pair of shoes.

