 Holding more than one job can lead to missed appointments and late arrivals to work if you do not keep track of where you need to be each day. Keeping track of your daily schedule in a day planner can help you to remember where you need to be each day.If you have an extra hectic schedule, try getting a day planner with 15 minute time slots to plan your day in smaller chunks.;
, While you may be tempted to avoid telling your bosses about your situation, you are better off letting them know what your schedule is like. Your bosses may even be willing to work with you when scheduling your hours., It can be difficult to remember everything that you need to do when you work two different jobs in the same day. To help you remember your tasks, try making a to-do list for each job at the beginning of your day. As you complete items on your to-do lists, check them off so that you know what you have and have not completed., Balancing two jobs and a long work week may make it hard to keep your home clean, cook your own meals, and take care of other responsibilities.Ask your family, friends, or significant other for help with cooking, cleaning, child care or other necessary tasks. Make sure that you thank them for helping and do little things to let them know how much you appreciate the help. A simple note or a big hug can go a long way.
Try arranging a freezer meal exchange with your friends. A freezer meal exchange is when a group of people all agree to make a dish, then divide the dish into enough servings for all of their friends and freeze them. Then, everyone gathers at someone’s house to distribute the meals and everyone leaves with several dinners to reheat during the week., Make sure that you set some boundaries about when your work day begins and ends. Otherwise, you may end up working past your scheduled work hours, especially if you work from home for one of your jobs.If you have plans to do something fun with family or friends, don’t let work overtake your plans. Keep your social appointments as well as your professional ones.

