 It is important to remember that while you are probably upset that there is a bird in your house, that bird is most likely terrified. The worst thing you could do would be to start screaming and throwing things at the bird--this will only cause it to panic and flutter around your house in a frenzy. Stay calm and remember that the bird is much more scared than you are., If a bird does get into your house, you should put your pets in a room and shut the door so that the bird cannot get in (and your pets can’t get out). In particular, cats love to chase birds., You want to contain the movement of the bird by forcing it to stay in one room. To do this, you should shut all of the doors leading to other rooms so that the bird has no choice but to stay in the room it is in.


If the doorways leading into the room don’t have doors, you can hang towels or blankets in them so that they are blocked. Use push pins to hold the towel or blanket up.
 Closing blinds will reduce the likelihood that the bird will accidentally fly into a closed window thinking that it is an exit. Moreover, if you shut off all light sources, aside from one open window, the bird will be drawn to the window and ultimately should try to fly out., If you leave one open window and eliminate all other light sources, the bird should generally be drawn to it. Stay calm or else you will attract the bird’s attention. Give the bird approximately thirty minutes before trying a new course of action.
 Take a large sheet and hold it with your hands extended as far upward and outward as possible, so as to cover your person. Walk toward the bird shaking the sheet, to scare it in the direction of the window.


Be careful not to touch the bird roughly. Birds are gentle and susceptible to damage from even relatively light contact., Ultimately, some birds are going to want to stay in your house despite all encouragement and certain large predatory birds are too dangerous to engage with. If you are having trouble, research local wildlife removal online and call a professional for assistance.