 Get the upper section of your hair out of the way. Clip it on top of your head so that you can start working with the bottom section of your hair. You can divide up your hair into four quadrants, and style one quadrant at a time. You can use a hair tie if you do not have hair clips. The important part is to make sure your hair is out of the way.
 Use your comb and gently rake the pointed end of the comb across your scalp making a square about an inch wide by an inch tall. Grab the piece of hair from this section of your hair.


You will methodically work through the four quadrants of your whole head making sections like these in each quadrant before moving onto another quadrant.
 Place the pin close to the base of your head so that it is almost touching. If you leave too much room between the u-pin and your head, you will risk your hair losing volume.
 Start at the base of u-pin that is near your head. Have the pin face out horizontally. Then weave the hair in and out of the pin from side to side creating a figure eight pattern until you get to the end of the pin.


If parts of your hair stick out of the pin, that is okay. You will be spraying it with hair spray, and the overall effect will still be achieved.
Your hair will make a zigzag pattern on the pin.
 Make sure both sides get covered with one good spritz for each side. You will want to use this product to protect against heat damage. You also want to give your hair texture and help it hold the style with the hair spray.


If you do not have the two-in-one product spray, first use the thermal hair spray and then use the hair spray. You want the thermal spray to make more contact with the shaft of your hair to protect it from damage.
 Your flat iron should be on medium heat. Your medium setting should be approximately 290 degrees. Clamp your straightener on the hair at the bottom part of the pin furthest from your head. Then move your straightener up toward your head.


Do not straighten your hair for much longer than 5 seconds.If you have dry or damaged hair, you can set your flat iron to a low setting (around 250-275 degrees).
 Do this around your whole head. You should work methodically in sections, or quadrants, making these one inch sections on your whole head. This whole process can take one to two hours depending on how much hair you have.


Get your friend to work on the back of your hair.
 Do this after you have finished clipping and straightening all of your hair. Pull the u-pin out by it’s u base. It should easily slide right now. Do not try to unravel your hair off of the clips.
 Take your hair brush, and brush through all of your hair to make it voluminous. Turn your head over, hang your hair upside down, and brush your hair so that it gets even more voluminous.


You can use your regular hair brush or vented hair brush to create volume. Do not use a round brush.
If you want to use your fine tooth comb, you can tease the roots of your hair to make your hair more voluminous. You can take an inch section that needs more volume, and from the midsection of your hair to your root, comb downward to create texture and volume. Be aware; however, that teasing damages your hair. , Hang your head upside down again, and spray evenly around your whole head to keep to keep your big, frizzy hair style in place. If your friend is around, have her spray your whole head while your hair is upside down.
