 Run some water over an old toothbrush, then shake most of the water off. Dry out the bristles even more by placing your finger at the top of the bristles and sliding down while pressing firmly. You want it barely damp. Then take the (prepped) toothbrush and comb your eyebrow into shape.


Use only the top end of the bristles to fine-tune the arch and the corner of your eyebrow. You don't have to do it all again for the second brow, simply comb it as well.
If your eyebrows are really wild, put a very tiny amount of hairspray on it as well.
 Use an eyebrow pencil to draw the shape that you want. Then, use tweezers to pluck the hairs that seem out of place, then quickly comb your brows with dry toothbrush. Fill in gaps with an eyebrow pencil and then smoothing it in to blend with the rest of your brow.


Be sure to make sure that those really long hairs on the edge aren't based in the middle. If they are, you can snip them, but be careful that you keep things even.
Get a close-up magnification mirror to help with this process. This really helps locate some of those little annoying hairs.
 Use home wax strips, not cold or hot wax to avoid potential eye hazards. If you decide to wax completely, look up videos on how to draw eyebrows so you do it right, and try several methods over the weekend. Be sure to make them look natural, and get a pencil colour that matches your hair tones.


Take it easy on the waxing. It's easy to over-do it, and leave yourself looking witchy.
 Most nail salons offer this service, and it is generally not expensive. However, you may want to ask your friends for recommendations on your local salons, as a bad wax can be very painful. After the wax, the esthetician will probably apply some creams and tweeze any stray hairs. This is a great option if you're looking for shape to your eyebrows but do not know how to get your desired look.
 It might sound odd, but if you apply a little conditioner to your eyebrows, it will help them look smoother, shinier and they will be easier to tame after you get out of the shower.

