 It is also important for you to see your primary care physician because there are several medical conditions that can cause mood swings that look like bipolar disorder, and it is important to rule those out. Your doctor will complete a physical exam to rule out any other conditions and then refer you to a mental health professional, such as a psychiatrist or psychologist. Your doctor may ask you to describe your symptoms. They will also review your medical history.There are two types of bipolar disorder: bipolar I disorder, which is the most severe type, and bipolar II disorder, where you have only depression and not mania. Depending on your symptoms, a mental health professional can determine which type you have.
 There are several different types of medications that can help to treat the symptoms of bipolar disorder. Your psychiatrist may suggest trying several different ones to find the right ones for you. You may be given mood stabilizers, atypical antipsychotics, and antidepressants.Always talk to your psychiatrist about the possible risks and side effects of these medications. If you notice any troubling side effects, talk to your psychiatrist right away. Your psychiatrist may adjust your dosage or switch you to a different medication.
Do not stop taking your medication without talking to your psychiatrist first. Stopping your medication can lead to a rebound or make your symptoms worse. You may also experience withdrawal symptoms.
 Therapy can be an effective treatment for bipolar disorder. Your psychiatrist may recommend therapy treatments like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). CBT allows you to examine how your thoughts affect your emotions. This therapy can also help you change negative thinking patterns and behaviors. It can help you manage your symptoms better and avoid a relapse.To do CBT, you will work with a therapist on a regular basis to treat your symptoms.
 Interpersonal therapy can help you reduce the level of stress your disorder causes you in day to day life. Stress can be a major trigger for those with bipolar disorder.Interpersonal therapy is often combined with social rhythm therapy. Social rhythm therapy focuses on stabilizing your social rhythms, like eating, sleeping, and exercising. Stabilizing these rhythms can help your mood become more stable.
 The symptoms of bipolar disorder can cause significant family disruptions, so family-focused therapy may be helpful. This type of therapy can help to educate your family members about the disorder and how to help you maintain your treatment plan. Family-focused therapy is good if you have family members who do not understand this disorder or who are struggling to live with you while you recover from this disorder.This type of therapy can be done with your entire family or family members one on one.
 Your psychiatrist may also recommend other treatment options like Electroshock Therapy (ECT). ECT has been shown to provide relief for those with severe bipolar disorder, especially if they have not been able to recover using other treatments. ECT can cause short-term side effects like confusion, disorientation, and memory loss.Another treatment option your psychiatrist may suggest is sleep medication. Insomnia and sleep problems are major symptoms of bipolar disorder, so sleep medication can help you sleep better.
Keep in mind alternative therapies like herbal or natural supplements are not recommended for the treatment of bipolar disorder.
 As part of your treatment plan, you may keep a life chart where you can track your symptoms and sleep patterns. You can also note your treatments, medications, and life events in the life chart. The life chart can then help your psychiatrist determine if the treatment plan you are on is working well for you, or if it needs to be adjusted.You may create a life chart in your journal or on your computer. Be diligent about recording your daily moods and symptoms to track your progress.

