 Know that the risk factors that caused someone to abuse cocaine initially may still be present once they have stopped using. Addictive disease is generally thought to be the combination of genetics and environmental risk factors.


Caucasian males are most likely to use cocaine, and low socioeconomic status, as well as lower levels of education, peer pressure, and living in areas that have high levels of crime and drug use may also increase a person’s chances of using. Additionally, family risk factors include low parental supervision, divorce, and high family conflict.Learn as much as you can about cocaine addiction. This will help you to understand the treatment options as well as the physical effects you might experience as a result of a cocaine addiction. To learn about cocaine addiction. Narconon is a great resource;
, You may have noticed a variety of strange or unusual behaviors from your loved one recently. Understand that the behaviors that a person displays, such as being more excited, confident, energetic, and talkative than usual, may be due to cocaine addiction.Furthermore, dilated pupils and sensitivity to light are often present in those who abuse cocaine, as well as frequent nose bleeds and runny noses. A person who takes cocaine may also have a decrease in appetite and may also experience depression, apathy, anger, aggression, and hallucinations.
 Ask yourself and those around you if you’ve been supplying the addict with the means to keep them using. Bailing the person out of jail and providing transportation allows them to rely on you without having to be responsible for themselves.Additionally, giving the person money, paying for a place to live, and buying items for the person enables them to use their money for drugs instead of what they actually need.
 Gather friends and family to tell your loved one that they need help with their addiction. Before you meet, make a plan, gather information, and determine what you are going to say during the intervention.You’ll want to provide specific examples of destructive behaviors and the impact they have on the addicted person and loved ones; present a treatment plan with clear steps, guidelines, and goals; and state what each person will do if the addict refuses treatment.
For example, you might say, “Corey, we are very concerned about your drug use. You’ve been in jail twice this year and it’s put all of us in a financial bind. We love you and we want to help you get the treatment you deserve.”

, Have your loved one talk to a doctor truthfully about their drug use to help devise a plan to stop. Along with offering treatment options, the doctor can also give you an examination to determine how much damage has been wrought after chronic drug use.


The doctor may also recommend ways to receive support, such as through a psychologist, member of the clergy, social worker, or counselor. , Firstly, your loved one needs to stop using cocaine in order to remove it from the body. Detoxification is designed to manage the acute and potentially physiological effects of stopping drug use. However, because withdrawal symptoms are often extremely unpleasant and potentially life-threatening, detox should be monitored by a medical staff or physician.Help your loved one find a treatment program experienced with cocaine detoxification.


A doctor may administer medication to help with the withdrawal symptoms to make this process less difficult. Unfortunately, detox only removes the drug from the body, and does not eliminate the psychological, social, or behavioral problems that may contribute to the addiction. Other treatment approaches will be needed as well.
Look into support groups, such as Narcotics Anonymous to connect with other people who can relate to what you are going through., That is why it is important to identify underlying issues and seek treatment for emotional problems you may experience while attempting to stop using cocaine. Some patients suffer from depression and severe mood swings while they are quitting, and taking antidepressants or other medications may help.


Medication may also help with the fear, guilt, self-loathing, and anxiety that addicts often suffer during their recovery.
 Decide if you should enter an inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation program to combat your addiction. Inpatient programs provide around the clock care to patients and typically require the patients to live there during treatment. Outpatient rehabilitation programs typically involve meetings and daily check-ins to offer support and medical care to those who are quitting cocaine.After detox, it’s important to participate in such a program to further prevent drug use, but also to continually have your loved one’s condition monitored by medical staff. These programs can last anywhere from 4 weeks to 6 months or longer. Your loved one will receive treatment, but also get support from professionals, learn tips for overcoming cravings, and develop better coping strategies for dealing with stress.
 Determine which behavioral therapy approach works best to keep your loved one clean. There are a range of options that all have advantages in the treatment of cocaine addiction.


Cognitive-behavioral therapy is a short-term, focused-based approach that often helps to keep addicts from using. Contingency management offers incentives to those who refrain from using, which many former users find helpful in staying clean. Additionally, living in therapeutic communities can give those in recovery the support they need to stay off of cocaine., Visit a therapist with your loved one and other family members to learn new behavioral strategies for coping outside of rehab. This gets everyone on the same page and involved in helping your loved one stay clean.


At your visits, you will likely develop goals the person would like to reach, and will discuss upon subsequent visits whether or not you have achieved them. Therapy also provides a safe place for your loved one to discuss, with family, their fears and anxieties about staying off drugs., Encourage your loved one to join a 12-step program to receive support from others while attempting to remain sober. A program like Cocaine Anonymous emphasizes responsibility for behavior, self-forgiveness, and making amends to others.This is often helpful when battling the demons and triggers that cause addicts to use. Such meetings encourage daily attendance for the first 90 days of sobriety.
 Suggest that your loved one commit to taking care of their physical and emotional health. Not only will this support their body during recovery, but it will also help them develop a more positive outlook on life.


Exercise like running, walking, yoga, and meditation can not only keep your loved one healthy, but can battle stress and keep the person balanced. Eating right and doing things they enjoy, such as painting, spending time with animals, and pampering enhance well-being, which may help the person want to stay sober., Know that battling addiction is often a life-long commitment. Talk to your loved one’s doctor about medication that may help them fight cravings, such as baclofen, tiagabine, topiramate, and disulfiram. There are also an assortment of behavioral strategies your loved one can implement to manage cravings.


Recovering addicts should also consider attending support group meetings regularly to help hold themselves accountable and get the help they need to stay clean.