 Themes can be anything you are interested in or that you like.The theme of this calendar is going to be "Frozen or a snowy winter theme, but you can do anything.


Make sure you have images and maybe quotes for the theme you chose.;
, Backgrounds are important they can be the same for every month or different for every month. In this case, the background will be different for every month. By right clicking you are taking to where you can change the background.


The background will just be a blue for January, but you can use anything.
To add the picture you can drag and drop or insert, it really doesn't matter. Just make sure the picture covers the whole background of the page. You can extend it so that it does.
The picture below is for adding effects to your background. If you go to the design tab, you will be able to change your background to different effects.
 You can just find one on the internet, but it is more customizable if you make it yourself. You can't change font, colour and other aspects when you just download a ready made one.


Go to "Insert" and click "add table". This will be the first link on the list. Click it and make a table that is 7 squares in width and about 6 in length. You can change how big the whole table is, but make sure it fits the screen with room to spare for your pics.
 Add the month name, weeks and the day number. Use letterboxes for adding anything that is text that is not in the graph. You can just type the text for the graph right in.


The days of the week can be represented by just the first letter or the first 2 letters.
This calendar uses the font "Algerian" with a 28 font size. This calendar will not list any days of the week as this calendar was self made and the days the days of the week would fall on were not calculated. You could calculate them, but that is your preference.
 Add them strategically and make sure that the pictures are sized properly. You can have many images per page, but we will just have 3 different images in this tutorial. You can just drag and drop them if you want.
 Quotes are optional, but they add something. They can be something you like or something that is based on the theme of you calendar.


This calendar is using quotes from "Let it Go" a song in Frozen.
