 You never know what could go wrong, so don’t choose your outfit last minute. A few months before formal start looking at dresses you might want. About a month before formal get your dress. There are various types of formal dresses for different body types and styles. Choose the dress that you love and you feel the most confident and comfortable in.;
, Traditionally, guys wear tuxedos or suits to formal dances. A formal that is considered a black tie event usually means you should wear a tux. You should only wear a tux for an evening event. A suit is more casual and is considered appropriate for day time or night time occasions. Tuxedos are more expensive than suits, but you can rent one if you just need it for one evening. , Don’t dye your hair right before formal because you never know what could go wrong. You will want time to fix any mistakes, so dye your hair weeks in advance. Don’t cut your hair too close to the day of the dance, especially don’t do anything drastic the day of.
 The weeks leading up to the dance look at hair styles online that you think you can do yourself. Buy any necessary supplies you will need to do the hair style beforehand (curlers, products, hair spray, bobby pins). Practice the weeks leading up to it to make sure you can do the hair style perfectly when the night of the formal arrives. , Look at makeup styles online that you like and buy the makeup you will need to execute the look. Practice before the dance so you can get it perfect the day of. Wear the amount of makeup you feel comfortable in. You can go to your formal in no makeup if you would like or a lot of makeup, it is up to you. The important part is that you feel comfortable and beautiful on your night.


Make sure to prime your face, eyes, and lips and use a setting spray to keep everything in place. You don’t want your makeup melting off of your face when you start dancing.
Use a foundation that is specifically for photos (you can find this at any makeup or drug store), since there will be a lot of memories being captured at formal. Make sure to blend your foundation well and have it match your skin tone. , If you don’t think you can get the look you want on your own, make appointments. You can make a hair appointment at a salon, makeup appointment with a makeup artist, and a nail appointment at a nail salon. Weeks before the event schedule the appointments, otherwise everything might be booked. This option is costlier than doing your hair and makeup yourself. , You don’t need a date for a formal dance, but if you want one start figuring out who you might want to take in advance. If you don’t have a significant other, think about a friend you could ask to go with you as your date or who you think might ask you. Choose someone who you think you will have fun with and who will make sure you have a great night.


Ask your friends for help to find you the perfect date.
Ask someone yourself if nobody has asked you. The worse thing that can happen is that they say no. , You don’t need a date to have a great time at formal, going with your friends can be more fun for a lot of reasons. Going with your friends instead of a date means there is no stress about if you and your date are going to have fun and click. You can feel comfortable being yourself and dancing how you want. Without a date, you can dance with whoever you want. After the dance you can spend time with your friends and not worry about any pressure from your date to hang out. , Whether you go with just your friends or with a date, go to the dance in a group. Plan your group a few weeks before the dance. Ask your friends, your dates’ friends, and their dates if they want to go to the formal together. You can do the pre-formal and post-formal activities together to make your formal experience even more fun.
 Once you have your formal group determined you can decide where you want to take photos before the formal. There are many different places you can take the photos: a backyard, rooftop, bridge, staircase, beach, lake, or garden are popular places. . Decide who you want to take the photos. Parent’s typically love to take photos or if you want, and have the budget, you can hire a professional photographer.
 Have dinner somewhere that everyone in your group likes before formal. The restaurant should be near where the formal is located. Once everyone has agreed on a place, make reservations ahead of time because the popular restaurants fill up quickly.
 There are many options for getting to formal, depending on your budget. Your group can all go in on a limo or party bus if you have a big enough budget. You can drive yourselves if you have enough cars. If you live somewhere where shared ride services are available, such as Uber or Lyft, you can use that to get to formal.
 What you do after formal is entirely up to you. It is a good idea to have an idea in mind of what you want to do. You can have or go to a party - either a small get together with your close friends or a big party, whatever you prefer.


Have a sleepover with your best friends after formal.
Reminisce about your favorite memories from the dance around a bonfire.
Do something not fancy in your fancy clothes. You can go to a burger joint or see a movie in your dresses and tuxes. 