 Many states in the U.S. have laws and regulations regarding when political yard signs can be posted, as well as what sort of content should be included on a sign. Check your state and local regulations regarding political lawn signs before you start putting them up in order to ensure they will stay up long term.It is important to check both state and local regulations, as while some states may have more lenient regulations, local regulations may be more strict.;
, When you are planning your yard sign campaign, start by courting voters in high-impact areas, such as along main roads or near town centers. The greater the visibility of the yard signs, the more impact they are thought to have. Look at high vehicle and foot traffic areas within the voting community and plan to court voters specifically in those areas first.


Make a plan to face signs toward the roads or pedestrian centers. Orient the signs in yards so that they are most visible to passers-by.
Do not place signs in any yard without permission, even in high traffic areas.
 The most effective way to get signs into people’s yards is to combine your door knocking campaign with your yard sign recruitment. This allows you to get your message out and then encourage those who are receptive to share with others.


Target the busiest streets first, as this will maximize exposure. For those people who are friendly, ask them if it would be okay to put a sign in the yard.Try to get as many signs in an area as possible on the same day. Many campaigners believe that the sudden shift from no signs to full sign coverage may help build name recognition.
 Recruit volunteers who can call voters living in your district and encourage them to take a yard sign for your campaign. This will be most effective with members of your own party, as well as with friends and acquaintances.It may be helpful to integrate your general phone bank campaigning and your requests to place signs.
Ask voters who seem receptive to your candidate or group’s messages, “Would you be willing to let our team place a sign in your yard to show your support?”

, Include a volunteer yard sign card in mailings that you send out to constituents and voters. Provide them with a postage-paid return card to volunteer for a sign, or provide a link to your campaign’s website where they sign up to receive a sign.Collect all of your response cards or web replies, and set a date to go post signs. Place them all at once if possible, or create batch dates so that you have three or four times during your campaign where a number of signs all go up on the same day.
Make your web form prominent on your website, so that those responding to the mailing see it right away and those coming to your site for other reasons may still volunteer.
 Create a sample sign to send to friends, supporters, and other activists from your community. Search the web for political signage sites to get ideas, and direct voters to your website to volunteer to host a sign.


Try to make your yard sign emails a priority. Do not just squeeze them in between other email blasts. Instead, make them the focus of several blasts. This way the emails are more likely to get attention.

