 During the preschool years, children really begin to explore the world around them. Their curiosity may seem to have no limit, so you must set the limits. Explain to your preschooler why they must stay in the yard and not cross the street alone, for example., While limits are important, so are expectations. It is okay to help your preschooler do things like button and zip their clothes. You should start expecting them to dress themselves, though (or at least try). Rather than making these tasks a chore, be sure to frame them in a positive way that keeps your preschooler excited about being independent.You can also set expectations such as helping to set or clear the table, picking up toys, and putting dirty clothes in a hamper.
 At this age, children are beginning to take turns and play together even more than in the toddler phase. You should encourage this social interaction by letting your child play with neighbors and friends. This will begin to build their confidence to make more friends as well as their social skills.Once you have created the social environment (a play date for example) back away and let your child interact with the other children. Only intervene when necessary.
 While interacting with peers is an important part of learning social skills, it isn’t foolproof. Other preschoolers that your child plays with are likely to have roughly the same social skills as your preschooler. This means that more advanced social skills will come from modeling older kids and adults. As a parent, you should try role playing games and take charge in your helping your child learn to be social.For example, preschoolers may practice saying please and thank you while they play, but may need your guidance to understand that they should make eye contact when they do so.
 This can often mean just letting your child play with other preschoolers, but it helps to be more intentional about it sometimes. Design scenarios where your child has to work with someone else to complete a task. Asking your child and a friend to do a chore together before they play can be a good way to teach cooperation and teamwork.