 A headshot photo shoot can range anywhere from 20 USD to over 1200 USD. Because of this, you will want to decide on your budget at the beginning of your search for a photographer. Keep in mind that high-quality shoots with experienced professionals normally range from 300 to 700 USD.


If you are on a budget, try searching for student photographers in your area, friends of friends, or professional photographers who are at a workshop—they may need a subject for practice.Remember that the headshot is the most crucial component of getting chosen for an acting gig. If there is one thing to invest money in for your career, it is a headshot.
Different photographers offer different packages and have distinct methods of charging. For example, one photographer may charge per hour, while another charges per photo. Most packages include a set number of outfit and background changes. Make sure you’re clear on how a photographer charges, and what is included in the price.;
, Ask others for recommendations for a great headshot photographer. If another actor has had success getting acting jobs using their headshots, ask who the photographer was and call them!

, Once you find a photographer who fits your budget, go to their website or portfolio to see samples of their work. Check to see if the images draw you to want to learn more about the person. Notice if the images look flat or if every person is made to look the same. Are the backgrounds busy and distracting, or is the person the central focus? Does the photographer's style match your own?, You want to be sure that the photographer is reliable and will be accessible when you need to contact them. When you send them emails, how long does it take to respond? Do they answer all the questions that you ask? You want a photographer who is responsive and transparent.
 Since many agencies search for actors online via casting websites, you will want to have access to digital versions of all your images. Ask the photographer if they offer digital copies of the photos, and if there is an additional cost for having them sent to you.
 Some photographers may charge you for their travel time to the shoot, or for their parking during the shoot, which can come as an unpleasant surprise. Make sure you ask your photographer about any extra charges to avoid a surprise cost., More than anything else, casting directors insist that the headshots must look like you—natural, authentic you. Ask your photographer to describe their editing practices, and let him know what amount of editing you are comfortable with.


Be sure to verify whether or not image editing is included in the price you’re paying, or if there is an extra charge.
If headshots look extremely edited or don't properly represent you, the outcome will not be good: either your headshot won’t be chosen because it looks unrealistic, or the casting director will be frustrated when you arrive on set, looking nothing like the photograph. When you are chosen for a role, it is because the “you” in the image matches what they are looking for, not because you look perfect.On the other hand, if you have a pimple or a bruise that you would like to hide, ask your photographer about their ability to hide that type of mark during the editing process.
 Ask the photographer if they have a studio setup with lighting equipment, if they expect you to provide a space, or if they plan to have the photos taken outside. Discuss this to come to an agreement that works for both of you.
 Now that you’ve done your research and found a photographer who you are comfortable with, schedule your appointment! Be sure that the appointment is at least an hour long—it can take time for you and the photographer to get comfortable with each other, and once that happens, the photos often improve.
 In the entertainment industry, there is always a risk of people trying to take advantage of others. If a photographer is charging an exorbitant amount of money that you are considering paying (for example, over 1,200 USD), be sure to check their website and look for references to be sure they’re legitimate. A photographer charging this much should have a professional-looking website and raving reviews, and may have placed some actors that you recognize., You will want to wear subtle makeup for the photo shoot. This will give you a natural look while helping your features to pop. If you choose to wear makeup, select eye liner, eye shadow, and lipstick that are only a shade or two darker than your skin tone, and avoid wearing too much foundation, bronzer, or blush.If you do your makeup yourself regularly, wear it as you would on a normal day (rather than for a fancy event).
If you don’t typically wear makeup or don’t feel confident applying it, consider hiring someone to do it for you. Many headshot photography studios have makeup artists on site.
Avoid shiny eye shadows and lip glosses—these can be distracting in the image.
 Neutral colors like black, white, and beige are safe and can work great. You can also wear a color that is flattering for your face and skin tone. For women, a flattering neckline can enhance the photographs. The most important rule is to keep it simple—avoid logos, distracting patterns, and sequins.Simple, soft patterns like small polka dots or plaid can look very nice in headshots as well.
 To look your best in your photos, avoid drinking alcohol and smoking for the few days before your shoot. Doing so will help you look brighter and more hydrated., The days leading up to your shoot, make sure you are drinking plenty of water. Doing so will help you have energy, can reduce the appearance of wrinkles and dark circles under your eyes, and will help your skin to have a healthy glow., Give yourself a week to get on a good sleep schedule, and be sure to get plenty of quality sleep the night before the photo shoot. This will help you look your best, and will give you the stamina to get through the day of being photographed. If you are feeling energetic and rested, you will likely look more vibrant, engaged, and lively in your photos.


To get the best quality sleep, try turning off any screens (your phone, your TV, and your computer) at least an hour before going to bed. Drink water before going to sleep as well.
 Changing your hair color or getting a radical hair cut right before a shoot is risky for a few reasons. First, you don’t know how it will turn out. Second, especially for men, haircuts are often a bit too short directly after the haircut. If you are going to cut or color your hair, schedule it a week or two before your photo shoot to give the cut time to grow out a bit and the color time to tone down to a more natural shade., You may want to whiten your teeth a bit before the photo shoot. To do so, you can try an over-the-counter whitening product, such as whitening strips. You can also use a natural method, such as a mixture of baking soda and peroxide.


Be careful when trying to whiten your teeth too quickly. Doing so can increase tooth sensitivity and wear away at your enamel.
If you feel that you won’t be able to safely whiten your teeth in time for the shoot, you can also talk to your photographer about retouching your teeth during the editing process., If you have a beard, be sure that it looks tidy and well-groomed for your photo shoot. Consider getting a trim if your beard has become unruly.
 Ask your photographer to show you a few test shots in the beginning of the shoot. By doing this, you can give him input and avoid going through the entire shoot with some component not to your liking, such as angles or lighting.Be sure that you like the lighting, and that the photos are well-framed. There should be no harsh shadows, and the lighting around your face should be good. Headshots should be framed to show your head and shoulders.
 A casting director will want to see several photographs of you to get a more comprehensive idea of who you are. Ensure that your photographer takes various photos of you from different angles.


Avoid a symmetrical stance. In the headshots, you want to stand or sit with one shoulder in front of the other, or turned slightly. This will prevent the headshot from looking like a passport photo., Your photographer should know this, but you want to be sure that the background is either plain, or that it will be blurred behind you. The background should not be a point of distraction, and you should stand out against it.


Be sure that there is background showing in the frame, rather than having your body fill the whole frame. The background provides context and contrast for the image. , Commercial shots typically show you happy and smiling. These will be used to apply for commercial roles. Theatrical shots are used for film and TV roles. Typically, these shots are intended to convey your attitude, energy, and personality. You will typically not be smiling in these shots.For your theatrical shots, try a variety of facial expressions. This is your opportunity to give a glimpse into your character! Use the opportunity to show the casting director why they want to bring you in for an audition.
 This may sound a bit cheesy, but so much of what will catch a casting director’s attention are your eyes. Make sure that your eyes aren’t glazed over—they should look alive and focused. Instead of thinking about how you look as the picture is being taken, think about other events in your life, stories, things you care about, or things that excite you. This can bring life into your eyes, which will help you stand out amongst the stack of hundreds of pictures.