 Tap the App Store on your iOS device to launch it.;
, Type in ADrive on the search field and tap the “Search” button.
 Locate the correct app and tap the “Install” button beside the app; it’s free.
 Locate the app on your iOS device. It has an icon with a blue background with a big letter “A” on it. Tap on it to launch it.
 From the main screen, tap the “Add” button from the middle menu. You will be brought to a Setting screen.
 Input your email and password for your ADrive account on the appropriate fields.
 On the next field, identify the local directory to be used by ADrive to store your local copies of your files. Tap the “Browse” button beside the field, and select the local folder you want to use.
 On the last field, identify the remote directory to be used by ADrive to link with your ADrive app. Tap the “Browse” button beside the field, and select the remote folder you want to use.
 Tap the “Save” button from the upper right corner of the screen. Input a name for this new setting.
 Back on the main screen, tap the “Connect” button on the upper right corner of the screen. The app will connect to ADrive using the settings you’ve created from Part 2.
 Once the connection has been established, the folders and files from your ADrive account will be displayed. All these folders and files are still being mirrored from the remote folder of your ADrive account.
 Tap on the folders to open them, so you can view the files inside. Tap the “Go up a folder” link to go back to the higher folder.
 From the files being mirrored from your remote folder, tap the ones you’d like to be made available on your local folder. The selected files will have a check mark on the file icons.
 After selection, tap the “Download” button from the header menu. A Transfer screen will appear, showing you the download progress for the files you’re downloading.


A confirmation message will be displayed once the download is completed.
 Back on the file directory, tap the “Local browser” button from the header menu. This will change the view to your local folder.


All the files you’ve downloaded from ADrive and are made available locally from your iOS mobile device will be listed here.
 From the file directory, whether from the Local browser or Remote browser, tap the files you’d like to manage together. The selected files will have a check mark on the file icons.
 Only one file can be renamed at a time, so select just one file. Tap the “Rename” button from the bottom menu. A small window will appear where you can type in the new file name.


Type in the new file name on the appropriate field and tap the “OK” button. The file will immediately be renamed. Be sure to include the file extension in the new name.
 Select the files you want to be deleted. Tap the “Delete” button from the bottom menu. Tap the “OK” button from the confirmation box; the files you’ve selected will immediately be removed.
 If you need to create a new folder in the current folder view, tap the “Create folder” button from the bottom menu. A small window will appear where you can type in the name of the new folder.


Type in the new folder name in the appropriate field and tap the “OK” button. The new folder will immediately be created.
 If you like to sort the files in your current folder view, tap the “Sort” button from the bottom menu. The files will be sorted in ascending or descending order.
 If you want to see a specific file’s details, tap the “Details” button from the bottom menu after selecting the file.
 If you want ADrive to refresh your current folder view, tap the “Refresh” button from the bottom menu. ADrive will check with the main ADrive account and refresh your folder view to the most updated one.


You only need to do this if several people are working on the same folder at the same time, since files may have changed without you knowing.

