


Remembering that others are looking to you as an example of how to behave is strong motivation for practicing grace under pressure. Coworkers, friends and family members can all draw positive perspectives from you if you handle a high-pressure situation with composure and maturity. Tell yourself to act the way you would want others around you to react.;
,


Be graceful under pressure by counteracting your body's natural reaction to a stressful situation. Close your eyes and take 3 deep breaths, exhaling slowly each time. This calming exercise will help slow your heart rate, which has probably been naturally accelerated by your body's release of adrenaline in your bloodstream. Slowing down your heart rate will allow you to remain calm, collected and graceful.



Show grace under pressure by taking a cue from a role model that has done the same. Think of a family member or someone in the same field that you admire for his or her ability to be cool in tough situations and ask yourself how he or she would act in the same situation. Draw inspiration from someone you admire as an athlete, industry leader or philanthropist and model your actions after that person.



Avoid reacting negatively to the high-pressure situation. Your natural reaction could be to feel defeated or distressed. Tell yourself you can do it and that you have the experience, drive and ability to handle the issue.
Don't use negative words like "can't" or "won't" and look at the positive perspective to keep yourself cool under pressure.



Ask yourself the best way to fix or overcome the problem and quickly brainstorm possible solutions. Include those around you and get their input about how to handle the situation once you've composed yourself enough to be calm.
Focus on resolving the issue or finding a solution. This will help you stop focusing on the pressure and be graceful in your efforts to make it better.



View the problem or high-pressure situation as an individual issue. Don't let yourself project your thoughts on what could happen in the future. Focus only on the issue at hand.
Remember that this is one issue in the scope of the larger picture of your life or your job. It will be easier to react calmly and gracefully when you realize that this is one small thing in the perspective of the larger picture.



Close your eyes and focus on a mental image of something you love or that makes you feel good. This can be your kids, puppies or a deep blue ocean and palm trees. This lets you harness your emotions, calm down and handle the situation gracefully.

