 Search online for classes offered by your community center or find an acting studios in your area. If you have no background in acting, this is a great way to meet other actors and actresses and learn the basics. Call the studio to see when the next class cycle starts and determine if it’s in your budget.


A good studio will show you the basics first. Any studio or teacher who boasts, or worse, promises, they can make you a “star.” should be avoided.It may take years to develop and hone your acting skills, so don’t get discouraged if you aren’t a natural. Consider becoming an actress and focusing less on being famous.;
, If your secondary education option offers it, drama is a good way to begin acting early on. Acting requires you to understand complex scripts, memorize hundreds of lines, and have the ability to perform in front of an audience. Taking drama in high school, for example, will give you an introduction into many of these key acting areas. Make sure to audition or register, depending on what’s required.


Famous Actresses can be stars of stage or screen. Voice only work is common too such as radio or movie voiceover rolls.Taking drama in school can improve interpersonal skills, as well as, mental, physical, and emotional development., Stage and screen acting are in very different environments.Stage acting is a performance in front of a live audience. You'll be given time to rehearse and learn lines more so than on film or in a television show. You’ll learn stage acting in high school drama, but some of these skills also translate to the screen.


Other differences include the ability to vocalize. Acting for television and film, utilizes microphones that are able to pick up minute sounds, while you need to resonate vocally on stage.
Costume changes often have to occur much quicker with stage acting.
 When looking for colleges or universities to attend, consider selecting an acting school. Some of the best schools for drama and the performing arts include The Juilliard School, Yale School of Drama, Carnegie Mellon University, and the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts.Many of the top drama schools require an audition in order to be admitted.Try building a strong portfolio and take all the roles you can get while you're in high school to increase your odds of getting into a performing arts college.The competition for admission is often very fierce and includes filing a lot of paperwork. , Don’t shy away from a role if a producer or director thinks you’re a fit for it. If your high-school drama teacher wants you to be the lead role in the play, take the opportunity. In order to build your skills and develop your talent, you need to actively perform in front of an audience.


You may have to perform in unpaid roles until you’re paid as a professional actress.
Try to take roles that challenge you and will give you a greater diversity of skill.
 Roles may require you to be in physically good shape to execute certain maneuvers or fit a certain image for production. Stage acting also takes physical prowess and endurance in order to continue vocalizing lines and doing actions on stage. By maintaining good physical health, you'll prevent casting directors from dismissing you because of the shape you're in.


You obviously don't have to be a size 0, but you need to stay healthy and be able of adapt your appearance.
Getting sick may also halt production if you've been cast in a critical role. Make sure to take vitamins and maintain a healthy and balanced diet.
Make sure to get enough sleep.
 While it’s not necessary to learn how to dance, sing, or play an instrument in order to act, these skills will make broaden your range and make you more appealing to casting directors. See if you can take an extra class at a community center or get a special tutor to teach you these skills. Horse riding, archery, gymnastics, diving, martial arts, conjuring, juggling and circus skills are all performance skills that may increase your ability to become a famous actress.


Anna Kendrick, Kristen Bell, and Emmy Rossum can sing, dance and act.If you want to become a famous musical star, then singing and dancing are usually a necessary talents to have.
 A great way to see your own progress is by taping yourself everyday to see how your acting skills are developing. Once you’re done with your scene each day, go over the tape and write notes on things that you can do to improve.Practice audition scripts at home, and get friends who act to help you.


Choose scripts in a genre that you find specifically challenging like comedy, romance, or drama, and practice them to hone your versatility.
You can also do voice or movement specific exercises to improve specific aspects of your acting ability.