 Protein and produce (fruits and vegetables) are an all-star combination when it comes to weight loss. These two types of foods will power up your body and fuel your weight loss. This is especially important with PCOS, as this condition can make weight loss more difficult.


Protein is an essential macronutrient (or a nutrient you need in relatively large amounts) to your body. If you cut out too much protein, your weight loss may slow. Protein is essential for all diets, but especially with PCOS - this is what will truly fuel your weight loss.
Aim for at least 46 g protein minimum each day. This amount is easily consumed with a well-balanced diet.Lean protein includes foods like: poultry, lean beef, seafood, pork, beans, lentils, nuts, eggs and low-fat dairy products. Choose a variety of these foods each day and week.
Fruits and vegetables are chock full of vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and are generally low in calories. Fill up on these nutrient dense foods to help maintain a lower calorie meal.;
, Since many women with PCOS are also insulin resistant, it's important to manage your carbohydrate intake.It's not recommended to go on a low-carb diet, instead it's recommended to eat moderate amounts of 100% whole grains. Aim for about 3 servings of whole grains daily.


One serving of whole grains is about 1 ounce. For example, 1 slice of 100% whole wheat bread is about 1 ounce and 1 serving.
100% whole grains are minimally processed and contain all 3 parts of the grain: the bran, the endosperm and the germ. These parts together make a grain whole.
Whole grains also offer more health benefits compared to refined grains. They're a great source of fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.
Foods like brown rice, quinoa, oats, 100% whole wheat bread or pasta and barley are all examples of 100% whole grains.
 A minimum of eight glasses or 64 oz of clear, sugar-free liquids like water, iced tea or no-calorie flavored waters will help you maintain a healthy diet and body.Sugary beverages may worsen or aggravate insulin resistance that's common with PCOS.
Sodas, sweetened coffees and teas can add a lot of calories to your day and may hinder your weight loss. In addition, PCOS is often accompanied by insulin resistance, making it important to avoid refined sugar as much as possible.Keep a water bottle close by so you can track and measure your progress throughout the day.
 Weight loss with PCOS will involve monitoring your portions, types of foods and calories. Try to cut your total daily calorie amount by about 500 calories daily. This will help you lose about 1 pound per week.Cutting out 500 calories a day results in about a 3,500 calorie deficit each week. This is the amount of calories that roughly equals 1 pound of weight loss.Do not cut much more than 500 calories per day or eat fewer than 1200 calories total daily. Otherwise it'll be hard to ensure you're eating enough nutrients.If you'd like to see increased weight loss, instead of cutting out more calories from your diet, try adding in more physical activity to help burn off more calories.
Safe weight loss is losing 1-2 pounds per week. Weight loss that exceeds that may be unsafe or hard to maintain., Losing weight and dieting with PCOS may leave you feeling hungrier in between meals. Just because you're watching your weight, doesn't mean snacking is banned. Choose snacks that are high in lean protein and contain some fiber. This combination is satisfying and will keep you satiated until your next planned meal or snack.Be careful with snacking! Snacks are great to help you get through more than 4-5 hours between meals or as a pre or post-workout boost.If you're feeling hungry and your next meal is within the next hour or so, try skipping your snack and holding out until your meal.
Snack options that are high in protein and fiber include: carrots and hummus, celery and peanut butter, a small apple and a cheese stick or a small greek yogurt with fruit.

