


Take about 1 1/2 lbs (680 g) of asparagus and remove the root ends so that the asparagus are all about 5 inches (13 cm) long.
Carefully wash each stalk of asparagus under cold running water to remove any dirt. Asparagus shoots grow up through the dirt so they can be quite dirty. Optionally, carefully peel the skins of the stalks with a peeler below the tips. The skin can be slightly bitter, so removing them can improve the overall taste of the dish.
Lightly dry the asparagus with a clean kitchen towel, then toss it with 1 tbsp. (15 ml) of good quality olive oil and season it lightly with salt and pepper.;
, Quickly count the number of asparagus spears. You need one strip of bacon to wrap each bundle of 4 to 5 asparagus spears. Divide the number of spears by 4 or 5 and use that number of bacon strips.


Lay the strips of center cut, thick cut bacon on a cookie sheet. Alternatively, trim the fatty ends from 4 strips of thick cut bacon and lay them on a baking sheet.


Remove the bacon to a paper towel to allow it to drain and cool.
 Lay one strip of bacon horizontally in front of you on a clean work surface. Lay 4 to 5 asparagus spears, bud ends all together, perpendicularly at one end of the bacon. The spears cut ends should be hang about 1/2 inch (1.5 cm) below the bacon.


Wrap the bacon tightly around the asparagus as you roll the asparagus bundle. Allow the bacon to wind its way up the asparagus but stop before you get to the tips. Lay the wrapped bundles, seam side down, on a cookie sheet or other transportable flat surface. Now you can either roast or grill the asparagus.
 Preheat the oven to 450ºF (230ºC). Place the asparagus on the flat top of a broiler pan with slots to allow the bacon to drain. When the oven is heated, place the asparagus in the oven and let it roast for about 10 minutes, slightly longer if the asparagus spears are thick. The bacon should be crisp and the asparagus tender.
 Preheat the grill to medium high. When the grill has reached the appropriate heat level, transfer the bundles to the grill with tongs. Lay the bundles seam side down. Let them grill for about 5 minutes then turn the bundles and cook for an additional 5 minutes. Turn the heat down if you get flare-ups. The bacon should be crisp and the asparagus tender. Remove and serve immediately.
