 Confirmation bias occurs when a researcher interprets evidence or data in such a way that supports their hypothesis or expectations. It is important to be aware of this form of bias to ensure that it does not influence your research, methods, or conclusion. Confirmation bias can influence a wide range of academic research and everyday situations from medical studies to elections to judiciary proceedings.During an election, supporters of a particular candidate may only seek out new sources that showcase their chosen candidate in a positive light. This is confirmation bias. This can affect how you perceive a candidate and can influence your decisions., While you are conducting your research, you will collect a lot of data, and some may not seem helpful at the time. Regardless, all data should be collated throughout the collection process and evaluated equally. Only collecting data that is perceived as meaningful will skew your interpretations and conclusions. In addition, you might miss out on meaningful patterns or themes that could inform your conclusion., Once you have collected your data, it should be organized and recorded. Transcribe interviews into a word processing system, record numerical data or survey questions onto a spreadsheet, or enter data into an online database or program. Organize information into various categories to make it easier to sort and study fairly.


Sort data into categories that make sense for your project. List it by observation type, by date, by location, or by participant background information., A fellow researcher, mentor, or colleague who is not familiar with the study can read through your report objectively and find signs of bias that you may not have noticed. Some level of bias can present itself in all levels of research, and the study authors may not be able to recognize it.Before collecting data, ask a colleague to review your methods section to look for questions or approaches that may lead to biased data.
When you have written your final report, ask another mentor or researcher to review the results and the conclusions to look for signs of bias.

