 Heat the oil over medium heat for a couple of minutes, just until it turns glossier and smoother.


For best results, use a 2 quart (2 L) skillet. You could also use a saucepan instead of a skillet, if it proves more convenient.
 Add the chopped onion to the skillet and cook, stirring frequently, until tender.


The onion should also show signs of caramelizing, but do not let it blacken or begin to burn. The fragrance of the onion should also become more potent.
 Add the minced garlic to the skillet and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant.


The garlic cooks a little more quickly than the onion, so you should add it after the onion has already cooked for a little while, first.
 Cook the contents of the skillet for 4 minutes, or until lightly browned.


Stir the couscous continuously to prevent it from burning.Toasting the couscous beforehand enhances the flavor, and it also allows the couscous to cook more evenly.
 Stir gently to distribute the salt and cover.


The salt must be added now. By adding the salt alongside the water, you make it possible for the couscous to absorb the salt as it absorbs the water, thereby flavoring each pearl inside and out.
If you want to make the couscous more flavorful, use broth or stock instead. Chicken stock and vegetable broth are both good options.
 When done, the liquid should be completely absorbed.


Stir the couscous gently, pulling it up from the center to the sides of the pan. If liquid seeps down into the center of the pan, you need to cook the couscous a little longer to absorb the remaining liquid.
Note that the overall cooking time can vary by brand. Follow the package instructions to determine the proper amount of time.
 Toss the pepper, parsley, chives, and oregano into the cooked couscous and stir well to distribute throughout.


You can mix up the herbs to your liking. For instance, you can add rosemary, thyme, or cilantro. You could also add the zest of a lemon.
 Transfer individual serving portions onto serving dishes. Add extra salt and pepper to your own portion, if desired.


If you want to give the couscous a little added zing, sprinkle it with a drizzle or two of lemon juice before serving.

