 For example:


Shorts and skirts
Some sleeveless/short-sleeved tops
T-shirts
Dresses
Tank tops
Sandals and flip flops
Hats.;
, If you're going to a occasional event or somewhere that is more dressy than usual, then get some heels. Try to get heels that have some exposure for your toes, to allow for great ventilation when it's hot. Such heels can include:


Wedges
Strappy heels
Other heels you think are dressy, cute, and awesome.
 Casual shoes for normal wear should be comfortable. Casual shoes have low or no heels and focus principally on comfort. They are often lighter than dressy shoes. Such shoes include:Flip flops
Flats
Gym shoes, tennis shoes, sand shoes, sneakers, etc.
Other comfortable and cute shoes you like.
 There is a wide variety of tops available to choose from, ranging from t-shirts to tank tops. There are many cute tops sold at fair prices at lots of stores. Suitable summer tops include:


T-shirts
Short sleeved blouses
Tank tops
Sleeveless tops
Flowing long sleeved shirts
Halter neck tops
Dressy shirts.
 Hats are a basic essential to summer. The sun's bright sunlight can cause sunburns and skin cancer (so make sure to put on sunscreen as well as a hat). You can get hats in many types and decorations. Such hats include:


Sun hats
Cowboy hats
Caps
Straw hats
Cotton hats
Walking hats.
 Dresses are a girl's best friend for all seasons. Dresses come in a variety of choices, including:


Sundresses
Sleeveless dresses
Short sleeved dresses
Strapped dresses
Short or long length dresses.
 Watch for clearance sales in mid- to late-summer when the stores try to get rid of their warm-weather inventory. Even if it's getting too cold to wear short sleeves one year, a seasonal sale will let you buy next year's basics (plain colored tank tops, cute t-shirts, shorts, and other clothing that won't go out of style) for much lower prices.
 You don't have to spend your money all at once. Take your money whenever you go out and have a look around the clothes. If you see a cute top or pair of jeans, and it fits in your wardrobe, it's a good idea to buy it.

