 Be prepared for some (if not all) eventualities by taking off all footwear (thongs work). Because shoes and boots around deep water spell "t-r-a-g-e-d-y":


Jumping or diving into a river or lake with boots, or such, to save a person from drowning, may lead to both drowning. It happens repeatedly that a mom or dad tries to save a child -- and they both drown or one parent does, and if the child survives, then he or she may have that on his or her conscience for life.
Remove heavy clothing ahead of time, to keep them dry -- and to not drag you down to the bottom -- if you must intervene in a dangerous situation.;
, Supervise a child who is using a wading pool or floats, vests, and such.
 If you get scared or choked on water, you may panic and drown.
 This can happen by stumbling, slipping, or by stepping off into an underwater hole or a deeper creek-bed unseen in the water.
 Here's what you need to do:


Wade only in safe water and with supervision, if you can't swim well.
Learn to momentarily put your face in water and to duck quickly without fear.
Hold on to the side in the swallow end of a pool, and stretch out and kick in the water.
Experiment in relatively shallow water with being able to tread water, "dog paddle," and float to feel ready to go into deeper water.
 A channel of water (a river or small lake) may look narrow from water level, but you may need a boat to rescue you, if you try to swim and tread water to cross it.
 The flotation vest will pin you to the bottom of the boat, and it'll be hard to push off or roll out from under it.
 You may take classes to have someone teach you or them nicely and gradually.
 Avoiding a situation can make feelings worse, and may become a phobia or neurosis. Functioning in social environs and at work can be difficult with anxiety disorder such as panic attacks with may come from avoiding severely intense feelings. Avoidance of the unfamiliar situations or scary feelings (just as with fear of height, water or elevators) can lead to problems.


One can overcome and deal with fears by gradually observing, getting exposure and practice.
Get some help to learn to keep a sense of trust and get some feelings of control.
 This means no running on the decking or concrete "walk". This can cause other dangers, besides just drowning.
