 They retain water, trapping it in your body and could elevate your blood pressure. Hidden sources of salt and sugar include canned food, sauces, fried potatoes, candies, carbonated drinks and salad dressings.
 Great sources of vitamin D include salmon, tuna, mackerel, and sardines. Other vitamin D sources are cod liver oil, eggs, and dairy products like cheese and yogurt. Vitamin D balances the absorption of potentially harmful phosphorous.
 Increase your iron intake with beef liver, chicken liver, kidney beans, and some cereals. Iron is needed by your bone marrow to produce more red blood cells. This in turn produces more hemoglobin, which is responsible for carrying oxygen in the blood.
 Try to limit the amount of bananas, oranges, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, apricots and clams that are eaten. Instead, eat peaches, apples, grapes, and watermelon, and for vegetables you can eat broccoli, cucumber, and cabbage. Also avoid foods like dried beans, carbonated soft drinks, nuts and peanut butter as they contain high levels of phosphorus, which weakens the bones.
 Red bell peppers contain vitamin C, vitamin A, and vitamin B6. They also contain lycopene, which protects the body against various cancers and free radicals. Onions are also antioxidants that enhance protein and fat metabolism. Red cabbage contains phytochemicals, vitamin C and serves as a good fibre. Red cabbage is an anti-oxidant with low potassium levels and also increases water flow and salt absorption.
 Olive oil contains oleic acid, which acts as an anti-inflammatory fatty acid. The monounsaturated fat in olive oil protects against oxidation and also contains polyphenols and antioxidant compounds that fight against inflammation and oxidation.
 It acts as a diuretic by flushing out excess water and electrolytes and reduces toxin build-up. Parsley consists of fenilpropanos and flavonoids, which have a renoprotective effect. It is also an anti-oxidant and helps lower creatine levels in the body.
 Studies show that medicinal plants can decrease toxins in the body as well as balance various levels like water and electrolytes.


Boerhaavia diffusa helps increase functions of the kidney and helps remove toxins from the blood and body.
Tribulus terrestris also known as Gokshur or Gokharu or puncture vine consists of flavonoids, flavonol glycosides, steroidal saponins and alkaloids, which help balance water levels and electrolytes.
Terminalia chebula (haritaki) is used for its free radical properties.

