 K-Stew doesn't wear a ton of makeup, but she does give her eyes a bold look. You'll need to wear some black and gray eye shadow to create a smoky-eyed effect. Her eyes are very bold.


Use a thick black eyeliner and draw a thin line around your upper eyelid, and a small thin line around the lower.
Curl your eyelashes mostly at the very edge of the eye and less on the beginning.
However, note that sometimes, Kristen Stewart gets sick of wearing makeup and just goes for a bit of eye shadow and mascara. You don't have to overdo it.
Other times, Kristen Stewart wears white eyeliner and silver eyeshadow or peach eyeshadow and silver eyeliner. Also make sure to do your eyebrows a little thinner and darker Kristen has very thin and dark eyebrows. Go for a matte light brown color on the eyes and a nude color in the crease that's mostly what she wears on her eyes and Nude lips. ;
, Kristen Stewart almost always wears subtle lipstick and does not wear eye liner or draw too much attention to her naturally cute lips. Her lipstick is most often slightly pink or shimmery with an orange tint.


Use a naturally dark pinkish color on your lips, but don't use very dark colors.
Apply lipstick lighter on the sides and darker on the middle.
Sometimes, though, she does like to bring out the brighter pink lipstick for special occasions.
 Her hair is a dark brown with a bit of a chestnut tint. If you're committed to looking like her, you can even dye your hair to match hers. Her hair is long, thick, and layered, and she cultivates the perfect "messy but flawless" look. That means that not every strand has to be in place, but you have to look like you put an effort into your hair.


Kristen has layered hair, and her bangs reach below her ears and she wears them to the side. This gives her hair a more unique look.
She tends to wear her hair a bit wavy though sometimes she wears it straight. On occasion, though, she does curl her hair. Her hair is only about to her ribcage not too long.
Her long hair is one of her best features. She loves showing it off and having it fall over her shoulders. Don't hide your locks if you want to get that Twilight look.
Sometimes, Kristen Stewart does wear her hair up, in a bun or a more elaborate updo, exposing her cute earring-free ears.
 A bit of blush for some color and some foundation to keep your face looking smooth will do the trick. Kristen's look is simple, and she doesn't look like she spent hours doing her makeup -- that's part of her beauty. If you really want to have her skin tone, then you can try to stay out of the sun to get that pale, wintery look.
 Kristen Stewart loves wearing flannel, whether she wears long-sleeved shirts or short sleeved button down shirts. She wears it buttoned up, or buttoned down over a white t-shirt. Sometimes, she even ties a knot in the bottom of her flannel.
 K-Stew loves wearing short black leather jackets and bulky black hoodies. Preferably zip-up for both. Wear them with skinny jeans.
 Kristin Stewart likes to wear simple t-shirts, typically darker colored, with fun and unique logos, from rainbows to wolves in tuxedos. She also loves wearing a simple white t-shirt, sometimes with a black bra.


Her shirts are typically a bit on the loose fitted side. Sometimes she tightens them up with knots (see below).
 For years, Kristen Stewart has been tying knots on the sides of her t-shirts. You should try the same, exposing a little bit of your skin, or knotting shirts that are longer.
 Kristin Stewart is also known for her pants, both casual and more dressy. Here are some pants that she is known for wearing:


Tight skinny jeans
Rolled up skinny jeans
Black leather pants
Tight pants with elaborate designs
Jeans with suspenders
Cropped black jeans

, Kristen Stewart loves rocking trucker hats and is rarely seen without one, these days. Pick an oversized hat with a fun logo, a wide brim, and rock it all day long, not caring if it makes your hair extra messy -- that's all part of the fun of being K-Stew., Kristin Stewart loves wearing black sunglasses. She wears them on her face, or sometimes she tucks them into the top of her t-shirt. Here are the types of sunglasses that she has worn before:


Lacoste Karl Lagerfeld KL603S-004 (thick black frames)
Lacoste 101 Aviator Reissue (thinner black frames)
Leisure Society Harvard 47 (white frames with gray lenses)
Paul Smith Churchill (thick black frames on top and no frames on the bottom)
Oliver Peoples Gregory Peck (tan frames with green lenses)

, Though K-Stew isn't huge on accessories, she does wear a few simple accessories that tie her look together. Here are some accessories that you can try:


Thin long gold or silver necklaces
Chunky black rings and gold rings.
Silver bracelets
Black nail polish
Avoid earrings and expose your bare ears instead

, Kristin Stewart loves rocking converse and casual shoes. She has even been seen with rolled-up skinny jeans, high white socks, and a pair of black sneakers. However, she can wear fancier shoes if the occasion calls for it. Get these shoes and looks to rock the K-Stew fashion:


Black hiking boots with black skinny jeans
Black sneakers
Classic black and white converse
Black Vans mesh, checkerboard, and slip-on sneakers
Saucony bullet
Black canvas TOMS
Nike Tenkay low-tops, Dunk High skinnys
Black high heels with tight pants

, Even though Kristen Stewart is known for her casual glam look, she also does have to go to those pesky award shows every once in a while. This girl does know how to dress up, and she loves to look a bit sexy and to show off her figure. Whatever dress she wears, it's guaranteed that she will look striking and that you won't see a picture of it under "Who Wore it Best?" because no one else will be wearing her unique outfit. Here are some fancy dresses Kristen has worn in the past:


A very low cut red dress that shows off her curves
A see-through number that shows a light blue bra and light blue shorts underneath
A long strapless white gown
A strapless long-sleeved black lace dress

, Kristen Stewart is famous for scowling or looking like she just doesn't want to be somewhere, but that's part of her charm. If she doesn't like where she is or who she's with, she's not afraid to show it. She keeps it real. That's part of her look and part of her charm.
 If you're having a good time with your friends, then laugh your heart out. Kristen Stewart isn't afraid to smile or crack up and have a great time with her friends even if she doesn't look as "cool" as she does when she's frowning. Just be yourself. If you're having a good time, show it. But if you're not, don't fake it.
 Just like every human on this planet, Kristen Stewart has made some mistakes. But she's okay with that. She's even issued some public apologies about the things she's not proud of. But most of all, she says she doesn't regret anything she's done in this life, because every mistake teaches us how to grow stronger. Don't think that looking like Kristen Stewart means you have to look or feel perfect all the time.
 Wear revealing clothes if you want to. Put on a dress that you know no one in school would ever wear, let alone know how to find. Wear sneakers to an event where everyone else is dressed up. Most of all, don't look around to see what other people are doing, because you're okay with what you want to do. With this attitude, your Kristen Stewart look will be complete.

