 You will need to work with your doctor and therapist to determine the underlying mental illness that led to your mental breakdown. This will help you determine what the best mode of treatment is, including the right therapy, medication, and other treatment options.


You will need an official diagnosis from your doctor or therapist. You will need to describe your symptoms and behaviors that led to your mental breakdown to determine your underlying disorder.;
, There are many forms of psychotherapy that can be used to help after a mental breakdown. The one you use will depend on a mixture of your personal preference and the underlying mental disorder that led to your breakdown. Talk with your doctor about which treatment is best for you. These forms of therapy include:


Talk therapy, where you and your therapist work through your issues by talking
Cognitive behavior therapy, a form of psychotherapy which focuses on changing your thoughts in order to change your behaviors
Interpersonal therapy, which focuses on your relationships with others, After your breakdown, you should look into a mental health support group. This will help you connect to others that are going through similar things and provide you with the support you need to recover. Talking to others about your problems can help you gain perspective and get helpful advice about how to cope.


Ask your doctor for a referral to a local support group. You can also look into national foundations, such as the National Alliance of Mental Illness (NAMI) for local chapters with support groups., Depending on the underlying cause of your mental breakdown, you may need to start taking medication. This will help relieve the symptoms of the mental illness that contributed to your mental breakdown and can help you level out your moods.


Your doctor and psychologist will let you know which medications you will need. These can include antidepressants, anti-anxiety medications, or other similar medications.If you are uncomfortable with any medication prescribed to you, ask you doctor if it is necessary. If your doctor won't listen to your reservations about it, get a different opinion.