 A major part of good grades is the ability to manage your time wisely. Work on maintaining a regular schedule and sticking to it throughout the semester. You should also plan ahead and stay aware of when big papers and tests are coming up. Write down important dates in your calendar and keep a daily planner.Decide when to study, do homework, socialize, and so on. Have a daily routine you follow that works with your class schedule.
Stick to general rules that work for you. For example, maybe you need a couple of weeks to write a solid paper. Make sure to always start papers a week before they're due.
 Professors have office hours in which you can come in and ask questions. Always take advantage of the time your professors are offering. Office hours are an invaluable way to gain a higher understanding of course material, and build solid rapport with your professors.Do not just come into office hours when you're struggling. Stop in just for a refresher when necessary. You can also have a professor look over a draft of your paper or go over the reading with you.
Your reputation can help sway your grades. If your professor is, say, deciding between a B+ and an A, they're more likely to grant an A to a student who seemed like they were consistently trying.
 You want to surround yourself with inspiring people. In class, try to identify the most successful students. Try to plan study parties and review sessions with these students. Your grades will improve as good habits rub off on you.Try to form a regular study session. Meet once a week with the top students in your class.
Make sure to keep study sessions directed, however. Study sessions can sometimes dissolve into socializing, which will not help you bring up your grades.
 Everyone misses class once in awhile. An illness or emergency can occasionally prevent you from making it to a lecture. However, never allow missing class to become a regular thing. Unless it's absolutely impossible, attend all your classes all the time. In college, classes may only meet once or twice a week. Missing a single class can really diminish your understanding of a course.Avoid being late. In many classes, too many tardies will count as an absence, which can bring down your grade.
 Even if you know the material, you may do poorly without basic test taking skills. Improving your test taking skills can really bring up your grades in university.Know what you should expect on exams. This will help with your nerves. Try to go into an exam knowing the test format ahead of time.
At the beginning of the test, stay calm and read through instructions before you begin writing.
Pace yourself. Be aware of time and make sure you do not spend too long on a single questions.
If you're confused by a question, ask your professor. It's better to stop and ask during the exam than to realize you misread instructions after getting the exam back.

