 Not knowing the causes and risk factors of an illness often leads to exposure to those factors. Ask your doctor to help you develop a better understanding of the disease and how to avoid it.Know the statistics. Age, weight, genetics, and other cancers are all factors in contracting cancer, so compare your own profile with that of the high-risk candidate. For example, women over 50 are at the most risk of getting uterine cancer, while overweight women are also more likely candidates for uterine cancer.Other factors considered to increase one's risk are: nulliparity (never giving birth), unopposed estrogen therapy (if you still have a uterus), early onset of menses, late menopause, PCOS, a history of anovulation, obesity and excessive weight, diabetes or related issues, and exposure to certain medical chemicals like Estrogen replacements.
If you started menstruation early or experienced a late menopause, you have a higher risk of uterine cancer. This is because the longer one menstruates, the longer one is exposed to relatively high levels of estrogen., Early detection is one of the most effective tools in treating cancer, so plan to see your doctor every one to two years for checkups. Also, talk with your doctor if you notice any bleeding after menopause or if you have irregular periods.


Keep track of any irregular or abnormal vaginal bleeding and tell your doctor about any symptoms you are having when you go for appointments.
Review test results with your doctor to ensure that you understand everything.
Make a special medical calendar and hang it in a prominent place so that you won’t miss your appointments.
 Estrogen is only a risk factor for uterine cancer if it is given without progesterone. Talk to your doctor about any concerns you have before undergoing a postmenopausal hormone regimen.The breast cancer medication Tamoxifen has also been linked to uterine cancer, but the general consensus of the medical community regarding this drug determines that its benefits largely outweigh its potential risks., Women who have or might have hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) have a substantially increased likelihood of contracting uterine cancer. If you or family members have had colon or endometrial cancer before, you should consider getting genetic counseling to test for the genetic mutation dictating HNPCC.Cowden syndrome and BRCA1 may also raise your risk of uterine cancer.

