 Channel your inner Abe Lincoln by trimming off the mustache completely and leaving the rest.


This is easiest with a beard trimmer. Follow all the above steps for trimming and then remove the mustache with the trimmer.
Maintain by shaving your upper lip regularly with a razor. If you can't, at least keep it significantly shorter with the trimmer.
 Trim your sideburns, leaving only a tough-looking patch around your mouth.


Imagine a line that runs from the sides of your nose down the corner of your lips and shave everything between that line and your ear, leaving the hair around the chin and the mustache.
Experiment with leaving different lengths of sideburn, or, for a style called the fu-manchu, removing the hair under the bottom lip and the chin.
 This is essentially the opposite of the goatee, leave the sideburns long and remove the mustache, chin, and neck beard.


Also try leaving the mustache for a variation on the chinstrap.
 Take off the trim guard or very carefully use scissors to cut (almost) everything off. You want to create an all-over, very short beard. This is a rugged, masculine look.


This effect is more noticeable if you have dark hair (especially if you have pale skin).
 A soul patch is a tiny, short beard under your lower lip. This look is favored by jazz musicians and best accompanied by a cool pair of shades. Remain clean-shaven, leaving only a small downward-facing triangle of hair that extends from your lower lip to a spot above your chin.


Try different lengths with this look. A short soul patch can be barely-noticeable, while a longer one can create an air of mystery.
 This moustache is famously associated with director John Waters. Shave your beard down to just a mustache. Trim your mustache using a pair of clippers and a very short guard. Then, with a safety razor, shave your mustache except for the portion just above your upper lip. You'll be chasing girls down the street in no time!

, Try out different lengths and styles. It'll always grow back.


If you plan on shaving your beard off completely, take the opportunity to try a different style for an hour at a time. Eat lunch with a goatee and dinner with a mustache. You might discover that you like one of your new styles.

