



For Hair: If you have lighter skin, you will be able to pull off her signature dark brown or dirty blonde hair. If you like your hair as it is, consider growing it out to a little below shoulder length, keeping it washed and neat, or even straightened - Spencer is a perfectionist, so would she accept anything less? Be sure, no matter what, to invest in soft, shiny locks and neat, preppy hair accessories.

For Skin: Spencer has clean, clear, and beautiful skin. To achieve this, get into a regular skin care routine. Spencer loves the Kiehl's skincare line, but if it's too pricey for you, try using either Clean & Clear, Clinique or Neutrogena. Use a day lotion that has SPF 15 or higher on your face to protect it from sun, stress, and pollution. Wash your face 2 to 3 times a day. If your acne (or other face impurities you wish to remove) is not subsiding, try Proactiv or medical treatment. To keep it soft, try things like facial masks, eating properly, and drinking water. By the way, don't think that water clears up acne-it hydrates your skin, and keeps it from looking dry and ashy... there's nothing in plain water that clears acne.

For Eyes: In pictures, it often looks as if she has hazel or blue eyes. But in several books, especially in Killer, we learn Spencer actually has green eyes. Either way, eye color doesn't matter. Also, get enough sleep every night and don't rub your eyes a lot to avoid creating pre-mature wrinkles. If you have under eye circles (which Spencer has, from studying so often) you can use concealer or many ways to cover them. Wear good quality mascara from a brand like Estee Lauder or Benefit to get ash-black lashes like her.

For Teeth:: Remember when we mentioned that Spencer has a mega watt smile? Well, maybe you should get one too! If you're young, you can get braces to straighten your teeth. If you're worried about how it'll look, they have braces that go behind your teeth, so no one can see them! If you already have braces or don't need them, brush your teeth 2 times a day with a good toothpaste, floss once or twice a day and mouthwash once. Brushing your teeth prevents plaque and tartar. Use mouth wash and breath mints after brushing. Don't forget that floss!

For Lips : Spencer is described to have peachy pink lips, well you can use a lipstick that is described as peachy pink to obtain this.;
, As you can tell, Spencer is a perfectionist. From pictures, you can tell that she is what we call 'preppy'. She does not dress in Hollister, Aeropostale, or Target. She dresses in classic, preppy stores like Kate Spade, Ralph Lauren, J. Crew, Lacoste, and Lilly Pulitzer, and wears other high-class brands that go either unspecified or nondescript. Try to take time to dress and to look effortless and put together. For a bag, she would probably carry a Longchamp tote. She wears trendy clothes but with a classic twist - try a cute gray mini, rose ballet flats with gray knee highs, a white blouse, and a pink cardigan. Dress everyday like you're going to a country club or even meeting the Headmaster at a prestigious private school. If a lot of girls don't wear high fashion things (or you cannot afford it or you don't like the style) you can shop at Abercrombie, HCO, and American Eagle, but try getting understated pieces like plain, brightly colored, fitting sweaters with tanks to go underneath. Definitely no hoodies or t-shirts with brand names plastered on the front - Spencer is much classier than that. Try to dress in a more mature manner. If you can't afford some of the higher class stores, shop around and buy preppy sweaters, flats, accessories, etc. from more obscure stores. Check your mom's closet too, even "borrow" her pearls. Just look as preppy and neat as possible.



Accessories! Try to get some cute bags and keep them clean and organized; her favorites are from Kate Spade. For bags, try a cute tote that looks high fashion and classy but never goes out of style. As for jewelry, get classic pieces like a simple pearl necklace and matching earrings or diamond studs and a tennis bracelet.
 Because of her undying wit, academic intelligence, and seemingly perfect persona, it's almost a surprise that this Pretty Little Liar is sneaky, greedy, and hell bent on beating everyone else out. She uses her smarts, common sense, and wit to do her best, and that's why she always seems so perfect. Be cordial to everyone, but use your good reputation and skills to maneuver your way to what you want. DON'T double cross anyone, or unnecessarily involve anyone, or it will backfire on you.
 Straight A's don't come naturally to anyone. You're going to have to work hard - hand in all your homework on time, do any possible extra credit, and study very hard for tests. Volunteer and do internships - they both look good on college applications.
 Become an A student. Spencer's done many bad things but it never ruins her good girl reputation. If you're going to spread rumors, please, think of consequences, and how this will change people's perception of you, even if it is a small rumor. Also, what you do in after school stays after school. If you just hooked up with some guy, don't let it spread around school; keep it to yourself. Things like this can get twisted up and people can pass it on from a simple kiss to the full Monty, and ultimately, you'll get a negative stigma and that does not go hand-in-hand with being perfect.



Friendly Competition...Or Not Spencer is in a cut-throat competition with her elder sister, Melissa, to see who's the better Hasting, especially in school. Try to outdo siblings and friends, but don't be cocky or smug about it. There is such a thing as friendly competition and it gives you drive to do your best. However, when you start hoping other people will fail or you go too far sabotaging or plagiarizing them, you need to tone it down a little.
 Spencer is very organized and she plans her day out in her Sidekick. For one, get a smartphone, or a cell phone and a planner, and try to plan your day out in as much detail as possible. Write neatly and legibly. Also, have a clean room. Spencer takes neat to a whole new level. Being neat also applies to your clothes, hair, schoolwork, locker, etc.
 Try a bunch of different extracurricular activities. Spencer plays field hockey and tennis to keep in shape and also because she's good at it! If your school doesn't have field hockey or tennis team, try lacrosse, horseback riding, or running. Spencer also goes for a run a few times a week to keep fit and it helps her think things over.
 Spencer is part of the most popular clique in school. Her clique is made up of different girls but each have their own unique friendships with one another. I'm not here to say you have to be popular, because it's unnecessary, but it does add to the 'Spencer' persona. Also, Spencer attracts a lot of hot guys and is flirty, but she sometimes does things that may haunt her later. Do not become "easy", and mess up your reputation.
 But at home...Things are messy. If you want to be like Spencer you do not have to make your home messy. Try to get amazing grades, join a lot of clubs.

