 The best way to get hair like hers is to go to your salon and ask for hair with shorter layers around one side of the face, and a side part. Amy also has brown hair, so if you want, you can dye your hair as well. To style your hair like Amy's, spritz volumizing spray onto the roots of your hair, followed by a shine serum from the mid-length to ends. Then, straighten your hair all around and part it to the side. If you don't have a straightener it may be a good idea to invest in one.;
, The best way to have clear skin is by:


Drinking plenty of water
Eating healthy and avoiding starchy and sugary foods
Using a gentle cleanser for dry skin, such as Cetaphil, and an acne cleanser for oilier skin, such as clean and clear.
It is also a good idea to moisturize your skin. If you are more prone to breakouts, try Cetaphil daily moisturizer.
Finally, it is a good idea to use a mask and exfoliate once a week or so. Neutrogena has an excellent and gentle exfoliating scrub. For acne prone skin, try a mud mask. A simple mask that works for all skin types to spread honey on your face, and leave it for about 10- 15 minutes.
 The most you should wear in order to look like her is a natural pink gloss, concealer over blemishes and other such areas, mascara on the top lashes, eyeliner on the upper lid of the eye, and a light beige and golden brown colored eye shadow. Amy is very trim and healthy. The easiest way to lose weight or become more toned is by running a mile every day; you are sure to get healthy in no time. However, if running does not appeal to you, there are plenty of other ways to exercise such as dancing, tennis, biking, swimming, and even belly dancing!

, The easiest way to lose weight or become more toned is by running a mile every day; you are sure to get healthy in no time. However, if running does not appeal to you, there are plenty of other ways to exercise such as dancing, tennis, biking, swimming, and even belly dancing!

, she is very into layering, stripes, and bold colors. Go for black and white sweaters and black dresses. Clothes like hers can be found at Lord & Taylor's, Forever 21, Free People, and even places like Hollister.