 If you cannot find a job in your field, take a lower paying job in the meantime. This will more than likely be at a lower salary, probably minimum wage. Sometimes, you have to swallow your pride and find a way to temporarily pay the bills. There is nothing wrong with working a temporary job to support yourself and your family.


Look for a job that could help build your resume. If you work at a retail store, use it as an opportunity to build your customer service and inventory skills. If you work in fast food, think about it as learning teamwork and job performance under pressure.
Leave yourself time to job hunt. This is just a temporary job. You still want to devote time in finding a full-time job., If you own more than one vehicle, consider selling a vehicle. Not only will you earn some money from selling the vehicle, you will also save on the cost of maintaining and driving that vehicle., Online selling can be a great way to make money to help during difficult times. You can sell clothes, shoes, collectibles, games, electronics, furniture - just about anything in your home. Try sites like eBay and Craigslist to sell your items.


You may need to sell things you would rather keep. Prioritize. Sell items you can part with first, then consider the more important ones. It may be the difference between food or rent and one item.
Look for any collectible items or antiques you have in your home. Some toys, memorabilia, and antiques can sell for a few hundred dollars.
 If you are crafty, try selling things online. Sites like Etsy are craft marketplaces where you can sell your homemade jewelry, clothes, candles, soap, paintings, or anything else. Make sure to balance the price of supplies with how much you are selling. Start small and grow from there.


You may also try going to local craft fairs. This can be a great way to earn money, but beware that getting booths at some of these fairs can be expensive.
 One way you can make extra cash is to rent out a room in your home. If you live in a city, in a popular vacation spot, or a college town, this might be a viable option. Many people rent rooms to short-term and long-term roommates.


Sites like Airbnb.com allow private, local hosts to list their homes as bed and breakfast-type accommodations for people passing through.
Be aware that renting a room to someone can be a serious commitment. Think through this plan before allowing someone to live with you. If you will want them to move out in 2 months instead of 12 or 24 months, this may not be the option for you.
 You can try to find work in your community doing various tasks. Try dog walking, pet or house sitting, cleaning, babysitting, adult care giving, and lawn care. Put up flyers around your neighborhood advertising your services, put an ad in a community-wide bulletin, or use social media, like Facebook, to try to gain business.
 Use your free time to do some much needed cleaning in your home. Instead of throwing out or donating unwanted items, have a garage sale. This is a good way to make extra money for food, gas, or bills.

