 After you finish reading Creepypasta, try to think happy thoughts. Distract yourself by recalling the happiest, most carefree moments in your life. Place your attention here instead of going over the scary stories in your mind.Think about moments when you were your happiest and having a lot of fun. Relive and reimagine fun moments in as much detail as possible. Close your eyes, for example, and remember the peaceful beach day you had with friends a few weeks ago. What did it smell like, sound like, feel like, and so on?
You can also think about lighthearted media, or even watch something lighthearted. What's a movie that always calms you down? When reeling from fear over Creepypasta, maybe you can remember moments from your favorite childhood movie. See if you can find clips from this movie on YouTube.;
, Make a playlist of your most calming songs. Choose things with a soothing beat and lots of calming instrumentals. Pick songs that are uplifting and have a happy message. Pop in your headphones and listen to this mix, making a point of focusing on the music. This can help distract you from the distressing stories.If you're experiencing the physical effects of fear, like a rapid heartbeat, music can help with this as well. Your body's rhythm naturally adapts to the sound of music. If you listen to a slow-paced song, your heartbeat may slow down and your breathing may return to normal.
 After reading or watching something scary, it's easy to let your mind wander. Instead of remaining calm, you may replay a frightening scenario over and over again in your mind. It can help to take in the present moment. Grounding yourself in the present can really help ease fears.Take in your surroundings. Notice how you're connected to your present surroundings.
For example, what are your feet doing? Pay attention to how they're touching the floor. Pay attention to how your back and buttocks feel in your chair. This will help keep you in the present and prevent you from indulging in scary thoughts.
 Think about something relaxing, even if it's something unrealistic. Imagine yourself floating on a soft, fluffy cloud. Picture yourself flying over your neighborhood. Let your imagination run wild.Your imagination can get the better of you after watching scary media. You may imagine running into a scary character from a Creepypasta, for example.
Instead of letting your imagination take you down a scary path, force it to think of something pleasant. You can even invent a happy story for yourself. Imagine yourself running into a pleasant fictional character instead of a dangerous one, for example.

