 Your own skin is probably the first place you would think to put perfume, but not every area is equally good for application. You will want to pick areas that are warmer, like pulse points, which help to produce the scent more strongly, as well as areas where the perfume can naturally pool as it settles.Good areas include:


Behind the ears.
Your wrists.
Inside elbows and behind the knees.
The belly button.
Your decolletage and collarbone.
You can also try using more unusual areas, like down your back, the backs of your hands, your calves, and even your ankles.;
, Are you hoping to get close and comfortable on your date, maybe even take it to the next level? Getting a mouthful of alcohol may put the brakes on your momentum; you want your date to smell, not taste, your perfume. Consider the areas where your date might put their mouth, such as your neck, cheek, or the back of your hand, and avoid placing perfume directly in those areas.


Choose areas adjacent to where they may be putting their face, such as the ears or hair (more on that soon).
 As anyone who has smelled dirty laundry can attest, scent particles cling onto fibers. As mentioned before, heat helps to activate the scent of a perfume; your natural body heat will warm your clothing, making it even more ideal for spray to settle. Use this to your advantage by spraying perfume onto your clothing.


Spraying around the collar area of a shirt or dress or the back of your top is a strategic place as this portion of your clothing may be close to their nose should they hug or kiss you.
This method of application is especially helpful for people hoping to get intimate on their date as you can still smell nice without risking your partner tasting something unsavory.
 Applying perfume to your hair is not universally recommended due to the drying qualities of alcohol, but careful application should not cause much damage.This area is a good choice for the same reasons your clothing is: perfume particles will settle onto hair fibers and stay there. Additionally, your scalp tends to be quite warm, heating the roots of your hair, so the scent will be stronger here.


Spray it directly above your head to let the particles settle naturally on your hair.
Apply the perfume by spraying it first on your brush before running it through your hair for a less damaging application.
Some fragrances are designed especially for hair; use these if you are very concerned about potentially damaging your hair.

