 If you've collected vintage clothing in the past, you may have some old items lying around your closet.Oftentimes, people buy a vintage outfit for a special occasion. You may have worn a vintage dress or suit to a theme party or a wedding, for example. Be honest with yourself. Are you ever going to wear this item again? If the answer is no, it may be a good idea to sell.
You could also talk to older relatives, who may have vintage clothing on hand. If your grandparents are not interested in hanging on to old outfits, they may not mind donating them to you.
Check places where you may have stashed old clothes in the past. Browse your attic, basement, and other places where you store old things.;
, Not all vintage clothing is made the same. Items are more likely to sell if they're made from quality material. Vintage clothing is often seen as a collector's item and may be priced high. Therefore, buyers look for the best materials when making purchasing decisions.Artificial fabrics are notoriously difficult to clean. If an outfit is in good quality otherwise, you may still be able to make a sale. However, you should consider selling this item at a lower price to entice buyers.
Higher quality fabrics, like wool and cotton, tend to sell more easily. You can also sell at a higher price due to their quality.
 As vintage clothing is older, stains and imperfections are common. You may notice stains under the armpits and small holes here and there. An outfit with a small imperfection can still be sold, but you'll want to correct the problem before attempting to sell.Check for any obvious stains. If you notice sweat stains under the arm pits or any other wear and tear accrued over time, see if the outfit can be cleaned. Attempt to remove the stain using a cleaning method appropriate for the given material.
Small holes, tears, and missing buttons may be fixable. You can sew on a missing button or patch up a tear.
Some items may be too damaged to sell. If an item of clothing has stains that will not come out or very large rips, you may be better off tossing it.
 You do not have to rely on your old clothing alone. Sometimes, you can find items to sell in local markets. At a thrift store, a vintage dress may be priced well under what it's worth. You can also look into local flea markets or do clothing swaps with friends.Avoid vintage stores. You're unlikely to find something you can sell for profit. The owners have a certain level of expertise, and will be selling items at an appropriate price. You will only be able to sell back the item at the rough price you paid.
 Once you've gathered clothing to sell, you'll have to make decisions on pricing. Pricing is somewhat subjective, and you may find you don't have an exact method when it comes to pricing clothing. Each piece may have to be individually priced based on its worth.Do some research to see how items are generally priced. Browse online outlets to get a sense of the average price. You could also visit some local shops and look at prices. Break down price by type of clothing. You may find a vintage dress generally goes for $45 to $60, while a vintage blouse runs between $20 and $30.
Consider profit. If you bought an item, you'll want to sell it for slightly more than you paid. If you had to repair an item from your closet, make sure the price outweighs the cost of repairs.
 Before you sell items, measure them. Instead of listing sizes, it's a good idea to list specific measurements. Sizing charts have changed greatly over time. This is especially important if you're selling online, as potential buyers have no means to try on an outfit.Dresses are measured at the shoulders, hips, waist, and bust.
You can measure the waist of pants, as well as their length. You may also want to consider measuring shoulders and waist size for blouses and shirts.

