 Be sure to cover the bowl with a sheet of plastic wrap to prevent the lamb from drying out.


Alternatively, you can also use 1 pound (450 grams) of ground lamb and 1 pound (450 grams) of ground beef., Chop the onion and mince the garlic first, then put them into a food processor. Pulse them for 10 to 15 seconds.
 Turn the onion and garlic out onto a tea towel. Squeeze the towel around them until the juices come out. Discard the juices, and set the onion and garlic aside.
 Use a rubber spatula to scrape any unmixed lamb down the walls of the food processor, down towards the blades. For best results, blend the lamb in small batches.


If you are using both lamb and beef, blend them together at the same time.
 Take the lamb out of the fridge, and add the onion-garlic mixture. Next, add the marjoram, rosemary, and pepper. Stir the ingredients together with a wooden spoon, rubber spatula, or by hand until everything is evenly combined.
 This step is not mandatory, but you will get better-tasting gyros if you do it. It would be best if you left the meat in the fridge for 4 to 8 hours, but if you are in a hurry, an hour or 2 will do., Make sure that the baking rack is in the center.
 The best size to work with would be around 4 by 7 inches (10.16 by 17.78 centimeters).Make sure that the meat fills out the corners and that there are no air bubbles. If you need to, tap the loaf pan against the counter.
 The water needs to come half-way up the sides of your loaf pan. If you are using a 4 by7-inch (10.16 by 17.78 centimeters) loaf pan, then the water needs to be 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) deep., Place the entire roasting pan, with the loaf pan inside of it, into the oven. Bake the loaf until it is no longer pink inside, about 60 to 75 minutes. It is ready when the meat reaches 165 to 170°F (74 to 77°C). You can check this by sticking a meat thermometer into the loaf.,


The brick will help add texture to the meat as well as compress it further.
 Gyro meat is typically served with pita bread, tzatziki sauce, onion, lettuce, and sliced tomato.

