 It can be a good idea to get a blood test to see what levels of B12 you have before trying supplements. Depending on the results, you may need shots, tablets or capsules, or fortified foods to change your levels, or you may be just fine but need to keep an eye on your future health and B12 levels to ensure that they don't fall.


Talk to your doctor about possible options but recognise that unless your doctor is sympathetic to your choice of diet, you may be given information that doesn't suit your dietary choices or that even suggests you are not healthy. If that's the case, look for a new doctor who will take your veganism into account objectively and work with you, not against you.;
, Vitamin B12 is considered to require a higher dosage for older persons than for younger persons:


2 micrograms a day for young people
25 micrograms or more per day for people over 50.The Vegan Society makes a general recommendation of 10mg per day with a once-weekly B12 supplement perhaps of 2000mg but fails to provide an indication of age appropriateness.
 You will read a lot of opinions promising you that it isn't possible to get "proper" B12 from plant food sources and that you're doomed to dementia, anemia, or something worse.That kind of dramatic conclusion can either lead to you rebelling and not bothering to do anything at all, or worrying too much that your balanced, healthy diet is not good for you. When you know already that it is. The reality is that B12 is in many fortified foods that you can consume and it's actually a very rare deficiency.


The amounts of vitamin B12 thought to be needed for good health would be hard to get from food alone, and it is thought that it is better absorbed from supplements anyway.Just be sure to find dairy and animal-derivative free supplements from a reputable supplier.
Don't be complacent, however. Being reassured is about knowing that if you actively care for your body's nutrient needs, then it will be a lot better than neglecting them. Vitamin B12 is important for your brain, nervous system, and red blood cells. And the risk for deficiency increases as you age., There is a range of food available, although it varies from country to country. Always read the ingredients and if you're not sure, contact the supplier or the manufacturer for concise nutritional information. Some items that may be fortified with B12 include:



Soy milks, and other non-dairy milks
Energy bars like Clif and Luna
Cereals
Brewer's yeast and nutritional yeasts but only if fortifiedYeast spreads, such as Marmite. If you don't like the taste, you can just put a small spoonful in sauces or other foods to hide the taste. Yeast flakes are the same but a little harder to find (they add a great, nutty, maybe even cheesy, taste to any food) but well worth the investment - a box will last you ages.

Note that Vegemite does not contain B12.


Vegan food products from the health food store
Tofu
Vitamin water

, If you really believe a food has B12 in it and it's good for you generally, it can't hurt to eat the food but be sure to still have the other supplement sources in your diet.
 Although the list above contains obvious fortified products, they may not be fortified, so read the label before assuming that it is.
 Doctors offices can give you vaccines to give you more B12. The shots are intramuscular. They're painful if you don't enjoy that kind of thing. Try the supplements first if you're really low, with your doctor's advice naturally, and see if things improve and if not, brace yourself.