 Hold your head up and keep your chin in when standing and giving a presentation. Imagine you are stretching the top of your head toward the ceiling. Keep your shoulders back and try to keep your earlobes in line with the center of your shoulders. Tuck in your stomach, but be sure not to tilt your pelvis. Your knees should be straight, and the arches of your feet should be supported.Good posture conveys to the audience that you are confident, credible, and sure of your subject. Speaking with proper posture also allows you to project your voice, making your speech clear and assertive.;
, If you wish to project confidence, don’t be afraid to use the space around you. When you are giving a presentation, try to move around the stage. When people are nervous or apprehensive, they are inclined to close off their movements, stand with their feet together, and hide behind a podium in an attempt to appear small and unnoticeable. This can make you appear inexperienced or anxious. Controlled walking can help you project your expertise and knowledge and can help you feel comfortable in your surroundings.
 When making a point, make a few steps away from the podium toward the audience. Only move toward the audience when the content of your presentation calls for it.If you are making a point or revealing exciting, unexpected information, that is the time to move. Unnecessary movement can be distracting and can make you appear uneasy.Moving close to the audience helps bridge the gap and creates a sense of authority and confidence.


Don’t stand too close to the audience, and don’t move beyond the first row of seats.
As you move toward the audience, think about staying there for a period of 30 seconds. When you step in another direction, spend about another 30 seconds there.Think about trying to reach everyone in your audience, and try to make eye contact with several audience members as you move from section to section.
 Avoid keeping your arms in a rigid position by your side. Keep your open arms while speaking. Pointing toward the sky can assert an opinion or a fact, while opening your hands can show trustworthiness and inspire audience participation. When coming to the crux of an argument or the summary of your research, point upward with your index finger to assert your authority and appear confident in your conclusion.


Don’t cross your arms during a presentation. While this may be a comfortable position, you may be projecting negative cues to your audience. This closed-off position may make you seem inexperienced, uninterested, or nervous.
 A warm, inviting smile will convey to your audience that you are at ease and are comfortable. Your smile will make you appear and sound more pleasant, and you will come off as responsive and composed.Studies have shown that smiling can help reduce anxiety, blood pressure, and your heart rate, all of which will put you at ease while giving your presentation., It's okay to feel nervous, but avoid projecting that anxiety if you wish to appear confident. Shuffling back and forth, biting your nails, twirling your hair, and other forms of fidgeting can display signs of boredom or nervousness.Take a some slow, deep breaths when you feel the urge to fidget.
 Don’t stare at the floor, at your feet, or at your notes. Look up and make eye contact with your audience members. Eye contact is a great way to not only appear confident, but feel confident as well.While giving a presentation, maintain eye contact with an individual for periods of 3 to 5 seconds.Eye contact will demonstrate that you are trustworthy and passionate about the topic, and it will help keep your audience’s attention.