 Everyone has different priorities as to what type of study environment works best for them - find yours. Some examples might be: school or public library, classrooms, bedroom or home office, kitchen or dining room table, coffee shop, outside, etc.Try a couple different spots before deciding which one works best for you.
If you find more than one spot that works for you, alternate between them.
Don’t pick a spot that’s a hassle to get to, you might find yourself making excuses that you can’t study because you can’t get to your study location!

, Develop a study routine.Be consistent. Create a schedule that takes your classes into account, and assign yourself regular study time. Go one step further and assign specific tasks to complete during each study session - based on your class syllabus.


When making your study schedule, don’t schedule studying for one topic - say Physics - for six hours in a row one day. Instead, study multiple topics everyday and space Physics out over the course of a couple days. This is called the distributed study method and allows you brain to absorb more information over a shorter period of time.Beware of other activities that may appear in your schedule and reduce your study time. These activities could include a part-time job, hanging out with friends, volunteering, etc. These other activities are important too, but like studying, they need to be done in moderation. Schedule this “fun” time in, but not at the expense of your study time., You may be the only one providing yourself with motivation for studying science, so create rules and stick to them.Possible rules may include:


Reward yourself with a treat (not just food) after every x hours of studying.
Start every study session with a review of previously learned material.
Create a list of objectives for every study session.
Tell someone to follow-up with you about your studying every x hours.
Turn off your cell phone and don’t check your email.
 Take a short break at least every hour.Switch up the topics you study after each break.Breaks shouldn’t just be to stop studying - get up, walk around, go to the bathroom, etc.
 Eat properly balanced meals at somewhat normal times everyday. Exercise on a regular basis. Go to bed and get up at the same time everyday, even weekends. Get a full night’s rest (6-8 hours) every night. Stay positive - if you find yourself becoming too stressed or anxious, seek help., Whatever you ended with last time, start with this time. Review your notes and any problems you went through. Allow this review of materials to jog your memory., Using your class syllabuses, make yourself a list of what you’d like to accomplish in this study session. Prioritize the list based on importance or deadlines, or a combination of both.
 Memorizing simply does not work - unless you have an eidetic memory like Sheldon Cooper. Remembering science concepts is important, but understanding the concepts is more important. It’s easy to forget something you’ve memorized, it’s a lot harder to forget something you’ve learned.If you do need to memorize something, such as the historical timeline for the invention of the telephone, try using memory tricks, such as mnemonics and repetition., The absolute best way to learn a science concept or equation is to understand what it means - to be able to break it down into parts and understand how those parts fit together to result in the concept or equation. For each new concept or equation you should learn: the technical definition, the step-by-step procedures, and the key examples.Use your own words to describe the concept, equation, problems, etc., and your own words to describe how the concept works, or the equation or problem is to be solved.Write an explanation, in your own words, of why a concept, equation or problem is true, or why a concept, equation or problem ends in a certain result.Link new concepts and equations to things you already understand.Something you’ve learned recently may help expand your knowledge of an already known concept.
 Most textbooks have questions and problems at the end of each chapter - work through these as part of your studying. Doing is always better than reading. When answering the questions and problems, do so in detail. Lay out the complete solution as to how you got to your answer, not just the answer.In addition to the questions and problems at the end of a chapter, go through example questions and problems from the textbook on your own. Redo the question or problem without looking at the answers to ensure you understand how it was solved.If you get stuck, take a deep breath and don’t panic. Take a short break and come back and re-try the problem a second time. The second time around start on a new page, slow down, double-check your work, make sure your writing is neat and your solution is organized in a logical manner.When checking the solutions, give yourself a pat on the back for correct answers!
Do a few questions and problems for one chapter or topic every day for a few days - don’t do them all on one day., Crazy concept, I know! But very important. Teachers assign homework for a reason, and you should complete all the homework they assign, whether it will be marked or not.Once you receive your homework back (assuming it was handed in) review your marks and work through any problems you got wrong.


If, after reviewing the problems you got wrong, you were unable to figure out where you made a mistake, go talk to the teacher. Ask them to help walk you through the specific problem and point out where you went wrong.
 Flashcards don’t work for everything, but they’re great for: terms or concepts with specific definitions, diagrams or charts, and equations. You can write your flashcards in one of two ways - to use for testing yourself, where the question is on one side and the answer is on the back; or for review, where you use only the front of the card.Don’t feel you have to stick to actual flashcards (i.e. the small cards made of thick card stock). Some science topics are too complex for something that small. Feel free to use larger paper if required.
 Do as many sample or practice tests as you can. And do not wait until you’re studying for the final exam to do sample or practice tests, do them throughout the semester.Ideally the sample or practice tests should be similar to the ones you’ll actually do in class, but any test where you’re practicing the scientific concept is extremely helpful.

