 If you aren’t doing cross-country as a school or college sport, you have the freedom to decide exactly how long you want your long-distance run to be. Long distance runs span a range from a 3K (three kilometers, or under 2 miles) all the way up to a marathon (over 40 kilometers, or 26 miles) or an ultra-marathon (over 60 kilometers).Think about your previous athletic experience and how hard you want to push yourself.


If you're amping up from a sedentary lifestyle, talk to a doctor before starting a new exercise regimen. You can work together to develop a plan that takes your strengths and weaknesses into account.You will want to consider your body’s limitations, including asthma or injuries, in your decision.
Also take the availability of safe places to run near you into account.;
, You probably don’t want to wait, but it’s important to give your body time to adjust to long-distance running. Depending on your fitness level, it takes a new runner about 3 to 6 months to prepare for a half marathon and about 6 to 12 months to prepare for a marathon.You’re going to be building up to the race, so there’s no need to strain yourself right off the bat.


If you’re running a very long race, like a half or full marathon, make use of a professionally developed training plan. There are plenty available on the Internet, or you can reach out to a local running or athletic store for resources.There's no need to run every day. It's actually best not to. Shoot for three or four days a week, with one of those days perhaps being an extra-long weekend run.
Be aware that you won’t necessarily run the full distance before the race. The only time marathon runners actually run marathons is on race day!, This is counterintuitive but essential. You can’t sustain a sprint for ten miles, so don’t try. Pace yourself--you can always build up speed later in your training. The most important thing right now is learning to cover a lot of ground., The number of steps you take per minute is called your cadence. Professional runners actually run with shorter steps than an average person--they just make those steps faster. Maintaining a shorter stride will also help protect you from strain and injury.A cadence of 180 is ideal. To figure out what it’s like to perform this way, run on a treadmill and watch a clock with a second hand. Time your steps so that you’re taking three steps every second., Running at exactly the same pace for ten miles can get a little monotonous. Once you’ve started to feel comfortable running long distance, mark off set periods of speedwork: increase your pace to a near-sprint for a half-mile, then recover for a mile at your normal jogging pace., If you’re comfortable running for a long time, and you’ve gotten the hang of speedwork, you can start to familiarize yourself with the fast finish. Ramp up the pace for the last few miles of your run to train your body to power through the last bits of a long race.Do not do a fast finish every time you go for a run. Save it for special occasions! It’s best once a week at most.
 If you want to get feedback, motivation, and potential new friends, locate a runner’s group near you. They’re all over the place and they exist for all different levels and events. Try Googling your area’s running groups, or ask for a referral at a running supply store.Running groups can help you by getting you motivated to leave the house. If you have a scheduled time to run, it’s easier to honor it.
Another advantage of a running group is that it keeps you from getting bored while you run, if you’re social. Furthermore, a little friendly competition before the race never hurt anyone.

