 If you anticipate staying up late, take a preparatory nap to better equip your body to deal with sleep deprivation. Set an alarm and aim to sleep for about 2 hours, which will improve your level of alertness for approximately 24 hours. A planned nap will do more to counteract the effects of sleep deprivation than a nap taken after you miss sleep., If you want to stay up late and feel alert later, keep yourself hydrated. Dehydration can cause fatigue, particularly if you’re operating on less sleep than usual. Drink as much water as possible and eat water-rich foods such as watermelon and cucumber.Steer clear of alcoholic and caffeinated drinks, which can be dehydrating.
 Your body needs fuel to stay awake longer, but choosing the right food is important. Foods high in carbohydrates release serotonin in the brain, which can cause lethargy in the short term. Opt instead for a high protein snack, which might include:Peanut butter on celery
Beef jerky
Almonds

, Deep breathing can improve your mental state and level of alertness, particularly when you are feeling drowsy or sleep-deprived. It works by slowing down your heart rate and lowering blood pressure, which in turn improves your circulation and overall energy. Practice deep breathing both when you are staying up late, and later on., Whether you’re watching TV, looking at a computer screen, or reading a book, resting your eyes is a good idea every hour or two. Eye strain can cause fatigue and will leave you feeling drained in the long run. To avoid falling asleep, set an alarm on your phone and allow yourself to close your eyes for 10 minutes, putting your head down if you wish., Steer clear of energy drinks, which may offer a quick energy boost but are only good for brief periods of alertness. These drinks are extremely high in caffeine, which can be dehydrating and may cause serious heart problems if consumed in large amounts. Energy drinks are also usually very high in sugar and may cause elevated blood pressure, heightened anxiety, and disrupted sleep patterns.