 Purebred dogs from breeders can cost hundreds or thousands of dollars. They are also more vulnerable to disease, which can lead to major costs down the line.If money is tight, always choose a healthy mutt from a shelter.

Shelter costs vary widely, but you can probably find a dog available for under US $50 (perhaps an older dog or a less popular breed).It's also worth contacting shelters that charge more (under $300): if that price includes vaccinations or spaying/neutering, it could be more cost-effective than paying the vet yourself.;
, Alternatively, look for a low-cost spay/neuter clinic in your area by asking around at shelters, or using online resources such as the ASPCA (in the US) or the RSPCA (in the UK).An ordinary veterinarian typically charges $200, but many cities have options under $100, depending on the dog's size and sex., Any new dog needs a vet visit, and usually vaccinations as well. One estimate puts these costs at $126, but fees can vary widely.The shelter should know which vaccinations each dog needs, and local vets can give you a quote for how much those will cost.

This only covers the initial checkup after adoption. You'll also want to set aside roughly $20 a month for the dog's regular medical checkups. (Schedule them annually unless your vet recommends otherwise.)

, At a minimum, your dog will need a leash, collar, and crate. These add up to $100–$160 as a rough estimate (with larger dogs at the high end), but you'll get a more accurate idea by checking your local pet stores.Some shelters sell supplies as well.

A sturdy plastic crate can double as a travel crate and sleeping crate, saving a little money.
Ask friends who own dogs whether they have any secondhand supplies their dogs have outgrown.
You can often find cheaper deals from drug stores, dollar stores, or online stores than at pet stores.Thrift stores and used good sites are another option, but confirm the item is functional and not too threadbare before buying.
 You can provide basic training to most dogs yourself, if you commit to a few short sessions a week. You'll start with simple commands like "sit" or "come," rewarding the dog with praise and a treat the instant it responds. A clicker will make this easier, since the sound helps the dog pinpoint exactly which behavior you are encouraging.

Dogs with severe behavioral issues such as separation anxiety or aggression may require treatment from an animal behaviorist, who can easily bill $400 for a full course.To keep your mind and wallet at peace, choose a relatively well-adjusted dog.
 Even once the set-up costs are out of the way, the dog still needs food, occasional medical checkups, toys, a pet license, and miscellaneous costs from dog toothbrushes to cleaning products. Here's an estimate of minimum costs for each year of dog ownership in the US, in addition to the one-time costs above., A serious medical problem could happen at any point in your dog's life, so be prepared. A recent estimate suggests that full treatment averages $1700.Start saving up in advance, and look into these options:

Ask a local shelter for information on low-cost veterinary services in your area.
Research breed-specific veterinary aid organizations online, such as CorgiAid or Labrador Lifeline.Pet insurance plans are available in some areas, costing on average $473 per year. Be careful, though: if a plan's exceptions include health problems common to your dog breed, it's not worth buying., Just because you can afford a purebred doesn't mean that's the right choice for you. Learn more about your options:

A quality purebred puppy comes with detailed medical and ancestry records, and a breeder who can advise you. Check for a Coefficient of Inbreeding (COI) below 10% — higher can mean more consistent bred traits, but also higher risk of genetic issues.Expect to pay $500 to $3000, depending on breed.Shelters offer adult dogs, which are much less work to raise, and mutts, which are at lower risk for inherited health problems.Get to know the dog before adopting to identify behavioral problems.
Avoid pet stores and discount breeders — most sell "puppy mill" dogs which may have significant health and behavior issues., All new dogs should receive a veterinary checkup and vaccinations (if any are due), along with checks for external and internal parasites. Additional tests can help catch health problems, but not everyone thinks screening for disease in a healthy dog "just in case" is a good idea. False positives happen, and can lead to unnecessary stress and medical procedures.Consult a trusted vet or get a second opinion to help you determine which of these is recommended:

Basic wellness checks: complete blood count, biochemistry profile, urinalysis, and thyroid hormone testing.Chest or abdominal X-rays if internal issues are suspected, or for older dogs' checkup.
Dog DNA testers can (at least loosely) identify a mutt's parentage, or confirm a purebred's pedigree.If you have a purebred, consider testing for health problems common in that breed. This could mean simple vision and hearing tests, or more specialized genetic testing services.
 Ask your regular vet to recommend an all-hours emergency clinic. Immediate treatment can cost hundreds or thousands of dollars, but it can be the difference between life and death for your pet. Visit the clinic and provide your dog's medical records in advance.

If you'd like to cover all your bases, look for a vet accredited by an emergency care organization, such as the American College of Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care. Accreditation is not required to handle common emergencies, but it does provide assurance that the vet has experience with extra-critical or complex issues., A good pet insurance plan offers the comforting guarantee that you will not need to choose finances over your pet's health. That said, many plans have high deductibles or do not cover common health problems. Read the fine print first, and consult a vet if you have any questions.

Look up common health problems in your dog's breed. If a plan does not cover one of these health problems, it's probably not right for you., Attending obedience classes with your dog isn't mandatory, but it does offer faster and more effective training. Your vet might recommend a trainer, or might offer general advice and suggest your search for local trainers online. Avoid trainers who promote "dominance" or "alpha" theory, or who endorse physical punishment.Certifications are only a sign of quality if they come from an independent organization that tests for years of experience, such as the CPTD-KA or CDBC.You may be interested in specialized training as well:

In agility competitions, dogs race through an obstacle course following their handlers' body language.Rally is a similar sport focused more on obedience than speed.
Nose work classes train the dog to follow scents and locate objects.
In canine freestyle, dogs perform tricks set to music.
Talk to a doctor about service dog requirements if you have trouble with everyday tasks due to a physical disability, panic attacks, post-traumatic stress, or depression.Service dogs take a year or two to train., From designer dog sweaters to hand-stamped leather collars, the options are limitless for dog owners who enjoy fashion and shopping. To find upscale products, search online for stores and catalogues that advertise as "dog boutique," "designer dog," or "luxury dog products.", Hundreds of dog-related gadgets exist to make dog care easier or more fun. Look for these online or at pet stores:

A radio-controlled dog door that only opens for your pet.
Electronic puzzle toys that release food at set intervals.
Leashes that safely attach to bikes.
Pet trackers that notify you if your pet escapes, or let you video call your dog.
 Commit to at least half an hour of exercise every day with your dog, plus another hour of care and play. If you are too busy to fit this in, you cannot keep a dog healthy and happy, and you should not get a dog.

Only active, undivided attention counts toward this time. Your dog will also want to spend time with you when you are doing other things around the house.
Some trainers recommend at least three and a half hours of interaction a day for the average dog.You may be able to cut corners here with extra weekend time, or by following the advice below.
 If you know you’ll be short on time, do thorough research in advance so you know what you’re getting into. The best breed for a busy owner has low exercise and social needs, only needs occasional grooming, and is easy to train. A few examples include the bull mastiff, chihuahua, and bulldog., Puppies require a huge amount of time and attention, which is more than you can commit to right now. Get an adult dog instead, or even a calm senior dog., Hire a professional dog walker to stop by your house on work days, or leave your dog at "doggy day care". Look into an occasional dog sitter as well if your job involves regular overtime or travel.

This isn't a necessity if your dog is only alone for a few hours, but preventing it from urinating for more than eight hours risks urinary infection.Even if the dog isn't in danger of peeing, though, most dogs will be unhappy if left alone for long stretches every day.
 This isn't a necessity, but training at home takes patience and discipline, which may be in short supply after a long workday. A professional trainer can be a major help, although the most effective classes request that the owner attend as well. Talk to local trainers and see if you can attend for just the first few sessions, or ask your household to attend in rotation.Animal science has proven that positive reinforcement is a more effective form of training than “dominance” or “pack theory” methods., The surest way to find out if you can fit a dog into your lifestyle is to try it for a few days. Consider enrolling in a foster program so you can look after a dog for a few weeks until it is ready for adoption. Alternatively, ask a friend with a dog if you could look after the pet for them for a weekend., Aim for three and a half hours a day, which is a good amount of time to spend interacting with your dog.This isn't a universal rule, but the less you interact with your dog, the higher the chance of boredom or behavior problems.

An hour and a half each day is the bare minimum amount of time to spend with a dog. Even this is only appropriate for a dog with low energy and social needs, such as a calm, older dog.
 Different dog breeds and individuals prefer different activities. Choose one that matches your own lifestyle, so you can enjoy your time together:

For indoor relaxation, choose a more sedate breed such as a greyhound or pug, or an older dog. These still need half an hour of daily exercise to stay healthy, but low-energy dogs can handle a lazy day now and then.If you enjoy running around your neighborhood, an energetic breed such as a retriever or terrier is a great choice of companion.
Hikers should choose a fit dog at least one year old. Short-term energy isn’t enough if you’ll be trekking for several hours: pick a breed with good endurance, such as an Australian shepherd, husky, or lab retriever (with a coat suited to your climate)., Young puppies need someone on-call every hour of the day, and require an exhausting amount of care until about a year of age.If you bring home puppy, expect your free time to disappear for a while. If no one in your household is at home during the day, puppies are probably not right for you.

Young puppies need to pee as often as once every half an hour while they’re not sleeping, and cannot be fully housetrained until six months old.Puppies love to play, but they need sleep even more (up to 20 hours a day when very young).Let them rest, and keep strenuous exercise to no more than 5 minutes per month of age, no more than twice per day.For example, a three month old puppy can handle 15 minutes of exercise, once or twice a day.
 Training a dog can take as little as one or two fifteen-minute sessions a week, but you’ll need to stay disciplined 24/7 to make it effective.There’s no simple goalpost either: your dog may respond to commands well within a few weeks or months, but new behavior issues can always arise.

Introductory obedience classes are great for puppies or untrained dogs. Consider additional classes if training is advancing slowly, or if you encounter challenges you don’t know how to handle.
 The more often a dog pees, the lower the risk of developing a bladder infection.Letting the dog out every four to six hours during the day is ideal.If the dog is home alone for longer than that, train it to use a pad or hire a dog walker. Give the dog lots of attention while you are around, to make up for the long stretches without socialization.

Dogs can become stressed or bored when home alone. Provide stimulating toys, and consider leaving a calm radio station on. If your dog is anxious when you leave, train the dog with “alone sessions” in another room while you are at home., Do you value being able to make spontaneous plans? You might have to pass on that drink after work if you’re the dog’s main caretaker. That said, some introverts find that a friendly dog makes it easier to meet new people and start conversations.

Some of your friends may not want to visit if you have a dog, due to allergies, a phobia, or a dislike of dogs. A poorly trained or anxious dog could make it a challenge to host anyone, even dog lovers.
A dog can strain relationships within your household as well. Two common issues are disagreements on discipline and training, and unequal burden of dog care., Since you have a lot of time, a puppy might be right for you! Puppies demand a constant watchful eye for at least six months, since they are untrained and urinating every couple hours. Basic training can take a year.Even if you have lots of time to train and dote on your puppy, you cannot predict what the adult dog will be like once it reaches mental and emotional maturity by age two or three.A young puppy might not be best if you're looking to fill your time with companionship. While you're cleaning up its mess and worrying, the puppy will be sleeping 16–20 hours a day.Strenuous exercise should be kept to a maximum of two sessions a day, each one no more than 5 minutes long per month of age., Different dog breeds and individuals prefer different activities. Choose one that matches your own lifestyle, so you can enjoy your time together:

For indoor relaxation, choose a more sedate breed such as a greyhound or pug, or an older dog. These still need half an hour of daily exercise to stay healthy, but low-energy dogs can handle a lazy day now and then.If you enjoy running around your neighborhood, an energetic breed such as a retriever or terrier is a great choice of companion.
Hikers should choose a fit dog at least one year old. Short-term energy isn’t enough if you’ll be trekking for several hours: pick a breed with good endurance, such as an Australian shepherd, husky, or lab retriever (with a coat suited to your climate)., Even though you have more time, some studies suggest dog training works best when you stick to one or two fifteen-minute sessions per week. If you want to be done with training in less time (in terms of weeks), you can increase this to daily sessions or to 45-minute sessions, but the dog might not learn the commands as well.These studies focused on one command at a time. It's plausible that a dog could learn well with four or five sessions a week if you split the time between multiple commands.

Attending a training class with your dog can help the two of you bond and learn how to interact with each other. Your pet can socialize with other dogs, and you can trade tips with the other owners.
People with great discipline and patience may find training very rewarding. If the idea appeals to you, train the dog in an agility course and consider competitions.
 Every dog enjoys time outside with its owner, but different breeds and individuals have different preferences. If you want to bring your dog camping or on a day trip, check that it doesn't get carsick before you sign the adoption papers. Many breeds have special interests that might match your own, such as a retriever's or water spaniel's love of swimming, or a malamute's or Bernese mountain dog's enjoyment of the cold and snow., Fetch, tug-of-war, and hide-and-seek are three great games to play with your dog. Hunting breeds such as pointers and terriers thrive on mental and physical stimulation, so look into canine puzzle toys, hunting training, or "find the object" games if you plan to adopt one of them.

Although all you need for most games is a chew toy or something to throw, incorporate treats so you can teach the dog how to behave. For example, while playing tug-of-war, stop pulling and say "Drop it," then give the dog a treat when it responds. Show the treat in your other hand if the dog won't let go.
 Disciplined, energetic dogs can learn to compete in frisbee, flyball, or even freestyle dancing!If any of these pique your interest, look for an intelligent, active dog that seems eager to please.Do not train a dog for competitive sports if it belongs to a breed with extreme physical limitations. This is especially true for most brachycephalic (short-headed) breeds such as bulldogs.
 Dogs are domesticated animals, and are much happier living indoors with their human companions.Don't rule this out just because you have a small home. Many people raise happy dogs in studios or trailers, but it does take thought and consideration:

If you’re burning off the dog’s energy by running or playing fetch each day, it can be a quiet companion the rest of the time. Some breeds such as mastiffs, pugs, or greyhounds may be happy with thirty minutes of strenuous exercise a day.Herding and sporting breeds may bounce off the walls unless you can take them out for hours every day.The dog's size matters less than its energy level. If it gets exercise, it can be calm and happy anywhere that you can.
If your dog doesn't have space to run inside, you'll need a nearby outdoor area. This can be a fenced-in yard, a dog park, or a public park or beach that allows dogs.
If winters are severe in your area, you'll need enough indoor space to play fetch.
 Do not keep a dog outdoors unless it gets hours of attention each day, and there is no way to make indoor living work. At minimum, the dog needs a dog house that protects the dog from weather and temperature extremes, and plenty of room to run around untethered.Even then, the dog is likely to develop bad habits such as barking or compulsive chewing unless it receives regular attention from people throughout the day.

You may also need to follow laws that set minimum requirements for outdoor living spaces and dog care.Consult a local veterinarian for more information.
 If you rent your living space, read the lease or talk to your landlord before getting a dog. Even if pets are allowed, the landlord might charge a pet fee (one time or monthly), to be returned when you move out if your pet hasn’t caused any damage. Other landlords may require you to purchase renter’s insurance that covers canine-inflicted injuries.If you already have renter’s or homeowner’s insurance, check whether it covers dog-related injury and damage. If it doesn’t, consider additional pet liability insurance or an umbrella policy that does.You may have trouble finding insurance for breeds with a poor reputation. This includes Rottweilers, pit bulls, German Shepherds, and Doberman Pinschers., It can be risky to keep a dog in the same household as a child aged six or younger, since the child may not be able to interact with the dog safely. Children of any age should be taught how to avoid provoking the dog (no hitting, shouting, or grabbing — not even hugs and kisses). Show them how to pet the dog nicely, and teach them to read the dog's body language. If the dog freezes, tenses its mouth, bristles its tail, or tries to slink away, the child should immediately leave it alone.Even a sweet dog and a gentle child are best supervised while together, which adds more work to a busy parent’s life.Make sure the dog is vaccinated against all vet-recommended diseases, and work to prevent worms, which can spread to children via the faeces.
Retrievers, beagles, bulldogs, and pugs are examples of breeds that make good family dogs.If you’re adopting an adult dog, choose a calm animal that has lived with children before if possible.
 A puppy or untrained dog can wreak havoc on furniture, house plants, and anything else within reach. You can minimize this problem by adopting a trained, adult dog, but you’ll still need to deal with an unbelievable amount of fur. You can reduce shedding through diet and regular grooming.

“Hypoallergenic” or "low-shedding" dogs such as poodles, Scottish terriers, and labradoodles will keep your carpets cleaner, but they still need grooming. Some of these breeds need regular haircuts to keep their coat in check, while others need frequent brushing to release trapped hairs., If you think you could accommodate a dog, be prepared to make some changes. Move electrical cords and breakables out of reach, at least until your dog is trained and used to the new home. Install locks on low cabinets, as well as all cabinets that contain cleaning products and strong chemicals. Vacuum your floors and carpets to pick up anything that might stick in a dog's throat or make it sick.


Educate your household about dangerous foods. Many common foods can injure dogs, including chocolate, grapes, raisins, onions, garlic, and chives. Keep these in high cupboards and never leave them within the dog's reach.

Check whether your houseplants are poisonous to dogs.Move these to dog-free rooms or high surfaces, along with any precious plants you couldn't stand to see chewed.
 If you think you could accommodate a dog, be prepared to make some changes. Move electrical cords and breakables out of reach, at least until your dog is trained and used to the new home. Install locks on low cabinets, as well as all cabinets that contain cleaning products and strong chemicals. Vacuum your floors and carpets to pick up anything that might stick in a dog's throat or make it sick.


Educate your household about dangerous foods. Many common foods can injure dogs, including chocolate, grapes, raisins, onions, garlic, and chives. Keep these in high cupboards and never leave them within the dog's reach.

Check whether your houseplants are poisonous to dogs.Move these to dog-free rooms or high surfaces, along with any precious plants you couldn't stand to see chewed.
 Your dog will be much happier living indoors with you than stuck outdoors. If you don't want it to have full run of the house, block off private rooms with a baby gate. Dogs don't need much space as long as they're getting enough exercise, but they do appreciate a quiet spot to relax. This can be a crate for crate training, a dog bed, or just a pile of blankets.Avoid accordion-style gates, since a dog can get its head stuck in the folds.
If keeping a dog indoors is absolutely impossible, you can build a dog house in a fenced-in yard. Talk to a vet first to make sure you can provide the dog with the companionship it needs, and to confirm the dog house protects your dog from weather and follows animal rights laws in your area.
 You don’t need a backyard to raise a dog, but your animal will be happier with a regular chance to run around. If you live in the city, look for dog parks nearby where your pet can play with other dogs.

This is especially important for working breeds, such as retrievers and terriers.
 A puppy or untrained dog can wreak havoc on furniture, house plants, and anything else within reach. You can minimize this problem by adopting a trained, adult dog, but you’ll still need to deal with an unbelievable amount of fur. You can reduce shedding through diet and regular grooming.

“Hypoallergenic” dogs such as poodles or Scottish terriers do still shed, but they do so less often or tend to trap the hairs in their coat. Your carpets will stay cleaner, but this doesn’t necessarily mean you can get away with grooming less often., It can be risky to keep a dog in the same household as a child aged six or younger. The child may not understand how to interact with the dog, which can lead to bites or other injuries. Children of any age should be taught how to read the dog’s body language and to avoid provoking the dog.Make sure the dog is vaccinated against all vet-recommended diseases, and work to prevent worms, which can spread to children via the feces.
Retrievers, beagles, bulldogs, and pugs are examples of breeds that make good family dogs.If you’re adopting an adult dog, choose a calm animal that has lived with children before if possible.
 Adding a four-legged friend to your vacation plans isn’t easy. A good-tempered dog can accompany you in the car or on a plane, but every hotel and excursion you choose has to be pet-friendly. Think about introducing the dog to a trusted pet sitter early, so someone familiar can watch it while you’re away. Many dogs do not respond well to being left alone, especially at kennels or with a stranger.


The average cost of pet sitting varies from US $10 a day in rural areas to $30 a day in expensive cities.It’s common for pet sitters to charge extra if your dog is poorly behaved, if it requires special medication, or if you have multiple pets.
Kennels start at $25–$45 a day in a typical US city, and may offer discounts for long stays or multiple dogs., Keep in mind that a dog will limit your options due to pet restrictions in leases and homeowner associations. Be prepared to crate train your dog in advance so transport is less stressful, and allow extra time during the move to introduce your pet to your new home.If you will be moving somewhere the dog cannot follow, such as college, think about the dog’s new living situation. Will your family or housemates take good care of the dog?

, A new baby is one of the most common reasons people give up their pets.If you plan on having a child soon, consider delaying the dog adoption until the kid is in school.If you decided to adopt a dog anyway, train the dog well and be prepared for time consuming preparation leading up to the baby’s arrival. Starting with a baby doll and a recording of baby sounds gives the dog time to adapt before the real challenge starts., Most dog breeds have an average lifespan between 10 and 15 years.Before adopting a puppy or young adult dog, think about what your life might look like a decade from now. If this is a family dog, what will happen when the kids move out? Do you have a dream to travel around the world? A dog is a serious, long-term commitment. If you’re not sure where you’ll be in a few years, now might not be the time to adopt.