 Some legal matters may be easily settled on your own, without a lawyer. This could save you a substantial amount of money. This may not be a good option for every situation, but a close evaluation of your particular legal case can help you determine whether a lawyer is necessary at all. Representing yourself in court without a lawyer’s help is referred to as “pro se” or “pro per” in some jurisdictions.
If there isn't much money involved in your situation, try settling the matter on your own outside of court. You may be able to come to an agreement with some friendly phone calls or emails laying out your case and stressing that avoiding court would be advantageous for everyone involved.
You can theoretically represent yourself in court on any issue, even if it is more serious or involves more money. If you decide to represent yourself in a substantial court case, try finding a good legal "DIY" handbook, such as those published by Nolo Press. You may be able to buy such books cheaply online (secondhand), or your local library may have them available to check out. Some libraries even have legal forms and instructions for use in their local courts.;
, Small claims courts exist for a reason. It helps people have their day in court to resolve small disputes. In small claims courts, most people are not represented by attorneys. The precise rules and requirements vary by jurisdiction or geographic area. This option is a less expensive way to pursue a court case in which you represent yourself. There is generally a limit on the monetary amount allowable in small claims court, which can be up to a few thousand dollars. The filing fees typically range from $30 to $100.
 There are a variety of resources in every state that can assist a person who is representing himself or herself in court. All of these resources may be available to you at no or low cost. These resources may include the following:Books
Court forms and instructions
Legal self-help centers
Legal hotlines
Self-help legal clinics
Law school clinics.
Typically, self-help legal clinics and centers are limited to civil law issues, and do not address criminal law issues. If you are facing criminal charges, you will be entitled to have a public defender appointed to you at public expense if you are unable to hire a lawyer and you are facing the potential for incarceration.
 Many courts have established legal self-help centers or provide pro se forms and instructions for people who do not have attorneys. For instance, Maricopa County, Arizona, runs an extensive self-service legal center in their court system, which provides information, forms, and instructions for people who are unrepresented by attorneys in a variety of situations. If your jurisdiction has these services available, you may be able to use them to get the information that you need and file the appropriate documents in court that are necessary to resolve your legal matter.
 You can search online or in your telephone book for legal hotline numbers. For instance, many Texas bar associations operate legal hotlines for victims of domestic violence and senior citizens.
 Some county courthouses, bar associations, or legal aid organizations operate self-help legal clinics. These programs may allow you to ask questions in person, by phone, or online. They also may give you assistance in filling out legal forms or other documents. Some of the types of cases that these clinics may handle involve uncontested divorces, child support modifications, and landlord/tenant disputes.
 In these clinics, law students, who are supervised closely by an experienced attorney, provide free legal services to individuals in the community. You may need to have a low household income in order to qualify for clinic services. Law school clinics often address legal issues such as landlord/tenant disputes, domestic violence, and family law.

