 The hair should be clean and damp when cutting. After the hair is washed, towel dry it to remove excess water, and then brush out any knots.Brush from the ends, and work your way up to the root to work out knots. This will prevent damage to the hair and will put less strain on the scalp.;
, For a quality haircut, you will need to be in a well lit area. The girl who is getting the haircut needs to be sitting down straight, preferably in a chair high enough so the stylist does not need to lean down.
 The hair should be combed straight back first, and then parted in the place it normally is. If the hair is worn with a middle part, do that. If the hair has a side part on the left or right side, do that. The hair will typically fall where it is trained to be.Check behind the ears for snarled or stuck hair. All of the hair needs to be combed straight down for a proper cut., The ideal scissors to use would be stylist scissors specifically designed for hair cuts. Dull scissors will not cut the hairs cleanly, and they might create split ends., This will serve as your guide as you make your way towards the sides and front. You will use the back piece as a reference as you are cutting around the sides to keep the trim even.Pull up the back section of hair, and bring the ends through your forefinger and middle finger. You should have about 1/2 inch to two inches sticking out from your fingers. Cut at a 45 degree angle to give the hair a softer, more natural look.The amount of hair you cut depends on how far up the damage goes, but typically it will be about 1/2 inch to two inches. Start by cutting less, and then go back to cut more if desired.
Have the person lean their head forward when cutting the back to help you perform a more even trim., Work your way from your guide piece to the side. When cutting the hair that lays on the shoulder, have the person slightly lean their head to the opposite side. This will bring the hair up to help you cut more evenly., Once you make it to the front of one side, go back to your guide piece in the back, and begin cutting the opposite side. Have the person lean their head to the opposite side you are cutting, and be sure to reference the guide piece the entire time., Once you are finished, come to the front, and bring the hair from both sides between your fingers. Pull them down and flat, and look to see if they are the same length. If one side or piece is longer, go ahead and trim it appropriately., Remember, as the hair dries, it will slightly shorten. If you notice any uneven pieces after the hair is dry, dampen the area, and even it out with scissors.

