 While most Instagram users access photos from their phone, instagram.com allows you to access your photo stream from any computer, making it easier to save photos.


You must create an account on the Instagram app before trying to log in.
 Instagram.com only displays photos from your current friends, and does not let your "Explore" other photos. Again, this is to protect the copyright of other photographers.


You can view any user's feed through the website even if you are not friends. Simply insert their username after the URL like so: https://instagram.com/___________, where the blank is the username.
 Click the gray ellipses (...), usually underneath the right corner of the picture or to the right of the "Comment" section, for the photo you want to save. The options "Report as Inappropriate" and "View Photo Page" will appear. Click on "View Photo Page."

, Right click on the picture and choose the option "View Background Image." This will open up a new page that shows the photo exclusively.
 While this seems complicated, it is easier than you might think. Right click the image and choose "Inspect Element." This will bring up a sidebar with a lot of HTML code, a small section of which will be highlighted in blue. The image is the long, random string in parenthesis beginning with "https://" and ending with ".jpg."


Right click and copy the highlighted code. Paste it into your web browser.
Delete everything except the image code. Include the "https://" and ".jpg."
Press enter. Your picture will appear on it's own, ready to be saved.
 Right click on the image in your new page and choose "Save Image As." You will be given the opportunity to name the image and choose where to save it.


By default the image will be saved in your Photo Library, or My Photos, and named a random string of numbers and letters.
 While this method takes a bit more time, take a screenshot of the picture you want to save by pressing either "Prt Sc" (Windows/Linux) or the "Command," "Shift," and "3" keys simultaneously (Mac). This will save a picture of your entire computer screen to your clipboard. Paste the image into a photo editor like Photoshop, paint, or Light room by pressing "Ctrl"/"Command" and "V" simultaneously. You can now save the image.


You will likely have to crop away the rest of your screenshot so that you only see the image.

