 The basic process of accounting for pre-paid expenses involves placing the pre-paid expense on the balance sheet as an asset when the expense is paid, and then gradually charging it as an expense over the period it is being used.


This means that if you prepay $12,000 worth of rent for 1 year on January 1st, it would first be placed on the balance sheet as an asset. Then, over the course of the year, it would gradually be charged as an expense, reducing the asset balance as time goes on.
At the end of January, for example, the asset account would reduce by $1,000 (reflecting 1/12th of the yearly payment being used), and the expense account on the income statement would increase by $1,000.
Why are pre-paid expenses initially placed on the balance sheet as an asset? This is because the company now has the right to receive the good or service, in this case, rent. Because the pre-paid expense has value ($12,000) it is considered to be an asset.
 The first step begins when you pay out the cash for the pre-paid expense. There must be an entry in the general journal to reflect this activity. For example, consider a firm that pays $12,000 for a year's worth of insurance coverage on January 1.


To do this, open whatever accounting software you are using, and select (or create) the prepaid insurance account. You can then debit this account for $12,000, and credit the cash account for $12,000
Since prepaid insurance is an asset account, the above entries would essentially add $12,000 to assets, and subtract $12,000 from cash.
 At the end of each accounting period, the portion of the prepaid asset that has been used should be expensed to the income statement. In the example above, assume that the company releases financial statements quarterly.


On March 31, the end of the first quarter, a fourth of the prepaid insurance needs to be expensed. To record the journal entry, debit Insurance Expense for $3,000 and credit Prepaid Insurance for $3,000.
The entry above reduces the account balance of Prepaid Insurance, and moves that balance to the income statement as an expense. This is because 3 months' worth of the insurance coverage has now been provided by the insurer and can be recognized as an expense.
 Make the journal entry above at the end of each accounting period until the account balance of Prepaid Insurance is 0. If the firm uses the year as its accounting period, only 1 journal entry will be needed to record the expense, which should be recorded on December 31.For example, if the accounting period is quarterly, for the $12,000 pre-payment, each quarter would see $3,000 move from the Prepaid Insurance asset account, to the Insurance Expense account. After quarter 1, the Prepaid Insurance account would have a value of $9,000, and by the end of the fourth quarter, the Prepaid Insurance account would have a balance of 0.
This concludes the process of accounting for a pre-paid expense, since the expense was gradually used up over the course of the year.

