 Clicking on the Zine button at the top will bring up the Zine menu, including the "+Zine" button and all previously created Zines. The "+Zine" button will give you immediate access to the Zine creator page.;
, This is where you will be able to choose a Title, a URL and a Category for your Zine. If you realise you've made a mistake after creating your Zine, don't worry, you will be able to change the Title and Category later on through the Zine settings menu.


Newly created Zine Page - Zine Info. This is it! Welcome to your first Zine! The picture at the top with the title of your Zine is your Zine cover and you can change it in the Zine settings but we will talk about it later. The menu on the left has all kinds of information about the Zine, including the number of subscribers, created posts, the top commented post for this Zine as well as the top liked post for this Zine. At the top you will see the following buttons:

The a2zine Home button to go straight back to the main Homepage,
The Profile button to head back to your Profile page,
The + button to create a new Post for your Zine (on the a2zine Homepage and your Profile page, if you're logged in, this same button will allow you to create a new post for your Pad). Please note, that button will only be available if you have the appropriate access level,
The cog to access the Settings page for your Zine. Please note, that button will only be available if you have the appropriate access level.


Newly created Zine Page - My Info. Same page, different information! Click on My Info to see the date when you subscribed to that Zine, or created it, as well as the number of posts you've published in that Zine and how many times you've visited.Under the Info section, clicking on Feed will bring up all posts made in that Zine by all Editors with the necessary access level. Clicking on a2z will open up a sub menu to access the following sections:

Announcements: This is where you can post all announcements and notices you want everybody reading your Zine to be aware of.
Free Boards: As the name suggests, you may decide to use this area for whatever purpose you see fit.
Popular: This will display the most popular posts for this Zine. Popularity is gauged by the amount of activity a post generates.
Top Comments: The most commented posts will be displayed here.
See editors: Click to see the whole editorial team.


Zine Settings - The Info page. Clicking on the cog icon will take you to the Zine Settings menu. The first page is the Admin Home where a few interesting pieces of information can be found.
Zine Settings - Title, Description and Category. The second page is the Basic Details page, where you will be able to edit your Zine Title and Category, as well as add a Description. Don't forget to save at all times!
Zine Settings - Setting up reader access. Now the fun stuff! Managing access rights on the Management page! You can basically choose who gets to view your Zine by Gender and by Age. This can be useful if your Zine has a particular theme that you think might not be suitable for viewers a certain age for instance. The other 2 areas of the Management section, "Delegate to others" and "Discontinue Zine" will respectively allow you to grant certain rights to selected subscribers, or discontinue the Zine.
Zine Settings - Setting up writing and commenting rights. This is the second page in the Management section, where you'll be able to set Commenting rights as well as Writing rights. If this is a Zine for all, set everything to all, otherwise decide who should have writing or whether you want to prevent everybody from being able to post or publish anything at all for a certain period of time. Click on "Restricted" for that.
Zine Settings - Blocking, suspending rights and messaging subscribers. The Subscribers section allows you to Block, Suspend access or Message selected subscribers. You can also lift all penalties directly from that section.
Zine Settings - Inviting editors and staff. The Staff section is where you can invite subscribers to join your team from. They can either help you manage the Zine, or they can become Editors to help write articles and posts.
Zine Settings - Setting your Zine Menu. Creating your own Zine would not be complete without the ability to set up the structure of your Zine! That's what the Menu Management section allows you to do! Create main menus and sub-menus.
Zine Settings - Zine Cover and Label. Last but not least, the Customize section will allow you to change your Cover picture as well as the smaller picture that appears on all of your articles; we call that a label. Ultimately, we are planning to give you more editing options so you can modify your pictures on a2zine!

