 The OXO Good Grips Smooth Edge Can Opener allows you to easily open cans without creating a sharp, jagged edge. There are two handles on this device—one that moves and one that stays stationary. When you are ready to open a can, grip the stationary handle with your hand. With the other hand, pull the moving handle away from the stationary handle to open it.The handles are made of a soft material that allows you to easily grip the device.;
, Look at the top of the can opener for a curved section. This section is designed to align easily with the curve of a can. Place the curve of the opener along the top of the can., After you have aligned the top of the can with the curve of the can opener, maintain your grip on both handles. Close the moving handle toward the stationary handle to lock it into place., Now that the opener has locked onto the can, you can begin to open it by turning the can opener knob clockwise. Keep a steady grip on the handles with one hand and turn the knob with your other hand. The can will twist around as you rotate the knob. Continue to turn the knob until the can has completely rotated and you feel little resistance.Unlike traditional can openers, this can opener punctures the side of the can instead of the top. This helps create smooth edges on both the lid and the can., When the can has completed a rotation and you have felt a reduction in resistance, it is ready to be opened. To unlock the can opener from the can, turn the knob counterclockwise once. This will open the moving handle and release the lid from the opener’s grasp.
 Along the top of the curve of the can opener, you will notice a set of built-in pliers. Wedge the lip of the can’s lid between the small space between the pliers. Once in place, gently pull the can opener in an upward motion to lift the lid. This helps keep the can opener clean and avoids contaminating the food inside., You can use the lid to reseal the can if you have not used all of its contents. Align the lid on the top of the can and gently press your fingertips along the can’s edges to seal the lid into place.

