 The manual should also tell you how much of each fluid you need, and the type of antifreeze your car uses.


If one of the warning lights is lit on your dashboard, you can check the manual for what the light indicates (usually oil or coolant). When one of these lights are on, it is a sign that a leak is possible.
 If you are pointing uphill or downhill the fluid in your tanks may read more or less than is actually there. It is important to check fluids on level ground.
 In many vehicles it usually has a yellow handle. If you have difficulty locating the dipstick, look in your owner's manual.


Pull out the dipstick, wipe it off with a paper towel or rag, and reinsert it. Pull the dipstick out again and examine it horizontally. There are two indicator marks, one is the top level and the other the lower level. The amount of oil should be between these two marks.Wipe off the dipstick with a towel and place it back into the reservoir tank if it is at a normal level. If it isn't between the two lines, this indicates a possible oil leak.
 Do this when your engine is cold, and look to see if the fluid level is between the hot and cold marks on the tank.Sometimes you may have to take off the radiator cap to see clearly, depending on the color of your tank. If the fluid is below the cold line or is completely empty, you definitely have an antifreeze leak.
 This is the reservoir for your power steering fluid.
 Let your engine run at idling speed for a few minutes and turn the steering wheel back and forth several times.
 This should be done before proceeding to checking your fluid levels.
 The dipstick is usually built into the cap with an indicator mark. If the liquid is below this mark or there's none on the stick, then you may have a leak.
 There should be a marker line on the side of the reservoir. If you cannot see the fluid clearly, you can unscrew the cap and look inside.


If the fluid is very low or gone, you have a leak. It is normal to have a slight decrease in fluid if your brake pads are worn down. If you think this is the case, add fluid up to the fill line and monitor it for the next several days. If the amount of fluid changes you have a leak, otherwise you can assume that it was normal wearing of the brake pads.
 Most tanks are transparent so you can see the fluid level easily. If you have a different type, consult your owner's manual for instructions.


Since you deplete your washer fluid more frequently, it can be difficult to detect a leak, but if you just filled it a week before and it is very low or empty, you probably have a leak.

