 Learn and make use of what makes you look the best for your shape, size and height. By dressing in a way that puts your best self forward, you will naturally elevate your confidence. This confidence is the first step to revealing your inner goddess.


For instance, if you are blessed with wide, deep, and beautifully coloured eyes, use makeup or clothing colors that help them shine.
If you have curves, consider wearing some curve-hugging clothes.
If you prefer modesty, that's fine too. There are plenty of wonderful options for dressing modestly and fashionably. The inner goddess will only shine forth if you feel comfortable and secure in your reflection to the world.;
, Everybody loves a beautiful smile. Smiling is also like a daily mini workout for your facial muscles. Facial muscles need regular workouts in order for them to be ready when you reach a certain age and your skin starts to droop.Smiling gives you an aura of grace and happiness, which can inspire others. By the time you can feel this aura, you have successfully revealed your inner goddess.
 A stressed woman is like the opposite of a graceful goddess. Don't accept too many tasks, assignments, or stressful things that make your head jumbled up and tangled. If you have no choice other than to do so, give yourself little breaks and keep it organized so that you don't have to do everything last minute. Doing everything at the last minute causes you to lose sleep, which results in terrible dark circles under your eyes. Not an attractive look. Getting enough sleep so that you look beautiful and feel refreshed every morning. Balancing your life can really pull out your inner goddess and keep you healthy and glowing.
 There is no way you can even feel a glimpse of your inner goddess if you don't find out what makes you happy. Keeping your spirits up and feeling some sort of happiness on a daily basis is crucial if you live in a busy place, have a crazy schedule or are loaded up with work and/or studies.


Feel free to indulge in a bar of chocolate after a long, stressful day.
Go ahead and let go of yourself at a karaoke booth with your closest friends after your exams have finished or that deadline is over.
While shopping is fun, don't overdo it. Consuming is not a solution to finding happiness. The inner goddess will only surface when you match what makes you happy internally with what you are doing externally. Shopping will not fill that hole.


Remember, your inner goddess can be revealed at any time, place, occasion... you never know!







