 There are a variety of credit sources available to small businesses, but many business owners aren't aware of them. Banks, micro-credit organizations, crowdfunding, merchant cash advances, and business credit cards are all ways to generate cash flow for business development. In addition, SBA runs many loan programs that disburse funds through private lenders.
 This is where most business owners are going to turn first, and with good reason. Banks typically offer the largest lines of credit with the best repayment terms, but are among the most risk averse lenders.Therefore, if you are applying for a business loan with bad credit, take steps to maximize your chance of success:


Be prepared to offer collateral. Particularly if you have a low credit score, banks may want some sort of collateral, like real estate of heavy equipment, available to secure the loan. If you do not have that type of collateral, then make sure that your accounts receivable look as strong as possible. You may be eligible for accounts receivable (AR) financing. This means you can use the money owed (but not yet paid) to your business by customers as collateral for a loan.Factoring is another option similar to AR financing. Factoring entails the actual sale of AR for a discounted face value, instead of pledging it as collateral.
You may also be able to get inventory financing from the bank, which is a loan given to purchase products to sell. The products, or inventory, themselves serve as collateral — if you cannot repay the loan, you will have to turn over the product to the bank, and the bank will sell it to try and recoup their loan.Show past profitability, and to describe a well thought-out plan for future profits. Even if you aren't profitable now, showing a plan for making a profit can go a long way.Start small. Start by making small loan requests as it will increase the odds of success. A track record of successful small loans sets you up for getting a larger one down the road., If you think you have a great business idea but have a poor credit history, this can be an excellent way to get it off the ground. There are four basic types of crowdfunding:


Rewards crowdfunding offers some type of tangible reward, like a t-shirt, a book, or coffee mug, in exchange for funding. This is the most common type.
Equity crowdfunding offers a piece of the business in exchange for funding. This has been especially popular in Europe, but is on the rise in the US.
Donation crowdfunding—which amounts to nothing more than soliciting donations with nothing in return—offers the least amount of risk to the recipient of funds, but is usually the domain of charitable and artistic enterprises. This can be a very hard sell for a profit-based business.
Lending crowdfunding is basically peer-to-peer lending on a different kind of platform. Whereas peer-to-peer lending focuses on the loan, lending crowdfunding focuses on the purpose for the loan. This can be a great option if you think you can provide a quick return on investment, as the terms of these loans are typically shorter than conventional loans.

Try microfunding. This is can be especially attractive for startup companies. Microcredit organizations loan small amounts less than $50,000 (more likely in the $1,000 to $3,000 range) to small business entities, and they open credit lines to markets that traditionally have very little access to it, like women and minorities. Since the duration of these loans is usually short, look for microloans from non-profit groups, like www.accioneast.org to avoid usurious interest rates.
 Merchant cash advances give a business owner a lump sum in exchange for a share of the business' credit card sales for a fixed period of time. Business credit cards, like all credit cards, can have very high interest rates, and low credit limits, but they can be used as a last resort., The Small Business Administration (SBA) offers a variety of loan programs for small businesses, including real estate loans, disaster assistance loans, and general small business loans.Learn more on the SBA's website, https://www.sba.gov/loanprograms.

