 If you and your spouse have joint accounts, you could be left high and dry after the divorce. Don't assume that everything will turn out completely fair. Your spouse could end up taking more than his or her share. Protect yourself by separating your money from your spouse's and doing the following:


Start a separate bank account. Put in as much of your own money as possible. Don't take money from joint accounts at this time, unless it's an emergency situation.
Start your own line of credit. If you don't have your own credit card, it's a good idea to start building credit history now, so you'll be able to get a loan or make a down payment on a new place.
 If you've been relying on your spouse's income, you might need to get a job or take on a new source of income so that you can sock away money to support yourself during and after the divorce. This might mean you need to go from part time to full-time work, or take on a second job so you have another source of income. In addition to making as much money as you can, save it by doing the following:


Cut back on spending. For the time being, limit your purchases to essentials.
Create a budget, and stick to it. Figure out how much money you're going to need to hire an attorney, rent a new place, pay for groceries, etc.
 You could stay with a friend or relative in the first few weeks or months, but in time you'll need to find a permanent place to live. If you have children, finding a stable place to live is even more important. Spend some time researching affordable options.


If you're on good terms with your spouse, discuss who's going to live in the home you're sharing, and who will need to leave.
If you're going to be on your own, you might want to move to a brand new city to get a fresh start. Think about who you could stay with and start making plans.
If you have kids, decide what size house or apartment you'll be able to afford.
 If you have kids, you'll need to account for the big changes the end of your marriage will bring into their lives. Will they live in the same house? Keep going to the same school? You'll need to figure out how their living situation will change and account for smaller changes, like schedule disruptions. This is something you and your spouse should go over in detail, so that it's as easy on your children as possible.


Decide when to tell them. Telling your children you're getting divorced is a big deal, and something you'll want to put thought into before you bring it up.
Think about custody. Do you want full or partial custody of the children? If you want full custody, which is rare, there will need to be a good reason - like your spouse is abusive or unfit to be a parent. If this is the case, gather documentation you can use as evidence to prove it in court.
 In the coming months, while you and your spouse get divorced, you're going to need a lot of support from your friends and family. Tell the people closest to you what you're going through, and ask them for their help. Talk to friends who have been through it themselves and ask them for advice.


Consider getting therapy. The divorce process can be devastating, and a therapist can give you the right tools to make it go more smoothly.
Take good care of yourself. Ending a marriage is one of the toughest life experiences a person can have. You thought you were going to spend your life with this person, and now it's over. You're going to be dealing with a swirl of emotions during this period. Make sure you're eating healthy food, getting enough sleep, spending time outside, and doing whatever it is that makes you feel as good as possible.
 Whether this means packing up your share of the belongings and moving, or saying goodbye to your spouse who's moving out, it's time to go ahead and live separately. During the divorce proceedings, things will be easier if your lives are already distinct from one another's.


Figure out which belongings are yours, and which are your partners. When it comes to purchases the two of you made together, you'll need to figure out who paid for what or decide who gets it.
You might choose to leave for a few days while your partner moves out, or vice versa. That way you won't risk having a fight while you're trying to pack boxes and leave.

