 If you want to cover up embarrassing odors, proper ventilation is key. Simple air flow can help reduce smells. If you have an overhead fan, turn it on after bathroom use. If you don't, open the bathroom window to let air enter.Don't just ventilate after using the toilet. Turn on the fan or open a window after a shower as well. The moist air from a hot shower can cause mildew to buildup, resulting in a musty smelling bathroom.;
, Many people keep a spray bottle on the back of the toilet to freshen the bathroom after use. If you go this route, invest in products labeled "odor eliminator" over simple air fresheners.


Air fresheners cover the smell. They do not actually eliminate the odor and the smell will remain once the product wears off. If the smell is strong, it may even be detectable over the scent of the air freshener.Odor eliminators seek to neutralize odors. They cover smells quicker and more effectively. When at your local supermarket, look for products identified as odor eliminators. There are a wide variety of odor eliminators on the market, so you may have to do some trial and error before you find a product that works for you. You can read product reviews online to get a sense of which products work most effectively at eliminating odors., If your bathroom has very poor air circulation, an odor eliminator alone may not cut it. Look into an air purifier, a plug-in device that helps increase air circulation and remove odor-causing bacteria from your bathroom's air. You can buy an air purifier at a department store or order one online. Air purifiers range in price. Top-rate purifiers can cost as much as $250, but may be unnecessary if their intended use is for a small bathroom. You can buy a smaller, cheaper purifier for $25 to $50., Your problem may not just be due to toilet use. You may have an issue with mildew. In this case, invest in desiccants. Desiccants are dry materials designed to absorb water. Common desiccants include silica gels, which often comes in packages.


You can use a synthetic desiccant, like silica gel, as long as you apply the powder in an area out of reach of children and animals. Desiccants can be toxic if swallowed. You can also keep desiccants in a small plastic container with holes poked in the lids.Plants are natural desiccants. Ferns or lily plants can help remove unwanted odors from your bathroom and leave it smelling fresh., Homemade air fresheners may be more effective than store bought products. If an odor eliminator isn't cutting it, try making your own air freshener.


For one air freshener, mix three parts water, one part vodka, and 10 to 20 drops of essential oils, such as lavender oil or eucalyptus oil. You can purchase essential oils at a local health or vitamin shop. Place the mixture in a spray bottle and leave on the back of the toilet. Spray when needed.If the above mixture leaves an alcohol-like odor, try mixing two cups of water with a tablespoon of white vinegar, a teaspoon of baking soda, and 10 drops of essential oils. Put in a spray bottle and leave on the back of your toilet. Spray when needed.