 When you have diarrhea, your body sheds fluids that contain needed vitamins and minerals. It is important to get those minerals back in fluids, especially water and sports drinks.Combatting dehydration is your primary medical concern with diarrhea. If you are vomiting in addition to having diarrhea, be sure to take frequent, small sips of liquid instead of drinking lots of liquid at a time.
Other liquids that you can consume to combat dehydration include chicken or beef broth, flavored mineral waters, or rehydration solutions such as Pedialyte.Caffeine-free liquids are best. Caffeine is a mild diuretic, meaning that it can have a dehydrating effect.If suffering from diarrhea, stick to liquids that don't have the possibility of dehydrating you even more.;
, Not so much a remedy as a common sense treatment supplement, sleep is very necessary when it comes to treating diarrhea. Since diarrhea is a symptom, it is a good indicator that your body is trying to fight off a problem such as a virus. Sleep and rest are among the best ways to help your immune system.
 If you’re no longer vomiting (or your symptoms never included vomiting), then your can start taking advantage of the BRAT diet—bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. These are all low-fiber foods that will help to increase the firmness of your stools.They’re also fairly bland in a way that won’t risk further upsetting your stomach.


The bananas in this diet also help replace potassium your body has lost through the diarrhea., Though effective as a base to help treat diarrhea, the BRAT diet is not a well-balanced diet.Saltine crackers, boiled potatoes, clear soups, skinless baked chicken, cooked carrots, and other somewhat bland food choices can also help while you’re still experiencing an upset stomach.Some people may also try yogurt. However, the lactose in yogurt can be hard on your stomach while you have diarrhea. If you turn to yogurt, choose a probiotic variety (with live bacterial cultures) to help return helpful bacteria to your stomach and assist with your recovery., Knowing what not to eat can be just as important as knowing what to eat. In general, you should avoid greasy, spicy, or sweet foods, as well as those high in fiber.Milk and other dairy products can also be difficult for some people to digest while experiencing diarrhea.Also avoid:


Gum with sorbitol. Sorbitol is a laxative.
Spicy foods, fruits, and alcohol until at least forty-eight hours after diarrhea has subsided.Foods with caffeine such as chocolate since caffeine has a dehydrating effect., Studies have shown that zinc supplements can improve the outcome when treating diarrhea.Zinc is a micronutrient that aids in the synthesis of protein and the transport of both water and electrolytes in the intestines.The World Health Organization recommends taking zinc supplements by mouth—10 mg daily for children under six months, 20 mg daily for children over six months of age.Adults should take according to the manufacturer’s suggested dosing.
 Roughly twenty-four to forty-eight hours after your symptoms have subsided, you can return to your normal diet.Reintroduce foods slowly to see the best result.


Use common sense. Start with mild fish or chicken instead of a spicy plate of seasoned pulled pork.

