 What is the first thing that comes to your mind? what is the first thing that comes to their mind? An example would be if you see a black and white flower. Would the artist notice the positive and negative space and shading and angle of the flower whereas you just think its pretty? Art museums are a great place to go to try to see the world through the eyes of an artist because that's where artists have portrayed what they've seen through their eyes.;
, Drawing helps to let you focus and break down line, shape, space, and mass when looking at everyday objects. if you don't have paper draw the item in your mind line by line and see how it adds up to create the object.
, Literally. Something that looks like one thing to a normal person looks completely different to an artist. If you aren't sure you think quite that way, relax! Most people weren't born that way! The brain is built to be wired and rewired so you can most certainly begin to think differently. The next time you see an ordinary object like a chair, don't think 'chair' think something new, something completely different, something a little weird, but don't be afraid of weirdness, embrace it!

, If at first you get average results, challenge yourself to think something completely different. It'll be fun!

, Its part of what makes artists so creative! Being able to think of something that no one else does makes you completely artsy and cool! Just think, if people like Salvador Dali or Picasso were 'normal' would they be quite so famous?

, Artists do new things all the time, the unconventional the uncool, the odd, the eclectic. If you see something you've never seen before, pick it up. If you see an old place you've never been to, go inside. You might be amazed at what you find. Even if you don't, you should be willing to take the risk.
 Or one anything! No object has only one use, no words only mean one thing. The possibilities of anything are only as limited as you imagine them to be.
 Or do whatever it is artsy that you like to do. Feel a perfect breeze? Write a poem about it. See a funky outfit? Draw it. Hear a melodic sound, write a song about it. Do a bit of what you do every single day. If you do, by the end of this year you will have at least 365 pieces of artwork. You will boost your talent and also be quite prolific.
 Pretend you are them, speak like them, walk like them, behave like them. True, you may raise some eyebrows but let them rise! The more you do, the more quirky and individual you will become and then you will be able to have a deeper connection with that person or thing!

