 Once your team is in place, it's time to start getting ready to barrel race. Your basic riding skills are the most important part of the foundation for becoming a good barrel racer. Take some time to work on becoming a more competent rider.


Work on the basics. Practice riding in a straight line and traveling in a circle in both directions.
Practice stopping and backing with your horse.
Practice your hand-rein habits. Remember to have soft hands rather than sawing at your horse with the reins.
 You will also need to get mentally prepared to race. Having a good attitude is one of the keys to success in barrel racing. Most importantly, you should work to increase your confidence.Confidence comes from practice and knowledge. The more time you spend working with your horse, the more confident you will feel. Listen when your trainer gives you feedback so that you can increase your knowledge.
A good attitude also means that you are diligent. Make sure to set aside adequate time each week to work with your horse. Ideally, you should enthusiastically train at least three days a week.
 Your horse needs to work just as hard as you. Remember, he is your partner, so it's important that he learn to improve his racing skills, too. Tire circles are one of the most effective exercise to use to train a barrel horse.


Place a barrel in the center of a circle of tires. The tire circle should be about 40-50 feet in diameter, with the tires placed 8-10 feet apart.
Work on circling the barrel from inside the tire barrier. As your horse improves, you can tighten the barrier.
 You and your trainer can work together to put together effective drills that can help you and your horse improve. For example, you can practice straight-line lead changes. This exercise is especially helpful if your horse favors one lead.


Lope for 5 strides on one lead, trot for a few paces, then switch leads. This technique can also be used to help you shorten or lengthen your horse's stride.
Another effective exercise is changing pace in a circle. You can use this technique to help your horse learn speed cues from changes in your body position.
Practice demonstrating to your horse that sitting lower in your hips and dropping your rib cage means "slow down", while leaning forward and tightening your inner thighs means "speed up".
 In barrel racing, the horse and rider must make a clover-leaf pattern around 3 barrels. The barrels are typically placed approximately 100 feet apart. The rider has the choice of going around the left or right barrel first.


Practice riding patterns around the three barrels. As you circle each barrel you will be leaning in towards the barrel.
Determine whether you and your horse work better (faster) going to the left or right first.

