 A graduate student named Randal S. Olson used computer science to create a way to find Waldo in each of the seven books in the “Where’s Waldo” series.


Olson charted where Waldo appears in each of the books. He found that Waldo is usually not found in the left corner or around the edges of pages. The bottom part of the right page is somewhere Waldo never appears.Olson even created a heat map that included a line for you to follow if you want to increase your chances of finding Waldo. It’s rather complex, but you can find it online.Olson claimed he could find Waldo in 10 seconds, and sometimes even less than that. Start at the bottom half of the left page. Then move your way up to the middle and then down the right side of the page.
 Others have also tried to study Waldo’s hiding spots looking for patterns to help readers. They too have found that Waldo is often found near, although not exactly at, the page's middle.


Waldo is not hiding all of the time in any single one corner of a page. He found that Waldo is rarely in the right-hand corner at the top of the right page. In general, Waldo is not found as often near the bottom or top of a page.
However, more than half of the time, Waldo is hiding within one of two 1.5-inch tall bands. The first one is located three inches from the page’s bottom. The other one is seven inches from the bottom. Waldo is also not likely to be found in the middle of the page, but just above or below it in one of these two bands.
Both of these bands stretch from one end of the page to the other when the book is open wide. Start by studying these areas to increase your chances of finding Waldo quickly. He is not always located there; he is just located there more often.
 Initially, Waldo was the only character to find in each scene, but as more books have been created, other characters were added.


Wally or Waldo has a friend named Wilma who appeared in the Ultimate Fun Book. Her twin sister replaced her in Where’s Wally: The Magnificent Poster Book.
Odlaw opposes Wally. He looks a lot like Wally, but he wears yellow and black striped clothes. His glasses are blue tinted, and he has a mustache.
Wally has a dog named Woof, who shows up in the Ultimate Fun Book. The Wizard Whitebeard is a background character who often goes along on Wally’s travels. You might find Waldo located near these characters.

