 Baking soda is a gentle exfoliant.Let it sit for 10 minutes and then wash it off using warm water and a washcloth.









You can also try a honey and baking soda mix.For sensitive skin, try baking soda and aloe., Mash up an avocado and mix it with two tablespoons honey and one tablespoon sugar. The sugar will provide a soft exfoliation while the honey and avocado will nourish your skin.If you have oily skin, add in one to two teaspoons of fresh lemon juice to help tighten skin and dry up pores.
Allow the mask to sit on your face for 15-20 minutes before washing it off thoroughly.
 There are several different options you can choose from when it comes to selecting an oil to mix into your exfoliant scrub. Choose nut-based oils that are rich in Omega-3 fatty acids to tighten and rejuvenate skin. Mix about two tablespoons of oil into one tablespoon of brown or white sugar and use a washcloth to apply to your face, scrubbing in small circles.Rinse with warm water. Some commonly recommended oils include:Coconut oil
Almond oil
Olive oil
Grapeseed oil
Chamomile oil
Avocado oilSafflower oil

, Combine two to three tablespoons of either cornmeal or some sort of ground nut meal, such as almond or walnut meal, and a small amount of water. You want the scrub to be a pasty consistency. Apply a generous coating to your face and allow it to sit for about 15 minutes before washing off with warm water.Don’t use this if you have a nut allergy.
 Caffeic acid has anti-inflammatory properties and helps increase collagen production, leaving your skin smooth and healthy.








Mix one tablespoon of ground coffee with one tablespoon of water or olive oil and apply it to your face. If you have particularly oily skin, use plain water instead of olive oil. Allow the mask to sit on your face for about 15 minutes and then wash it off with warm water.
Be sure to use freshly ground coffee beans, not instant coffee. Instant coffee will dissolve in water immediately.
An alternative is to steam you face for 20 minutes to open up the pores. Then mix 1 tablespoon coffee powder with milk or honey to form a thick paste. Apply this paste on your face in a circular motion. Leave it on for 20 minutes and wash off with cold water to close the pores.
 Particularly beneficial for people with dry skin, oatmeal scrubs can exfoliate while nourishing your skin.








Mix two tablespoons ground oatmeal (not instant) with one teaspoon salt or sugar and one tablespoon water or olive oil. If you have oily skin, opt for salt and water as additives. If you have dry skin, opt for sugar and oil to help hydrate skin.
Apply the mixture to your skin and allow it to sit for about 15 minutes before rinsing it off with warm water.