 Once you've found results, locate the green icon with "LimeChat - IRC Client" next to it. Click "$2.99," and the app will start installing.

Enter your billing information associated with your Apple account if you haven't already (credit card, credit card number, billing address, etc.);
, You will automatically be directed to a form where you can connect to an IRC channel.


For the form, type in the description of the channel (optional, and that will make it show up on the list of channels you're connected to, instead of the channel's name), server (chat.freenode.net, irc.efnet.org, us.undernet.org, eu.undernet.org, irc.quakenet.org, uk.quakenet.org, irc.mozilla.org, or chat1.ustream.tv), nickname, encoding (which will be in effect after reconnecting), and decide if Connect on Launch will be on. Also, click on the + button next to "New Channel," and type in the name of the channel you want to join.

Click on Advanced for some more advanced features. This is for customizing your IRC server - server port, password (which is optional), and deciding whether SSL (Secure Socket Layer) will be on or off, as well as your information - username, real name, NickServ password (which is optional), deciding whether SASL Authentication will be on or off, and adding any alternative nicknames (if any).

Click on "Commands," to make a command that an IRC user can perform upon login. Just click on that option, then the "+" button next to "New Command."

The commands are as follows: /me, which is an action message of what a person is doing (for example, if your username was Adelaide_, and you wrote "/me waves hello," it would look like "Adelaide_ waves hello,"), /msg nickname (which starts a private chat), /nick to change your nickname, and many others. Remember that they always begin with a slash. , This will direct you to the IRC channel you connected to, so you should see your nickname on the list. Remember that the list of nicknames is ordered alphabetically.


Write your message in the message field at the bottom, and click on "Send" when you're done.
 There are a few buttons you can click on:



Whois: This gives you information on that user's identity - their username, address, real name, channels, server, server information, away message, time when they're idle, and their sign-on.

Talk: This opens up a window to privately chat with that user. Use if you want to talk to someone privately about an issue, or just chat in private as you wish.

If another user tries to open up a private message window with you, there will be orange arrows, and you can find the PM window and click on that user's name. The orange arrows should disappear afterwards; if they don't, try again until they do.



Paste Nickname: This pastes their nickname into your message, followed by a colon. Write your message after the colon.
If you're an Op of the channel, you'll get some extra buttons: Op/Deop, and Kick Out.
 Just click on "Off" next to the channel name on the left, and you'll be disconnected from the channel. Another thing is, a "Disconnected" message will appear after you click on "Off," to show that you're disconnected from the channel.

