 While getting surgery isn't recommended in the face of so many potentially effective alternatives, it remains an option for someone wanting fuller lips. Most surgeries take the form of injecting material into the lips, and usually work on a semi-permanent basis, subsiding after a period of several months. As everyone's lips are a unique case, it is important to first consult a trusted doctor about a surgery if it's something you're looking into. The doctor will be able to offer specific advice relating to your situation, as well as details relating to the chosen surgical procedure.


Make absolutely sure that the doctor is trusted and well-reputed. Operations like collagen injections have gone famously wrong in the past, and it's important to enlist a doctor who knows what they're doing.
 Look into hyaluronic acid filler (HAF) injections. Compared to some of the longer-used methods for lip augmentation, hyaluronic acid is the safest and best-recommended type of filler for your lips. The filler in these injections approximates natural compounds found in the body, and unlike fat grafts, require no liposuction. HAF injections are used to improve the shape, structure and volume of your lips. Although fairly expensive (running between 500-2000 dollars) and uncovered by most insurance plans, reception to these injections is generally very positive.


Collagen is a less common lip filler now than it used to be, but it still plays a significant role in the world of lip augmentation. Take some time to look into collagen if you're exploring surgical options.
Another widely used method of lip augmentation is fat grafting. This procedure transplants fat from another part of your body (extracted via liposuction) and injects it into your lips. While this means you won't have any foreign matter in your body, the process is longer, more uncomfortable, and carries greater risks than a HAF injection.
 Although the word implies a high level of severity, most lip augmentation surgeries actually happen fairly quickly. Despite any anxiety you may have, a lip augmentation is virtually painless. A topical agent will often be placed on your lips to reduce the discomfort of the injections. While the operation should be short and reasonably simple, you'll have to plan another appointment in half a year if you want to keep the same look to your lips. Don't worry if there any uneven bumps in your lips post-surgery; these concentrations of filler will soon quickly dissolve, leaving your lips looking lustrous and consistent.

