 Narrow down your idea until you have a focused, specific mission. For example, rather than being a general volunteering club, start a club to volunteer once a week at a certain soup kitchen in your community. Ask around and see what your fellow students think of your idea, and whether or not they would join. Once you have strong enough support from your friends and fellow students, you're ready to go.;
, Find a faculty advisor for your club. Pick someone who will help you promote and organize events for your club and be a liaison with the community. If your school has a process established for starting a club, talk to the teachers in charge of that to fill out any necessary paperwork. If not, talk to your principal and/or year co-ordinator to check that your idea is okay with them.
 Once you have clearance and permission for your club, you're almost ready to get your club up and running, but you need a place to hold meetings. Most clubs meet in classrooms after school. If you want to take this route, talk to faculty to reserve a classroom. If you have a faculty advisor, ask them to help you with this step, as they will likely know more about finding and reserving an available classroom.


You can also consider meeting at someone's house, at a nearby park or restaurant, or anywhere else in your community. If you choose to meet off campus, however, make sure everyone has adequate transportation to and from your meetings.
 Most school volunteering clubs hold a weekly organizational meeting in addition to weekly, biweekly, monthly, or quarterly volunteering sessions. Decide how often your club should meet, and then pick a convenient time and day when most club members will be free. For example, meet at lunch or immediately after school, and choose a day when other clubs or sports are less likely to interfere.
 Make bright, colorful, informative posters that will attract attention. If your school has daily notices or a bulletin,get a message about your club printed into it. Include when and where your club will meet, as well as information about what your club does. You can also ask your principal if you can make a small presentation on assembly.
 Once you have enough members in your club, start volunteering! You can decide on events yourself, or hold a meeting to get your club's opinion. Either way, be sure to hold fun events that everyone can participate in. Work with a few other members of the club to plan and organize your events, and advertise them to your whole school to get even more people involved.
 What's the point of having a club if it's no fun? Don't take yourself too seriously and be sure to have a sense of humor.

