 The most common clothes to wear for tanning is a bathing suit, but you can wear shorts, tank tops, or nothing at all if you are somewhere amenable to nude sunbathing. Any exposed skin, left out under direct sunlight, will tan.;
, This avoids the scorching peak hours and is recommended by the American Cancer Society for the safest tanning.This is especially important if you have fair skin or are just starting to tan.
It takes a bit longer to tan in these hours, but it is much safer, and the extra time outside will be worth it.
 A sunscreen’s Sun Protection Factor, or SPF, is a measure of how much UV light the lotion blocks. SPF doesn't stop you from getting a tan, but it prevents you from burning and blocks some of the dangerous UV. This makes it an essential part of your tanning regimen.SPF 30 sunscreen blocks around 97% of UVB rays.Sunscreens above SPF 30 (such as SPF 100) have a negligible effect on UV absorption. Most dermatologists believe that SPF 30 is more than enough.
 Your eyes can be easily damaged by the sun if you are not careful. Protect your vision with sunglasses that offer UV protection. This should be advertised with a sticker on the front of the lenses., All these do is greatly increase the chance that you will burn, which in turn increases the risks of skin cancer. A gentle, slowly built bronzing is the safest way to get a good suntan. Tanning pills, which contain beta-carotin, are known to be dangerous to your liver and eye-sight and are not FDA approved., When skin is exposed to sunlight, melanin is created by special skin cells. Melanin is a dark colored pigment that absorbs UV light to protect your skin from damage by the sun. This is why pale skin burns more easily–their skin has less melanin to absorb the UV.UV light still passes through clouds, meaning you can still get burned on overcast days, especially if you are fair skinned and out for long periods of time., Once you’ve applied sunscreen, step out into the sun and start tanning. Know, however, that sunscreen usually loses its potency after 30 minutes and will need to be reapplied.


You need to think about gradual tanning, not immediate gains, to stay safe.
Note that the sun is extra strong around 12 o'clock PM because the rays hit the earth at a 90° angle. You should not stay out as long during the midday sun or you'll risk burning., After 20 minutes or so, put on a new layer of sunscreen and flip to your other side to tan your whole body. For example, if you are lying on your back at first, roll to your stomach after a short period of tanning.
 Sunscreen needs to be reapplied frequently in order to be effective. Even waterproof lotions will lose some potency after a swim, so dry off and reapply the sunscreen to prevent burning and skin damage.


Remember—sunscreen just protects your skin; it does not prevent you from getting tanned.
 Always bring a full water bottle with you while you tan, and drink constantly. Water keeps your skin cells healthy, which can prevent damage done by the sun.
 As your skin darkens, you can potentially tan more often, but serious diseases like melanoma are not worth the temporary-tanned look. If you have naturally pale skin, you may not want to tan for more than 30-40 minutes taking breaks halfway through.


Start tanning for 15-20 minutes, increasing your time in the sun by 5-10 minutes as your skin darkens. You can generally increase the amount of time you're tanning every 1-2 weeks.
 These are the first signs of a burn. While there is a myth that you will appear tan after the burn disappears, in reality the skin will peel off painfully and leave you red, not tan. If you feel pain, get inside or find shade immediately.


Apply a moisturizing lotion when you get to the shade. This will help keep your skin healthy and prevent some of the damage of the burn. Gels with aloe are particularly popular., While many people prefer the look of a natural tan, you can protect your skin by supplementing time in the sun with a gentle bronzer. This way, you get the shade you want while still protecting your skin. In general, the safest way to get a deep tan is to supplement your outdoor work with a moisturizing bronzer.


Tan extenders are generally considered safe, but only those containing dihydroxyacetone (DHA) have been FDA approved., If you are fair-skinned and freckled, you cannot get a deep tan safely. This is just the unfortunate reality of pale skin types. If your skin is light, you burn easily, or just can't seem to get tan, you should learn to love the skin you have instead of risking your health. Fair skin is just as beautiful as tanned, and you should take care of yourself before running out into the dangerous UV rays., This is one of the most dangerous, baseless myths of suntanning. You do not need to burn to "kickstart" your tan. In fact, all burning does is damage your skin, making it leathery and potentially leading to skin cancer.


Getting burned five or more time doubles your risk of developing melanoma, the most deadly form of skin cancer., This will help your skin stay healthy and promote even flaking of the dead, burned skin. Apply it 3-5 times a day, or whenever you face extreme discomfort.


Creams with vitamins E and C may help prevent some skin damage., Staying hydrated will help your body whisk away the waste and by-products of dead skin cells. Make sure you are constantly sipping on some cool water to help yourself heal., Ibuprofen, found in Advil, will decrease pain and swelling, which can actually prevent some of the long-term damage of a burn. Try and get ahead of the pain -- if you notice some painful pink at the beach, pop a few as soon as you can with a big glass of cold water., Repeat every 10-15 minutes. This can help keep the dead skin wet, which will prevent it from drying and cracking off painfully., Your skin will slough off naturally, and blisters contain healthy oils and liquids needed for your skin to heal. Keep moisturizing, drinking water, and taking care of the pain with ibuprofen and the dead skin and blisters will heal themselves.
 The best way to fight skin cancer is to be proactive. You want to look out for any dark new splotches or blemishes, often when in the shower or in the mirror. Check your moles as well -- are they growing? Are they changing color or shape? If you have any of the following symptoms or any large black spots, see a doctor or dermatologist immediately.


Skin cancer is very treatable when caught early on. Always err on the side of caution when if you see something worrisome.