 Dogs, like humans, are susceptible to jealousy. Your older dog might act out if they feel they are being snubbed in favor of a new puppy. Be sure to share a bit more time with your older dog than with your new puppy. Dogs of all ages appreciate petting, verbal praise, and opportunities for play. Doing so with your senior dog will prevent them from feeling that the new puppy is muscling in on its turf., While your older dog should have slightly more time and attention than the puppy, both should feel they are loved. Pay attention to each dog individually by petting them, playing with them, and offering verbal praise. If each dog feels appreciated, the dogs are more likely to get along and less likely to resent each other., One of the primary causes for conflict between dogs is a lack of play toys. You can prevent this by ensuring there are enough for all your dogs. Don’t assume your new puppy will enjoy the same types of toys that your older dog does. Provide a generous variety of toys, including dog bones, chew toys, KONG toys, balls, and rolling toys.Ensure your puppy doesn’t steal the older dog’s toys. Puppies who are not socialized don’t understand boundaries and sharing the way older dogs do. Even if you’ve provided an adequate amount of toys for your dogs, your puppy might decide to take your older dog’s toys. When this happens, say “No” sternly to your puppy, then return the pilfered toy to the senior dog.
 Your new puppy will have a lot of energy, but your older dog will not. In order to prevent your new puppy from using its excess energy to harass your senior dog, give your puppy plenty of opportunities to run about. Let it out in the backyard on its own to frolic and play.Try to find opportunities to exercise your puppy without making your older dog feel like you’re neglecting them. Wait until your older dog is napping or curled up in front of the TV to take your puppy outside for a game of fetch or tug-of-war.
 Apart from toys, dogs will likely feel their space is being invaded if another dog is eating or drinking from “their” bowl. Ensure you provide both dogs with their own food and water dishes, and place them at least three meters apart to avoid food fights.It might help if you begin feeding your new puppy in a dog crate.
 If you really want your dogs to get along but they just aren’t, you might need to get professional help. Dog trainers can help dogs of any age improve their social skills and learn to tolerate others. Contact dog trainers in your area and explain your predicament.Ask your vet or friends who have dogs to recommend a good dog trainer, or try the Association of Professional Dog Trainers’ searchable database at https://apdt.com/trainer-search/.
Remember, dogs are like people, and they all have unique personalities. Some dogs will just never get along, no matter how long they’re together. If your dogs don't get along, don't take it as a personal failing on your part. Just try to minimize their conflict as best you can.

