 If you want jogger pants for running errands and lounging, try a pair made of this traditional material. These joggers are very comfortable and feel almost like pajamas, but the tapered ankle and more fitted legs will make you look more pulled together.Stick to lighter, airier pairs for warmer climates. A lightweight cotton or linen pair is perfect for this.
If you need some extra insulation, check out fleece-lined jogger pants or versions in heavier fabrics like wool.;
, Most jogger pants are worn casually, but you can dress them up, too. If you want to wear these to work or for dressier nights out, choose a pair of jogger pants made of a nice material and in a dark color.Look for fabrics like tweed, corduroy, linen, and even leather to create a dressy look., You can basically find jogger pants in every color and pattern under the sun. A boldly patterned pair can make a fun statement, but they’ll be less versatile than a solid color.Try a solid statement color, like neon green!


Think about how a pair will fit into your current wardrobe. Ideally, you can find a pair that will look great with tops and shoes you already own!

, All jogger pants are not created equal. Simple pairs are great, but there are plenty of pairs with fun details and trendy features that will turn heads. Look for a pair with cool metallic zippers on the ankles, or a colorful drawstring around the waist.For example, a solid pair with a different color or fabric cuff around the ankles creates a nice contrast., Jogger pants might seem like they must be paired with t-shirts, but that’s not the case. Dress up your jogger pants with things like blazers, button downs, and nice sweaters. The contrast between the more relaxed pants and a nicer, more sophisticated top is incredibly on trend.For example, you could pair a black pair of tweed joggers with a black blazer and look polished.
 The beauty of wearing jogger pants is that they are comfortable while still being acceptable to wear in public, but pairing them with slouchy, oversized tops can ruin that. To balance out the relaxed look of the jogger pants, it’s best to pair them with tops that are more fitted.


Whether it’s a t-shirt, a nice blouse, or a button down, opt for something that hugs your body a bit more.For example, go casual with a fitted green tank top and dark gray or black joggers.
 Again, jogger shirts can go from trendy to sloppy easily. If your shirt covers the waistband of your pants, it’s a good idea to tuck it in. If you’re wearing a t-shirt, you can tuck it in super casually, letting the top still hang loosely. If you’re dressing up your jogger pants with a nicer top, tuck it in properly. If you want to pull these pants off in public, it’s important to look put-together.If tucking looks strange, try tying up your shirt into a side knot. The key is keeping the waistband of the joggers exposed.
 If you’re embracing the athleisure look, pick a pair of sneakers that have laces. Slip-on shoes are popular, but they will make your ensemble look a bit juvenile. Whether you’re wearing a pair of every day casual sneakers or a high-tech pair of running shoes, a lace-up pair will work better with jogger pants.For a sporty look, wear lace-up sneakers with a fitted hoodie and matching joggers.
 You may think your sky high stilettos or patent leather dress shoes have no place with jogger pants, but they’re actually perfect with them. A pair of jogger pants can be styled similarly to skinny jeans, so visualize outfits that way! From solid black to light colored corduroy, a pair of dress shoes can completely “formalize” your outfit.For example, you could create a dressy vibe by wearing a black cardigan with black fitted joggers, and finish off the look with patent leather pumps.
 You don’t want your footwear to cover the elastic ankles, because you’ll lose the shape of the jogger pants altogether. However, high-top sneakers, dress shoes, or short boots that come up to the tapered ankles are perfect. You can pull up your jogger pants a bit to ensure the hem sits on top of the shoe, rather than inside the shoe.