 Wear accessories in the same color scheme as your dress. If your dress is black and white, wear it with black and white accessories for a monochromatic outfit., A polka dot dress in black, navy, white, beige, gray, or tan looks great with bright accessories. The repetitive pattern of polka dots can make accessories blend in. Wearing accessories in bright colors makes them stand out.Black and white polka dot dresses look great with reds and pinks.
If your dress is brown and white, consider wearing purple accessories.
Yellow accessories look great with a navy polka dot dress.
 If your polka dot dress has bright colors, wear neutral colored accessories. Pairing bright polka dots with bright accessories will make the outfit too distracting.
 Mixing patterns can make the outfit too distracting. If you do mix patterns, though, make sure that one pattern is dramatically larger or smaller than the other. For example, a striped sweater should have stripes dramatically larger or smaller than the dots on your dress.Instead of patterns, you might opt for solid colored accessories.
 You can spruce up your polka dot dress by wearing jewelry. Don’t go overboard on the jewelry, otherwise your outfit will have too many different distractions. Keep your jewelry simple and don’t wear too much. Polka dots are not the time for large earrings or a statement necklace.Pearls look great with polka dots because they mimic the dots on the dress.
Try a simple chain necklace.
Wear studs or simple dangly earrings.
 Wear shoes that don’t have intricate designs, multiple colors, or confusing patterns.Instead, go for solid colors. Polka dot dresses look great with boots, heels, sandals, wedges, or flats, depending on what you are wearing the dress for. For example, a summery polka dot dress might look good with kitten heels if you're going on a date. For a more wintery look, however, you might pair a polka dot dress in a heavier fabric with tights and combat boots.
 A solid color sweater or jacket can break up the monotony of the polka dots as well as keep you warm. In the winter, a cropped cashmere cardigan can make your look cozy, and in the summer, a black or denim vest can give your look an edge.You can also make a polka dot dress more professional by mixing it with a cardigan or blazer.
 A purse or bag can be used as an accessory to bring your whole outfit together. Keep your bag in the same color scheme as the rest of your outfit. You can have your bag be a bright colored focal point of your outfit against a neutral colored dress. The size of the bag will also depend on the look you want to achieve. For a more casual look, go for a larger bag, but for a classy affair, you could carry a clutch in a solid color., A sun hat or a floppy hat can pull your outfit together.A beanie is a great way to accessorize your polka dot dress and to keep your head warm. You can make a hat your statement piece of your outfit.
 Try wearing hair accessories with your dress, such as headbands, ribbon, hair scarves, hair clips, hair sticks, and other hair accessories. Hair accessories are a subtle accessory that can add to your outfit without taking away from the dress., Wearing a belt with a dress can accentuate your waist and break up the polka dot pattern. Experiment with different areas of your waste until you find the best spot for the belt on you. Figure out the width of belt that looks best on your body. You can have a really thick belt or a simple thin belt., A solid colored scarf adds contrast to the busy dress pattern of polka dots.Scarves also keep your neck warm in cold weather. Wear a scarf in a loop, knot, or circle around your neck.
 Wear solid color tights or leggings to add warmth and style to your outfit. Black opaque tights look great under dark colored dresses. You can opt for brighter tights to stand out against a neutral polka dot dress.