


Today, many jawbreakers (like, for instance, Everlasting Gobstoppers) are multilayered — if you cut the candy in half, you'll be able to see the rings made by the different layers. With a little extra work, you can get a similar effect in your homemade jawbreakers.
To do this, start by making a batch of jawbreakers according to the step above. Next, prepare a second recipe's worth of syrup, but give it a different color and flavor than you used for your first batch.
When the syrup is cold enough to handle, roll your cold jawbreakers in it, giving each an even coat. Put the coated jawbreakers on a piece of parchment paper and put them in the fridge to cool.



To give your jawbreakers a little extra "bite," try stirring a generous pinch of popping candy (like Pop Rocks, etc.) into your syrup as you add the flavoring and color. When the jawbreakers are finished, the popping candy will provide a satisfying fizz as you enjoy them.



It's worth noting that, if you're willing to experiment, you don't need to use commercial liquid candy flavorings. There are a number of ways to make your own flavorings for use in jawbreakers and other candies — nearly any sort of dense, strongly-flavored oil, syrup or liquid can potentially work.
One cheap, easy way to make your own flavoring is to add just enough water to an individual packet of Kool-Aid powder to produce a liquid. Stir this into your mixture earlier in the cooking process than you normally would to allow the extra water to boil off.
Another trick that works well for fruit flavors is to add a splash of fruit juice (plus a little grated zest if you have it) — as above, give the extra liquid a chance to boil off if you use this method.



The jawbreaker recipe above is very similar to that used for a wide variety of other hard candies. In fact, if you just dip a popsicle stick in each jawbreaker as it hardens, you'll have a set of lollipops once they cool — try it!
Keeping the sticks upright while the candy cools can be a challenge, so try carefully laying them on their sides. When the candies cool, just turn them 90 degrees to get your lollipops.



The shapes of your jawbreakers are only limited by the molds you have handy — try using differently-shaped molds to make exciting new designs!
Getting perfectly round jawbreakers like you'd see in a store can be quite tricky. Even round molds can leave a noticeable seam around the edge of the jawbreaker. Professional candy makers use a process called "panning" which involves rolling the jawbreakers in round vats of ingredients for long periods of time to produce their round shape.Though this is beyond the reach of most amateurs, if you're serious about making jawbreakers, you may want to invest in specialized panning equipment.

