 Visit http://www.transcendusa.com/Support/Software-4.;
, In order for you to proceed with the tool download, you have to tell the web page what you’re downloading. Set “Software” for the first drop-down box titled “Select Type,” and then set “Windows” for the second one titled “Select OS.”

, Click the “Download” button to begin downloading the tool.
 Get the memory card to format. This can be your SD, MMC, or CF card.

This will only work for the listed memory cards.
 Connect the memory card to your computer. Use a memory card reader, if necessary., Go to My Computer and verify if the memory card has been recognized and detected by your computer. It should appear under external devices or removable storage section.
 The file you’ve downloaded from Part 1 is a zipped file. Locate this file from your computer. The zipped file is named RecoveRx vX.X, where X.X is the version number. Double-click this file and extract its contents to another folder.
 Go to the extracted folder and locate RecoveRx.exe. Double-click on this file to run it.


RecoveRx will load with its main menu after accepting the End-User License Agreement.
 The main menu appears as a left panel. Click on the second item titled “Format.” This will bring you to the Format utility.
 Note the drive letter of the memory card you’ve inserted from Part 2. Use the drop-down list for “Disk Drive” to set the correct drive for your memory card.
 Select the appropriate radio button for the type of card you’re formatting. It can be SD, MMC, or CF card.
 In the Format Label field, type in the new name of the memory card after formatting. This will identify your card once it’s connected to a computer.


This is optional.
 By default, a “quick format” will be done on your memory card. If you want a more secure wipe, tick either the “Optimized Format” or the “Complete Format” option.


Optimized Format securely wipes the commonly used file types on top of the basic quick format. This will take longer than the basic format.
Complete Format is the most secure way of formatting as it will slowly erase every part of your memory card. This will take the longest time.
 Click on the “Format” button on the lower right side of the tool to begin formatting. All the data inside your memory card will be deleted permanently. A progress bar will appear while the formatting is being done.


The time it will take to complete the format will vary depending on your card type, capacity, and format type.
 When the formatting is done, a success confirmation box will appear. Click the “OK” button from there to close and return to the main menu.

