 Senior dogs are at a higher risk for obesity and weight issues. You can help your older dog stay healthy and at an ideal weight by giving them raw vegetables as treats. Make sure the vegetables are cut into small pieces and only give them one treat at a time. Baby carrots, green beans, and broccoli are all good treat options for your pup.These treats are ideal because they have hardly any calories and will help your dog stay healthy. Senior dogs can also have low fiber issues so raw vegetable treats can ensure they get enough fiber in their diets.;
, Raw fruit is another healthy treat option for your dog that can be prepared easily at home. Cut up bananas, watermelon, and apples. Then, use them as treats to reward your dog for good behavior, giving them one treat at a time. Make sure there are no seeds in the fruit before you give them to your dog.You can also try frozen fruits, such as frozen blueberries or strawberries. Some dogs prefer frozen treats. As a bonus, frozen fruits can also keep your pup hydrated.
Do not give your dog grapes, as they can be toxic to dogs.
 If your dog tends to enjoy treats that have a little crunch, you can give them air popped popcorn with no butter or salt. Make sure the popcorn is small and is not too hard or tough for your dog’s teeth. You may chew a little bit of the popcorn first to make sure it is soft enough for your pup.Plain rice cakes can also make good, low calorie dog treats. Break them up into little pieces so they are easy for your dog to chew.
 If you are feeling hands on, you may try making your own healthy dog treats for your senior pet. You may make soft treats like sweet potato treats or meat treats if your dog has sensitive teeth. Or you may make milk bones for your dog, made with high quality, healthy ingredients.You can bake your own sweet potato treats using sweet potato baby food, cream of wheat, and powdered milk. Bake the treats in the oven and then give them to your dog as a healthy reward.
 Do not give your dog any foods that are going to be hard or tough on their teeth such as bones, antlers, or hooves. You can test if the treat is soft enough for your dog by pressing it with your thumb. If it leaves an imprint, it’s a safe treat for your pup. If it does not leave a mark, it is too hard for your dog’s teeth.You should avoid giving your dog any food that contains caffeine, such as chocolate or coffee, as they can be toxic for your pup.
You should also avoid giving your dog raisins or onions.
 Start by reading the label of the treats to make sure it contains ingredients that are organic and from natural sources. If there are any preservatives in the treats, they should be natural preservatives. There should not be any ingredients listed that you cannot identify, such as any chemicals or preservatives that are not natural.Avoid treats that contain artificial preservatives, colors, or additives.
Treats that contain locally sourced ingredients are ideal, as this often means the ingredients in the treats will be fresher.
 Treats that are high in fat can upset your older dog’s sensitive stomach and lead to unhealthy weight gain. Instead, go for treats that are low in fat, especially commercial treats that contain meat or meat ingredients. Check the ingredients listed on the package to ensure it lists whole meats, not just meat fat or added fat.For example, stay away from treats that list “chicken or beef fat, but no chicken or beef.” Opt for treats that are whole meat and list meat as a major ingredient.
 You should also check the list of ingredients on the label for ingredients like coconut oil, sweet potato, and chia. These ingredients help keep your dog energized and healthy.Look for antioxidants on the ingredients list, such as cranberries, blueberries, or dark leafy greens. Ingredients like pumpkin and green beans are also good for senior dogs and may be added to healthy commercial treats.
 Before you buy dog treats for your senior dog, you should do a little research on the manufacturer of the treats. Make sure there is a contact number for the manufacturer on the label as well as a website or a mailing address. You may look on the manufacturer’s website to make sure they are legitimate.


You can also search the manufacturer online to see if there are have been any negative reviews of their products or any reports of adverse effects on dogs due to their products. Check to make sure the treats are considered safe and healthy for older dogs.
Ask other pet owners about the manufacturer of the treats to see if they have had positive experiences feeding the treats to their pet.
 If you have any questions or concerns about your older dog’s health and giving them treats, you should speak to your vet. Ask your vet for recommendations for treats for your pet that will keep them healthy and happy. You may ask your vet, “What types of human food should I give my dog?” and “What types of commercial treats would you recommend for my dog?”Your vet may be able to recommend a specific treat brand or manufacturer that will suit your dog’s health needs. They may also be able to tell you which types of human food will work well for your dog’s digestion and health needs.
 You can request an allergy test from your vet for your pup. Make sure your senior dog is not allergic to dairy, gluten, corn, or soy before you give them any treats. You do not want to feed your dog any products that could lead to an allergic reaction.You should also ask your vet if your dog has any other health issues that you need to take into consideration before giving them treats. If your dog has a sensitive stomach, for example, you may avoid treats that are high in fat or sugar and opt for treats high in fiber instead.
 Ensuring that your senior dog is at a healthy weight is a good way to keep him healthy. Check your dog's weight monthly with six monthly vet health checks. Many vet clinics either have scales in the waiting area or a vet tech can weigh your dog for you.

