 Squinting can be a natural reaction to brightness but it can also be a habit that you have formed. Ask yourself whether you're squinting has caused any frustration, anxiety, or self-consciousness. Chances are that your social network has already mentioned something as they will notice it more than you because it may already have become ingrained.


Habits are formed automatically from repetition so identifying squinting as a bad habit means that you have to make a conscious effort to prevent it from occuring., Notice whenever you are squinting and evaluate the setting. Do you squint whenever you’re talking to your boss? Do you squint whenever you’re meeting someone new? Chances are there is a cue or context that brings about your squinting.Keep a journal to record when you squint. After a few weeks you will clearly be able to see a pattern unless someone has already pointed it out to you.
 Whether you developed squinting as a way to cope with stress and anxiety or simply out of childhood boredom, ask yourself why you ultimately feel the need to squint. There is always a strong emotion associated with whatever triggers your bad habit.For example, many people chew their nails because they are anxious so ask yourself what emotions you are feeling when you catch yourself squinting. The emotions may be hidden deep beneath the surface so take the time to evaluate the context. Talk to your social circle to get at the heart of the matter.
 Habits are difficult to break especially if you have been doing it most of your life. Once you know what triggers your blinking and what ultimately motivates it, make a conscious effort to replace the habit with something more positive.For example, if you squint when you are at parties because you are insecure that no one will speak to you, try smiling instead. This presents self-confident and open body language.
 Even if you only attempt to stop squinting, positive reinforcement will make each successive attempt easier. Whether it’s verbal praise or a material reward, remain positive in your pursuits.Rewards rather than penalties will make it easier to break bad habits.

