 To complete the dungeon you will need bombs, which you can purchase back in town or find around the mountain.
 Make your way up Mount Crenel and reach the Cave of Flames., Once inside, head through the door leading right. On the upper edge of the room, the wall is cracked. Use a bomb to blow it up and a new path will open, go through it., Once they are on their back kill them with your sword., Once all of the enemies are dead, the chest containing your compass will appear., From the room where you obtained the compass, head left into a room full of rupees. Be careful of the enemy hidden within and make your way through the door on the upper side of the room., Follow the tracks heading to the right., Make your way through until you reach another cracked wall on the left edge of the area. Blow it up with a bomb and pass through into room 7., Pull their masks off with your gust jar then slash them with your sword to kill them., Approach it, shrink down and travel through the door on the upper right side of the room., You'll eventually reach a room full of bats, which contains a heart piece. You can't grab the heart piece while shrunken so simply head down for now., Once inside, travel around to the left side where there is a small gap in the stones. Use it to jump down and reach the portal. Use the portal to grow back to your true size., Head up and climb back up to the upper level to grab a map from the large treasure chest., Head back down then head down across the lava. On the left side you'll see a chest and a button. Open the chest, push the button and continue down to enter the next room., Be careful since the platform will sink like the ones in the previous room., If you hit the armored enemies they will curl into a ball. In their ball form you can maneuver them into holes with your sword to allow you to pass. If you knock one into the hole in front of the treasure chest you will net yourself 50 rupees. Maneuver one into the hole nearest to all of the pots, then climb up to the next floor., Use the tornado in the room to float downward., Land in the next tornado and use it to maneuver yourself around the wall of rocks and reach the chest on the right side. Once you are over there, push the square block aside and push the chest into the hole on the second floor. Inside is a key., You will wind up back in the hallway where the mine cart left you earlier. Now that you have a key, hop back into the mine cart and ride it back to the other side., Follow the tracks and hit the switch with your sword before heading back to the cart for another ride. Once you're back in the hallway, head left until you find a door leading up., For now make your way across the tracks heading right. Blow up the wall on the downward edge of the other half of the map to grab a heart piece, then head through the door going up., You'll be attacked by a group of gray slimes. I recommend using bombs to defeat them, otherwise just hit them when they revert from their spiky appearance., A chest will appear containing the . Grab it and head left., Use your to flip over the spiky looking platform and make your way to the left side of the map., On the other side of the map, use your cane on the hole then jump in. It will launch you up to the upper level. Pressing the switch there will create a teleporter to take you back to the start., Unless you need to return to town for more bombs or something, the teleporter doesn't help you right now. Instead head through the door on the upper level., With it now in riding condition go ahead and hop in., In the new area, push the chest into the hole above and grab the key from within., It will take you back to the door containing the teleporter. Enter that room and open the locked door., In the next room, ignore the switch for now and use the stone portal to shrink. Carefully make your way through the bladed enemies to reach the door on the left side., Travel through the maze to another stone portal. Use it to grow, then carefully dodge the new bladed enemies to make it back to the mine cart. Flip it with the cane and hop in., Once you're back in the room with the green bladed enemies, flip the switch and hop in the cart once more., You should now find yourself in a room containing more of the metal ball enemies. Like before, strike them with your sword to maneuver them into the four holes on the lower-right side., Pull the stone with the switch on it by moving close and holding "R" while pressing the d-pad in the opposite direction. Get the stone into the hole on the upper-left side and hit the switch with your sword to clear the way., Jump down using the uppermost gap to claim a kinstone, then use your cane on the closest hole to launch yourself up to another chest. Once you're finished, head right., The next room contains a river of lava with more of those timed platforms. Wait for the spiky one to be headed downward, then quickly hit it with your cane before getting on. Do the same for the next two., Once you're on solid ground again, head to the edge of the path and use your gust jar to clear the pots from the next platform over., Go through and climb the stairs to the next level then hop down through the gap. Turn to the next hole, use your cane and launch up to the upper level. Hop down once more, this time on the left side. Use your cane on the hole and launch yourself into the tornado., Follow the path right and hop into the next tornado. Float in a downward direction and land on the next platform. Follow it until it returns you to the river of lava., Like before, hop over the edge and into the tornado. Float down and use your cane on the hole to launch yourself into the next tornado, float to the burning platform and use your cane on yet another hole., Launch up to the next platform, hop into the next tornado and float from tornado to tornado. On the 3rd, you'll want to float up (left takes you to another kinstone but will force you to repeat quite a few steps). Float using another tornado and land on the platform with the big chest. Within is the boss key., You can jump off of the upper part of the boss-key platform to reach a platform with a switch. Hit it to create another teleporter that will return you to the entrance., Think about going to the fairy fountain on the mountain to catch a fairy in a bottle. The boss battle can be a little hectic and hearts can be tough to come by inside., Use your key and enter the boss room., Now, the boss looks pretty menacing but he is pretty easy once you get the pattern down. Avoid his fire breath while waiting for an opening to shoot your cane at his shell., Once you successfully hit his shell with the cane, his neck will create a bridge allowing you to hit his weak point with your sword. Once he begins to shake quickly run back across his neck before he sinks back into the lava., He will stay submerged for some time just dropping rocks on you. #Rinse and repeat. After 3-4 successful rotations, he should die leaving behind the fire element and a heart container.