, In order to market your skills, you will need to have the education and experience to back up those skills.


Attend a training program at your local community college, or complete a course online.
Get some practice by working in a doctor's office, volunteering at a hospital and taking on typing work for businesses and professionals.
 Your resume is especially important if you will be applying to medical transcription jobs.


Highlight your education, experience and special awards, certifications or honors. You will want your resume to stand out among the hundreds of others each position will likely attract.



Check general sites such as CareerBuilder, Monster and SimplyHired. You should also check job boards specific to medical transcription, including MT Daily.
 There may be unadvertised openings for transcriptionists.
 The cover letter should introduce you to the hiring manager.


Explain what kind of transcription work you are looking for and why you would be a good fit. Mention any special skills, such as your typing speed, accuracy rate and ability to turn work in ahead of deadlines.
 Recruiters see impressive resumes every day, and the interview will be your best shot at really marketing your skills and talents.
 These would ideally be other physicians, medical staff or professionals who can speak of your speed and accuracy.
 This is work you can do at home, for several different clients.;
, Invest in business cards, postcards, flyers and any other promotional items you can send to healthcare professionals you want to work for.
 Use this list to send emails, make phone calls or mail information offering your services as a medical transcriptionist.


Start locally, but remember that the Internet age means you can do medical transcription for clients anywhere in the world.
 Having a site that you can direct potential clients to will help you market your services.


Explain who you are and what kind of medical transcription you specialize in. Be sure to include information on your experience, your training and your rates.
Include testimonials from satisfied clients. Medical professionals will feel better about hiring you if they know their peers are happy with your work.
 Make sure your website and marketing materials highlight your experience in the medical field.
 Be flexible so you can meet the needs of your clients and deliver on any promised deadlines or turnaround times.
 Word of mouth is a powerful marketing tool. Ask your clients to recommend you to their professional colleagues.
 Attend medical conferences, join the local Chamber of Commerce and get involved in the medical community. This will put you in front of potential clients.

