

Do you like to change the look and feel of your phone every now and then? Do you like to use third party apps if you're not satisfied with the ones that came with your phone? Do you heavily rely on Google's suite of apps(Drive,Gmail, Google Maps)? If so then consider buying an Android phone.
Do you like things the way they came? Do you want a smartphone that feels premium and also does not compromise on functionality? Do you rely on Apple's suite of apps(Apple Maps, iWork, iMessage)? If so, consider purchasing an Apple iPhone.;
, Do you prefer small, medium or big screen sizes? iPhone comes in a few standard sizes , 3.5 (diagonal) such as the iPhone 4S or the 4" (Diagonal) like the iPhone 5 and the 5S or the new larger iPhone 6 (4.7" screen) and the iPhone 6+ (5.5" screen). By contrast, Android devices come in many sizes, ranging from compact, such as the Motorola Moto G and large, such as the Nexus 6.
 Do you like the latest and greatest specs? Do you want blazing fast processing speeds and a camera with loads of megapixels? You may consider buying the top end Android smartphones or the iPhone 6+., It may not have blindingly fast processor speeds or a monstrous RAM, but it performs just as well, with seamless performance. The iPhone's UI is quite easy to use in contrast to Android, which presents a slight learning curve., No smartphone is unquestionably better than the other. There are many accessories for iPhones and Android phones alike. Looks and aesthetics of a phone matter just as much as the hardware specs of it.


Keyboard. Try to type some words using the iPhone keyboard and some with Android keyboard. Both are virtual keyboard with physical feedback(Only on Android phones) but you may find that one is better suited to your fingers and the way you type than the other.






Media: transferring media files(Music,Movies) to your iPhone is be done via iTunes (software installed on your computer that takes a while to get used to) while Android can accept files by simply connecting a USB cable to your computer. The quality of the audio depends on the specific device.






Camera: similar to Music, Android photos can be transferred from the device to the computer via USB cable while iPhone photos need iTunes or special other software. The quality of the pictures depends on the specific device.






Radio: some Android phones have built-in FM radio ,While the Apple has launched an app to simulate radio functionality.






Simple or advanced: the iPhone interface make use of a single 'Home' button and the app interface usually display a virtual 'Back' button. Android 'Back' button is sometimes physical and it has another very useful 'Details' button that usually displays advanced options. If you never look for any advanced features you will not miss this button but it often(depending on what app you use) comes in handy.
 Android updates take time as they have to be tested and customized to the manufacturer's theme. Except for the Nexus series and a few other phones, android updates take a few months after a new version has been launched. Some people want to be on the bleeding edge of technology and want the latest and greatest update as soon as it is out, others are satisfied if their phones eventually get an update and yet other simply do not bother updating at all. Consider which category you fall in, and choose your smartphone accordingly.