 If you live with your family, try to avoid common areas, such as the living room. If you live away, try to visit your family less often. Space out your phone calls or text responses more and more. Create physical distance from your family by no longer visiting or inviting them over. You only have so much energy to give and compartmentalizing the negative people in your life provides you with more energy to spend on the positive ones.If your relatives question your increasing distance, you might say, “I’ve just been really busy lately,” and leave it at that. Keep in mind that when people are used to getting a certain response from you, and suddenly they don't, it is typical for them to try harder before they give up. Be prepared for some push back when you try to distance yourself.
 If you must maintain a relationship with someone, you might consider setting up plans yourself. That way they occur on your terms, where you're comfortable, and last only for small lengths of time. If your family members ask you to do something that is harmful to well-being in any way, just say, “No.” Don’t feel the need to provide an explanation as your time is your own to spend.Of course, if you live with your parents, you are more subject to their rules and requests. So, choose carefully when saying “no” and your response will (hopefully) be taken seriously.
 If you are worried about what kind of family life you might create as a parent, lessen your fears and educate yourself by enrolling in a childcare or parenting class. The instructors will show you that a negative family cycle does not have to repeat itself. And, they will give you the tools to understand what parental actions are beneficial and which are harmful.You can find a parenting class by contacting your local hospital. They will, most likely, offer classes on a variety of parental topics. And, many of these classes are often free-of-charge for soon-to-be parents.
 If you are in school, you can go to the school counselor and it is usually free-of-charge. Sometimes it is just helpful to have an unbiased person listen to your concerns. Or, if you are concerned about modeling your relationship on that of your parents, you may want to investigate relationship counseling. You can meet with a counselor as little or as often as you like. You can attend solo or with your partner.Discussing your family history with a counselor will show you that it is not your fault that you have a negative or problematic relatives. You are only responsible for your choices and actions.
There are also lots of great books on this subject that can help you learn how to set and maintain boundaries and have healthier relationships. You can also join a support group.

