 Protein is stored in the body muscle and must be consumed daily or it will be leached from the muscle for biological repair of tissue. This results in wasting of muscle tissue and loss of strength. For this reason, it is recommended that people get all the essential amino acids needed by the body on a daily basis.

Most people in western society do not need extra protein because the western diet is rich in protein. This doesn’t mean that using protein powders is bad for your health, but that you will need to plan your diet carefully, including the protein powders as a source of nutrition.
The research is still emerging on the amount of protein needed for everyone. However, there are current recommendations for protein based on scientific evidence that everyone can use.
 of body weight. This is what the Institute of Medicine recommends for a healthy adult. These are subsistence levels for sedentary individuals, which means that if you exercise frequently, you will need more protein.


This means that a 200 lb person would need approximately 72 g of protein a day.
If you exercise at all, the minimum should be 0.8 g per pound of body weight. So, a 200 lb. human should have 160 g of protein daily, more that twice as much as sedentary individuals.
 Protein provides 4 calories per gram. So for a 2,000 calorie diet, you would eat 75 g of protein daily.


Again, this is for people who do not exercise regularly and is a minimum amount needed. Active people should get at least twice that amount of protein, or 30%.
 The extra calories you get from protein should be used to limit the amount of refined carbohydrates you eat. Refined carbs are found in high fructose corn syrup and in processed grains like white pasta.


For a healthy adult, this increase should not negatively affect the kidneys if you drink 12 (8 oz.) glasses of water daily. By increasing the amount of calories you get from protein, you should be able to lose weight while also increasing your lean body mass.
 of body weight per day if you are trying to gain muscle mass and decrease body fat percentage. When you are trying to lose weight, it is important to keep the calories you consume in mind. Just because you limit your intake of carbohydrates when trying to lose weight does not mean you can eat excessive amounts of other types of food, like proteins.


If you have any health conditions that could affect your kidneys, limit your protein intake to 0.8 g per pound of body weight and see your doctor for regular blood work to monitor your kidney function. Track your intake with smartphone applications like "Lose It!", or another free application.

