 Support groups for anxiety have two benefits: they connect you with people who understand the problem you’re trying to overcome, and they force you to practice talking to those people. In a support group, you have a nonjudgmental environment to practice new social skills, and you’ll help other people overcome similar issues at the same time.You might ask your family doctor or therapist for a recommendation to a local support group. You can also search for groups online.
 Social confidence isn’t a gift that some people are born with – it’s a skill that comes from talking to people frequently. To stop feeling awkward in social situations, it’s essential to get outside your comfort zone and interact with people more often. You might feel embarrassed at first, but the only way to improve is to practice.Start with small, low-pressure interactions, such as asking for directions or making small talk with a cashier. Work your way up to more anxiety-inducing situations, such as introducing yourself to strangers at a party.
Social skills get rusty if you don’t use them, so try to talk to someone new every day.
 When you go out, think about your surroundings and the people around you, not about how you feel. Focusing on your anxiety tends to magnify it, but if you train yourself to think about other things, you’ll feel less self-conscious.For example, if you are in conversation and find yourself worrying if the other person is judging you, focus on making them smile or telling them what you know about a certain topic. Turn your full attention to them and you'll feel less anxious about yourself.
 If you feel awkward when conversing with someone, shift the focus onto them by asking questions. Being curious about others is a great way to keep a conversation going without feeling like you have to say something interesting.Ask questions that require more than a yes or no answer. For instance, a good question might be, “How did you get into your current line of work?”
Avoid asking intrusive questions. Keep it light and positive.
 Anxiety can be tough to overcome, and you probably won’t stop feeling stupid overnight. Keep practicing, and don’t let setbacks keep you inside the house. Over time, you’ll start to feel more at ease in social situations.Reframe awkward moments as victories. If you feel uncomfortable, it means you’re making progress.

