 First you need to know, when you should even build a rescue base. It's only needed when you are losing and it will give you a second chance. But you have to realize it early that you have to build a base, because when the enemy already destroyed nearly everything it's too late.;
, Send about 20 – 50 villagers to build a base. You will need them immediately. It would be good to be in the 4th age, where you can build new town centers to make villagers.
 The location is a very important aspect. You need an area on the map that has trees to collect wood and it should be a flat area where you can build some buildings. It should also not be too near to your enemy because he is still in the advantage and he can destroy you when he finds the base too early.
 Stay with your troops at your main village to make him think you want to defend your village. Also you can keep him busy and he won't search for survivors because he wants to destroy everything. Send your villagers out of your village, where the enemy has no units. If he sees just one villager running away, he will attack him and find the others. So be sneaky.
 Do not make it too small. Use some space because you need to build mills, plantation etc because you have to keep producing resources. When the wall is built, you build a town center and about two mills. Start producing villagers to collect wood and building plantation. At the same time, normally your main village or at least your troops should have been defeated by the enemy and he will destroy everything there. So now it's time to build troops. Build barracks and stables. You won't need cannons right now, they cost too much gold. Be prepared for an attack!

, You have to build troops because when he finds the base, he will attack immediately and you have to push him back. When he attacks you, try to stay behind your walls and don't move out. Use your resources for military and build units the whole time, even when he is attacking you at the moment. If you won the fight, you "restarted" the game. Normally he will destroy you because he has more resources than you, but sometimes you can win with this strategy. You need to have some experience already to do this very effectively, but when you try, you learn and get better.


With some skill and planning you can push back really hard. It's all about time management and controlling your opponent. With these strategies you can easily win.







