 Click on your start menu at the bottom left-hand corner on your computer, select on control panel, and then click "Hardware and Sound." Under "Devices and Printers" you will see an option called "Mouse," and click on this to open your mouse properties. Once this menu opens, you will find either 5 or 6 tabs. There will be 6 tabs if you have a laptop and only 5 if you have a desktop.;
, Here you will have the option to switch the primary and secondary buttons, change the speed in which you double-click to make it easier or harder to open a file, or turn on ClickLock that gives you the ability to highlight or drag without holding down the mouse button.


There are additional settings for ClickLock. To access these, click on settings in the ClickLock section.
 In this menu option you will have the ability to change the image you see during specific Windows events. There are many predefined "Schemes" for you to choose from, and you have the ability to preview each mouse pointer icon by clicking on it. You can also enable a shadow for your pointer and give your computer the authorization to change mouse pointers when you change the theme. If you click on "Browse," you will also be able to choose from other pointer icons.
 Here you will be able to select a faster or slower pointer speed, and you can enhance the precision of the pointer. The "Snap To" option will ensure that the mouse automatically moves the pointer to the default button found in a dialog box. The "Visibility" settings allow you to display long or short pointer trails, hide the pointer while you're typing, and also show the location of the pointer when you press the control key.
 In this menu option, you will be able to adjust the vertical and horizontal scrolling. Vertical scrolling allows you to roll the center wheel on the mouse in order to scroll down a page. You can set up the number of lines you'd like the page to scroll for each wheel revolution or you can set it up to scroll an entire screen at a time. The horizontal scrolling is a little more difficult to master as you tilt the wheel to the side. This will allow you to move horizontally and make it easier to edit the words in a document.
 Here you can change the device you are using so that your computer is recognizing which mouse you'd like to use. You can view the properties of the mouse to ensure that it is working properly, update the driver, and change the settings.
 This option is only required if you use a laptop touchpad as your mouse. It will tell you to "Click to Change Touchpad Settings." Click and then follow the instructions to change your touchpad settings.
