 Your brain can eliminate electrical signals that cause negative emotions by thinking about your boyfriend’s anger in another light. Try saying to yourself, “He must be having a bad day today”. By consciously taking a different view on the anger, you can choose to change your emotional response and avoid becoming negative as well.It’s not always easy to feel empathy for a person who is being mean and angry, but by choosing to reframe their anger you keep yourself from becoming defensive.
Try saying phrases such as “He’s doing the best he can,” or “This is just the way he copes”. This way, you don’t feel as if you are to blame for the issue.
Just because you reframe his anger does not mean that you have to accept it. Once you recognize that you are not to blame, find healthy ways to deal with it such as setting boundaries or walking away until a later time.
 Often, your boyfriend’s words can leave you feeling angry, frustrated, afraid, or feeling powerless. Avoid these feelings by accepting yourself and the way you have chosen to deal with your boyfriend’s anger. Have an inner dialogue with yourself where you tell yourself it’s okay to not be able to fix your boyfriend’s anger.For example, if you are feeling guilty because you have told your boyfriend you can’t do something for him, tell yourself, “I wish I could have helped, and I know he will continue to be angry, but I need to take care of myself”.
 When your boyfriend is mean and angry it can cause you to become angry as well. Without noticing it, you may began to “egg on” or “nitpick” at your boyfriend, further provoking him. Pay attention to your language and nonverbal language to make sure you are not projecting your own anger onto your boyfriend.Avoid statements that start with “You always,” and avoid using criticism and sarcasm about your boyfriend’s behavior. These statements are based on anger and blame and only add fuel to the fire.
Try making a list of your boyfriends triggers (or things that make him upset) and observe how your behaviors set him off.
Don’t feed on his or your anger. Make a conscientious effort to not push his buttons on purpose.
 Use I statements to take responsibility for your feelings and behaviors without making your boyfriend feel as if you’re blaming him. Talk about your feelings to the best of your ability by using statements such as “I feel hurt when you say mean things to me”. Avoid sentences that begin with “You always…” as it can come off in a blaming manner.Practice using “I” statements over and over in times when you aren’t angry so it becomes natural and part of your vocabulary.
By sharing your feelings in this manner, you not only express your emotions but you increase intimacy.
This method can help to diffuse anger and move towards focusing on what you want to happen, instead of focusing on hurtful words.

