 This form should be used if you think you might be eligible for the additional child tax credit, or if any of your qualifying children have an Individual Tax Identification Number.Before you fill out this form, you need to have completed either the worksheet in Publication 972 or the worksheet accompanying your 1040 or 1040A.
 Part I determines whether those children meet the substantial presence test to qualify for the credit.Children identified by an ITIN must be physically present in the U.S. for at least 31 days during the tax year, and 183 days during the three-year period including the tax year and the two years before.
When calculating whether the child was present for at least 183 days, not all the days the child was present in the country count. For purposes of the substantial presence test, the three-year period includes all days the child was present in the country during the tax year, one-third of the days the child was present in the year before that, and one-sixth of the days the child was present in the earliest of the three years.If all the children you claimed as qualifying children for the child tax credit have SSNs, you should skip Part I.
 Part II of Schedule 8812 is completely separate from Part I.


Enter the amount from the sixth box of the worksheet in the 1040 instructions, or the amount from the eighth box of the worksheet in Publication 972 on the first line of Part II.On the second line of Part II, enter the amount of the child tax credit you claimed on line 52 of Form 1040,line 35 of Form 1040A,or line 49 of Form 1040NR.Subtract the second line from the first line and enter the result on the third line. If the result is zero or a negative number, you aren’t eligible for the additional child tax credit and don’t need to fill out the rest of the form. If the number is greater than zero, you still could potentially be eligible for the additional child tax credit and must continue to the next step., Publication 972 has a separate Earned Income Worksheet for 1040, 1040A, and 1040NR filers.


Enter the amount of earned income you calculate on that worksheet on the line labeled 4A.
Any nontaxable combat pay you’ve received from the military goes on line 4B.
 You’ll compare your earned income on line 4A to $3,000 to find the fifth line.


If you have earned income of less than $3,000, you’ll leave the fifth line blank and enter a zero on the sixth line.
If your earned income is more than $3,000, you’ll subtract $3,000 from the amount you entered on line 4A as earned income and enter the result on the fifth line.
Multiply the amount you entered on the fifth line by .15 and enter that amount on the sixth line.
If you entered zero on the sixth line and you have fewer than three qualifying children, you cannot claim the additional child tax credit.
If you entered a number greater than zero on the sixth line and you have fewer than three qualifying children, your additional child tax credit will be either the number on the sixth line or the number on the third line, whichever is smaller.
If you have three or more qualifying children and the amount you entered on the sixth line is greater than or equal to the amount you entered on the third line, the amount you entered on the third line will be your additional child tax credit.
If you have three or more qualifying children and the amount you entered on the sixth line is less than the amount you entered on the third line, you must fill out Part III of the worksheet., If you are married and filing jointly, add your spouse’s to yours and enter the total.


If you paid Additional Medicare Tax or Tier 1 RRTA taxes, you need to complete the appropriate worksheet in Publication 972 and enter the resulting amount on the seventh line.
 This item only applies to taxpayers filing a 1040 or a 1040NR. If you’re filing a 1040A, enter a zero.


If you’re filing a 1040, this is the total of any deductible self-employment tax you entered on line 27 and unreported Social Security or Medicare tax you included on line 58, as well as any taxes you paid that you entered on line 60 using the code “UT.”If you’re filing a 1040NR, you entered these same taxes on lines 27, 58, and 60 of your form., This amount represents other taxes you paid that weren’t included in the previous calculation.,, Subtract the amount on the tenth line from the amount on the ninth line, and enter the result on the eleventh line.


Compare the amount you entered on the eleventh line to the amount you entered on the sixth line. Enter the larger number on the twelfth line.
Compare the amount you just entered on the twelfth line to the amount you entered on the third line. The smaller of those two numbers is your additional child tax credit.