 To make this tasty macaroni and cheese dish on the stove, you'll need dry elbow macaroni, salt, vegetable oil, butter, flour, milk, and shredded cheddar cheese.


;
, The water should be at least 3–4 inches (7.6–10.2 cm) below the rim of the pot. Set the stove burner to medium-high for best results. Add a pinch of salt to the water. You need plenty of water in the pot to give the macaroni enough room to cook and expand. If you don't have enough water, the macaroni will get lumped together and won't cook nearly as well.
 Pour in the macaroni and stir it around to keep it from sticking. Cook the pasta for about 8 minutes, or until it's "al dente" -- that is, tender, but still chewy, and definitely not mushy. Try a piece with a fork (carefully) in order to see if it's ready before turning off the stove. Stir every 1-2 minutes to desired taste or until tender. Just make sure to check the instructions on the box of pasta you are using, because some types of pasta take longer to cook than others.
 Once all the water has drained, return the macaroni to the pot and set it on an oven mitt or the stove top (just make sure the burner beneath it is turned off!) to let it cool.
 When the butter has melted into the oil, add flour and mix it well with a whisk (a fork or slotted spoon will also work). Continue to gently stir this mixture for about three minutes, or until it's smooth and begins to turn light brown. This is the beginning of the sauce you will use over the cooked macaroni. You can also begin to make the sauce while the noodles are cooking to save time.
 You can also use a fork or a slotted spoon. Let this mixture cook for a few minutes, stirring it frequently, until it reaches a low boil (bubbles reach the surface, but don't break immediately) and starts to thicken. Make sure you have fully incorporated the ingredients in the mixture.
 Continue stirring until all the cheese has melted.
 Carefully taste the sauce, putting it on a spoon and waiting for it to cool down a bit before you try it. Then, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, or any other spices you'd like to use until the sauce is perfectly delicious. Stir the sauce more to fully add the seasonings to it.
 Gently stir until the macaroni is completely coated in sauce.
 Enjoy this tasty dish on its own, with a healthy salad, or with a piece of chicken or another protein of your choice. You can also add some meat, such as chicken or pancetta, to the macaroni to add another layer to this delicious meal. Macaroni and cheese is pretty hearty, so you won't have to put too much else on your plate!




