 Do not wear anything too revealing, wear clothes that look decent. Make a good impression by meeting them well dressed from the start; this shows respect for your friend's parents and for yourself.
 If you want to be comfortable, try clothing that fits close to the body so you're not completely baggy. Don't wear anything too tight either; this can seem too revealing.
 Have good personal hygiene and wear a pleasant scent. Memories of a pleasant smell subtly implant a positive view.
 When meeting your friend's parents for the first time, use your manners and show respect for everyone and everything.
 Show that you are interested in what the parents have to say and do not act as if all you would like to do is rush away.
 If your friend asks you to make a sandwich or go out for a minute, make sure you ask her or his parents first.

The most easiest and important part of making your friend's parent like you is using your manners. Always remember to thank them if they give you things to eat and say please before you ask for something. Parents will love you for this.
, Parents hate hearing swearing from children; in fact most adults probably won't like you if you cuss. Even if the parent swears in front of you, do not join in.
 Don't be too shy, or you will leave them uncertain about you. However, don't be too outspoken. If their opinions differ from yours, respect that and avoid getting into opinionated arguments., You'll look respectful if you ask for things and ask if it's okay to use facilities in their home.

However, don't ask if you can use the bathroom every time you need it, or every time you want a glass of water. They don't want to be constantly bothered by you.
 Parents love talking about their kids, most times and if your parents all get along well, you'll get to spend even more time with your friend., Parents will sometimes listen in on their kids' conversations, if you know they are listening discuss appropriately, or laugh with your friend to implant in their mind that you are good friends.
 Once you get the know the parents well, you'll know the boundaries and how much you can be yourself without having to maintain a stiff outer appearance around them. This will become evident to you in time, so just go with the flow, being super polite at first and then relaxing into the accepted standards that are evident within the household.
 Be playful with your friend's siblings., Act innocent and be like a perfect angel, even if you aren't., Period. Nothing worse than doing drugs, and your friend's parents probably won't want their offspring hanging with somebody who wants to follow in Snoop Dog's footsteps.,,