 You can use any small, pointed object, such as a toothpick or a pin. Make the hole wide enough that liquid inside the egg can flow out but not big enough that the egg cracks. Be sure to do this over a bowl or cup to avoid making a mess!;
, Wiggle your toothpick or pin gently from side to side. Make sure your toothpick or pin is long enough that it reaches at least halfway inside the egg. You may need to repeat this step if you have trouble getting all of the egg out of its shell. If you get any of the liquid on your hands, do not touch your clothing or near your mouth. Raw egg can carry bacteria called Salmonella that can make you very sick., It is generally best to blow on the more pointed end of the egg. Try to get as much of the egg’s contents out as you can. Be careful not to let your lips actually touch the shell! Under no circumstances should you attempt to suck the egg out. Remember that raw egg can make you sick!, If you are gentle enough, you can hold the eggshell under a faucet and allow water to flow through the shell. However, an easier alternative is to hold the eggshell in a bowl of warm, soapy water. Be sure to wash your hands and disinfect anything the raw egg may have touched!

, The next step will be easier if you tape the bottom. Any type of tape you happen to have should be fine. Don’t use too much tape or your smoke bomb won’t explode properly!

, You may need to widen the hole for the funnel to fit. If so, use the same tool you used to make the hole to gently chip a little more shell away. Be very careful not to crack the egg!

, You have a few relatively safe choices for your filling. The easiest is plain white flour or talcum (“baby”) powder. You can also make more colorful smoke bombs using dyed flour or crushed sidewalk chalk.If you have trouble with this step, ask someone to hold the egg upright for you while you hold the funnel and pour.
 The harder you throw, the bigger your smoke cloud will be. If you don’t want to use your smoke bomb right away, it can be stored for later use. The carton your eggs came in can be a convenient container!








