 Make the office look like Christmas for starters. That's a big lead in to spreading and building the cheer pre-party.;
, This will lighten up the atmosphere a lot without drowning out conversation. Try to steer clear of the dull Christmas music though; find music that rocks. There will always be one party-pooper who grumbles about whatever you choose; just ignore them.
 There is usually a lot of alcohol (some of it not so good) but the food is often neglected. For many workplaces, people are really tired by this time of the year and they've been snacking a lot rather than eating well. Consider putting out healthy and delicious food. It's not only tempting but it becomes a talking piece and livens people a lot.
 You might even need to let them in on their role as conversation facilitators. There will always be a few really quiet or restrained folks who need some nudging to join in the conversation. Chat with them first before their negative wishes that they'd rather be somewhere else take over the atmosphere.
 Think about things that are doable in the area where you are having the party, such as quoits, darts, pin the tail on the donkey, pass the parcel, croquet, whatever. Just have some fun and childish distractions around that can add to the entertainment and enthuse some parts of the party.
 Enthuse people to have a hug under it. No need for enforced kissing at work parties but a hug can go a long way to goodwill and lots of laughter.
 Don't waffle on about the organization - talk about how much you have appreciated working with everyone and say at least one good point about each person in that room. It starts everything with a wonderful, warm, glowing feeling.
 Some of the reticence to enjoy the night might stem from fear of traveling home later in the dark, or lacking transport, or being inebriated. Alleviate these concerns with a once-a-year free trip home after the party.
 This is always a fun one - a gift for a token amount for each person from someone unknown. You can even try such themes as "recycled", "work-related", "useful", "frivolous" etc.
 Have the top boss dress up as Santa and ho, ho, ho for a bit. Maybe even hand out bonuses or certificates of achievement. This will surely make everyone laugh.
 Encourage it by making a space and having decent music.

