 Start his day off right by surprising him with coffee and a nice breakfast in the morning, especially if he has a busy day ahead. Though you will likely also have your own work and career commitments, it may help to begin the day on a high note by making coffee and a quick breakfast for both of you. This way, you can both have a meal together before you go your separate ways for the day.


You can make him a breakfast sandwich for a quick meal on the go or prepare yogurt and granola with fresh fruit. If your husband tends to leave in a hurry in the morning, you may want to make him a breakfast smoothie so he can have it on his way to work and start the day off with a high energy meal.
 Make your husband’s day that much smoother by giving him a prepared lunch to take with him to work. This could be a sandwich and cut up fruit or chips, or left overs from dinner the night before. Not only will this save him a few dollars at lunch time, it will also remind him that you care about him and want to ensure he is eating properly.


If your husband tends to eat the same thing every day or skip lunch altogether, consider surprising him with take out from his favorite restaurant at work or stopping by his office to take him out for a quick lunch. He will likely appreciate your thoughtfulness and enjoy a nice lunch out with you for a change.
 If your husband has a long drive to work, with lots of early morning traffic, consider giving him a mix for him to listen to on his morning commute. This could be a collection of his favorite low key tracks or new songs that you think he will enjoy. You can burn the songs onto a mix cd or secretly put the mix onto his phone or music player.


To make a good mix he will enjoy, you may want to think about artists he loves to listen to around the house or when you are both together. You can also look for new music online or ask his friends for new music they think he may enjoy. Customizing a mix just for him will make him feel special and show him you want him to have a great start to his day.
 Think of his favorite meal that you make at home or his favorite meal when you eat out, such as lasagna, curry, or even elk burgers. Replicate his favorite meal and have it ready for him when he gets home from work. This will give him a nice surprise after a long day and put an instant smile on his face.If his favorite meal is take out, order it in advance and have it ready for when he gets home. You may also suggest that you go eat out at his favorite restaurant as a special date.

