 You're likely to be nervous about your audition regardless of how well you prepare; however, being well prepared can help you feel confident that you're not missing anything. It can help you avoid worry and stress at the last minute.;
, Make sure you don't miss anything out. Ignoring the small print could result in disaster when you show up in full costume when it was clearly specified not to.
 Sometimes directors will give out a monologue for you to perform and sometimes you may have to prepare one yourself. Go for a monologue that goes with the kind of play you're auditioning for. For example, if you are auditioning for Hamlet, you wouldn't pick out a monologue from Hairspray.
 Find as much time as you can for practicing. Read a line a few times then put down your paper and try to repeat it as far as you can go. Remember, don't just say the lines, act them! The director/s are looking at your ability to portray a character, not to simply stand there and read a couple lines.
 However, don't spend the whole night dwelling and stressing. If you've prepared well in the previous weeks, you won't need to do much last-minute rehearsal. After a few practice runs, put your script or notes away and try to clear your head.
 Doing something physical can help divert your attention and get your mind off the stress.
 Make sure you don't have anything too heavy as you don't want to wake up the next morning with a stomach ache.
 Avoid watching TV, as this works up the brain and makes it harder to sleep. Set your alarm to go off at least two hours before your audition if it is in the morning. Set it for earlier if the audition area is a long way from your home.
 This will get your blood pumping and will wake you up faster. Another good idea would be to splash cold water on your face.
 Don't skip breakfast, as it is the most important meal of the day. It will give you your needed energy. Eat something healthy and avoid fast food or pizza

, Get to your audition at least 15 minutes early unless it is impossible. This will show the director that you are organised and keen to audition.
 Remember that whatever you are going to do you are going to do great! The directors will be impressed and you will feel much better with yourself.


When you are on stage, introduce yourself and explain what monologue you are doing. Don't talk too much; remember, there are other people.
When the director tells you to go on, look down at your feet and get into character. Then, suddenly, transform and show the director that the person standing on stage is completely different than the one they just spoke to.
 Focus on the words and emotions, rather than where you are or what you're doing. If you are embarrassed, then focus on something in the room and avoid looking at the audience.