 This option is available in Microsoft Word for Mac and Windows. Instead of printing an entire Microsoft Word document, select the content or images you wish to print. You may only make one selection at a time.;
,, Mac users may use the shortcut ⌘ Command+P; Windows users may use the shortcut Ctrl+P.
 Mac users may find “Selection” in the “Pages” section; Windows users may find “Selection” in the “Page Range” section. The preview on the right of the dialog box should only display the text and/or graphics you highlighted.
 Your selected text will print., This option is available in Microsoft Word for Mac and Windows.
, Mac users may use the shortcut ⌘ Command+P; Windows users may use the shortcut Ctrl+P

, Mac users will find “Current Page” in the “Pages” section; Windows users will find “Current Page” in the “Page Range” section. The print preview will only show one page.
 Your current page (and only your current page) will print., This option is available in Microsoft Word and Google Docs for Mac and Windows. This print feature is useful when you need to print several, nonconsecutive sections from a document.
 The pages do not need to be consecutive.
 Mac users may use the shortcut ⌘ Command+P; Windows users may use the shortcut Ctrl+P.
 If you are using Google Docs, click on the circular button next to the text box that reads: “e.g. 1-5, 8, 11-13”.
 Separate individual pages or page ranges with commas and place a dash (-) between the first and last pages of a range.


For example: “1, 3-5, 10, 17-20”, “5, 11-12, 14-16”, or “10, 29”.,, Your selection (and only your selection) will now print., This option is available in Microsoft Word and Google Docs for Mac and Windows. This print feature is useful when you need to print a selection of consecutive pages from a document.
, Mac users may use the shortcut ⌘ Command+P; Windows users may use the shortcut Ctrl+P.



If you are using Google Docs, click on the circular button next to the text box that reads: “e.g. 1-5, 8, 11-13”. In the text box, type the first page you would like to print, insert a dash (-), and then enter the last page of the document you would like to print.
If you are using Microsoft Word for Mac, click on the circular button to the left of “From:”. Enter the first page in the text box to the right of “From”. Enter in the last page in the text box to the right of “To:”.
, Your page selections will print.