 Many ferret owners love their pets but get frustrated by their smell, which can be quite strong. Bathing ferrets can be a good way to combat odor, but only if it's done following proper protocol.


Bathing a ferret too often can actually make the smell worse. Bathing strips oils from a ferret's skin and oil glands go into overdrive to replace what's been lost. This result in added stink. Ferrets should not be bathed more than once a month.Ferret smells are actually more often related to a ferret's bedding, cage, and blankets than to the ferret itself. Try washing these items before bathing your ferret to rule them out as the primary cause of smell.Ferrets become itchy and uncomfortable when bathed too often. If your ferret is itching frequently and appears otherwise distressed, you might want to cut back on how often you're bathing him.;
, All your supplies should be ready before you bring your ferret to the tub or sink. To bathe a ferret, you will need:


Shampoo. Choose a shampoo specifically made for ferrets. Shampoos made for other animals can easily dry out a ferrets skin and cause him discomfort. Depending on your ferret's needs, choose a shampoo right for him. If he's not well behaved during bathing, for example, get tearless shampoo in case shampoo gets in his eyes. If he has fleas, special shampoos that kill flees are available. Ferret shampoo can be purchased online or from a pet store.If you want, you get conditioner for your ferret. This replenishes the oils lost in bathing. Once again, be sure to select a conditioner specifically made for ferrets.A towel should be available to dry the ferret after the bath. Ferrets get cold quickly, so you may want to put the towel in the dryer before the bath so it's warm to the touch afterwards.
 A ferret's normal body temperature is between 101 and 103 degrees Fahrenheit. Water that feels lukewarm to you is cold for a ferret. Fill the tub or sink with water that is warm to the touch but not boiling. Go for the water temperature you would want when taking a hot bath.