 Find a memorable quote about dogs or friendship and get it inscribed on a dog bowl. The dog lover on your list will never forget this unique gift., You can find sophisticated dog training tools that help to train a dog’s memory, communication, empathy, reasoning, and other cognitive skills. Some tools test and train for specific cognitive skills. If you are purchasing a gift for a dog lover who seems to already have almost everything, you might want to purchase a new training tool., If the dog lover in your life has a hard time getting home from work to walk the dog on certain days and you are available, you could offer dog sitting. Make a card that says “Free dog walking.” They will be happy to receive such a useful gift, which they may otherwise have to purchase. In addition, it will be more meaningful for a friend to walk their dog than a professional.
 If you know they are planning to go away on a vacation in the near future, give them a cat sitting certificate. Make a nice card that says “Free cat sitting” and tell them your availability for cat sitting. This is a meaningful and practical gift for a cat lover in your life.
 You can find hamster themed mugs online or at your local pet store. Find a hamster mug for the pet lover in your life., If the pet lover in your life has a new hamster, you could get them a hamster themed shirt. You could also order a customized shirt online or at a local clothing store with the name of the hamster on the back., Art prints inspired by animals can be found at local art and poster stores. For example, the artist William Wegman has been painting dogs for decades and you can purchase prints of Wegman dogs online or at local poster stores., If the pet lover already seems to have most of the essentials, you could give them money to donate to an animal sanctuary of their choice. You could also research local animal sanctuaries and include information on what they do in your gift envelope.
 Hire a professional photographer to shoot a portrait photograph of their dog. They may have many photographs of their dog but they will be unlikely to own a professionally photographed portrait of their companion animal. You can find wedding and other professional photography companies that offer pet portrait services. Search online for a pet photographer in your region.