 There are some serious challenges to being a single parent. You’re likely often tired and distracted by responsibilities. Don’t allow yourself to slack on providing emotional support and consistent discipline for your child.The most important aspect of supporting your child is simply being there for them. Talk with your children about school and what's going on in their lives every day, even if only for a few minutes.
With children young and old, talk about what they want to be when they grow up. This can lead to heartfelt, fun conversations.
Tell children stories from you own childhood.
Don’t allow a sense of guilt from not being as available as you’d like to lead you to overcompensate by spoiling your children.
Be clear with your kids about what’s expected of them at home, including helping with chores and following the rules. Enforce these expectations to provide children with a sense of structure that helps them feel safe and comfortable.
 This can be a significant challenge, but adjusting your schedule, or even your job, is worth it if it means maintaining a happier, healthier family., Since you’re doing something alone that two people often do together, you’ll likely end up becoming frustrated from time to time. Granted, as a single parent, you can’t dump your kids off on a partner to wander off and calm down.When you feel your blood begin to boil – and it does, for everyone – check yourself.
Don’t allow yourself to yell at your children regularly. It will damage your relationship with them and normalize anger and stress in your lives.
Instead, count to ten. You’ll feel better more quickly than you think. You’ll then approach the situation in way you won’t regret.
When feeling overwhelmed, don’t feel as though you can’t let your children know. Share your frustrations with your children instead of taking it out on them.
It’s actually healthy for your kids to see you as human, handling adversity and sadness, which they too will face.
 If necessary, speak honestly with your child. Remind them that things will get better, and tell them you love them.You want them to know they can talk to you when they’re frustrated, so do so with them!
Try to lighten a tense mood, for everyone’s sake, with an attempt at humor.
The quality of your joke won’t matter. As long as it’s a positive and cheerful gesture your child will register those connotations and be comforted.
 Schedule time for yourself from time to time. Allow a family member or trusted friend to watch you kids for an evening so you can catch some leisure time.Don’t use “you time” to do chores or catch up on work – that defeats the point of making time for yourself.
Plan out something fun you’ve been wanting to do beforehand, and look forward to it. This may even include some quiet time alone.
Keep track of how to enjoy yourself. You want to be able to model enjoyment and contentment for your children.
 First and foremost, only date people who only ever treat you and your partner with respect. Don’t cut into time with your children to go on dates – try to do so on time you schedule for yourself, or during the day when your kids are occupied.Carefully consider the impact of dating someone on your relationship with your children.
Wait to introduce a new romantic partner to your children until you’ve developed a solid relationship with them.
Don't expect your children to immediately be fond of your romantic partner. Give them to time to get to know one another, and know that someone new in close proximity to you will take some getting used to for children of any age.
 If and when your child wants to do so, be ready to talk with them about why their other birth parent is no longer part of the picture. Since most single-parent homes are the result of divorce or other type of unexpected separation, the change will likely have led to feelings of unhappiness, sadness, and anger for your children.
Allow your children to convey the feelings they have about whatever happened.
Answer any questions your children have openly and honestly, but avoid unnecessary or traumatic details, and refrain from speaking poorly of their other birth parent.
Reassure your children that a separation was not their fault.
Offer to bring your children to a counselor who can help you both face the feelings that might arise following a separation, even long after it occurred.

