 You can assign any Genes you'd like, as they don't affect the strategy too much. A few recommended Genes include:


DNA Gene - Metabolic Jump
Travel Gene - Native Biome/Teracyte
Evolution Gene - Sympto-Stasis
Mutation Gene - Genetic Mimic
Environment Gene - Extremophile (Or any unlocked);
, China is one of the most ideal starting locations when you need to spread quickly as it has one of the highest populations, and infects surrounding countries quickly. China's airport and harbor mean the virus spreads to other countries quicker and easier.
 The virus will mutate quickly, so you need to be ready to devolve any lethal symptoms if they appear too soon.
 These will help spread your virus as quickly as possible, which is important as you are racing against your own mutations. Focus on the following symptoms first:


Rash
Skin Lesions
Sweating
Sneezing
Coughing

, You need to spread the plague fast before the mutating starts, so start working on some basic transmission abilities. Upgrading Air and Water makes your virus effective in crossing countries by airplane or ships. Evolve the following transmissions, in order:


Air 1
Water 1
Drug Resistance 1
Air 2
Water 2
Extreme Bioaerosol

, Return to your Symptoms screen and load up on every symptom you can that's not lethal.
 Make sure that you are always devolving lethal symptoms before they have a chance to cause too much damage.
 You'll want to start hardening your virus to help it travel to more hostile climates as well as slow down the cure. Evolve the following:


Cold 1
Heat 1

, You'll want to start actively spreading the virus now, and a large portion of China as well as some other countries should be infected. Evolve the following:


Bird 1 and 2
Livestock 1 and 2
Blood 1 and 2

, It's time to get a little lethal. Evolve a few symptoms that have minor lethality, such as Paralysis or Coma. These will give you access to the really deadly symptoms.
 Before you unleash the full effects of the virus, make it a little more resistant to slow down the cure. Evolve the following:


Genetic Hardening 1 and 2

, At this point, most of the world should be infected and you should have a large reserve of DNA points. Load up on the symptoms with low-lethality, and keep upgrading your transmission capabilities.
 You don't want to go full-lethal until everyone in the world has been infected. If you start too soon, the sick will die off before they can infect the last healthy people.
 Once everyone is infected, it's time to let loose with every lethal symptom you can evolve. Start with Total Organ Failure and Necrosis, and move on to Internal Hemorrhaging and other highly-lethal symptoms.
 If the cure starts sneaking up on you, use the Genetic ReShuffle ability to slow down the progress. You likely won't need to worry too much about the cure, but it may be an issue if you had difficulty spreading the infection early on.

