 Search for terracotta in earth tones with a rough texture. For example, look for burnt orange and dark brown pieces of suns and animals. You should also avoid items with a gloss. The more home-crafted it looks, the better.This type of terracotta pairs well with brightly painted walls and colorful tapestries. Try placing these pieces in a room with an azure blue accent wall or in a dining area with a hand woven rug.
;
, Go for terracotta with painted designs or engravings. Look for large vases with brightly colored gloss. Often times, these items will appear rustic with chipping paint and rough patches. You can also find intricate pitchers, bowls, and Tuscan or Greek inspired pottery.If you have any mosaic tile in your home, especially in blues and whites, Mediterranean inspired terracotta is an ideal accent.
 If you can't decide on one style or another, try picking a few pieces from each. For example, the dark, rough-edged terracotta of a Southwestern-inspired candleholder can be a great contrast to the glossy finish of Mediterranean pottery. You can also try matching color palettes to help mesh the style. Pair a light orange vase with a rustic pink statue.
 Terracotta vases come in a multitude of styles and sizes. Go for a large Grecian urn or a small Navajo inspired pot and put them alongside a side table. Or pair a painted, mosaic style pitcher with a burnished clay bowl. Set these items alongside your doorway. You can even fill them full of sprawling vines, small succulents, or umbrellas., A subtle way to work in terracotta is through light fixtures. Not only is it practical, but it's a decor piece that can add a rustic feel without overtaking a room. Try an engraved sconce with simple geometric patterns. Or, make a statement with something figurative and playful, like Kokopelli or a sun face.


If you have a minimalistic room or a space with very little decorating area, try brightly painted terracotta sconces to add a pop of color and design.
 Place traditional Navajo or Mayan clay masks alongside family portraits or paintings. These rough, hand-made items work as a great contrast next to sleek modern picture frames. You can also try hanging brightly painted suns and stars from Mexico next to black and white photos to bring in pops of color.
 Whether you are growing vegetables, flowers, or a myriad of other greenery, terracotta statues can add a point of interest to any garden. For example, add a trio of medium sized terracotta fish to a bed of lavender or geraniums. Not only will the burnt-orange pop against the purple of the flowers, but the fish will appear to be swimming.


Or, instead of a garden gnome, set a small terracotta warrior to stand guard next to your tomatoes or spiraling cucumbers.
 When looking to add flower pots to your deck or patio, trade in the stone or porcelain for terracotta. Not only does terracotta breath easier, but the porosity of the clay allows moisture to penetrate the pot, giving your plants lots of much-needed nutrients. If you have a cement patio or light colored wooden deck, try the traditional orange colored pots. Put them in corners or along stairs. On the other hand, if you have a darker colored deck, try a painted terracotta in a distressed white or cream.Fill these up with flowers of contrasting colors like blues, purples, and yellows.
You don’t have to stick with the traditional smooth terracotta planter either, go for pots that mimic Grecian urns and are carved into intricate patterns.
 An easy design trick is making outdoor collages or murals with miniature planters. Line these pots up in large geometric patterns like squares, circles, or even stars. You can place them on fences around pools or yards, or even on the back wall of your home. Leave them with their common orange color or paint them different shades to stand out against their backdrop. For example, if you have a white picket fence, use the reddish hues of the pots to create a striking pattern that you can see from far away.


Fill these pots with either flowers or herbs!

