 If you receive a monthly bill, included with it will likely be a record of your phone calls and text messages for the last billing cycle.


If you do not yet have an urgent need for your cell phone records but feel you may have use of them in the future, store them in a safe and secure place.
The record should include certain basic information, including the date, the time the call was placed, the duration of the call, and (in some cases) any special features that were activated during the call (for example, in-call recording).;
, Most cell phone companies allow you to access the same information online that you would get in along with any physical billing statement, but you must have an online account to see your records.Register for an account on your cell phone provider's website if you have not already done so. You may have to create a unique username (some will allow you to use your telephone number or an email address) and password. The process may go faster if you have your account information at hand.
After logging in, look for options such as anything labelled "Call Details" or "Call Records." If such options are not available on the opening screen, you may need to look for headings that include words such as "Usage." Understand, however, that certain proxies will only inform you of outgoing calls. If you need a full phone record--including the incoming calls for which many plans no longer charge--then your usage record may not do.
 If you have lost the records sent to you or cannot locate the records online, the best remaining option is to contact your phone provider. They are mandated by law to keep the records, and should be able to provide them to anyone who can prove that they are the main account holder.


Be prepared to provide personal information that will assist the customer service representative in identifying your account, including your account number, cell phone number, current home address, and possibly the last four digits of your social security number.
Because your cell phone provider should have provided this information to you in a monthly statement, they may charge you a fee for providing this information to you again.
 If you are trying to identify who is responsible for the harassing robocalls or calls of a stalker but the caller's number only appears as "unknown," they are actively blocking your caller ID. The actual number won't even show up on most phone records. In this case, contact the phone company and ask that "trap" be put on your phone. This will identify all numbers that call you and unblock your caller ID. The number will no longer appear on your phone records as "unknown," and the people responsible can be identified.