 Take out and open up a fresh clean diaper from the diaper package. Prepare the elastic siderail cuffguards (more often called/nicknamed leakguards). Make sure that the sides of the diaper aren't stuck together or stuck to the diaper itself.;
, As long as the item you can pour is a liquid, you can choose whatever you feel like using. However, for availability, tap water works wonders. You will need quite a bit of this liquid, so collect about 2-3 cups worth for estimating the amount of a potentially heavy-wetting situation(you never want to assume a light situation, as most don't recognize they've wet until it's too heavy and saggy). Think in terms of heavy accident quantity-equivalents when estimating how much you'll need to use to perform the task - so the more, the better!

, Do not let any of the liquid cross-contaminate the outside edge of the diaper or become lost in the process when pouring instead. If you can reach the hand that is holding the cup down into the crevices of the diaper (to get a more-precise aim with the liquid without causing your hands to get super-dirty and gross), try to pour it directly onto the entire containment zone inside the diaper

, Hold one of your hands in an open position and flat and position your fingers tightly together(almost as if you were asking someone nearby for money). You're hands need to be applying firm pressure but able to squeeze the diaper for several seconds. The diaper will be waterlogged and some may potentially leak out a little. If the diaper is so waterlogged that it spews the liquid out the diaper's external sides (sometimes called the diaper's leakguards), this diaper might not last on most wearers and you'll have to discard this diaper.
 Walk over towards a toilet or another water-absorbent object you can squish the diaper out to be. Your hand must be almost or completely flat. Make sure the back side of the diaper is facing your hand.
 Hold it by the diaper's waistline portion as close as you can by only your one hand, as you'll need to use the other hand for another part of the task that must be performed at exactly the same time.
 Wrap your hand to form a cup-styled figure around the bottom edge of the diaper, and squeeze the diaper tight. Do not squeeze it so tight that you see any of the gel materials squeeze out from it, as it will be losing valuable pieces to the absorption item which will negate part of the qualitative answer you'll receive in the end.
 Although all diapers aren't supposed to spew any of the accident water when squeezed, if you notice it spewing when you squeeze, you'll potentially realize that either you are squeezing too hard or the diaper isn't built to handle as much liquid as you poured into the diaper, and thereby it would leak if a heavy accident in the diaper were to occur. (If you decided to go with the "real" urine route, you can wash your hands immediately after this project is done).
 Roll the diaper into a tight ball starting at the area where you squeezed the diaper. Roll this diaper over into a two-ply form. It may or may not trickle out the sides. If it does trickle out the sides, this diaper brand isn't worthy to be used. Cheap bedwetting diaper companies aren't going to hold urine as well as the popular name brand ones (such as Huggies Goodnites or Pampers Underjams) and therefore will potentially trickle excess urine out the sides of the diaper (thereby getting the bed full of excess liquid the diaper couldn't hold).
 When you roll the diaper up, if after rolling the diaper less it doesn't trickle out any liquid, this may be a pliable temporary diaper to use. Imagine what would happen when the user rolls around quite a lot in bed with the soaking wet diaper on. With enough force, the diaper may end up getting super-squished into configurations the diaper wasn't made to hold up to. Great diapers will either only trickle out a few drops, or not drop out any excess water at all.
