 While this step may seem like a given, make sure you pick a place that relaxes you. If you're not the type to want to spend your whole vacation with a detailed itinerary, pick something less stressful. Stress can irritate IBS, so sticking to somewhere relaxing is key., If you're traveling to another country or even within your own country, you need to make sure you are covered. You don't want to be caught with a medical emergency and no way to pay for it. You can get medical travel insurance if your regular insurance doesn't cover you., One place to check is on the local American embassy's website, usually under "American Citizens Services." You can also find doctors on the website for the American Board of Specialists., If you're staying in a motel or hostel, make sure that your room has an ensuite bathroom. That way, you can use the restroom whenever you need it, rather than having to wait for others to finish.
 If not knowing what's going to happen stresses you out, make sure to get as many details as possible. Call the hotel if you need to do so to ask questions. Check with the airline if you have any qualms about traveling. Make sure you know how you're getting from point A to point B. Smoothing out the details can help relieve your stress., Where possible, it's a good idea to travel in your own car instead of taking public transport. That way, if you have urgent need of a restroom, you can find a place to pull over., Make sure you take all of your medications with you in a plastic bag. Be sure to keep your medicines in the original bottles and carry your original prescription.You should also take water, snacks, and fiber if you need it. Remember to include a change of clothes, baby wipes or toilet wipes (to clean up), and your doctor's name and number.Your doctor can prescribe you prescription medications for IBS. If you need more than a 30-day supply for your trip, ask your doctor for help, as she can help you get enough to last the whole time. Don't forget to bring a few days extra, just in case you get stuck somewhere.Don't forget to carry over-the-counter medications, too, such as pain medications, anti-diarrhea medications, and medications for gas.Place the spare change of clothes in a plastic bag; that way, you will have a place to put your soiled clothes in case of an emergency.
 It's also good to make sure you have distractions with you. For instance, try a book or music on your smartphone. These little distractions will keep you occupied, lowering your anxiety. Since anxiety can contribute to IBS, they can make the trip easier., All you need to disclose is that you have a bowel disease. Note that you really need to go to the bathroom, and thank the person for being considerate. When you have a bathroom emergency, try handing it to the first person in line if you need to cut and don't have time to explain why., On the morning you're supposed to travel, pick a food that you know won't upset your stomach. Stick to something such as rice or applesauce. That way, you minimize your chances of having an accident., If you know things tend to loosen up in your bowels when you travel, try taking a medication before leaving to preemptively take care of the problem. For instance, you can take loperamide (Imodium) before leaving; just be sure you know how you react to these medications before you try taking them on a trip.