 Consider what it would look like to finish all of the work on your plate. Write down your goal for finishing the work. Give yourself five minutes on your coffee break to imagine your desired outcome. With this outcome in mind, focus your mind on doing everything you can to achieve it.You can also just imagine it in your mind.
 Reviewing the to-do-list, consider the top three things that you need to get done. If there are three urgent or important things on your list, focus your attention on getting them done. If you get them done early in the day, you can always move on to the next things on your list.If you pay attention to smaller or less important tasks and fail to get the top three things done, you may regret your lack of focus at the end of the day.
 You may simply need to change your work environment by, for instance, getting out of the office and going to work in a coffee shop. Part of being overwhelmed may relate to the physical environment you are working in as well as the people you work with. In this case, you may be able to improve your efficiency by working in a different place.Work at a coffee shop.
Work at a local library.
If you don’t need internet access and the weather is nice, go work in a local park.
 Sleep and rest are essential for workplace productivity. Although it may seem counterintuitive, you should make time for rest so that you are more efficient during your workday. In deciding how many hours to sleep, consider your age and health.


Adults should get seven to nine hours of sleep per night.Older adults, over the age of sixty-five, should get seven to eight hours of sleep per night.If you continue to stare at your computer or engage in physical labor when you are tired, you may be more easily distracted and less efficient at getting work done., Meditation is one of the best ways to train your mind to focus. People who meditate tend to be more calm and more focused, which should help you move beyond the feeling of being overwhelmed and get the work done. Start by finding a relaxing place to sit in your house or workplace. Sit with a straight back and an open chest. Notice that you are breathing. If your mind starts to wander to thoughts about work, redirect your attention back to the sensation of your breath. Sit and meditate for ten minutes or however long you are able.Try using meditation applications like Headspace, Calm or Buddhify.Check out meditation classes and workshops at a meditation center in your area. The Center for Mindfulness has a list of meditation centers., Instead of responding to anyone and everyone who calls for your attention, you should simply focus on the job in front of you. Learning to focus your attention is one of the top skills of successful individuals and entrepreneurs., Learning to say “no” can actually make you more productive and successful at work. If you are always saying yes to colleagues or listening to complaints, you may become distracted. To say “no,” try using “I don’t” instead of “I can’t” statements:“I don’t work on weekends.”
“I don’t work overtime because it negatively influences my family life.”
“I don’t take on any new projects in that area. See if John is taking anything on any projects in that area right now.”

