 Downward-facing dog is a good place to start for working your legs because you can move into a number of leg-working poses from it. From your hands and knees, push your arms out forwards, palms flat on the ground. As you do, lift your back end into the air, shifting your feet from being sole-up to being sole-down. Your heels may lift off the floor slightly. Make an "A" shape with your body, with your torso/arms and legs forming the sides of the A., From downward-facing dog, place your right leg up between your hands. Push yourself upward until you're mostly standing, but your right leg should be bent at an angle. Your left leg should be extended out behind you, with your foot slightly turned inward. Reach up to the sky with both arms to complete the pose.Hold it for five deep breaths, then try it the other direction, too.
 Warrior II is much the same as warrior I. Your legs will be in the same position. You can move from downward-facing dog to warrior II or from warrior I to warrior II, though moving from downward-facing dog will work your legs more.To create warrior II, stretch your right arm straight out in front of you with the palm down, looking towards that arm, and your left arm out behind you, palm down.
Hold this position for five breaths, then move to the other side.
 You can move from warrior II to triangle. Essentially, you straighten out your right leg, so that both of your legs are straight. Lean your right arm downwards towards your leg, lifting your left arm into the air. Look towards the arm that's in the air, trying to keep your torso straight, aligned with the rest of your body.Once you've tried it on one side, move to the other side.
 Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Bend over, keeping your legs straight as you do. Wrap your first two fingers and thumb of each hand around each of your big toes. As you breathe in, straighten out your arms, and lift your sitting bones, hollowing out your back a bit. Lift up your torso as if you were to stand up, but don't actually do it. Contract the front of your thigh muscles as you do so. Hold for a few breaths, then move back down towards your feet.Make sure you aren't putting pressure on your neck. Your neck and forehead should feel comfortable.

