 Make the call! Whether you’ve been meaning to do so for a while now, or the thought just occurred, follow through on the desire to get in touch with someone by giving them a call. Let your friend know you’re wondering what they’re up to, and give them a quick update on your life.Know that is doesn’t have to be a long call to be meaningful. Just the sound of one another’s voice will likely be enough to bring a smile to each of your faces, whether from the next neighborhood or across the continent.
Schedule a call. If you or a friend can’t speak for long, or you can’t connect on the first try, shoot them a text offering to schedule a call later that day.
Get in the habit of keeping up with a far-off friend by maintaining monthly calls at specific times and dates.If you or a friend are particularly busy, set up calls during daily commutes.;
, Video calls are even better, as they allow you to keep in touch visually as well, and simply provide a greater feeling of togetherness, no matter your actual distance. Several video-chat applications are especially easy to use, as well as freely available.FaceTime is limited to Apple products, but is literally as easy to use as it is to make a call – the button for FaceTime shows up automatically during your call.
Skype is also easy to use, though you must install the program on your phone, tablet, or computer and set up a free account. You can also make audio calls and send text messages through Skype, anywhere you have internet access.
 Google Hangouts will allow you to video chat with up for ten friends at once. Try to set a standing weekly or monthly date and time to catch up with a group of friends consistently.Using the text messaging feature, propose themes for each call and plan to wear costumes or share relevant viral videos.
You can also use the text-messaging feature to simply remind one another of an upcoming call.
 Texts are a great way to send someone a quick note, wise-crack, or simple “thinking of you” message.Don’t let the majority of your communication with an old friend happen through texts, but texts are a great way to let someone know about something that reminded you of them.


Text internationally with Whatsapp. WhatsApp is a smartphone application that costs an initial installation fee, but will allow you to send and receive international texts – as well as video and audio messages – for free!
Note that calling, video-messaging, and e-mailing are all better mediums with which to engage in more nuanced or meaningful discourse.
 While lots of email accounts allow chatting with other users that are online, don’t hesitate to send along a good old-fashioned electronic letter. Emails benefit from the potential intimacy and breadth of an actual letter, and you can send them literally whensoever you please.To take advantage of the extra communication capabilities allowed via email, respond to one another’s emails right in the body of their text.
Use a different colored font, and respond to each of the sentences or paragraphs in a longer email to enjoy the feel of an ongoing conversation.

