 For a tutu that you sew, you will need to get plenty of fabric. For a small child’s tutu, get between 2–4 yards (1.8–3.7 m). A medium sized tutu can be made using 5–7 yards (4.6–6.4 m), and a large one with 8–10 yards (7.3–9.1 m). You will also need elastic for the waistband, matching thread, and a sewing machine.


You can hand stitch your tutu, but it will take a very long time and a lot of effort.
For a short skirt, your tulle needs to be at least 54” thick. Find tulle that is wider than this for a longer tutu.
 Fold your the entire piece of your tulle in half width-wise (making your 54” into 27”). Then, fold your skirt in half again in the same direction, thus creating four layers of tulle.
 Wrap the elastic band around your waist where you want the tutu to sit. Pull the elastic taut so that there is no space between it and your skin. Cut the elastic to this length, with no overlap of the ends.
 Sew directly across the length of the tulle using a straight stitch, about 2” (or slightly wider than your elastic) down from the top of the fold. You should be sewing along the the edge of the tulle that you have folded twice, through all four layers of tulle.
 Use a crochet hook or similarly long, sturdy device to scrunch up the tulle along the top by the casing. When it has been pushed together, slide the elastic through the casing. Make sure to keep both ends outside of the casing; a safety pin can be used to keep the elastic in place as you pull it through.
 Pull the two ends of the elastic together, and sew them together about ¼ an inch from the edge with a straight stitch. Then fold the loose ends back onto the elastic waistband and sew them flat with a zig-zag stitch.
 Your tutu is nearly finished, but needs to be sewn together along the back side where the two ends of the tulle meet. Pin the edges of the tulle together, and sew down about ¼ of an inch from the edge with a straight stitch. Make sure to sew through all four layers of fabric, and not just the top layer.
 Separate all the layers of the tutu with your hands to fluff it up. You can add optional decorations to your tutu, including small rhinestones, fake flowers, and ribbons.