
Would the taxi drivers know how to find your place easily?
How far away is your place from the major attractions in your area?
How noisy is the neighbourhood? Do you have a noisy shop nearby or are you near heavy traffic that could disturb the clients? What about dogs barking or roosters crowing at 3 a.m. to wake up your clients? Or is it near a discotheque or nightclub? The noise and antics of drunken patrons leaving the place late at night can concern guests if they hear or see them.
Is the location safe? Visitors will be reluctant to stay in guesthouses situated in dangerous areas, so choosing a secure, calm location is a must.
Is the location nice? Run down buildings, bad roads, junkyards, and other factors can deter visitors from staying at your guesthouse.
 If there is a lot of noise in your area, consider investing in double-glazed windows to block the noise, or plant some high plants or trees around your property as a noise barrier.


As a last resort, offer free earplugs to all the guests.
 Fun means anything except boring white walls with nothing on them. Have a local artist come and splash colours everywhere, or use your own imagination and create simple but colourful designs. Colour is fun. ;
, Make your place stand out by choosing either a very unusual colour for the exterior or have some very interesting designs painted on the exterior or interior walls. 

, Mirrors are great, especially if you have small rooms. The placement of mirrors throughout the rooms and common areas can create the illusion of space and will bring more light inside.
 Have an outdoor space if possible, as guests will enjoy lounging in this area. Set up an outdoor area with tables and chairs, shade-cloth if needed and some plants to provide greenery and privacy. Lights for nighttime will be beneficial too.  

, Ensure that all safety messages are clearly posted, including emergency exits, things to watch out for and contact details if anything should go wrong.
 If possible, collect rainwater and use solar panels for electricity. Encourage guests to be sparing with water use and to be considerate of not wasting local resources.
 There’s nothing worse than getting to your guesthouse and finding out that the basic things you need are not there. Every guest room should have the following basic items, if possible.
 Many guests will enjoy reading at night by lamplight and it is also easier to switch off the lights when going to sleep.
 This gives your guests a spot to sit, to write and to eat from.
 If there are specific concerns, such as bugs, humidity or theft, ensure that the storage space is set up to help prevent any such problems.
 Guests will often have things they'd like to hang up, from camera straps to shower caps.
 These will help to block daylight and dampen the outside noise. They are also important for providing privacy.
 In this section, you'll learn about some ways to that you might be able to use to increase the number of customers for your business.
 Distribute them to tourist information centres throughout your region and the country. Follow the regular “backpacker's trail” that almost every country has and drop your brochures off at other guesthouses in different cities.
 Describe your place well and the attractions in your area. One way that you may be able to get a free or cheap website is to ask a guest if they know how to create one for you. You'll be surprised how many people know how to do it and all it may cost you is a few free nights in your place.
 A guesthouse is a business, no doubt about it, and like any business you need to know how to maximize your profit and how to increase the revenue. This section provides a few ideas to help you out in this direction.
 Serve breakfast, make packed lunches or serve home-cooked dinners to your guests.
 For every guest that someone brings to you, offer them a fixed reward. 

, Guests love local items that are rare or unique and that cannot be found anywhere else. Ask local artists to loan you various items to sell. Pay the artist when they are sold, keeping a small already agreed upon commission for yourself.


Maintain a stock of various local artisan items and sell them directly to your customers.
 No matter where you decide to run a guesthouse, there are several core things that are necessary. Cooperation with your neighbours is one of them. If you do not have the money to buy the things you need, offer your skills to someone who does. Volunteer for half a day to do something for them so they can do something for you. If you have the skills necessary to set up a computer, help out your neighbour. If they need an extra pair of hands to mend the fence, be there for them. In this way, you can build up a network of persons upon whom you can rely to help you out should the need arise, and you'll have built up trust as well.

