 Pandora is available for free download on the Google Play store, the Apple App Store, the Windows Phone Store, and the Amazon Appstore. Follow your phone's on-screen prompts to install the mobile app. When the installation finishes, open the app.
 If you've already created a Pandora account on your computer you can enter your email and password where indicated. If not, press "Register for free" and fill in the required information to create a new account.
 Input the name of an artist, track, or genre you like to make a station that plays similar music. For example, if you want a station of songs composed by Mozart, type in his name to get collection of classical music.


You can always edit this station or create a new one later.
 Pandora will analyze your suggestion and play similar songs, allowing you to find new music and create playlists instantly based on your input. For example if I suggest "The Rolling Stones," Pandora will create a playlist based on "classic rock, blues influences, guitar solos, and high energy," featuring songs by Cream, The Who, the Beatles, and more.


Pandora does not play whatever song you want. Instead, it takes your suggestion and uses it to make a customized playlist. , Pandora edits your playlist on the fly if you tell it what you enjoy. So if you "thumb-up" lots of songs by Aretha Franklin, for example, you'll not only get more Aretha songs but more strong-voiced female soul singers, like Dinah Washington and Etta James.
 This not only skips the song, but tells Pandora to play less songs like it. If you "thumb-down" a Bob Marley song on you playlist, for example, you'll probably hear less reggae in the future.
 This brings up the station's page, where you can see recent songs, add variety, or change the playlist's description.


Click the thumb icon on the top of the screen to see all songs you've rated up or down.
Click on song in "Session History" to give it a thumbs up or down, or change your past rating.
Click on the "+ Add Variety" to add new genre's, bands, or songs to your playlist.
Click on "Station Settings" to change the name of your playlist or add a description.
Click the box in upper-right corner to return to your station. A small box in the order returns you to your station, saving any changes you've made to your station

, This button returns you from your station to the main menu, where you can change the station or make a new station whenever you'd like.


Swipe a station to the right to either edit it (THUMB UP SIGN) or delete it from your account.
 If you have a free account you can only skip six songs per hour, per station. You may not, however, skip more than 24 songs per day.This limit is true whether you use the "Next" button, the "Thumbs down" button, or the "I'm tired of this track" option from the menu.

