 Because of the personal residence exemption, most people will never pay federal capital gains tax on the sale of their home. Under this exemption, no tax is applied on the sale of a personal residence where the capital gain is less than $250,000 for a single filer and $500,000 for a married couple, as long as the filer has lived in the home for two of the past five years.If the filer had to sell the home due to military service, health, or an unforeseen change in employment, they don’t even have to meet the two year residence rule., A versus purchase is just a fancy way of saying that you can pick which “lots” of stock you want to sell. That means that you can tweak the amount of capital gains you’ll have to report on your tax return. For example:Say you bought 10 shares of stock in XYZ corp. at $100 in January and another 10 shares in June for a total of twenty shares. In the first six months you held XYZ stock, the value increased by 10%, to $110. The ten shares you bought in June were purchased for $110, and by the end of the year, your total purchase of twenty shares has increased in value by another 10%. The capital gains on the first lot are going to be $21, while the capital gains on the second lot are going to be $11. If you want to sell ten shares at the end of the year, you can specify that you’re selling the shares purchased in June in order to minimize the tax paid.
 Tax deferral doesn’t exactly stop you from having to pay tax, but it does delay it. If you have reason to believe that a capital gain will be smaller in the future, you are anticipating a future loss, or just need more money in the short term, you can defer your taxes with a like-kind exchange. A like-kind exchange occurs when one type of asset is sold and the money from the sale is immediately used to purchase the same type of asset.These like-kind exchanges are usually classified as Section 1031 exchanges, named after the section of the tax code which provides for them. Only certain types of properties are covered under a 1031 exchange, such as real or personal investment property. Stocks, bonds, and personal residences are not covered.
The replacement property must be located within 45 days, and the purchase completed within 180 days. The IRS will ask for a detailed description of the transaction to be recorded on Form 8824, which can be found at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f8824.pdf.
 Setting up a Charitable Remainder Trust (CRT) is a well established method of avoiding capital gains taxes, although it isn’t of use to everyone. But if an investor has sufficient assets, it can be a great way to avoid capital gains taxes, because charities don’t pay capital gains taxes at all.The investor sets up a trust which must have an expiration date—often the end of the investor’s life. Then the investor transfers assets to the trust. The trust pays the investor an annuity from the sale of the assets. When the trust dissolves, whatever is leftover goes to a charity of the investor's choosing.
At least 10% of the value of the original assets transferred to the trust must go to charity, or other assets will be seized to make up the difference.
There are two major drawbacks to setting up a trust. For one, the terms of the trust are permanent, and two, it disinherits the investor’s heirs from any of the assets transferred to the trust.
Since the investor must have sufficient assets to set up an annuity payment funded from the sale of the assets and it takes away the ability for the investor to pass the assets along to their heirs, CRTs are usually reserved for the very wealthy.
 Although it might seem that giving assets away trades a 15% or 20% loss for a total loss, the truth is not so simple. In reality, gifting assets to a family member or trusted associate can be a great way to avoid capital gains tax.For example, if your total capital gains for the year are more than $500,000, that would put you in the highest capital gains tax bracket (20%). But if you give your five children equal shares of the $500,000, then you reduce the capital gains tax from $100,000 to $75,000.

