 The baggy shirt will eventually turn into your dress. Make sure that it is at least mid-thigh or longer, or it will be too short.


Men's large shirts work especially well for this.
 Turn the larger shirt inside out first. Next, fold both shirts in half lengthwise. If you want your new dress to be sleeveless, tuck the sleeves of the fitted shirt inside so that they are out of the way.
 Make sure that both of the long, folded edges are aligned. The shoulders and collars of both shirts should match up., This extra space will be your seam allowance.You want to trace around the sleeves/arm holes and side edges. Stop when you get to the bottom of the fitted shirt. Do not draw across the bottom hem.


Use a dress maker's pen of light colored fabrics and a dress maker's chalk for dark.
 Place a long ruler or straight edge on top of your large shirt. Angle it so that it connects with the bottom corner of the fitted shirt and the bottom corner of the large shirt. Draw along that line, then remove the ruler.
 Take the fitted shirt off first and put it away. Use a pair of fabric scissors to cut along the lines that you drew. Be sure to cut through all four layers of fabric.
 Keep the right sides facing in as you pin along the two side edges. Do not pin along the armholes or sleeve ends.
 Use a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance and a narrow zigzag stitch. If you added sleeves, be sure to sew along the top and bottom edges of the sleeves, but not the openings., T-shirt fabric does not fray, but this will give your dress a more professional finish. Fold the bottom hem up by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Press it flat with an iron, then sew around it using a narrow zigzag stitch, ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeters) away from the inside edge.


You can also hem the sleeves or armholes in a similar fashion.
 Most baggy T-shirts have a boring collar. Step things up by cutting the collar off first. Next, trim the front of the collar down into a V-neck or a scoop-neck. Fold the edges down by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) and stitch them in place using a zigzag stitch. Alternatively, you can bind them with bias tape or extra ribbed/jersey fabric.
 It is now ready to wear! If the dress flares out too much for your liking, turn it inside out and sew the bottom edges narrower so that they don't angle as much.

