 An important part of texting in class is being able to do it without looking. You will need to know where all of the buttons are on your phone, and how to use them with out looking. You will also need to navigate to the Create New Message screen. This is just memorizing the key order you have to use to get there, or even setting a shortcut straight to the Create New Message input box. All of this amounts to being able to looking as though you're paying attention to the teacher, when in fact you are texting under the desk. If you are confident that you know how to use your device, then proceed to the next step.;
, You'll need to turn all sound off, or at least put it on vibrate. That means key-tones, ring-tones, alerts, everything. You can usually do this by pressing the 'Volume Down' button until it reads 'Vibrate All'. You will be caught if audio goes off and you may get into severe trouble. If you are not aware of this then do not take the risk of texting in class for it is very likely for key-tones to go off.
 An important part of texting is where you sit. Always make sure that you are sitting where the teacher can't see you, or if someone comes in that is an administrator that they can't see you. If you think to yourself, can people see me? move and don't take any chances. Preferably sit in the back of the class. Since teachers will teach at the front or sit at there desk in the front, it will make it hard for them to notice if you are texting. Try to avoid texting in class if you sit in the front of your teacher's desk.
 If your teacher is bitter, and dislikes you then DO NOT text in class. If you have an easygoing teacher, then texting in class will be easy, thus this is the best time to text message during class time.
 Putting your phone in your pocket will not always be easy. If you feel that you are constantly sitting up to get your phone out of your pocket, then you are being very obvious. Try wearing a jacket so that you can put your phone in the sleeve, or the pocket in the center. Putting your phone in the front zipper of your backpack may also be helpful.
 Put jacket in lap or cross your legs. If you have it in your jacket then the teacher will not be able to see it since it will be tucked into your sleeve. Another method to try is crossing your legs, if you cross your legs then you will block the view to your phone and teachers will not suspect that you are texting. Do not begin testing if phone is in sight, you may begin when you are sure that it is not visible for teachers.
 If you stare at your phone while texting, then your teacher will realize that you are not paying attention and become suspicious. Look up every two seconds while texting if you are not willing to text "blindly." If this step is completed, Congratulations, you can text in class.
 Once you have completed talking to your friends, your social life will have improved, and you will be a better all-around person. All that is left is for you to hide your cellular device in the front pocket of your backpack, or put it away in your pocket of your backpack. Once you have done this you are safe and your process of texting in class is know complete.

