 There's nothing wrong with a side ponytail for a prep. They're cute and hip, and they look unique. High ponytails are also very chic. Leave your hair down, but make sure to combine it with a nice hair accessory, like a cute flower pin pulling some bangs out of the way. Never have hair all in your face, you don't look clean-cut and you won't look preppy.;
, The first thing to know when you're a prep and you want to use make-up is: don't overdo it. A nice gloss is good, with some mascara and thin eyeliner. Use acne lotion in the case of pimples, it will help with your overall preppy face look.
 Also, when wearing a turtleneck shirt, put on a long necklace. This makes the proportions on your upper body equal. With a polo, chokers are better, because the attention is drawn up to the chest area and it would be too much to have a necklace just below the collar.
 Polos are beautiful and very chic. But to make them even more preppy chic, combine in with a nice hoodie or a velour sweatshirt. Make sure it's not too matchy-matchy, though. Printed shirts are nice too, but don't wear a t-shirt that says rude things like $)@# YOU! Are you in the mood for just a normal touristy t-shirt? Put it underneath a pretty cardigan or a low-necked shirt. They can act just like camis or tank tops. The short-sleeve, long-sleeve look can be hip, too. Try combining a floral short-sleeve shirt with a neutral color (e.g. black, white, brown). Know what else is nice? Long sweaters. Royal purple, maroon, green. Any color is nice.
 Minis can work, jeans can work, shorts can work. Make sure to combine them with a matching shirt, though. Completely mismatched is a little too funky. Plaid skirts are great. Combine them with leggings and you're a chic, right there. Bermudas: wonderful. Combine them with any type of preppy and hip shirt and you're good to go. Capris are pretty much the same as Bermudas. Jeans can go anywhere. Skinny jeans are amazing. They're preppy. They're cute. They're funky. They're anywhere you want them to be. Combine them with you're hip shirt and you'll love your look. Stay away from jeans with too much design. A simple derriere embellishment and some pocket embroidery is good. Flair jeans and bootcut jeans are also really nice. Tights and stockings work well with skirts.
 Get low-rise sneakers and wear ankle socks with them. When you get boots, feel free to express. Fur-lined and pom-poms are very chic. Try to wear your sneakers with skinny jeans, to show off the skinny style. When wearing boots, stuff bootcut jeans into them. It's very chic. Boots come in many colors. Tan, Black, Gray, White, Red. Any of these can work. Flats are very preppy, and can be worn with any bottoms. They're also very hip, but get a bow or a toe design to spice it up a bit.
 Double-breasted coats are great, and so are wool coats. Big-buttoned coats are very preppy and very cool. Shorter coats are very in right now, so try that! Down coats, or goose feather coats, are very fashionable.
 But bracelets: wear one chunky bracelet, or simpler, but still big, bracelets. When wearing tiny bracelets, wear many, ten to fifteen, depending on the size. Scarves are very stylish. When wearing neutral colors, spice it up with a funky pink or green scarf. Sunglasses come in many styles, but the most hip are the ones with oversized lenses. You can get ones with rhinestones on the edges or cheetah print on the rims.
 Of course, your dress can have funky straps, that's great. A suggestion for a too-plain dress. But a belt around your waist. When dressing fancy, don't wear leggings, wear tights or stockings. Know what's appropriate for day and for evening.

