 On your computer, go to the Pokécheck website (https://www.pokecheck.org/). You can use any web browser you have on your computer.;
, Simply click the “Sign Up” button on the page and enter your name, e-mail address, username, and password you want to instantly create an account.
 Just use the details (username and password) you entered when signing up to log in.
 Once you’ve created or logged in your account, you’ll see a text with red highlights at the very top of the page (DNS: XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX, where X can be any number from 0–9). This is the DNS address assigned to your account by the site. Take note of this address as you’ll have to use it later.


Note that the DNS address differs from one user to another.
 On your Nintendo DS, open the System Settings by launching it from the home screen. Once the System Settings is open, tap “Internet Settings” from the list of choices displayed at the bottom screen.
 Inside the Internet Settings screen, tap “Connection Settings” from the list of options and select the default connection currently used on your DS (the one with a blue button) from the list of other connections.
 On the next screen, you’ll see a little right arrow on the right side of the screen. Tap this arrow and you’ll see additional options and settings.
 This will allow you to manually set the DNS address of the connection you selected in step 4.
 Replace the current DNS with the one displayed on the Pokécheck website (step 1) by using the console’s arrow and action buttons.


Once you’ve set the DNS, save the changes you made and go back to the home screen.
 Once launched, head to the action phase or the actual game world. Once you’re inside the game, you need to go inside a Pokémon Center on any town.
 Once you’re inside the Pokémon Center, head all the way to the top floor and talk to the female Non-Playable Character (NPC) in charge of the Global Terminal.


The Global Terminal allows you trade Pokémon with different players online.
 The NPC will then step out of the way, allowing you to enter the booth behind her. Your game will start connecting to the Pokémon Global Trade Station, or GTS.


Now, since you’ve manually set the DNS on your console, instead of connecting to the legitimate online GTS server, your game will connect to the Pokécheck GTS server, which explains the use of the DNS from the website.
 Once you’re inside GTS, tap “Deposit Pokémon” from the list of options displayed on the bottom screen. Choose the Pokémon you want to trade and press the “Deposit” button.
 After you’ve deposited a Pokémon, select any Pokémon you want to have in return from the list displayed on the screen, and tap “Yes” to begin trading.
 An error code will appear on the bottom screen telling you that the Pokémon is not available for trade. Make sure that the error code is 13266; otherwise, the Pokécheck will not work.
 At the lower part of the page, you’ll see the text “Pokémon received from your IP in the past 24 hours” written in bold letters. Under this is the list of all the Pokémon you’ve deposited to the Pokécheck GTS server.
 To view the Pokémon’s info, just click on its name and all the details will be displayed on the screen.

