 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to bake the apple fries, set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow the oven to fully preheat. Next, use a nonstick cooking spray to lightly grease a baking sheet.If you prefer, you can line the baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat instead of greasing it.
 For the fries, you’ll need 1 medium Fuji apple. Use a vegetable peeler to remove the skin and then core it by using a sharp knife to cut the apple into quarters around the center stem. Next, use the knife to slice the apple into half moon slices that are approximately ¼-inch (6-mm) thick.You can also use a Gala apple for the fries.
An apple corer makes it very easy to core an apple, so if you have one, you may want to use it instead of the knife.
 Add ¼ cup (25 g) of whole-wheat panko breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoon (4 g) of low-calorie sweetener, ⅛ teaspoon (⅓ g) of cinnamon, and a dash of salt to a medium bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are well blended.No-calorie sweeteners that work well for the fries include stevia, erythritol, and xylitol.
 Add 2 large egg whites and ⅛ teaspoon (1 ml) of maple extract to a separate medium bowl. Blend the two ingredients together until they are well mixed., After you’ve mixed the egg whites with the maple extract, add the apple slices to the bowl. Mix the slices in the egg whites to ensure that they’re well coated.Allow the excess egg white mixture to drip back into the bowl so clumps don’t form when you roll the apple fries in the breadcrumbs.
 Once the apple fries are coated with the egg whites, add them to the bowl with the breadcrumb mixture. Toss the apples with the breadcrumbs until they are completely covered on both sides.It may help to pat the breadcrumb coating onto the apple fries to ensure that it adheres properly.
 When the fries are coated with the breadcrumbs, set them out on the greased baking sheeting. Place the fries in the oven and allow them to bake for 10 minutes.Make sure that the fries are in a single layer on the baking sheet so they cook evenly.
 When the fries have baked for 10 minutes, use a spatula to flip them over. Place them back in the oven, and let them cook until they are browned and crispy on the outside, which should take about 10 minutes.While the apple fries should be brown and crispy on the outside, they should be tender on the inside.
 When the apple fries are finished cooking, remove them from the oven. Transfer them to a plate and serve while they are still warm.Your favorite yogurt can make a healthy dipping sauce for these apple fries.

