 Depending on what phone type you have, most major carriers provide free options for tracking your phone but must be set up initially. You will be able to send a call or notification to your phone that will make a noise.


iPhone users will need a phone that must support iOS9 and have iWork for iOS installed for tracking software to work.Using a web browser, create and configure an iCloud account by navigating to icloud.com. Either log in to your iCloud account or, if you do not have one, you can create an account for free.
Android users will need to access the Android Device Manager on the smartphone. You can access the settings in one of two places. You can use the “Settings” app and scroll down to tap on “Google” then tap on “Security.” Or you can use a dedicated “Google Settings” app then tap on “Security.”, The following steps vary depending on the type of phone you use.


iPhone users must access the iCloud app. Open the iCloud application on your iPhone. In the app, scroll down to turn on “Find My iPhone.” You will receive a new prompt. Tap on “Allow” to proceed.
Android users must allow their phone to be remotely located. Under “Android Device Manager,” tap on “Remotely Locate This Device.” Navigate to the “Settings” app, which is separate from the “Google Settings” app. Scroll down then tap on “Location” and ensure that all location services are activated.
 You will need to use another device such as a computer.


iPhone users must navigate to iCloud.com or access “Find My iPhone” on another iPhone or iPad device through the iCloud app. Click or tap on “Find My iPhone” which will bring you to a map with the last known location of your phone. You can choose to either “Play Sound” or “Send Message” to play a sound on your iPhone.
Android users will need to navigate to android.com/devicemanager in a web browser to make sure your device appears on the map. Tap or click on the “Ring” option to cause your device to emit sound. Make sure this other device is logged into the same Google account as the phone you are trying to locate.

