 Do not feel that your hair must always be perfect. Even if it seems old-fashioned, the best way to make your hair look pretty and natural (besides shampoo/conditioner) is to brush it regularly. Most kids will never bother curling or straightening their hair so you shouldn't either. If you want to, you may wear a few hair accessories (like hairclips, bows, ribbons etc) but keep it simple. Or, tie it up in a ponytail, pigtails or braids, but leave it at that.;
, Pastel pinks, Purples, greens, light blues etc, are good. If you want to be extra feminine, go with floral prints. You may also wear hooded jackets, blouses, dungarees (overalls) and little print dresses or skirts with cute designs. You are acting as a kid, it is acceptable to wear whatever you like. However, avoid wearing black, anything with inappropriate slogans, or garments that expose cleavage or underwear. Steer clear of any clothing with logos splashed all over them. That is not very kid-like. Also, skirts and dresses should be knee length or below.
 Be sensible. These can include ballet flats, vans, trainers or sandals. Face it - while parading around in high heels is fun in some circumstances, they can be uncomfortable and impractical to wear and can result in foot problems in later life. Save those high heels for special occasions, such as weddings.
 You may wear one or two bracelets if you wish (or a necklace). You don't need to own or wear tons of flashy jewellery. If you have pierced ears, stick to studs or sleepers only, and no other piercings on the face.
 Have a Tamagotchi and a plush toy to sleep with (i.e. teddy bear). You can take a chibi doll or stuffed animal with you in your bag wherever you go.
 You could also wallpaper your room, with hearts or flowers. You may decorate your tech gadgets like laptops and smartphones with cute stickers.
 Don't do anything bad, and try not to hurt other people's feelings. If you're mean to one person a lot, be extra nice to them. (Not creepy though!) Try to be honest.
 However, don't be unhealthy. You know you always have to eat your vegetables or otherwise you are not allowed any dessert.
 Try making cupcakes, brownies, cookies/biscuits, slices etc, or even an entire dessert. Kids love to help out with the cooking. One afternoon you could arrange a time for you and your mum (or any family member who is willing) to do a big bake-off together. At the same time you'll be having some bonding time together.
 Appreciate all the things they do for you. Actions speak louder than words. Show how much you love and respect them by doing small favours for them when acting like a kid. You could try helping Mum with food shopping, stacking dishes in the dishwasher and not being immature.
 Do not be afraid to speak your mind. Kids are biologically programmed to have curious minds. You know how kids always ask questions, even when it seems 'silly'? You should too. Be that kid who always questions things. Asking questions may seem intrusive and nosy to some people, yet that's the only way you'll learn things. Kids have lots to learn, just as an adult has lots to learn as well. Thus, you make yourself smarter. Ask yourself: Why did this happen? How does this thing work? etc.
 Kid's minds are always active. Always do your homework, no matter how much you hate it. Do not focus on being a kid when it comes to this. Even if you hate maths or struggle with spelling, your studies will help you in the long run. You can still act like a kid at heart, but you must always have some common sense. Kids are not all stupid.

