 Open the browser of your computer and open a new web page. Go to the Google Apps Sync website and download the latest version for Microsoft Outlook.;
, The “Download the plugin” button is on the top right corner of your browser. Clicking on the button will take you to another page describing the plugin with its system requirements on the right side.
 Click on “Download the plugin,” and a small window (User Account Control) will pop up asking you to allow the program make changes to your computer. Click “Yes,” and the plugin will start downloading; give it a few minutes to complete.
 When the download of the plugin completes, double-click on the downloaded file and start installing. If prompted, allow the program to install. The installation process will take a few seconds to complete, and when done, a pop-up window will appear where you will be required to sign in with your Google Account.
 On the screen that pops up, sign in with your Google email address. Your default web browser will pop up with the Google Sign In page. Enter your Gmail address on the first text box and then click the “Yes, I have a password” button. On the text box below that, enter your password and click “Remember me” if you want your password to be remembered. Click “Continue” to proceed.
 This one sometimes hides behind the current window, so look for the flashing “G” in the taskbar if you don’t find it, and then click “Create profile” on the window that pops up.


At this point, it is normal for your computer to hang or even give a “Not Responding” status for a few seconds. If it does, give it a moment to catch up.
 When a new window opens, go to the bottom right corner and click “Start Microsoft Outlook.” At this point, installation of the Sync tool is complete, and it should not be run again in the future. To access it, just open Outlook directly.


When you click “Start Microsoft Outlook,” Outlook will open and ask you the account you’d like to open.
 When Microsoft Outlook opens, a window will pop up prompting you which account you will like to open. Click the text box and choose the one ending in “Google Apps.”


If you want to make this account default, click the option at the bottom right corner of the widow. And if you don’t want to be prompted to choose an account every time Outlook starts, remove the tick for the “Open this window when Microsoft Outlook starts” option to disable it.
 You’ve now set up Google Apps for Microsoft Outlook. Your email, contacts, calendar, and tasks will now start syncing with Google Apps.