 Sketch out an image or design onto a linoleum block with a pencil. This gives you the option of tweaking the design before you start to carve. Then, use a carving knife or a carving tool from a craft supply store to whittle away the block until only your design is left. The deeper you cut away the excess linoleum, the less likely you'll end up with smudges on your fabric.


Keep your first trial run simple. Use an image with few colors and clear lines so that you can determine how your printer places ink on your fabric before moving on to more complicated patterns and images.
Common designs for beginning to block print can be squares and triangles since they can overlap and repeat in geometric designs, or abstract images since it requires less accuracy with carving straight lines.Remember that if you carve a design, the raised part will be what is printed on your fabric so be aware of negative space when drawing up your design.
Linoleum is the most common material for block printing. Other options include a piece of wood, a large rubber eraser that can be carved into like wood, or any kind of household item that could leave an interesting print.;
, You'll first want to decide if you want to use one color or more in the overall design. Then, make sure you have paints that are oil-based or are meant for fabric.


Oil-based paints will take much longer to dry but they have a much richer texture. Oil-based paint stains are also notoriously difficult to get out of fabric which is why a solvent is required, but that's good news for your fabric because it will not wash out easily or quickly.If you're going to use oil-based paint, make sure you have a solvent on hand that can help clean up any stains.
Fabric paints can work as well but they do not apply to fabrics as smoothly as oil-based paints.
Both kinds of paints can be washed, but it's best to treat your fabric after printing and read the instructions for care for your particular paint.
 You can dip you block in paint and paint try but using a foam brush or foam roller to lightly coat the surface is better.This way you'll get more of an even coverage and won't end up with large globs of paint.


Excess paint can drip and create an uneven design, but you may find that you want a more uneven design that looks more natural rather than a uniform pattern.
You can also you a finer tipped paint brush to apply paint. With this method you can use more than one color paint as well since you'l have more control over where the paint is on your stamp. Make sure that you keep any different paint colors that you use separate so that you can avoid mixing and keep the colors crisp.
Be careful to avoid getting too much paint on the rest of the stamp when coating it. If you press the stamp off-kilter you could end up with random splotches of paint within your design.
 Use a scrap piece of fabric or paper to make sure that you can align your stamp correctly or that you get the impression you wanted. This is where you can check for imperfections in your stamp design. You also should practice how you want to space out your stamps if you are aiming for a repeating pattern.
 Place some cardboard or drop cloth underneath the the fabric so that if any paint bleeds through it won't ruin your surface underneath and any excess paint will be absorbed. When block printing on a double-sided material, protect the other side by slipping a piece of cardboard in between.You can choose to create a uniform pattern or not. For example, you can alternate shapes or colors in a repeating pattern that covers the whole fabric, or you could sporadically stamp and leave large blank spaces.
Stripes are an easy-to-replicate pattern as well as polka-dots.
But as you go, make sure to press the stamp straight down on the fabric and lift up straight up as well. Pressing or lifting on an angle will disperse the paint unevenly. Additionally, stamping with different amounts of pressure will create a distressed look which you may or may not desire. This is where you can truly customize your fabric based off of how you utilize the stamp.
 Do not handle it immediately or the ink may bleed. For best results, place the fabric gently over a cooling rack used for baking or dry ground before folding or handling. The fabric will need anywhere from a day to a few days to dry completely before it will be completely set. After the paint dries, you can use your fabric for anything.


For best color-staying results, soak your printed fabric after it dries in a vinegar bath for 10 minutes. You can rinse with water to get rid of some of the vinegar smell but it does fade on its own.