 Mix eight ounces of warm water with 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Using a bulb syringe purchased at the drugstore, irrigate your nostrils with this homemade saline rinse to help loosen and liquefy your nasal secretions and relieve congestion. Try doing two sprays in each nostril.Use water that is distilled, sterile, or already boiled and cooled. Always rinse the instrument after each use and let air dry before next use.
 A Neti pot is miniature tea pot-shaped device that has gained support from the medical community as a way of cleansing your sinus passages. Water from the Neti pot increases drainage and decreases inflammation in the nasal passages that contributes to sinus headaches. The Neti pot works by flooding warm water through one nostril and out the other. Do not use a Neti pot if you cannot blow your nose. You simply fill the “teapot” with warm water (120 degrees) and tilt your head to allow the water to pour into your right nostril and drain out the left. Then, do the other side.Use water that is distilled, sterile, or already boiled and cooled. Always rinse the Neti pot with clean water and dish detergent after each use.
There have been some reports of rare amoebic infections via the Neti pot in areas with unclean water but there have been no such reports in the United States.
 When you go to sleep at night, place a couple of pillows beneath your head so that it is elevated. This will make breathing easier and keep the sinus pressure from building up and causing a headache., Fill a one-quart pot with water. Boil the water on the stove for a minute or two or until it is steaming vigorously. Then remove the pot from the heat and place on a heat resistant mat on a table. Drape a large, clean cotton towel over your head and then place your head over the steaming pot. Close your eyes and keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water so that you don't burn yourself. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for five counts. Then reduce the inhales and exhales to two counts. Do this 10 minutes or for as long as the water is still steaming. Try to blow your nose during and after the treatment.Keep any children away from the pot while it is boiling and while it is steaming. Try to do a steaming treatment when there aren't any children around.
You can use this technique frequently, up to every two hours. When you're out and about or at work, you can simulate a steam treatment by placing your face over the steam coming from a cup of hot tea or bowl of soup.You can also add herbs and essential oils (one to two drops) to your steaming water. Spearmint or peppermint, thyme, sage, oregano, lavender, tea tree oil, and black lavender oil have either antibacterial, antifungal or antiseptic properties., Taking long, hot, steamy showers works very similarly to the steam treatments described above. The hot water from the shower creates warm, moist air that is useful in clearing out blocked nasal passages and relieving sinus pressure. Try blowing your nose naturally. The heat and steam will help moisten and liquefy the secretions in the sinuses to better facilitate their evacuation.You also achieve a similar beneficial effect by placing a warm compress on your face to help open up your nasal passages and relieve any pressure you might be feeling in your sinuses. Warm a moist washcloth in the microwave for two to three minutes. Always take care not to burn yourself., The warm, humid air of a humidifier may ease nasal congestion and sinus pain by helping the nasal passages to drain and to bring down inflammation. Follow the directions that come with your humidifier.Try placing the humidifier in your bedroom while you sleep as this is one time when people experience increased sinus pressure.
When your nasal passages are blocked, you need to focus on keeping your nasal passages and sinuses moist. Although many people think that if you have have a runny nose that dry air is the trick, dry air only further irritates the membranes in your nasal passage.
Humidifiers are especially good during the wintertime because the air in most homes is very dry due to central heating.
Even placing a hot bowl of water on your bedroom floor can increase the moisture in the air. Just make sure to put it in a place where you won't accidentally tip it over or step into it.
 Apply gentle pressure using your index and middle fingers, rotating in a circular motion over the forehead (frontal sinus) and the bridge of your nose and behind your eyes (orbital sinus) as well as under the eyes (maxillary sinus). Do this for several minutes and then blow your nose right after.You can also apply an oil, such as rosemary or peppermint, as you massage that may open up your sinus passages. Just don't let the oil get into your eyes.
If you can get a friend to assist, lie down and have a friend massage your head. Have your friend place his thumbs above your eyebrows in the center of your forehead and draw the thumbs up toward the hairline, then lift. Repeat, but draw the thumbs to the temples, then lift at the hairline. Repeat a fraction higher each time until the whole forehead region has been massaged.
 Keep the body hydrated by drinking plenty of fluids (at least eight full glasses a day). Nasal passages become congested when the tissue in the passages is inflamed and is unable to drain and drinking liquids will assist with nasal decongestion. The liquids assist with drainage by thinning out your nasal mucus and reducing the inflammation that leads to sinus headaches.Thinned out mucus is much more likely to drain. Whenever you feel the beginnings of sinus headache, make a concerted effort to stay hydrated.Water is best. Although juice tastes great, it is high in fructose and unneeded calories. If you don’t like unflavored water, then add a twist of lemon, lime or frozen strawberries.
Hot herbal tea may also help clear congestion while keeping you hydrated.
 Exercise is a natural decongestant. Getting your heart rate up just enough to break sweat can help clear your nasal secretions. If you can do some aerobic exercise, such as running or cycling for even 15 minutes, you may experience some relief.You can even try moderate exercise, such as going for a brisk walk.
 Hot salsa, peppers, hot wings, horseradish, and other spicy foods can get your nasal secretions flowing and thereby help to relieve the pressure in your sinuses. The nose is best blown when the secretions are moist and fluid. That is why remedies that generate this are effective.For sushi lovers, try wasabi. The spicy topping will temporarily relieve sinus pressure and help clear your sinuses.

