 Symptoms of head and neck lymphedema typically appear 2-6 months following cancer treatment in the area of the head. Lymphedema sometime develops in the larynx and pharynx (the mouth and throat). It may also develop externally in the neck and face, or a combination of both, depending on which lymphatic channels are obstructed.See your doctor if you notice any signs of lymphedema in the head or neck.
Unmanaged swelling may result in a series of additional inflammations that rapidly become more difficult to manage.
 Because it may be difficult to detect visual cues of swelling in the head and neck, the first symptoms of lymphedema in these areas are likely to be felt sensations. Notice any sign of tightness in your head and neck.You may experience difficulty moving your head, neck or face. Your skin may feel stiff or uncomfortable, though you can't see any apparent signs of swelling.
Your doctor may want to conduct additional tests to check for lymphedema, including lymphoscintigraphy or another imaging technique that relies upon injection of contrast dyes to show lymphatic fluid flow abnormalities.
 Blurred vision, excess or unexplained tearing and redness of the eye, feeling pain behind the eye are all possible signs of lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome. This is a genetic condition present at birth, but signs may not appear before puberty onset.The growth of additional eyelashes along the interior lining of the eyelid are also signs of lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome.
Other eye problems resulting from this condition include irregular curvature of the cornea, and corneal scarring.
 In more severe cases of lymphedema, swelling of tissue in the neck and throat will affect basic bodily functions. You may notice drooling or spilling food from the mouth.Swelling may also result in nasal congestion or inner-ear pain. It might affect sinus glands and passages.
To confirm presence of lymphedema in the neck and head, the doctor may perform an ultrasound or an MRI. These tests can show placement of lymphatic fluids within the head cavity.

