 If your loneliness is caused by physical isolation, such as moving away from those that you love, contact them. With such incredible access to technology, reconnection is easy. It’ll be a bit different, but it is nonetheless comforting to regularly reconnect with those you love, especially when they are far away.


Write e-mails or use one of many phone or live video platforms on the internet to connect with those you love.
 You are not the only human that is lonely, and you are not the only being that is lonely, either. If surrounding yourself with people is too big of a step to take for now, you can begin to relieve feelings of loneliness by spending time with animals. Volunteering at an animal shelter is a great way to contribute to your community and help out animals. Many of the animals at shelters feel lonely, and spending time with you will brighten your day and their day, too.


Volunteering can include playing with animals, taking them for walks, and participating in their care.
Volunteering with animals can help open doors to find jobs with animals and give you experience that employers may be looking for in employees., Find opportunities to volunteer, such as with after-school children’s programs, at a nursing home, with foster children, or at your spiritual or religious center. There are plenty of people within your own community that need help. Volunteering helps connect you with people in need, as well as places you on a team of other volunteers, in addition to boosting your self-confidence and bringing fulfillment to your life.Making friends with other volunteers is easy because you already have things in common and enjoy helping other people.
 Activities and hobbies allow you to enjoy doing something you love and meet other people with similar interests at the same time.If you’re unsure of what your hobbies are or where to get started, follow your interests and start exploring different activities. Here are some ideas of different groups you can join:


Exercise, sports teams, hiking, or running clubs
Art, music, or poetry classes
Spiritual or religious groups
Gardening groups
Travel groups
Baby and parenting classes

, If you feel you're on the fringes because of your gender identity, race, disability, or sexual orientation, seek out others that are going through the same thing through discussion groups or organizations. Seek out people that are similar to you, and find comfort in having a shared experience.


Don’t just connect on negative experiences; keep in mind the wonderful things that make you different. Find ways to celebrate your differences and support each other in shared experiences.

