 Do your best to remove any excessive pressure in your daily life. This can mean emotional or physical engagements that cause tension and exhaustion. Give yourself time to relax every day of the week. Set a specific time of the day for relaxation. It might be best to rest right after a period of activity.Try meditation. Meditating for a few minutes every day can significantly reduce your stress levels. Sit in a quiet place where you are free from distractions. Close your eyes and take deep breaths. Try repeating a positive sentence like, “I am calm,” in your head.Alternatively, you can let your mind rest by only focusing on your breath. There are several techniques for meditation. Find one that works best for you.
Practice being present. Take a few minutes to notice exactly what is going on in the moment. This can be done by focusing on your senses. Pay attention to how the environment feels on your body or the texture of your favorite snack.Laugh out loud. Laughing improves your mood by releasing a brain chemical called endorphins. Sit back with a funny movie or television show or watch some funny clips online.Listen to music. Make a playlist of your favorite relaxing songs. Curl up in your favorite spot on the couch and listen to the music. You may also enjoy listening to a playlist of nature sounds. These also serve as relaxing background sounds as you cook or get ready for bed.;
, People with CFS usually report that they do not sleep well, or that they do not feel refreshed after a full night’s sleep.Don’t add more difficulties to your rest time. Create a sleep schedule that you can stick to. Make an effort to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day. Avoid taking long naps during the day that will throw off your sleep schedule.Sleep for eight or nine hours every night.Adjust your evening routine. Do relaxing activities like reading, taking a bath, or listening to quiet music before bed. Give yourself an hour to wind down from the day and relax your body and mind. Avoid stimulating activities like exercise, intense conversations, or computer time.Do not go to bed on a full or empty stomach. Have dinner about two hours before you go to sleep. Avoid caffeinated drinks like coffee, sodas, or energy drinks at least four hours before bedtime.Consider taking over-the-counter medications. Your local drug store should have non-prescription sleep aids like melatonin, valerian, and various antihistamines., Keep a steady pace with your daily activities. Strike a balance between work, socializing, and relaxation. Try to maintain the same level of daily activity. Do not overwork yourself even if you’re feeling great. You may push yourself too hard and feel unwell for days afterward.Notice what makes you tired. People with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome tend to lose energy from both mental and physical activity. Take note of the things that wear you out. Avoiding filling one day with a lot of activity and taking another day off. Try to spread your engagements evenly throughout the week.

