 You will want to choose a name for your fund that will illustrate its purpose or give people an idea of your intentions. There are generally few rules or requirements for selecting the name for such a fund. You do, however, need to avoid certain terms that could imply a legal meaning that you do not intend.Do not use terms like “foundation” or “trust” in the name you choose, because they imply particular legal entities. If you do have a trust, then you may use it in the name. You should check with a lawyer if you are operating a charitable trust or foundation.
 There are generally two types of funds. One is endowed and the other is non-endowed. With an endowed fund, you need to collect a large enough amount of money that you can make donations from the interest alone, without touching the principal. For a non-endowed fund, you collect money and make donations from the entire fund.To make an endowed fund last, you need to limit the amount of donations to approximately 6% of the fund per year.
 If your objective is to create a fund that will last indefinitely and grow substantially, you need to assign someone to manage it. You may choose to manage the fund yourself. Alternatively, in the case of large endowments, you may even establish a board of directors who would make decisions about collections and donations.You should make decisions about the operations of the fund before you create it and begin taking in money.
 You may have a short-term, specific purpose for collecting money and making donations. Or you may want to create a charitable fund that will take in donations and make grants almost indefinitely. You should state your intentions before you begin advertising for collections, so potential donors will understand your purpose.An example of a short-term, specific fund would be taking in collections to assist a family whose house and belongings were destroyed by fire. Something like this generally will exist for a short time, taking a single donation from interested parties and then donating the entire collected amount to the affected family.

