 One of the easiest ways to end a conversation tactfully is to use a common excuse. Say that you need to run to the bathroom, grab another drink, or are running late for a commitment. This will allow you to leave the conversation without making the speaker feel like you're bored with it.


You can use different excuses depending on the conversation. If you ran into someone at the store, try something like, "Well, I've gotta get home and make dinner. Nice talking to you." At work, you can say something like, "Anyway, I have to work on this presentation."At a bar, try something like, "I need to go meet up with my other friends" or "I'm going to grab another drink." At a networking event, you can say something like, "Anyway, I met a guy earlier who wanted to chat with me as well, so I should get going."In most situations, you can say you need to run to the bathroom as an excuse. This usually provides you with a graceful exit.
 At networking and work-related events especially, you can always pull another person into the conversation. Offer to introduce the other person to someone else. You can also bring them along if you get pulled into another conversation., Oftentimes, non-verbal cues can be used to end a conversation without feeling rude. You can indicate with your body that the conversation has ended. This may help the speaker get the hint without you spelling it out directly.


If you've been sitting down, try standing up. This can indicate you have somewhere to go. You can also move towards the door.Keep your responses short and quick. Try something like, "Yeah, yeah" or simply smiling and nodding.Check your phone or watch to indicate your time is running short and you need to get going., You can also make use of a prop to end a conversation tactfully. If you have your phone or laptop out, pretend you need to return an e-mail. If you have a book or magazine you're reading, try to gently get back to your reading. This conveys that you're busy and do not have time to talk.