 Before you apply for a credit card, you should research your credit score. This is especially true if you do not have a credit history or believe that you might have a bad credit history. (If you have a bad credit history, see these wikiHow articles: Improve Your Credit Score or Get a Higher Credit Score Fast.)


You can request a free credit report from each of the three credit bureaus once per year through annualcreditreport.com. However, your credit report does not contain your credit score. It does contain information that can help you manage your credit score, though.For example, it's not uncommon to get information mixed up, so someone else's late payment or delinquent account could show up erroneously on your credit report. Getting these mistakes fixed will help boost your overall score.
Your credit is calculated by three separate agencies: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. You should check all three. Some smaller lenders will only report to one of the three, so that you credit score is liable to vary from one to the other.
Credit scores range from 300 to 850. The average credit score is approximately 650-700, depending upon the credit bureau., If lenders see that you have made multiple applications for credit, this will affect your score and reduce your likelihood of receiving a card. This can reduce your score by as much as 10%.You should be aware of what your credit score qualifies you for and apply exclusively for cards that you are likely to get. American Express does not release what credit scores will qualify you for which cards.


A credit score of 700 or up will qualify you for a majority of cards, including some cards with very good benefits.
If your credit score is anywhere from 600 to 700, you can likely get an average credit card, but might have some difficulty. It is improbable that you will get a card with great benefits. If available, research the average credit score of those receiving a card that you are considering applying for. Do not apply if the average is much above your own credit score.
If your credit score is under 600 it is unlikely that you will receive a credit card. Instead you should start out by becoming a cosigner on someone else’s card or by getting a secured card.Note that you cannot become a cosigner on an American Express account., While American Express does not release average credit score ranges necessary for card approval, you can sometimes find out the scores of other people who have been approved for a card. Sites such as NerdWallet and Credit Karma often post lists of credit cards for people with "fair" and "average" credit. Community members on this site will sometimes post when they have been approved, and what their credit scores were. This is not definitive information or a guarantee, but it could help you decide whether you have a likely shot at a card.
 A secured card is a way to establish your credit if it is below 600, allowing you to eventually get an unsecured credit card. For a secured card, you will need to deposit cash in your account as collateral. Your spending limit will be approximately what you deposited, so that it functions almost like a prepaid card, except for the fact that the money you deposit as collateral will not count toward your payments.American Express does not offer secured credit cards unless you are a military veteran or family of a veteran. If you have bad credit, you will likely need to begin building it with another company and before establishing a history of transactions with American Express.
 If you have a parent or a spouse who trusts you, you can ask to be added to her account. If they have good credit and handle the card appropriately, it can increase your credit score. Unlike many other cards, American Express does not accept co-signers. However, you can become an authorized user on someone else's American Express account.An authorized user is someone who can use a credit card, but is not responsible for payments and can be removed from the account at any time. For people under 21 on their parents' card, the parent can even set a customized spending limit.However, in recent years, some accounts have stopped reporting information on authorized users to the credit bureaus. Conveniently, American Express only reports positive information about authorized users, making it one of the better companies for increasing your score with an authorized account., Unfortunately the credit bureaus do not consider any transactions conducted outside of the nation. If you are coming from another country, you will essentially start from scratch in building a credit score. You might, however, be able to use your prior credit history to establish a line of credit in the United States.


If you do have records with a credit card in another country, you can try to bring print reports of these along with proof of income to a local bank. Some local institutions will to be willing to offer credit cards based on this information.
Alternatively, if had a credit card issued abroad and you were a good customer, the company might be willing to issue you an American card to begin building your credit score with. Try to work with an institution that you have had a history with.