 If you still receive a call more than 31 days after joining the Registry, visit https://www.donotcall.gov/ to report the violation. Click continue and follow the prompts to report the telemarketer. You will need the following information:


Your phone number
Date you received the call
Time you received the call (optional — may penalize the telemarketer if before 8 am or after 9 pm)

Whether the caller was a real person or not
Whether it was a phone call or text message

, Your report is more likely to lead to penalties for the telemarketer if you can provide extra information. This includes the telephone number of the telemarketer, the name of the company, and a description of your interactions with them (in the "Comments" section). This is all optional.


You may also provide your personal contact information. If you do this, the FTC may contact you with more questions to help their investigation.
 Instead of using the website, you may call the same number you used to add your number to the register. Follow the recorded prompts to file your complain, or skip through them using these steps:


Call 1-888-382-1222 (or 1-866-290-4236 for TTY)
Press 1 for English or 2 for Spanish
Press 3

Press 1

Enter the requested information on your keypad when prompted.
 The Do Not Call Registry does not apply to charities, political organizations, and surveys. It also does not prevent calls from organizations you have done business with (for 18 months after your last transaction), or organizations you've sent an inquiry to (for 3 months). If you are receiving calls under one of these circumstances and would like them to stop, respond as follows:Ask the company not to call you again. Write down the date of this request. If the company calls again, you can report it as described above.
Watch for any other violations you can report. This includes calling before 8 am or after 9 pm; failure to identify the organization and purpose of the call; lying about an offer; failure to provide a number to your caller ID; and prerecorded sales pitches.
Debt collectors may still legally call you. You can report them for harassment, lying, threatening arrest, or other unfair practices, using the website https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0149-debt-collection.
 Unfortunately, modern technology allows many telemarketers to hide their identity and avoid Do Not Call fines. If you continue to receive unwanted phone calls from a specific number, you may want to request a block from your phone service provider. This may or may not cost money depending on your provider's policies.

