 It is difficult for anyone to receive unwanted news that they have been diagnosed with a long-term illness. Whether this is something that was prepared for, or sudden news coming as a shock, the effects and impact on the person diagnosed with the illness will be similarly negative.

Become mindful of the emotional states your loved one may be going through during this time, and express as much love and compassion as possible. For instance, your loved one may be feeling helpless and hopeless, experience a loss of self-worthiness, or feel fearful and/or frustrated. Depending on the constraints and type of diabetes diagnosis, there may be restrictions on what he or she can and cannot do that may increase their irritability and agitation. They may also go through a process of grieving.
Realize that all of these internal emotions that are flooding your loved one will increase their stress level, making them more prone to lashing out at you or other family and friends. It can put additional strain on relationships, which is why it is increasingly important that you provide as much tolerance and understanding as possible in times like these. They will need as much support from you as possible for strength and encouragement. Use the assistance of additional therapy or counseling if needed.;
, Having a diabetic loved one can cause a lot of worry and stress on your part. You may end up nagging your loved one to check their blood pressure or to avoid certain foods due to their health. Avoid lecturing your diabetic loved ones, as this will often lead to conflict and issues. Instead, focus on being supportive and responsive to their needs.Tell other people in your loved one’s life to avoid nagging or lecturing them. Though the lectures may be well intentioned, this can end up feeling condescending to your loved one. It can also lead to more stress for your loved one, as they are already dealing with the anxiety of having diabetes.
 Rather than lecture your diabetic loved ones, ask them what they need from you. Focus on responding to their needs as they deal with diabetes. Listen to what your diabetic loved ones tell you about the support they need, in their own words.For example, you may ask your diabetic loved one, “What can I do for you?” or “How can I support you and your diabetes?”

, Your diabetic loved ones will likely have a lot of doctor’s appointments scheduled for the maintenance of their condition. Offer to go with them to these appointments as moral support. Hold their hand if they need it during the appointments and be there in the waiting room when they are done. Simply showing up and being there during stressful times, like going to doctor’s appointments, can be a big help.For example, you may say to your diabetic loved one, “Would you like me to go with you to your doctor’s appointment?” or “I’m free the day of your appointment, want company?”
Your loved one’s medical professional will be able to assist you both with referrals and other forms of assistance (financially, emotionally, physically). For instance, there may be disability benefit options available to your loved one through the state. For federal employees and veterans, they may be eligible for VA compensation if assisted with connecting to their local VA community. Or there may be other alternative treatment options for symptom management, such as complementary measures to regular western medical approaches.
 To provide a supportive environment for your diabetic loved one, make sure you have food items on hand that are suitable for those with diabetes. This could be chips, popcorn, or cookies that are low in calories and carbohydrates. Keep these snacks in your home or in your bag so that if your diabetic loved one starts to get low blood sugar, they can have these snacks.You can also ask your diabetic loved ones which snacks they prefer and keep these stocked in your home. This way, they feel supported whenever they are at your house.
 To be a good support to diabetic loved ones, try to adopt a lifestyle that is more diabetes friendly. This could mean shifting your diet so you have more diabetic friendly meals, especially when your loved one is over for dinner. You can also lead a healthy lifestyle that includes regular exercise to encourage your loved ones to also stay healthy and fit.


Part of adopting a more diabetic friendly lifestyle is also being a good role model and ally for loved ones with this issue. Try not judge or critique your diabetic loved ones. Instead, show support and care for them.

