 The ingredients found in many shampoos, conditioners and other hair products can be damaging to hair. Even if a product says it will repair damaged hair, it could be doing more harm than good. To make absolutely sure that you aren't harming your hair, consider buying your products from a natural grocery store instead of a drugstore chain.You can also save money by making your own hair products. Try making shampoo, conditioner, or hair gel at home.
Avoid hair products that contain sulfates, silicones, or alcohols. These ingredients are harsh on hair.
 If your body is dehydrated, it will show in your hair. Drink plenty of water to keep your hair looking healthy and hydrated along with your skin. As a general rule, aim to drink water whenever you're thirsty. Instead of reaching for coffee or soda, choose water for the best health benefits.Try taking a water bottle with you during the day so you'll always have water on hand if you're thirsty.
If you dislike drinking water, try drinking herbal iced tea or another sugar and caffeine free drink.
 Your diet has a big effect on the health of your hair. If you're deficient in a certain vitamin or nutrient, your hair will be one of the first places it shows. In order to grow healthy, vibrant hair, make sure your diet includes plenty of the following:Protein, such as lean meats, beans, and dairy.
Omega 3 fatty acids, as found in salmon, sardines, flax seeds and walnuts.
B vitamins, found in meats and other animal products.
If you're a vegetarian, consider supplementing your diet with vitamins to make sure you get all the nutrients you need.
 The sun, pool chemicals, and air pollution can all be hazardous to your hair. Protecting your hair from these environmental elements can make a big difference when it comes to restoring your hair to health. Take the following precautions to save your hair:When you go out in very strong sun, wear a hat.
When you swim in a pool, wear a swim cap.
If you live in a place with high air pollution, wear a hat or try wearing your hair in a protective style, such as braids.
 As you change your habits, you'll start growing in healthy, vibrant hair. It may take awhile to see a huge difference, especially if your hair was very damaged to begin with. Getting regular trims is a way to get rid of old, dry hair and allow you to see the progress you're making.