 It's a white app with a blue compass. You can search for free wallpapers right from your phone using this browser.


You can use any browser you like for this process, though the steps for other browsers will slightly vary.;
, It's at the top of the screen.
 Doing so will bring up a list of popular wallpapers for iPhones and iPods.


Searching for "iphone wallpapers" rather than "ipod wallpapers" will typically result in higher-quality photos.
You can vary your search by adding "hd" or other keywords related to the content you'd like to see (e.g., "mountains").
 Doing so will open the picture in full-screen mode.


If you're using a Google search, tapping the Images tab to view exclusively images will make this process easier.
 After a moment, this will invoke a pop-up window at the bottom of the screen.


If you're using a phone with 3D Touch, be sure not to press down too hard on the picture.
 This will download your selected photo to your iPhone's or iPod's camera roll.
 Doing so will close Safari. Now it's time to apply your wallpaper!

, It's a white app with a multicolored pinwheel icon that you'll most likely find on the Home Screen.
 This option is in the bottom-right corner of the screen.


If Photos opens to a photo, first tap twice the "Back" button in the top-left corner of the screen.
 You'll find this album in the top-left side of the page.


If your iPhone or iPod uses iCloud Photo Library, you'll instead tap All Photos.
 This will open it.
 This option is the box with an upward-facing arrow in the bottom-left corner of the screen.
 It's in the bottom row of options in the pop-up menu.
 You may tap either Still to display your photo as a fixed image, or Perspective to allow the photo to shift when you move your iPhone or iPod.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
 Depending on where you want to apply your wallpaper, you'll tap one of the following options:



Set Lock Screen - Applies your wallpaper to the screen that displays when your iPhone or iPod is locked.

Set Home Screen - Applies your wallpaper to your iPhone's or iPod's operating background.

Set Both - Applies your wallpaper to both the Lock Screen and the Home Screen.
 After selecting a location option, your wallpaper will immediately display on the Lock Screen, the Home Screen, or both of them.

