 For best results, begin your makeup routine with a quick cleanse. Wipe off any old makeup and mascara so that your lashes are fresh. Applying new mascara is easier because your lashes will flake and look clumpy rather than long and sleek if you layer the new over old.Cleaning your face every night before bed is a good habit to have.;
, Dip your closed mascara tube in a cup of warm water from the tap. Let it sit for a few minutes while you apply your foundational makeup and do your hair. The warmth turns your mascara from a goopy substance to a liquid that spreads much easier over your lashes., You don’t want to damage them in order to extend the wand’s length and quality. Twist the wand around inside the tube instead of pumping it up and down.


As you pull your wand from the tube, gently spin the bristles around the edge of the tube’s opening. This will clear off excess mascara and keep your lashes from being weighed down.
 Covering both the top and bottom of your lashes will help to define them. First bring your wand down over the top of your lashes as you look toward the ground. Then swipe up to get the underside of your lashes.


Clean off any accidental smears of mascara on your eyelids or cheeks with a cotton swab or tissue.
Opening your mouth slightly will help widen your eyes and make it easier to apply mascara.
 Putting too much mascara on the tips of your lashes will weigh them down and cause any length to flatten out during the day. Place the wand at the roots of your lashes and slightly wiggle it side to side and then up to the tips. This motion deposits mascara at the base and allow the tips to curl without being burdened., Normally you would apply mascara by holding the wand horizontally with the bristles pointing up and down. For longer lashes, hold the wand up and down and paint a couple of lashes at a time with the bristles going sideways.


Horizontal brushing makes lashes look fuller and vertical brushing makes them look natural and long.
It’s easier to do your top lashes by holding your hand above your head and pulling the wand up over your lashes.
Place a tissue under your bottom lashes when drawing the wand down over them to keep your face from getting smudged.
 Pops of color or neutral combinations can help make your lashes look longer. “Minking” is a practical method of extending your lashes. First use a coat of black mascara, then brush dark brown along the tips, and finish up by reapplying black. This adds dimension without being obvious.You may not want to use colored mascara for every-day wear, but it’s certainly a fun alternative for a night out.
Try using a neutral color like black or brown and then tipping your lashes with a bright hue or gold and silver just to play around with how dual tones extend your lashes.
For lighter hair colors, use brown mascara. For any other hair color, use black. Complimenting your natural coloring will look more natural.

