 When you apply for credit, the prospective lenders make formal requests to your credit agencies to review your credit report. Too many reviews of your report can actually trigger a negative impact on your score. You need to be judicious in the number of applications that you submit. If you are fairly certain that you may be denied, then do not bother with the application., You need to demonstrate not only that you can get a credit card but also that you can manage and use it. It is important to make purchases each month, but it is equally important that you manage the account. Buy only the items that you can afford and will be able to pay at the end of the month. In short, you should treat your purchases as though you are using cash, but set aside the payment for the credit card bill at the end of the month., Part of your credit score is based on your debt to credit ratio. This is the ratio of the balance that you owe, divided by the amount of your total credit limit. For example, owing $1,000 debt, if your credit limit is $10,000, is a 10% ratio. However, owing the same $1,000 if your credit limit is only $3,000 would be a 33% ratio. To keep your credit score in the good range, you should keep this ratio to about 25% or less., This seems obvious, but it is worth stating clearly. You must pay your bills on time. Late payments are the primary thing that will reduce your credit score. You should find ways to develop good habits, like marking due dates on your calendar or even in your smartphone. If you have a regular income, you may be able to arrange for automatic deduction payments, which guarantee that your bills will be paid on time., In the United States, three primary credit reporting agencies--Equifax, TransUnion and Experian--keep track of peoples’ credit scores. When you need to rebuild your good credit, you should monitor your reports with all three agencies. You can get a free copy of your credit report from each agency once a year. Read the report carefully and look for any inaccuracies or missing credits.You can learn more about each of the three main credit reporting agencies at the following websites:

TransUnion: www.transunion.com.
Equifax: www.equifax.com.
Experian: www.experian.com.


If you see activity on your credit report that you do not recognize, you should contact the credit reporting agency immediately to investigate.

