 Instead of making the conversation about you, stop and ask questions to show your interest in what others have to say. To avoid being too talkative, it’s important to learn effective listening skills. A conversation isn’t just about you; it’s about all the people involved. If you’re talking about your day, or something that you do, ask the other person about their day or what they’ve been doing. Give them a few minutes to speak.
Keep engaged in what they’re saying. It’s rude to turn your attention, such as to other people or your phone. If the roles were reversed, you’d probably be irritated if they weren’t paying attention.
Ask questions about them. Get to know them better. Consider saying things about their family, interests, hobbies, favorite movies, sports, music, or other topics that can help you to know the person. See if you can remember one thing you learned about them that you can refer to next time you talk to them. This will keep you from talking about yourself and let them know you were interested in what they shared.
 Let’s say you’re the more talkative person in a group. You might want to talk more if others are quiet. Instead of filling the dead air with your words, encourage others to speak.


Understand that some people can be shy, or feel less of a need to talk. And that’s okay.
Make them feel accepted, and show an interest in what they have to say. Say things like, “What do you think about this?” or “I’d love to hear what you think.”
If you’re in a group where people don’t know one another, or feel comfortable yet with each other, it may take more effort to get others engaged, but this can be ultimately rewarding.
The more that you keep others interested and engaged by learning about them, the more likely they won’t see your talkativeness as annoying.
 Being interrupted when talking is a common reason why people feel irritated by other talkative people. Allow the other people time to speak, and to say what they want to say. Sometimes, they may talk slower than you. Patience is a key part of good listening skills. Wait three to five seconds after a person stops talking before you jump into the conversation. This is to make sure that they have finished what they wanted to say.
If you have a thought or opinion that comes to mind when someone else is talking, avoid interrupting them when they are mid-sentence. Briefly apologize if you catch yourself doing this. Let them know this is something you're working on. Find spaces or breaks in what they are saying before you add your comment.
 One important part of good listening skills is demonstrating that you were not only paying attention to what someone was saying, but that you understood what they were say. By rephrasing or “echoing” what someone said, you are asking for clarification, more information, or a deeper understanding.This rephrasing or repeating back what someone said shows that you are truly listening, and want to focus on the person. For example, if someone is talking about being anxious when planning to visit some relatives for the holidays, you could say, "So it sounds like you're worried about what it will be like when you see your relatives?"
It allows the opportunity for great understanding if there is miscommunication or confusion about what was stated. This can help when you’re not sure what someone said or why they said it.

