 The other parent might not try to modify the child support order. Instead, he or she might simply ignore child support obligations while in prison. When a parent does not pay child support, they are “in arrears.” You should contact your case worker at the child support enforcement agency.


Your next steps will depend on your state’s law. In some states, the parent won’t have to make payment if incarcerated; however, support obligations will start up again when the parent is released from jail.
In other states, you might be able to file a contempt motion while the parent is in prison, especially if you have identified assets the parent could use to pay child support while incarcerated., A person is in “contempt” when they ignore a court order. You can file a motion for contempt with the court that entered your child support order. In response, the incarcerated parent will have to prove he or she can’t afford to pay.You should let your child support enforcement agency handle filing the motion of contempt.
Be sure to get a copy of the motion.
 The incarcerated parent has a chance to oppose your contempt motion. In the response, the incarcerated parent should explain to the court why he or she can’t make support payments.You should receive a copy of the other parent’s response. If not, ask your case worker for a copy.
 At the hearing, the jailed parent has the burden of convincing the judge that he or she can’t afford to make payments while in prison. The child support enforcement agency should send a representative to the hearing to argue why the parent should pay.


You might have to answer questions posed by the judge. Talk ahead of time with your case worker about what your role will be at the hearing.
 Ideally, the contempt motion will prompt the parent to pay child support if he or she has assets. The payments should be made to your state agency, which will disburse them to you.


Unfortunately, you can’t get water from a stone. If the other parent doesn’t pay while in prison, there is little the court can do. The typical punishment for contempt is imprisonment, but the other parent is already in prison.For this reason, contempt might not jog the other parent to pay while they are in jail.
However, child support obligations will continue to accumulate, and interest on the payments will also accrue as the parent serves out his or her jail sentence. When the parent is released, you can garnish his or her wages and intercept tax returns to get your owed child support.

