 Your scars are personal. If you don’t want to tell anyone how they occurred, you don’t have to. If someone asks about them, it’s okay to politely say that you’d rather not talk about it.For instance, you could say something like, “I’d rather not talk about that,” or, “It’s a long story, but now isn’t the time to tell it.”
If you’re not comfortable discussing your scars, consider covering them up to avoid questions.
Be aware that refusing to discuss your scars may make people even more curious about them.;
, Honesty is often the best policy when it comes to explaining self-harm scars, but you don’t have to go into detail. Acknowledge the scars and mention that they were from a tough time in your past, then let the subject go. The person you’re talking to may drop the subject as well.Keep in mind that most people are not knowledgeable about self-harming behavior and do not understand it, so they might respond in unhelpful ways. For example, they might try to force you to change, accuse you of doing it for attention, focus only on your injuries and scars, or refuse to acknowledge or discuss it with you. Prepare yourself for these types of reactions before you decide to share with someone.
You can say something simple and to-the-point like, “I cut myself when I was depressed several years ago, but I’m doing better now.” Then change the subject.
 If you decide to tell a friend or family member the truth about your scars, focus on the emotions you were dealing with at the time. Don’t go into detail about the act of self-harm. They might find that information disturbing or hard to deal with.For instance, don’t talk about which tool you used to cut yourself. Instead, say something like, “I felt really isolated and lonely back then, and this is how I dealt with it.”

, Children may be more likely than adults to innocently ask where your scars came from. While you can be honest with them, make sure your answer is age-appropriate. Don’t go into details that might scare or disturb them. Instead, keep your answer short and simple, and then steer the conversation in another direction.For instance, it’s generally okay to explain to a six-year-old what scars are. Since young children don’t understand complex issues like self-harm, though, don’t talk about hurting yourself. Instead, say you got the scars when you were sick.
However, for older adolescents or teens, you might give a bit more detail that like "I was really sad for a while and this is how I dealt with it. It wasn't the right decision, but I'm glad I've moved past it."

