 Some people prefer thin, watery drinks that they can drink quickly. Others find that a thicker liquid does a better job at masking the taste. You may have to experiment with trial and error to find out which consistency you prefer. Most people use about eight oz. of liquid per scoop of powder, but try using more for thinner drinks or less for thicker ones. You can also switch up the actual liquid base you use for your shake:


Water is a good option for weight loss because it adds no calories, but it does nothing to mask the taste of the powder. Instead, try different berry teas. A cold raspberry or acai tea, for example, could make your shake tastier.
For a slightly thicker shake, try fat-free milk or milk substitutes like almond or soy milk. Many people find almond milk, in particular, to have a pleasant, slightly sweet flavor.
If you are trying to gain weight or if you prefer an extra-thick shake, try using whole milk. Be aware that the combination of whole milk and protein powder can be hard to digest. If your body can't adjust to it, step back to a thinner, fat-reduced milk.;
, Sugar has a powerful effect on the brain. Research shows that sugar releases dopamine, which controls the brain's reward and control response. A dopamine rush makes us recognize rewards more clearly, and can improve motivation in the short term.But beyond these workout benefits, sugar is just great at masking bad tastes. Try adding a couple teaspoons of sugar, honey, chocolate syrup, dextrose, or maltodextrin to your shake. If you're restricting your sugar intake, though, try healthier alternatives:


Peanut butter both sweetens and thickens shakes.
Chopped fresh fruit and fruit juice provide vitamins and fiber as well as sweetness. Banana is popular because of its strong flavor and thickness. Avoid citrus fruit if using a dairy-based protein powder, as it may cause curdling.
If you want sweetness without additional flavors or calories, try an artificial sweetener. Splenda and stevia are popular options that sweeten without adding calories.
 Try adding a couple spoonfuls of cocoa or vanilla powder to your shake. A half teaspoon of a full-flavored spice like cinnamon or nutmeg can go a long way as well. Sugar-free syrups intended for homemade sodas or coffee flavors are an easy way to add flavor to your shake that won't add a powdery texture.


Mixing flavors can better mask the taste of the protein powder as well. Try adding more than one type of fruit — strawberries and bananas, for example. Add a shot of espresso and some vanilla flavoring.
Explore with combinations that work for you.
 Some people love a yogurt-based shake, while others despise it. Try it out a couple times to see whether you think it's deliciously creamy or just plain hard to get down. Simply add a spoonful of yogurt to your shake, or frozen yogurt if you want a "creamsicle" shake.


Try Greek yogurt for an even stronger, tangy taste and the added benefit of extra protein., Some people find that they taste protein powder less when it's in a cold, icy drink. Making a blended ice smoothie with your protein shake will also thicken it a little bit, though not nearly as much as yogurt or peanut butter., A kale smoothie is the subject of nightmares for some, but you may love it if you're a regular juicer. Any green vegetable from spinach to spirulina powder to zucchini works well with protein powder. A tablespoon of nuts and seeds can add more savory flavor and help thicken the smoothie. For a little sweetness to balance out the flavor, you can add chopped fruits like bananas or strawberries or sweet vegetables like beets or carrots., The worst type of protein shake is one with dry, undissolved lumps of protein powder in it. Small, single-serve blenders are an affordable option if you do not use your blender for other purposes.Pour all the ingredients into the blender and blend on high until the texture is even and lump-free.
For shakes with many solid ingredients, use a "grind" option when available.
If you absolutely can't get access to a blender, put the shake ingredients into a sealed container and shake for a long time. Microwaving the liquid or heating it over the stove can also make it easier to mix together.
You may also consider buying a "shaker cup" specially designed to break up powder clumps for consistent texture. These products can dramatically improve your shakes at a fraction of the cost of a good blender.
 If you just want a tasty protein shake now, you can try out these classics:


Peanut butter honey shake: Blend one scoop of protein powder, one cup of ice, one cup of milk or milk substitute, 1/8 cup of peanut butter, and 1/8 cup of honey. Optional: add half a ripe banana, and/or a square of dark chocolate.
Fruit smoothie: Blend one scoop of protein powder, one cup of vanilla yogurt, three to four strawberries, one ripe banana, 1/2 cup milk or milk substitute, and a handful of ice cubes. #*Nuts and spice drink: Blend one scoop of protein powder, ½ cup of berries, ⅓ cup of chopped nuts, one tbsp cocoa powder, ¼ tsp ground cinnamon, and one to two cups of milk of milk substitute. Optional: add more flavor and texture with ½ cup of raw oats.

