 Biting at your cuticles can cause cuts and sores around your finger nails. Use an over-the-counter antibiotic cream (such as bacitracin, Neosporin, or triple antibiotic cream) to speed the healing process. Apply the cream, and put a bandage over the cuticle to help the cream soak in., If you’ve bitten and picked at your cuticles to the point that you have long hang nails and open cuts, a bandage can also help your skin return to normal. A bandage on your finger will also help remove the temptation of picking or biting at the cuticle.Try using a bandage made of flexible fabric. These bandages are easier to manipulate and are less likely to come off when you bend your fingers. You may also be able to find bandages made especially for the tips of your fingers.
 Cuticle creams are similar to hand moisturizers, but they are specifically made to heal and strengthen the cuticle. Cuticles can be quite rough, so the creams tend to be thick and a bit oily. Check with your local pharmacy or beauty supply store for brand suggestions.


Apply the cream directly to your cuticles and rub it in. Try doing this when you know you won’t be using your hands (while you watch TV, for example). That way you can massage the cream in for a good amount of time.Wipe the cream off if it’s too oily. Try rubbing the cream into your cuticles and then wipe the residue off your inner hands and fingers with a damp cloth.
 Keeping your hands moisturized also helps with nail and cuticle health. Sometimes you don’t have time dedicate to each cuticle, but a quick application of hand cream will do in the meantime. Cuticles are primarily made of skin, so using hand cream throughout the day will help heal some dry patches., Skin around the cuticle tends to grow in rough and dry. Any bit of raised dry skin can create temptation to bite it off! Avoid this by smoothing out any dead skin with a nail file.


Do not use a nail file if you have open cuts or sores. This will only aggravate the cuts and cause more problems.

