 Scoop out about 3-4 scoops of ice cream from the carton, and add them to the blender.


The more ice cream you add, the bigger your shake will be.
Vanilla ice cream is usually used as a base to add candy flavors to, but any type of ice cream flavor works just fine.;
, Measure out 1/3 of a cup of milk and add it to the blender.Depending on how think you want you shake, you can add more milk to make your shake thinner (1/2 cup of milk), or less milk to make it thicker (1/4 cup of milk).
 Measure out how much candy you want to add to your ShakeAway, and pour it into a plastic bag, bowl, or mortar. If you add your candy to a bag, you can smash the candy with a hammer or rolling pin. If you add your candy to a bowl, you can smash the candy using a pestle, or smash in the candy in the mortar using the pestle. Once all your candy is smashed, add it to the blender.


It doesn't matter what kind of bag you use, but the main point is that you want your candy to be confined somewhere where you can smash it collectively and keep the candy together.
The more translucent the bag material is, the better you can see portions of the candy that are already smashed, or still need to be smashed.
Be sure to keep a lookout for holes in the bag created by smashing the candy.
Smashing the candy helps with blending the candy into the ShakeAway, and also helps reduce damage to the blender’s blades.
 Blend the ice cream, milk, and candy until the mixture becomes smooth and pourable. Depending on the size of your candy pieces, you might have to try a higher blender setting if your candy pieces are bigger. If your candy pieces are relatively small, the normal blending settings should work just fine.


Be sure to put on the top of the blender, so you don't splash milk and ice cream everywhere.
 The texture of your ShakeAway is all about your personal preference. Normally, ShakeAways have a consistency where the candy pieces are small enough to fit through a straw, and the ice cream, milk, and candy can be eaten with a spoon, but still thin enough to immediately spill if knocked over.


A general rule of thumb is, blend the mixture less to have a thicker ShakeAway, or blend it more to have a thinner, smoother ShakeAway.
 To top off your ShakeAway, consider adding a dollop or two of whipped cream and/or sprinkle some of your whole pieces of candy or leftover bits for a crunchy topping.