 No one likes to go to sleep feeling cramped and uncomfortable. Therefore, getting some exercise before bed can be helpful. There is a myth that you shouldn’t exercise before bed since it gets the blood flowing and makes the body alert, but exercising any time of day benefits sleep. Take a jog. If you still feel stressed from work, go jog around the block! Get some fresh air and release remaining tension so you can rest better.
Ride a stationary bike or walk a treadmill. Go to the gym or take advantage of exercise equipment if you own it. Don’t let it collect dust when jumping on it for even just ten minutes can help calm you.
Do yoga. Performing just a few simple yoga poses stretches the muscles and soothes the brain.
 Many people like taking in the scent of aromatherapy candles before bed. Lavender is one of the most commonly used scents, but you can try chamomile, jasmine, or vanilla, too. Lavender. Interestingly, this popular scent works better for women and young people, and it has different effects on men and women. For women, it improves stage 2 sleep but not REM sleep. It is the exact opposite with men. Many people spray a lavender mist on their pillow to good effect, so give it a shot. Chamomile. You can take in the smell of this lovely, light fragrance while drinking tea or by dabbing some essential oil on your bedclothes. The scent can also aid women who have PMS symptoms.
Jasmine. Using jasmine can help people sleep more soundly. That sounds like a great reason to go to the local natural health store and buy some jasmine oil!
Vanilla. This yummy scent can decrease anxiousness and help lower your blood pressure. Be careful with this one, though; it could also make you feel hungry!

, Run a warm bath and use aromatherapy body wash, bubble bath, or bath salts, perhaps one of the scents described above. The warm water soothes the muscles, and the quiet time helps relax the brain. Afterward, dry yourself off with a soft, fluffy towel and perhaps apply some lavender or vanilla lotion. , Everyone has different musical preferences. Just choose the type of music that helps you decompress at the end of the long day. It might be different based on your emotions at that moment. You might even find that non-musical sounds assist you in unwinding.


Any type of music. If classical musical makes you feel good, play that. If you need something a little more modern, try some recent jazz. Some people enjoy ambient music, which is often played at dance clubs in the wee hours. Usually slower, quieter music works best, but if heavy metal or hip hop helps chill you out, go for it!
Nature sounds. The sound of rain falling, ocean waves crashing, or turtles calling can help lull some people into sleep. That is because the sounds change in pitch and rate frequently. Fans or white noise machines. Many people need to hear background noise in order to fall asleep. You can run a fan on your preferred setting. There are even machines that emit a whirring sound that have been proven to help people sleep. , One reason why you might not be able to sleep is due to pressing thoughts. Did you have a horrible day at work? Are you fighting with your spouse? Are you concerned about the state of our environment or some of the violence that you hear about in the news? If so, write down your thoughts and find relief before bed.


Simply express yourself. You don’t have to use perfect grammar or sentence structure. It doesn’t matter where the commas go. All that matters is that you let your emotions out on the page.
No one else needs to read it. Sometimes, we think things that we wouldn’t want anyone else to know. A journal is perfect for venting those feelings.
Handwrite or type. You can use a traditional paper journal if that is your preference. You can purchase numerous beautiful and even hand-made journals in stores or online. However, if you like using your laptop, feel free to start an online journal. Just don’t type right up until bed, as the screen glare negatively affects sleep. , Meditation involves breathing exercises, being in the moment, and thinking positively. The main effect of meditation is that it puts the body and mind into a much more loose state. People who practice meditation, notably celebrities Sting and Madonna, say that it decreases stress, and being less stressed helps you sleep. , One of the best strategies to use, when you experience difficulty sleeping, is to read for awhile. Reading tires out your eyes, which is conducive to sleep. Some claim that you should only read boring material, but picking up a novel that you are interested in might help, too. Individuals are different, so vary what you read and see what works best. 