 These high energy dogs need a lot of exercise; it’s what keeps a husky happy. Healthy huskies need the equivalent of three to five miles of exercise four days a week.


This exercise can be in the form of running, playing with other dogs, swimming, or one-dog sledding type sports, such as bikejoring, skijoring, or swimjoring.;
, Your husky may have the energy to run all out the first day, but it doesn't have the conditioning. When biking, go slow enough that your husky can run at an easy pace.


Most dogs start out much too fast and need to be managed until they settle into a comfortable pace. It's easy to out run a husky on a bike, which puts your husky at risk for overheating, becoming overwhelmed because the pace is too fast, and fearing the exercise.
 Temperatures above 65ºF (18ºC) are bordering on too hot to exercise. If there is a breeze, low humidity, or your dog can easily cool off in water, you may be able to exercise at these temperatures.


On hot summer days keep exercise to a minimum or only exercise before the sun comes up and heats up the day.
Consider altering outdoor exercise with indoor exercise in an air-conditioned building.
Keep in mind that racing sled dogs do not work very hard unless the temperature is below 20ºF (-6ºC).
Keep warm weather exercise sessions less than 3 miles (4.8 km) long (less than 5K).
 Siberian huskies have multiple coats of fur, and were bred for working in the snow. Keep this in mind when you take them out on a warm day. These include: excessive panting, excessive salivation, bright red tongue and gums (or pale gums), thick saliva, weakness, collapse, and vomiting, which is sometimes bloody. You never want to get your dog to this point, as heat illness (stroke, overheating) can cause serious consequences to your husky.


Give your husky plenty of cool water to drink. Some dogs enjoy ice as well.
There are ways to prevent heatstroke starting with using common sense. If you are uncomfortable in hot weather your husky, with its thick fur coat, is probably much more uncomfortable to the dog, than you.
If you exercise your husky using a head halter, make sure your husky can open its mouth wide enough to pant normally. The mouth is the only pathway for reducing body heat.
The larger the dog, the harder it is to stay cool. Dogs stay cool through panting. Larger dogs have more body heat to get rid of, so it takes time for them to cool. If you have a large husky – 60+ pounds(27kg+) – take extra precautions in the heat.

