 Sign up for email alerts, Twitter notifications, or any other appropriate notification service from your transit agency. This allows you to be informed of system-wide delays before you enter the system.

In the case of a system-wide delay, you have to trade off two factors: given that the travel time is greater, you need to enter earlier in order to reach your destination on time, against the fact that delay and crowdedness are high right now and will likely return to normal if you delay your travel. You need to understand the situation based on your knowledge of how quickly the transit agency recovers from delays and other factors to make an informed judgment.


Sporting events, music festivals, and political rallies can cause some routes to get highly crowded for particular time ranges. If you do not intend to attend the specific event, and have some flexibility regarding the time or route of travel, try to avoid the crowds.
In some cases, problems with alternative transportation modes (such as traffic jams on highways) can lead to greater crowding on mass transit.


Listen for controller, station agent, or train operator announcements that explain the situation, including information on whether the extra crowding is a feature of that train alone or a system-wide delay.
If another less crowded train is right behind, the operator will usually announce this.
Use your general understanding of how load varies with time of day to make an informed judgment. If load is still increasing (i.e., the current time is before the rush hour peak) then boarding now is better than boarding later. If load is decreasing in expectation, it may be better to delay boarding.
Consider riding in the opposite direction, as discussed in Method 3.


Consider walking, driving, taking a bus, or using an on-demand transportation service.
The train system may suggest alternative modes of travel, and may even offer discounts on the use of these alternative modes of travel in order to alleviate crowding.

