 Braising is a long, slow cooking method that leaves meat so moist and tender that it's practically falling apart. Because of this, it's ideal for tougher cuts. In this recipe, we'll use a braising process to give some pork spareribs a juicy meat-falls-off-the-bone texture. As with all oven-based cooking methods, begin by pre-warming your oven.
 Pour one cup of flour into a dish and season with salt and pepper to taste. Turn the spareribs in the flour mixture, dusting them off to ensure no excess flour remains. The flour mixture will add a nice savory flavor to your meat and help it develop a brown crust in the next step.
 Heat a few tablespoons of oil in a skillet, then add your spareribs and sear over high heat for a few minutes. Don't cook your spareribs all the way through - just give them a crisp brown exterior. The interior of the meat will slowly cook in the oven over several hours while braising. When the spareribs are brown, set aside.


Your meat doesn't even have to appear visibly done when you take it out of the pan - as long as it has a crisp, brown exterior, it's ready to go into the oven.
 Adding vegetables to this dish will give the final product a complex, delicious flavor. Chop one medium sized onion and a few cloves of garlic into medium-sized bits, then sauté them until they're just translucent.
 Braising is a cooking process that partially resembles stewing. When we braise the meat, we'll cook it slowly in a soupy mixture - like a stew. Beef stock will be our base liquid - begin by adding two cups of beef stock to the pan. Modify this base with a few ounces of other liquid flavors - red wine vinegar, for instance is a good choice - and simmer in the pan to reduce the mixture, concentrating the flavor.


When it comes to flavoring your braising liquid, there's countless choices. Stout beer, red wine, and tomato puree all taste great. Powdered ingredients like paprika and garlic salt also work well. Don't be afraid to test your broth by tasting it. Generally, if it tastes good, so will your meat!

, Pour your beef stock mixture over the top of your spareribs, evenly coating them. Cover the pan with foil and transfer to a rack in the center of your oven.
 Every hour, turn your spareribs. Exact cooking times will vary. Luckily, braised meat will only dry out if it's left in the oven well past its done point. After an hour and a half, periodically test your ribs for doneness with a fork. The meat should be quite soft and easy to to pull apart. The inside may appear slightly stringy.
 Immediately transfer your moist, juicy spareribs to a plate and serve. If you desire, use leftover liquid from the cooking pan as a gravy, generously basting your spareribs.


This dish is a fantastic compliment to fluffy mashed potatoes, as the potatoes will absorb the liquid (and thus the flavor) that leaks from the spareribs.

