 That’s right. You can strengthen your mind simply by hanging out with other humans and enjoying each other’s company. In fact, our brain’s health requires that we have a strong social support system. Believe it or not: the more social your life, the slower your memory will decline with age.There are plenty of ways to up your social interaction. Start volunteering with an organization the works on issues you care about, or simply call up an old friend you haven’t spoken to in a while and catch up.
 If you realize you’ve been taking life a bit too seriously, think about something you’ve done recently that you could have handled more calmly. Here’s the kicker: laugh at yourself for being so darn high-strung sometimes! Forcing yourself to confront ways in which you sometimes behave humorously without realizing it will also help you start to change those behaviors. Further, laughing immediately reduces stress, thus contributing to a healthy, happier brain.Perhaps the best way to find something to laugh about is to hang around fun people. The more someone laughs in your company, the more likely you’ll catch the giggles yourself. Children, in particular, are a consistently reliable source of laugh-inducing statements and behaviors.
Place reminders to lighten up where you’ll see them often. Hang a doll from your rear view mirror, put a meme on your computer’s background, or put some laugh-inducing photos of you and your friends on your desk. Seeing these throughout the day will help keep your mind at ease.
 Expose your mind to emotional and social extremes from the safety of a book. Authors like Jane Austen and David Foster Wallace are capable of spinning webs of intrigue that can stimulate and expand your mind. Further, they create realistic social environments than you can learn from and experience from the comfort of an armchair. All of this helps ultimately helps improve your social skills, and can even generate connections between the emotional and social parts of your brain.