 The law prohibits employers from asking employees or applicants to disclose disabilities. The decision rests on the person with ADHD to decide whether to notify the employer.In general, it is a good idea to let you employer know about your condition.


Your first impulse might be not to tell your boss you have ADHD. Most people want to be treated like normal, productive members of their workplaces. However, your employer may show more compassion if she or he is aware that you have a disability and could benefit from accommodations.
Your boss may be more willing to work with you on problems with deadlines and time management if you are open about your limitations. This is especially true if you excel in other areas of the job. The alternative to disclosure might be finding a pink slip in the next paycheck., You shouldn't present your ADHD as an excuse. However, others need to know what they can and cannot expect of you. If you are open about about your condition, your coworkers may be less likely to take offense at some of your behaviors.


Explain the symptoms of ADHD like forgetfulness and impulsiveness. Let others know that your behaviors do not arise from lack of respect, selfishness, or a bad attitude. Be honest about your limitations, especially when asked to take on tasks you are likely to struggle with.Let others know that it is acceptable for them to correct you or remind you to do things. Don't overreact or get upset when someone reminds you of something or expresses frustration with your ADHD symptoms.Apologize when you slip up, react in a negative way, or hurt someone's feelings. Take responsibility and don't make excuses for mistakes, forgotten promises or missed deadlines.
 All U.S. states offer vocational rehabilitation (VR) services for persons with disabilities who need helping finding or maintaining employment.Look on your state government's website for information about available services.


In the State of Washington, for instance, the Division of Vocational Rehabilitation helps disabled job seekers. They help with independent living services, public transportation, time and money management, establishing daily routines and schedules, etc.VR counselors provide one-on-one help. This may include computer training, job skills training, or help with applying for jobs., Job Coaching is an important service frequently underwritten by VR. It is also often available through non-profit community agencies. Job coaches provide individual attention with an eye toward making your work easier and more productive.

A job coach will walk with an employee through his or her workday. She or he will note potential problems and design solutions or provide helpful training. Some issues may be simple fixes that an employer will arrange. Others may require extensive training for the employee.
For instance, a supervisor who wants to meet with a particular staff member once a week may be used to asking, “Hey, is this a convenient time? Let’s meet in five….” This can be nerve-wracking if the staffer has ADHD and struggles with schedules and routines. A job coach might ask the supervisor to establish a regular day and time for meeting.A job coach might help an overwhelmed employee create a weekly schedule. It could include an approximation of how much time various tasks should take. Or, the coach might help break large projects into a series of smaller steps.Time management is a common issue for people with ADHD. Job coaches can help with tardiness issues by evaluating the employee’s morning routine or bus schedule.
The job coach may be hired for a matter of a few days or weeks, depending on the situation.

