 Mindfulness is best known from its Buddhist roots and has been adapted as a secular practice. The risk has been in modern times that in an effort to strip mindfulness practices from its traditional religious source, it has also stripped itself of many of the internal checks and balances without providing adequate compensations for these very important tools. It is wise to read widely before engaging in any practice.;
, For mindfulness to work, it is crucial to adapt your lifestyle in the beginning, as well as during the time you practice. This is a very important safeguard, but also makes the mindfulness more effective. You may balance your lifestyle by considering the following checklist.


Time: If you live a very busy life at work or school, as well as at home, it can be very difficult to practice. Dedicating some private time for your own practice, or reducing your duties will aid progress immensely. With a mind that is too busy, it can be too difficult to identify the root cause of the problem you are currently dealing with.
Perspective. If you have a positive outlook, even in times of trouble and stress, then you have an enormous advantage. If you incline towards more negative moods and perspectives, intentionally start to look for a silver lining in the situation, and ultimately a view of letting go. This in itself may seem trivial, but actually acts as a very effective way of separating yourself from an issue that may be otherwise all-consuming.
Energy. If developed well, mindfulness may give you more energy and enthusiasm as it reveals new and interesting aspects of your interactions with life and people, that can give you room for creativity and inspiration. However, it takes energy to get the ball rolling. If you are tired, then it is always better to rest, meditate or have a pamper session to recuperate. As your practice develops then these times of low energy can actually be very revealing and helpful.
Physical and Mental Health. Unfortunately, mindfulness has occasionally been mis-represented as a cure-all and for practitioners suffering from a mental condition such as paranoia, severe anxiety, severe depression or borderline personality complexes should not undertake mindfulness with the view of a quick-fix, or without qualified instruction. Physical health is also important as good health and dietary habits make the practice more easy.
 In the Buddhist tradition, the ancient word used for mindfulness also means: recognition, awareness, memory, intent and wakefulness. Simple observation or noting techniques are actually only one third of the practice, the next third is recognizing or identifying what is going on, and finally experimenting and learning about the experience so that you may then act effectively. For this reason, mindfulness is a personal journey that develops as you go.
 Wether you are busy in the moment or taking some quiet introspection time, such as meditation, look at what you feel, what you are thinking, what is going on around you.
 Some techniques involve a personal narrative, such as "I am feeling tired" or "I am feeling frustrated", but other methods are simply pure observation. Use whichever is easiest for you. Ultimately, when your practice has developed, the personal narrative is not necessary, but can still be used as you see fit. Mindfulness is not a fixed system.
 This means essentially that you don't become tied up with the experience, because the trap is creating more feelings and thoughts about existing feelings and thoughts, thus complicating your experience and making things worse! When you begin, it is best to practice on neutral or pleasant experience because it can be a much simpler way to learn how to look at things impartially, for example as you might look at a nice flower in a vase, or an article in the paper. When handling difficult situations as a beginner, take it slowly and use different skills and means such as discussing the issue with a trusted friend, or simply taking a rest so that you can deal with it later and then reflecting on what happened.
 Again, only do this when you are confident, because mindfulness techniques really start to become effective is when you feel more confident to face the experience with an open mind. The more you learn about the experience, be it a negative one; the less it will dominate you, but at the same time the more you explore a pleasant experience, you can appreciate it with far more happiness and depth of heart.
 Mindfulness in many ways is understanding your habitual ways of responding to a situation, as well as understanding the situation you are in. Sometimes it can become clear that your habitual way of response is the source of your stress, sometimes it is seeing a solution to the problem itself. By relieving yourself of expectations and pressures, you give yourself a much easier time to understand how gradually the habits can be changed, and how your own insight can be developed to give you far more freedom. As your practice develops, you may be surprised suddenly to recognize that simply by knowing what you experience had dissolved the complexity and stress in itself.
 No matter how challenging the experience, eventually an experienced practitioner recognizes the experience itself was not the enemy, nor were their emotions, sensations or thoughts the enemy. People are internally primed to fight off all conflicts without understanding that the real problem as such, was always the lack of understanding. The cause of stress is the wild, confused, habitual and frightened mind lashing out at imagined monsters, making mountains out of molehills, or wanting to change the world.
 This is an aspect of mindfulness that in its traditional form is crucial, yet often is abandoned in secular forms because many inherently reject or feel uncomfortable with the idea - which in itself is actually a telling expression of self-aversion. The kindness and compassion recognises that you don't need to fight your own mind or with other people, and that it heals the mind in a way that is both deep and groundbreaking. It can also, just by its presence, soothe and remove many internal subtle problems that were not evident at the time.
 This is a very advanced and difficult stage to manage. There will always be tragedies that are beyond resolution, so mindfulness is about recognising and accepting ones' own limitations. This in many ways relieves the pressures from a person, because when the nature of some challenges is that they can never be changed reveals that a practitioner can always do their best, but when it is beyond help it is not a failure. This is the ground of healing, of letting go of stress and moving on, without becoming trapped in the past.
 As an extension of the practice of kindness, boosting your pleasant experiences with similar feelings of joy, self worth, gratitude and generosity will reset your habitual ways of dealing with stress as well as enriching ordinary experiences. A simple cup of tea made by a loved one, or one that you made for a loved one can become a deeply wonderful moment, and a practitioner eventually inclines to looking for opportunities to make someone's day. These experiences will often overpower negative experiences and give the practitioner a deep sense of contentment and confidence.
 By reflecting often on quality states of mind and quality experiences, a skilled practitioner often shares these skills with others without even applying effort, such as being a good friend to those you know who are experiencing their own troubles, or enriching one's relationships and interactions in life. This in turn, deepens your own mindfulness and insight to living a stress free life.

