 Until kids learn how to read on their own, it's best to sit down and read to them out loud.


Select bright, colorful picture books that don't have a lot of text.
The younger the child, the slower you should go. Speak clearly and slowly, pausing at each page.
Consider letting the child decide when it's time to turn to the next page.
Older kids can still enjoy being read to if it's a more complicated story, especially before going to sleep.
Reading to kids early and often stimulates their brains and helps them learn verbal skills., Once kids start learning how to read, usually at five or six, encourage them to take a more active role.


Keep reading the entire story to a child who is just learning how to identify simple words. However, before turning the page, try pointing to a word or two and ask if the child can read the word. Stick to easy words like "red" and "dog" at first.
Once a child learns how to read simple sentences, encourage him or her to read picture books to you.
If he or she gets stuck on a difficult word, encourage the child to sound it out. If that doesn't work, gently tell the child how to say the word., As their reading skills improve, you don't always have to entertain kids by reading to them directly. Instead, encourage independence by reading to themselves. As an adult, it's your job to make sure they have what they need.


Stock up on age-appropriate books and keep them where the kids can always grab one to read.
Take the kids on a trip to bookstores and/or libraries and let them pick out their own books.
Participate in local community reading events and book clubs for kids.
If you can't find a children's reading program in your area, you can try starting one yourself. You may even be able to apply for grants to help fund these activities.Give older kids access to a dictionary to use when they come across unknown words.
 Reading and listening to stories is fun, but making up your own can be just as entertaining, especially for young kids. Ask the kids to tell you a story.


You can teach them how to tell a story by telling a simple story first. Then ask for a story from them.
If you're entertaining a few kids, try playing a game where everyone tells the story. Go in a circle and take turns, adding on to what the last person said. If one kid tends to hog the spotlight, try adding a rule to limit each turn to one minute or one sentence to include everyone equally.
Once kids start to learn how to read and write, they can begin writing down simple stories. Give them paper or a notebook to write in.
Older kids may begin to write their own novel-length stories. At this stage, it may be a good idea to let them use a computer to type their stories rather than handwrite them.