 To register as a volunteer for the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, you must be at least 13 years old and a resident of the United States. Volunteering is open to individuals of any gender and ethnicity within the country. If you are not a U.S. resident, visit https://www.unicef.org/infobycountry to get contact information for your country’s head office, as well as program details., Before signing up, read the volunteering terms and conditions on the U.S. Fund for UNICEF website. Note that, by registering, you are declaring that you understand and agree to these terms and conditions. The agreement includes statements that:you will act professionally and uphold the UNICEF’s reputation
you will send all fundraising contributions that you collect to the U.S. Fund for UNICEF no later than thirty days following the conclusion of the fundraising activity
you declare that all the information included about yourself is true and complete

, To register as a volunteer, visit the U.S. Fund for UNICEF’s website at https://www.unicefusa.org/user/register. Fill out the required information, including your name, date of birth, postal code, and email address, and choose a password for your account. Look for confirmation details in your email inbox.You can also enter your mobile phone number to receive alerts from UNICEF.
 UNICEF offers online webinars for new volunteers looking to get acclimated with the organization and their role in it. New volunteer orientations happen via webinar every month, educating participants on how to get started with volunteer initiatives within their own community. Volunteer training webinars happen every two months and provide a more in-depth look at how to get involved (i.e. planning fundraisers, advocating to legislators)., Students at high school and college levels can register their club with UNICEF, upon which they will receive resource kits and materials to reach out to their school and community at large. To start, register individually as a volunteer with UNICEF U.S. Fund; then, ask to join your school's UNICEF club or approach your school's administrators about starting one. If you are starting a new group, fill out an application form on UNICEF U.S. Fund's website for either college clubs or high school clubs.Note that UNICEF clubs must have a leadership structure containing at least four officers: president, vice president, treasurer and secretary.

