 If you are fresh out of college, your skillset might be your degree, the fact that you are an athlete or that you did a lot of public speaking in college. If you have worked before, your skillset will be more aligned to the job you were doing. Make a list of your key skills; this is what you will need to highlight in your application. Remember that your educational qualifications and your experience are the very basic of requirements. But you need to recognise what is the icing on the cake.;
, If you are fresh out of college, are you looking for a job that is directly associated with your degree? It is important that you know the kind of job you are looking for. Once you have done that, you need to check whether the skillset that you identified in the previous step is enough to get you that job. If not, then you either need to rethink the job you want or upgrade your skills. For example, if you are looking for a job as a computer programmer, the basic necessity is that you should know how to program. If you don’t know, then you should either look for another job or learn programming.
 Each time you acquire a fresh certificate or a promotion, you need to put this in your CV. Remember, if your CV is online, then prospective employees are always scouring through the internet to find suitable people. If you do not update your CV regularly, you are likely to miss out on some golden opportunities.
 Now you need to look for the job itself. The question now is: How to find a job in Cape Town? There are a myriad of ways that you can use to find a job.
 You can pass the word around that you are job hunting and that they should let you know if an opening comes up in their companies.
 However, it is a good idea to ensure that your skillset matches the jobs in that company. There is no point applying as a chef in a company that is looking only for dressmakers!

, The jobs are listed according to category, which makes your job hunt so much easier. You can also enter a keyword based on which suitable jobs will be listed.
 In your application, you need to emphasise your key skills, in addition to your core skills. Remember, employers are looking not just for the experience and the education, but also for a person who is the right fit in the company and who will add value to the company. This is how you need to sell your skills, by telling the company what you bring to the table.
 An interview these days need not always be a personal interview; it can be conducted over the phone or via video conferencing. If it is a personal interview, then the way you dress, walk and talk are all very important. If it is a phone interview, then you need to speak clearly and coherently. If it is a video interview, then you need to be seated in a place that is well lit so that the interviewer can see you clearly. Keep these things in mind when preparing for the interview and you will surely nail that interview.
