 While go-karts may seem like kid stuff, many race car drivers learn the basics by driving at go-kart tracks.You can even enter go-kart competitions, which are essentially scaled-down versions of race car competitions.In fact, many professional race car drivers begin with go-karting at a young age. If you can win races at a young age, sponsors will start taking notice, and you may be able to jump into professional race car driving.;
,


To join, you'll need a sports physical from a doctor. You'll need a form from the SCCA's website.
You'll also need to fill out the novice permit form, another form on the SCCA's website.
You'll also need to passport-size photos. You can buy these at a local pharmacy, usually. You'll also need a copy of your license (both sides), and you'll need to pay a fee. As of 2015, the fee is $125.
You can also become a track-side person with your local club, giving you the inside scoop. From there, you can possibly move up to car racing., Many driving schools offer single-day courses, which can help you decide if race car driving is something you really would like to do., If you become good at kart driving, you may be able to qualify for driving school. Some of these schools offer 3-day courses for teenagers as young as 13 and 14, but they of course take adults, too. They teach you the basics of how to drive a race car.In driving school, you'll learn about things such as how to take a corner, how to approach your visual field, how to accelerate and brake properly on a race track, and the basics of passing.
Your instructor should be able to give you some idea about when you're ready for the track. If you're not getting the basic skills, you may need to spend more time in school.
 While most new drivers don't think about seating position, how you position yourself is important. In a crash, you want to be braced against the seat, and while driving, the seat helps you withstand the forces of the car.Square up your body with the seat. That is, don't lean or twist one way or another. Make sure all of your body that should be touching the seat is, including your shoulders, head, and legs.Ensure your arms are at the proper distance from the steering wheel. With your shoulders back against the seat, your wrists should be resting on top of the wheel. This extra space helps you to make turns without moving your back from the seat.Ensure your legs are the proper distance from the pedals. Like the arms, you should be able to press the pedals without overextending your legs. Press the pedals down with the ball of your foot. Your knee should still be slightly bent., Place your hands at 9 and 3. That is, pretending the steering wheel is a clock, place your hands at 9:00 o'clock and 3:00 o'clock, which gives you the most control over the wheel.Push into the turns. Instead of pulling with one hand, use the hand away from the turn to push the wheel. Use your other hand to add control.Pushing, rather than pulling, provides smoother steering, giving you more control of the car and increasing your speed., Only place your hand on the gearshift when shifting. Otherwise, you lose half of your ability to steer the car. Also, make sure to only shift with as much force as necessary. If you're shoving the gearshift too hard, you will slow yourself down., Race cars generally have four pedals: the accelerator, brake, clutch, and rest. Use the ball of your foot when pressing the pedal, and press it in one smooth motion.Like in a regular car, the rest pedal is to the left. It's a place to rest your leg away from the clutch.The clutch is to the right of the rest pedal. To take corners on a race track, you need to perform the heel-toe downshift. As you brake into the corner, you press the clutch with your left foot and downshift with your right hand. However, you also need to rev the engine, as the car has been losing speed. With the ball of your right foot still on the brake, you give a small push to the accelerator with the heel of your right foot. After you return your foot completely to the brake and release the clutch, you move your right foot to the accelerator, and you speed up as you come out of the corner.The brake is to the right of the clutch. To apply the brakes, first apply a smooth, constant pressure. Next, hold the brakes until you feel them start to vibrate towards locking up. As you slow down, gradually release the pressure from the brakes so you can turn into your pit stop.The accelerator is on the far right. When coming out of a turn, make sure to gradually increase speed. If you jump in too quickly with the accelerator, you can lose control of the car., The best way to take corners is to create the simplest line from the entry point to the exit point. The apex is the farthest point you reach inside the turn.To take the corner as quickly as possible, come into the turn on the outside of the track. Cut across the inside of the corner, then proceed to the outside of the track.Essentially, it is like cutting off the corner of a piece of paper in an arching motion.Use a reference point when taking a corner. When doing practice runs, choose a reference point for when you turn, as well as one for the apex and exit. Doing so will keep you consistent throughout the race., Races take a lot of money to enter, so to race, you'll need money. You may be able to find sponsors if you're good enough. You might also be able to enter with a team if they recognize your talent and pay your entrance fee. However, both of those options require that you already be established as a race car driver with talent.Nonetheless, local races cost a great deal less. For instance, you may get away with a couple hundred dollars per day at a local race., Even for local SCCA races, you need your own race car. You can rent one if you don't want to buy one right away, but rental prices are also high.


Your local chapter, specifically your Competition Chairman, can tell you where you can rent a car.
 You'll have other costs, as well, including your racing suit and helmet, which can cost thousands for custom gear. However, you should be able to find suits for much cheaper.Your gear will need to be approved by the SCCA before entering a race.
 The entry packet will specify exactly what you need for the race, the time you need to appear, and any other classes you may need to attend beforehand.
 Just like in any race, you need someone who can maintain your car during the race.


You can hire a local mechanic to come with you. Just ask at a local shop. You can also contact your SCCA to find a mechanic.
 When you enter high-end races, you'll need spare parts (enough to build two more cars), numerous sets of tires, as you'll burn through them, and a huge amount of fuel, as you can burn as much as 21 gallons per 60 miles., Just like any sport, you have to practice hard and often. Some drivers practice up to 7 days a week.Race car drivers train by putting hours in at the track, but they also use simulators to hone their skills. In addition, expect to do some physical training--running, weight-lifting, or swimming--to get yourself in top physical condition., Go through a lap in real-time in your head while you're waiting for the race to start. It helps calm you and prepares you for the drive., You'll need to take classes at your local SCCA to move up from novice.


You need to move up from novice status to compete professionally.
 Once you apply to be a novice, you have 2 years to compete in three races.
 At your third race, you should have your novice permit signed by the Chief Steward to show you have completed the required number of races.
 You can find the application on the SCCA website.
 This application will allow you to have a full competition license. You will also need to pay a fee with this application.
 You will also need a copy of your physical exam with this application.
 The more races you compete in, the better you'll become.
 The best way to jump into professional races is to start winning local races. Sponsors will notice if you've got the talent to compete professionally, and you need sponsors to move up to the professional level, unless you can front the money for professional races (which can run into the 100,000s with equipment and entry fees).
 Your body will be subjected to being pulled around by g-forces. You'll also need to sustain high temperatures inside the race car, as much as 140 degrees Fahrenheit. Your body needs to be in shape to handle it., Crashes happen in race car driving. The better shape you're in, the more likely you'll be to survive it. Also, racing is hard on the shoulders and back. Many racing teams have massages during breaks in the race., Eat balanced meals with protein, vegetables and fruits, and whole grains. You may need to carbohydrate load before a race to build up energy., Especially during a race, you need to drink a substantial amount of water. Some racers also drink energy drinks, light on the sugar., Any extra weight on you slows down the car. So you have to stay in shape.Try light weight-lifting. It builds light layers of muscles while keeping you lean. Another great option is boxing.