 Borax is an inexpensive product you can buy in the laundry aisle at most supermarkets. It works on nonporous surfaces such as tile and glass and also on wood and other porous surfaces (as long as they won't be damaged by excessive moisture). Start by vacuuming up any lose mold with a HEPA filtered vacuum so the spores don't get spread throughout the room. Next, clean up the mold by following these steps:


Mix 1 cup of borax with 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water.
Dip a scrub brush in the solution and use it to scrub away the black mold.
Wipe the area clean of mold.
Don't rinse the area, since the borax will prevent the spores from growing again.
;
, This method is effective on glass, tile and other nonporous surfaces. It doesn't kill the mold, but mixing soap and water and using it to scrub the mold away is just as effective on nonporous surfaces.


Mix 1 cup detergent (such as laundry detergent) and a gallon of water.
Use a scrub brush to apply the solution to the moldy area and scrub the mold away.
Rinse the area when you're finished.
 Clear ammonia is an effective tool for killing mold, but it is a toxic cleaning product that should be used sparingly. Use ammonia to kill the toughest mold on glass and tile. It's not effective on wood and other porous surfaces.


Make a solution of 2 cups water and 2 cups clear ammonia and place it in a spray bottle.
Spray it over the moldy area.
Let it sit for at least 2 hours.
Wipe and rinse the area clean.
 This is an effective method for getting rid of black mold on nonporous surfaces like tile and glass, as long as you aren't concerned that they'll get damaged. Since bleach produces toxic fumes, you'll want to make sure the area is well ventilated. Open the windows and wear gloves to protect your hands. Here's what to do:


Mix 1 cup of bleach and 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water.
Use a spray bottle or a bucket and sponge to apply the bleach mixture to the area with black mold.
Let the bleach sit on the mold for an hour. You can wipe it away later if that is your preference, but this isn't necessary.


