 If you look up to the sky and you see a flying present, you can always just shoot it down!;
, When you go fishing, look for a long and skinny fish. If you were right, you just landed yourself a Coelacanth which is a fish worth 35000 bells. But it is the rarest fish in the whole entire game! Just be sure to keep that in mind!

, Some will reveal 100 bell bags. 2 per day will also keep furniture. You can sell them if they aren't your style.
 About every 2 hours, lots of shells will be on the beach ready for you to sell to Tom Nook.
 On weekdays ask Tom Nook how much he will be willing to buy for some.
 Then you can go around the BEACH and fish. If you see a fish with a fin, you have just saw a shark! When you sell those, they are worth a LOT! Read the tips area to find out how much Tom Nook will be willing to buy certain species.
 If you see a certain green thing, then you have just found a coconut! Plant it, and Time Travel (or wait) until it has become a coconut tree! It will grow coconuts, which you can sell. But always save one to plant.
 Read the tips area to find out why I have just told you that.
 Then, once it is full sell it ALL TOGETHER! That way, you don't have to go back and forth and you can sell it together so you'll receive more bells!

, Eventually, he will say on the notice board "I will be closing ... for reconstruction." Time Travel (or, again, just wait until the next day. Or, 2 days) until he has opened up Nook 'n' Go, (or Nookington's: read tips to find out how to unlock Nookington's) because he will usually have shovels in shock. When he does, BUY ONE! Time Travel (or wait) to the very next day. Then if it is Nook 'n' Go he will most likely have another one. If he does, BUY IT! Now, you have 2 shovels. Bury one of the shovels. Time Travel (or wait) until the very next day. Then, Dig it back up. You will have the Golden Shovel. Read tips to find out how you can use it to get LOTS of bells.
 Then, Time Travel (or wait) until it is mid-summer. Then go outside and catch some BUGS! Then, of course, sell them to Tom Nook.
 One random rock every day will spit out bell bags. Read tips to get some tips so you get your time's worth.
 See tips to see what time AND day the Flea Market opens.
 When you walk in front of animals and they have a "!" on their heads, (and they also make a weird noise) then they either need you to deliver something, or they want to say (or GIVE) you something special, SO GO TALK TO THEM!

