 If you are hoping to gradually increase your social connections, start with an intimate gathering with either one close or potential friend or a potential date. Often one-on-one plans can be intimidating, but not as much as having to explain your hobbies to a large group. Plus, if you happen to make a misstep you won’t be embarrassed in front of an audience.


Start with someone who you deem non-intimidating, a person that is naturally calm and interesting to you. Reach out to them and suggest that you get together. You might say something like “It was nice meeting you in class last week. Would you like to go out for coffee on Thursday?”Before you meet the person, go through some relaxation exercises like progressive muscle relaxation or deep breathing. Recite some affirmations such as “I am perfectly calm” or “There is nothing to fear about getting to know someone new.”

, Meeting new people helps you exercise your socialization muscle and slowly feel more confident in social situations. Oftentimes, you will be more eager to participate when you attend social gatherings related to your passions. Think about some fun activities you like doing and find some relevant groups in your area.For example, if you enjoy reading, it may be fun to join a book club in which people meet monthly to discuss a selected book. Other possibilities include chess clubs, parent groups, and fitness classes. You may even search for groups especially for the socially anxious on Meetup.com.
It's important to set a regular schedule of activities that are socially engaging. Hold yourself accountable for attending them. It can become very easy to slip back into avoidance when anxiety rears it head again. It's helpful to plan this out with a therapist or someone you trust.
 Volunteering is a great way to challenge yourself in a safe space. It will connect to people with similar passions and interests while giving you an opportunity to help your community. Some places you might volunteer include:

Your local animal shelter
A public library
A charity
A school or daycare
A hospital

, Ultimately, you want to overcome your social anxiety so that you can lead a more confident and fulfilling social life. Seeing a professional therapist can help you do this. Mental health therapists who have experience with social anxiety will work with you to build mindfulness skills, challenge thought patterns that spark anxiety, and learn coping strategies to relieve stress., If you're engaging socially and start to feel anxiety take over, it's important to know how to handle it. In extreme cases, such as panic attacks, you may want to leave the environment for a short period and go to a bathroom, where you can splash some cold water on your face as a grounding technique.Otherwise, you can try the 4-7-8 deep breathing technique or repeat a calming mantra in your head.


The 4-7-8 technique simply calls for you to breathe in deeply through your nose for 4 counts. Hold the breath for 7 counts. Then, exhale from your mouth for 8 counts before repeating the entire cycle.A good mantra might be "I am not in danger" or "People are more concerned with themselves than they are with me."

