 Baby led weaning should not be started before the baby is ready. Due to a baby’s development, most infants can start baby led weaning at six months of age. Trying to start baby led weaning earlier, like at four month of age, may pose choking risks.Your baby will demonstrate that they are ready developmentally to make the transition from breast milk to food. It may occur a little later than six months.
You will know your baby is read for solid foods when they can sit upright with assistance, hold their head up, and stop the reflex to push everything out of their mouth with their tongue. They may also show interest in solid food by reaching for it.Your baby also needs to be able to do chewing and swallowing motions, which usually corresponds to less drooling. Your baby will also have doubled in weight from their birth weight by the time they're ready for solids. Your baby's appetite will also grow, meaning they may need to be fed eight to ten times a day on formula.;
, You may want to take an infant CPR course before you start letting your baby transition from liquids to solids. You will learn how to give CPR to your baby in case of any choking. It is better to take a class in person than trying to learn from a book or online.You can find infant CPR courses through local hospitals or pediatrician offices. You can also contact the American Red Cross or American Heart Association. Both organizations offer courses on infant CPR. You can call them or search online for the nearest class near you., Though your baby is in control of their eating, you should still always be present and monitor your baby while they eat. Make sure your baby stays upright, which significantly reduces the risk of choking.Gagging may occur as they move the food around in their mouths. If your baby gags, watch them closely to make sure they have moved the food and they are not choking.
Gagging causes coughing-like or other throaty noises. Choking is silent, and your baby will not be able to breathe and may look scared., In baby led weaning, you want the focus to be on the food, not on the dishes. Dishes can distract babies from eating and instantly become a toy. They may dump the food out of the dish, bang it on the counter, or throw it across the room.Babies will eat with their fingers, not with a fork and spoon.
Just place the food on a clean surface, like the dining room table or the high chair tray.
 Be prepared for baby led weaning to create quite a mess. The high chair should be easily cleaned. Nearby chairs should not have cloth on them, but an easier cleanable surface, like plastic, wood, or vinyl. Remove all cloth tablecloths.You may consider removing the baby’s clothes or putting them in things you don’t mind getting dirty.
Consider placing a cheap plastic shower curtain or tablecloth under your baby’s high chair, especially if you have carpet.
 You may want to give your child a lot of options to choose from, but this may be too much for them. They may get overwhelmed or distracted by too much in front of them. Instead, stick to smaller amounts of foods.For example, don’t place five or six different choices from different food groups on the plate. Instead, go for two. Put out some carrots and mango, or macaroni and cheese and cucumbers.
 Baby led weaning means that the baby controls all aspects of feeding, including putting the food in their mouths. Babies will put the food in their mouth where they need it and then move it around.If they gag, don’t automatically think they’re choking. It’s a natural reaction as they move food around in their mouth.
You may want to put the food in their mouth if they have trouble picking it up or are playing with it more than eating. Instead wait for them to do it.
 Part of the idea behind baby led weaning is that you let your baby learn and discover how to eat. This means they take control of their eating and development. Because of this, you take a hands-off approach. Be patient as you monitor your child during baby led weaning. They are discovering food and learning how to eat.For example, you shouldn’t get upset about the amount the baby is eating, what they like and dislike, if they play with their food, or if they make a mess.

