 Napping may also disrupt your internal body clock and prevent you from getting quality rest at night. Keep naps under an hour or it will make it harder to fall asleep.Some sleep professional even recommend keeping your naps under 20 minutes!If you usually nap during the day, but have trouble sleeping at night, try shortening the duration of your naps.
 Working out during the day - whether going for a jog, playing a recreational sport, or hitting the gym – will help you fall asleep later on. (Again, avoid strenuous activity in the few hours prior to going to bed.), A proper diet is vital to healthy living, including healthy sleeping.


Eat breakfast. Fruit and whole grains are great options. Start your day with energy, and prevent the urge to overeat later in the day.
Cut the evening caffeine. Don’t drink or eat sources of caffeine (including soda and chocolate) after 4:00 pm.Eat a bedtime snack. Keep it light, but a snack before bed can help you fall asleep more easily. Try a glass of milk, a small bowl of cereal, or ½ of a sandwich.Do not eat a large meal within two hours of bedtime, however, as this can decrease your comfort and interrupt your sleep., Your teenage years are likely full of experimentation. The decisions you make, including staying up late, will affect your ability to fall asleep and the quality of the sleep you get.


Maintain a healthy concept of sleep. Remember: you need more sleep at this point in your life than you will in adulthood. A lack of sleep now can detrimentally effect your mood and focus during the day. Get rested, so you can pursue the future you want with energy and positivity.
Watch your vice consumption. Tobacco products are stimulants, and will negatively affect the quality of the sleep you get. Alcohol is a sedative, and it may make you feel sleepy, but it prevents deep sleep and can cause you to wake up during the night.Clean your room. Classic, right? (At least open the window!) Ventilate your room to make sure air is circulating; clean, fresh oxygen is vital to comfortable and refreshing sleep.