 Check under seats, in the pockets and glove compartment and in the cup holders. Set aside any extraneous things, such as car kits, CDs and manuals before you start to clean.;
, Spray them with glass cleaner and let sit for at least 5 minutes.
 The process that you use will depend upon if you have leather or synthetic interiors.


Buy car cleaning wipes for plastic molded interiors. These will make the job go faster than using a spray with soap and water. Wipe clean the dashboard, console, steering wheel, gear shift and molding throughout the interior of the car.
Buy leather cleaner for leather interiors. Spray the leather cleaner onto a terry cloth or other lint free fabric. Rub the surfaces of the leather well, but not too hard. Most leather is dyed and rough cleaning can remove some dye.
Clean especially dirty leather with leather cleaner and a toothbrush. Pour some leather cleaner on a soft bristled toothbrush. Brush in a circular motion and then wipe clean.
Wrap a car cleaning wipe around a flat-nosed screwdriver. Clean around the buttons, dials and vents with this tool.
 Take your time with this step.
 Place the seats in a reclined position so that you can vacuum between the seams. You can use a shop vacuum or you can go to a car wash and pay for time with an industrial strength vacuum.
 Hang them and beat them with a racket to remove hidden dust and dirt.
 Remove blood or bright stains with cold water. Try to treat the stain immediately to avoid discoloration.
 Sponge the mixture on lightly. Allow it to sit for 20 minutes and then rub clean. Dry with a hair dryer if too much water soaks into the flooring or upholstery.
 You can also make a homemade cleaner by mixing 1 gallon (3.8 L) of hot water with 1/2 cup (118 ml) vinegar and 1 oz. (30 ml) of dish soap. Mix well. Apply with a hard bristled brush. Let it sit for 30 minutes and dry by blotting with towels. Use a hair dryer on any soaked areas of upholstery.
 Since they are thick, you can use plenty of water. Clean thoroughly with a hard-bristled brush, rinse and hang to dry.
 Wipe dry with a lint-free cloth.

