 Letting your child play in a childproofed room, such as their bedroom, without your supervision is an important milestone. When you decide to let your child do this, stay close by so you can hear if there is a problem. Let your child know you are right in the other room.This generally happens around a year and half to two years of age.
Be sure that the room is safe for your child and that there are no hazards such as cleaning products, sharp objects, or anything else that your child might get into.;
, Moving your child from the high chair is a big milestone. However, your child may not be big enough or physically ready to sit in a normal chair. You need to find a safe alternative for the high chair while in the transition phase.For example, if you have an adjustable high chair, you can make the high chair the same height as the table, remove the tray, and place the high chair right next to the table. You can still strap your child in, but they are able to eat from the table.
You may place a kids table near your dining table so the child can eat at a table like the family, but in a safe, child-sized chair.
You can also try using a booster seat in the dining room chair.
This generally occurs between ages two to three.
 Your child will be ready to move to a regular bed once they start trying to climb out of the crib. This may happen between ages two and three. Make sure to childproof the room before letting the child sleep in a regular bed.For example, fasten bookshelves and dresses to the wall. Move all cords to places your child cannot get to.
 Children generally start giving themselves a bath between ages four and five. This is also the age they start choosing clothes and getting dressed by themselves. When you do this, stick close by and check on them, especially when they are first starting out.Make sure to explain to the child how to properly take a bath. Show them things like how to wash their hair and rinse it while protecting their eyes.
Fill the tub for them at first to make sure the water isn’t too hot and the tub doesn’t overflow.
Give positive feedback so that your child will build confidence in grooming themselves.

