 If you suspect you may have ADHD, pay attention to your emotions and reactions for a couple of weeks. Write down what you do and how you react and feel. Pay attention especially to your impulses and feelings of hyperactivity.


Impulse control: Having ADHD may mean that you have a hard time controlling impulses. You may do things without really thinking them through, or you can be impatient and have trouble waiting your turn. You may find yourself dominating conversations or activities, answering people and saying things before they have finished what they are saying, or saying things and frequently regretting them later.
Hyperactivity: With ADHD, you may feel restless all the time, need to always fidget and fiddle, and talk excessively. You may be told often that you speak too loudly. You might sleep a lot less than most people or have trouble falling asleep. You might have trouble sitting still or staying seated too long.
 Some with ADHD feel overwhelmed by so much detail throughout the day, yet at the end of the day do not remember important details or events. Some examples of situations that might overwhelm someone with ADHD include a crowded venue with music and many conversations happening simultaneously, a potpourri of aromas ranging from air fresheners, flowers, and food to perfumes and colognes, and perhaps a variety of lighting effects such as television screens or computer displays. This type of environment can make the individual virtually unable to participate in a simple conversation, let alone excel at exercising business acumen or social graces.
You might turn down invitations to these types of events because of how they make you feel. Social isolation can easily work its way into depression.
Individuals with ADHD often experience anxiety over unfamiliar situations. These feelings can also lead to social isolation.
 Symptoms of ADHD can exacerbate certain health issues, as anxiety, depression, stress and other issues. Your forgetfulness may contribute to missed doctor’s appointments, missing medications, or ignoring instructions from your doctor.Look at your self-esteem. One of the biggest issues for individuals with ADHD is low self-esteem. A lack of self-confidence might spur from others outperforming you at school or work.Watch your habits with alcohol and drugs. Individuals with ADHD have a greater propensity for falling into substance abuse, and it’s harder to break away from that addiction. It is estimated that “half of those suffering ADHD self-medicate with drugs and alcohol.” Have you had any trouble with drugs or alcohol?

, You might have financial difficulties if you have ADHD. Think about how often you pay your bills on time, or if you ever overdraw your bank account. Look at the activity on your account to see if you can identify any patterns to your spending.