 People tend to lose motivation on the job out of sheer boredom. The brain functions best when it is subjected to stimulation and differentiated activity. Try to organize your day so that you’re working on different tasks or projects for a few hours at a time. This will help keep you engaged and break the monotony of your routine., If your job consists of only one or two tasks, it’s easy to become bored and unmotivated. Ask your boss for more responsibility. Take on a new project or see if you can collaborate with coworkers to get a different perspective on your work. This will not only broaden your skill set and keep you stimulated, but will also show your boss that you have initiative and drive., If you adopt a positive attitude towards yourself and your work, it will be easier for you to commit to a standard of excellence. Find a way to see the value in everything you do and give it 100%. If you remind yourself of what you do well and put effort into even menial tasks, you will have a higher sense of self-worth. Plus, doing tasks well might lead to a promotion, or a shining letter of recommendation if you’re trying to switch career paths.If you’re having trouble fixating on the positive, try writing a love letter to yourself. Though it may seem a bit overly sentimental, putting down what you love about yourself on paper gives those positive qualities a new weight. Try writing down five or six things that you value in yourself as both a person and a worker, and keep these in mind when you’re feeling low at work.
 It’s easy to waste time at work by checking your cell phone, social media, or your favorite blogs. Completing your work with speed and drive will boost your motivation. Commit to turning off your phone for a few hours at a time to get your work done quickly. That way, you can associate work with productivity instead of constant distractions., Work environments can be isolating, and it can often be hard to find a sense of community. Seeking out honest feedback from your superiors will not only help with your job performance, but will also allow you to create a personal connection with your colleagues. Plus, your boss will be impressed by your initiative.


See the value in both positive feedback and constructive criticism. Positive feedback can help give you an ego boost and refresh your motivation to continue to perform well. Criticism, when viewed as constructive instead of negative, will help you to develop new skills and put renewed effort into your work., Nobody can be productive for eight hours straight. Taking a few breaks throughout the day will give you a much needed stress release and refocus you for impending tasks. Go for a short walk around the block to get some fresh air, stand up and stretch, grab some coffee with a coworker. Don’t make the breaks too long, but recognizing that everybody needs to clear their head from time to time will make it easier to return to your desk., While it’s great to work on your weaknesses, focusing primarily on your strengths will make you feel more successful on the job. Recognize what you are good at and put energy into completing those tasks on a daily basis. Talk to your boss or supervisor about what you think you’re good at so that they know what kinds of projects and assignments you’ll do best with.