 The first step in reducing coffee consumption is understanding that caffeine is habit-forming and cannot be dropped "cold turkey." If you currently drink four cups of coffee per day, for example, make plans to gradually cut that to three, and then two, and so on. Caffeine withdrawal isn't serious, but it isn't fun either, leading to headaches, crankiness, and tiredness for 1-2 weeks.Set goals for the future, such as, "I want to drink two less cups of coffee a week by next month." This makes your quest to cut caffeine much more specific and attainable.If you have headaches, use acetaminophen to temporarily stave off the effects of caffeine withdrawal. Aspirin and ibuprofen can both exacerbate acid reflux caused by coffee.;
, An easy and gradual way to begin cutting down coffee consumption is by adding hot water to your coffee. This will allow you to drink the same number of cups per day, so you won't be subjected to the stress of a sudden change in habit. If the watered down taste isn't any good for you, leave more room for milk or cream to get the same effect.


You can begin by filling your cup 3/4 full with coffee and then topping it off with water, and eventually move to an even mixture of coffee and water.
This works at coffee shops, too. You simply have to ask for your coffee to be diluted.
Have you coffee iced, with plenty of ice cubes, "add water" easily.
 Oftentimes, the desire to drink coffee just comes from wanting to hold something and sip while working, a desire you can head off with any other drink. From hot teas with lower caffeine levels to fruit juices, don't just eliminate the coffee from your life -- replace it.


If you want to quit coffee because of acid reflux or digestion problems, stay away from lemony and other acidic drinks. Try out ginger, chamomile, green, or other soothing teas.
Switch to half-caf or decaf coffee if caffeine is your worry. This can also be done gradually, by filling a cup 3/4 full with regular coffee and 1/4 full with decaf and then increasing the proportion of decaf from there.
 If you don't have beans in your house, you can't make a cup of coffee. If you don't ever walk into the cafe, you can't order a latte. One of the best ways to defeat temptation is to eliminate the opportunity to be tempted. If you stop buying coffee, or simply buy less than you normal would for the week, you will have no choice to cut back on consumption., You're not doing this for nothing, and cutting your coffee habit back has a host of potential benefits. Use these reasons for motivation, or come up with your own. What is your personal reason to cut back on coffee consumption? Once you know the principle, it is much easier to stick to it. Some good reasons include:


Saving money on drinks
Lower blood pressure
Cleaner teeth and fresher breath
Weight loss (if drinking lattes and other mixed coffee drinks)
Lower anxiety
Fewer trips to the bathroom.