 Close all other programs (I.e. Computer games, instant messenger) and focus on the task in front of you-creating your packing list.;
, Your title should be larger than the rest of your writing and underlined. Your subtitles should also be underlined, but they can be the same size as everything else. They should say "Clothes", "Electronics", "Hygiene/Beauty", and "Miscellaneous". Your title should be something along the lines of "My packing list"

, Clothes are one of the hardest parts of the list, but also the most important. Make sure you bring enough outfits for the number of days you're staying as well as an extra in case you spill something. Check the weather before you make your list. If it's going to be hot and sunny, pack mostly shorts and capri shorts. If it's going to snow, don't forget to bring your parka. Always bring warm clothes even if it's supposed to be hot the whole time you're away because weather reports can be wrong. Also don't forget to check your itinerary and make sure to pack clothes for any special events (Ex. Warm clothes for an evening baseball game, a dress for a semi-formal dance, a uniform for a soccer tournament) and don't forget the essentials (socks, underwear, bras, swimsuit...you'd be surprised how many people forget these)


Hygiene/Beauty. This includes deodorant, toothpaste, shampoo, make-up, hair products, and yes...tampons (bring these even if it's not your time of the month just in case a friend or roommate forgot) Go into your bathroom and make a list of all the things you use in a typical week. If you have 7 different eyeshadow compacts and use them all every week, try to cut back and bring just 1 or 2.
Electronics. You're probably going to want a camera for your trip as well as your cell phone, mp3 player and maybe even a portable DVD player or laptop, but all these items are useless unless you bring their chargers and batteries.
Miscellaneous. This is the section for other things you'll need that don't fit into any category (Ex. Pillows, blankets, books, journals, your Teddy bear you can't sleep without...)

, When it comes time to pack, your going to want to check things off as you go. Go into the symbols menu and add little squares beside each item. If you're bringing four shirts, add four boxes.


Colour code. Some things you'll put in your suitcase (Clothes, shampoo) and some things you'll need with you on the bus (iPod, passport). To avoid the hassle of figuring out what goes where while you're packing, colour code your list. Items in blue go in your carry on and red items go in your suitcase.
 Look at your list one last time and tweak anything that needs tweaking. Do you really need six pairs of earrings for a four day trip? And maybe you should bring an extra swimsuit just in case.
 Put it somewhere you won't lose it. Make sure you save it too just in case and leave some extra spaces in each category so you can add things in you've forgotten.
 Make sure you only pack what your list says (unless you forgot to write something) If your list says 4 tees, but you can't decide out of six, don't bring them all. Ask a friend or family member for their opinion on which ones to bring. If you follow your list and your suitcase still won't close, you may need to do some rearranging. Remember, you're gonna wanna buy souvenirs so always leave some extra space in your bag.

