 Just about any candidate can say "I want to lower taxes and create jobs." The best candidates, however, go much further to say how they are going to do it. Avoid the huge, empty promises and focus on the specifics instead. A good proposal must:



Be time-based -- There is an idea when things will get done or how to phase plans in.

Attack specific issues with specific demands-- "making jobs" is not a plan. Creating jobs in North Dakota by subsidizing (helping pay for) new solar panel farms is a plan.

Recognize Difficulties-- No plan is perfect, but the best candidates note where the plan might fail and suggest ways to fix these things before they become real problems.
 Having a bias is not necessarily bad -- if you didn't prefer for some ideas or politics, after all, you could never vote. While all humans have a bias, conscientious voters go out of their way to make sure it doesn't lead them to an "echo chamber," where all you read or see are stories that you already agree with. An informed voter knows their bias and checks other opinions to ensure they aren't missing vital information from both sides.


Aggregate sites like RealClearPolitics offer articles from across the web, helping you get a more balanced news diet.
Make an effort to watch the shows and read the columns you don't agree with, at least occasionally. Both sides are biased, meaning both sides will leave out some things and emphasize others. It's best to sift through these things yourself., Facts and figures are argued, retracted, edited, contradicted and forgotten every day of the election. Some of them are enormous talking points, others are subtle attacks and smears. What is most important to remember about all of them is that just because a candidate said it doesn't mean it's true. Web sites like Politfact.com. Snopes and FactChecker.org are essential for getting to the bottom of key issues and facts, especially during a contentious election.
 Just because you think you've made your mind up doesn't mean you should stop paying attention. US elections are intentionally long, forcing candidates to speak to a broad spectrum of voters and issues. Furthermore, current events constantly change the world an incoming President must deal with, which can quickly change a candidate's desirability or effectiveness. For example:


In October of 2008 the global recession was just beginning, and candidates John McCain and Barack Obama needed to respond appropriately. When McCain asserted that the US economy is fundamentally strong just a week before its collapse, he showed a lapse in economic judgment that some believe cost him the election., If there is no one truly exciting you on the two major tickets then there are still other options. Ignore those that say "a vote for a third party is a wasted vote." The point of our democracy is that your voice counts as much as any other persons, even if it doesn't match up to the mainstream. Furthermore, voting for a 3rd party can have real benefits for your political ideas:


Third parties get federal funding depending on how many votes they receive, which can help them continue running candidates and promoting ideas.
Significant 3rd party support can pull the major parties to their side, as Democrats and Republicans modify their stances to win over on-the-fence voters.