 The world can be a confusing, exhausting, and even painful place for disabled people. Your friend is doing the best they can. Recognize that if a situation is frustrating, it's even harder for them than it is for you. Take a deep breath, be encouraging, and don't blame them for what they can't control.


If you notice stress beginning to boil over, remove them from the situation. Taking them somewhere quieter can help them relax. They might not realize that they need it, or that they're allowed to leave.
 When your friend is having a hard time, they might not always be able to recognize why they're upset, or know how to handle it. You can be helpful by suggesting a solution to them.


Notice problems and offer solutions without complaining. For example, if your autistic friend is cringing in a noisy restaurant, you could say "I see you squinting and covering your ears. It's loud in here. Do you want to wait outside while I order takeout for the two of us?"
Ask what to do in case of emergency. During a calm time, it's good to ask what to do in case of sensory overload or a seizure. Having a plan will let both of you relax a little.
 This can be very challenging for your disabled friend. Try taking initiative, such as inviting them to lunch or offering to introduce them to your other friends. Be gentle, and don't push if the person seems hesitant or disinterested.


Some people have trouble interpreting social situations. If they're confused, offer a brief translation, such as "Drake's being sarcastic. He's criticizing the coach, not you."

, Your friend might not understand when or why they are breaking a social rule. Explain it to them clearly and non-judgmentally, the same way you might speak when teaching a new driver how to merge lanes.



Use "I" phrasing to explain problems. Then propose a solution for next time. For example, "When you didn't show up and didn't text, I worried if you were okay. Next time, if you're running late, would you please send me a text so I won't worry?"
Say "I need a break" if you are getting overwhelmed by anger or frustration. Many people with disabilities get very scared if they see someone getting mad or shouting. Handle it on your own, then come back once you're more level-headed.
 Your friend might be worried or afraid to voice their opinion or concerns. Provide an accepting, relaxed environment, where they have all the time they need to get it out.


Your friend might speak slowly or with difficulty. Wait patiently to let them be heard, and stop others from interrupting or speaking over with them.
Try prompting them, such as "What do you think?" or "You seem hesitant about going to the mall. What are you thinking about?"
Be prepared for others to disregard what they say. Enforce their decisions or boundaries as needed, such as saying "She said she doesn't like that" or "He said he didn't want that."

