 If you’re trying to resolve a dispute between several employees and yourself or acting as a mediator between the two groups, have each party designate one representative as a negotiator. Deal only with those people. This strategy helps in two ways. One, you relieve yourself of the responsibility of selling two opposing groups of people one a compromise plan. Two, you are dealing with people each side has already indicated they trust, increasing the likelihood that the opposing groups will ratify the decisions made by the negotiators.;
, The mediator needs to maintain control of the negotiation lest it devolve into an argument. Therefore, a good mediator will hold an initial meeting with each party separately so they can identify the issues which are important to each party. That way, the mediator can enter into the negotiation with an idea of a possible solution already.


If both parties are so hostile to one another it becomes difficult for them to be in the same room together, keep them separated throughout the whole process.
 A lot of negotiators will mistakenly assume they should tackle the big issues first, and the small ones will follow. In fact, that’s usually the worst strategy. The big issues are the most divisive, the most contentious. Agreement on smaller issues lays a foundation for reaching agreement on bigger issues.Starting negotiations on the biggest issues is akin to trying to knocking down a wall by starting in the middle. While the payoff might be impressive if successful, it’s much more difficult to do than starting around the edges.
 Each time you come to an agreement on an issue, write down the terms of the agreement and move onto the next topic. That creates a sense of finality between the parties with respect to those issues.
 Negotiating without preconditions does not mean you compromise on any issue the employees wish to compromise on. It only means you don’t exclude any particular subject from discussion before negotiations have begun. Doing so only serves to add barriers around an already contentious issue.
 Interest based bargaining is a negotiation technique that attempts to identify what interest behind a request in order to achieve a satisfying compromise for everyone. Perhaps the employer feels it’s impossible to avoid layoffs and the employees want no layoffs. The interests behind these positions are easy to identify. The employer wants to save money and the employees want to save jobs. So a possible solution might be to cut hours or salaries across the board so that no one has to lose their job.