 If you adopt a cat that has limited eyesight or is completely blind, be sure keep its environment familiar and clutter-free. Do not move furniture or the cat’s water or food bowls, its litter box, or its crate or climbing posts. Try to avoid making loud, sudden noises so the cat is not startled, and be sure to keep the cat indoors for its safety.In the early days, it is best to stay with the cat to help them adjust. Do not crowd or over-handle the cat, but try to be home to help address any challenges as soon as they come up.
Start by introducing your cat to a single room, and gradually expand its territory over time. Allow them to get fully comfortable in a single space before introducing a new one.Be extra careful about the furniture in the room, as they rely a great deal on their whiskers and touch to help navigate. Cat-proof the furniture in advance, and then leave it in place once the cat gets to know the room. Movement of features could disorient a vision-impaired cat., If your cat was abused, neglected, or experienced a traumatic situation, try to provide a stress-free environment at home. Plan to play with your cat every day to stimulate its mind, and stick to a schedule and a routine to reduce its anxiety. Also provide it with safe hiding places where your cat can retreat.


Leave the carrier in the corner of a room, or leave a closet door cracked so your cat can safely hide. You can even drape a towel over the back of a chair or provide it with a cardboard box to jump in.Cats can be thrown off by changes to their daily routine, so try to stick to a consistent feeding, sleeping, and playing schedule. If you have other pets, consider getting your cat comfortable with you before introducing new animals.If you feed your cat every morning, plan to do that every day. Set an alarm on your phone so you can remember to play with the cat each evening.
If the cat experiences extreme anxiety, you may want to talk to your vet about using anti-anxiety medications or pheromones to help the cat stay calm and familiarize itself with the environment. If your cat's daily functions are impaired by anxiety, contact your vet.
 If your cat is missing a limb, it may have trouble jumping and landing properly. Cushion your cat by placing pillows, cushions, and plush blankets in areas where they may often try to jump, like the ledge of a window or the back of a couch. Consider providing a tiered cat tower so the cat can easily move from level to level, or use a ramp so they can walk up to various levels throughout the house., Some cats may not have a physical or emotional disability, but they may have an allergy to certain foods and require a special diet. If a cat has kidney issues, urinary tract problems, or has an issue with weight management, they may also require a specific diet.In addition, some cats may require that you prepare their food at home, which will require a particular balance of protein, carbohydrates, fiber, and other nutrients.Talk to your veterinarian or a rescue shelter employee about the dietary needs of your cat.


Hyperthyroidism is a common disease that can result in weight loss, altered eating patterns, and increased urination. Talk to your vet if you notice any of these symptoms. They can test your cat and prescribe treatment, which typically includes medication and a shift in diet, but may also include surgery. Feline diabetes is another diet-related disease common in cats. It is easily diagnosed by a physical exam and blood test, and can typically be treated at home with an adjusted diet and twice-daily insulin injections that you can administer at home.