 Use a measuring tape, ruler, or a piece of string to measure from the base of the trunk to where you want the tree skirt to end. Remember your measurement.;
, Since you won't be sewing this skirt, you should use fabric that does not fray. Great choices include: felt, flannel, fleece, and faux fur.
 Pin a piece of string to the middle of your fabric, right along the fold. Tie the other end to a pen. Adjust the string until it matches your measurement. Hold the string is taut, then use the pen as a compass to draw an arch.
 Adjust the string again until it is about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) long. Hold the string taut, and draw a smaller arch. This will make the center part of the tree skirt that goes around the tree trunk.


Make the inner arch bigger if your tree has a really thick trunk.
Make the inner arch smaller if you have a very small tree.
 Cut the bigger arch out first, then the smaller one. Then, cut along one of the folded edges. This will create a slit allowing you to open the skirt.Unfold the skirt when you are done.
 Choose ribbons that are between ½ and 1 inch (1.27 and 2.54 centimeters) wide. They can be the same color as your fabric or a contrasting one.If you have a small tree skirt, cut four pieces of ribbon instead. Thinner ribbons might work better.
 Flip the skirt over so that the wrong side of the fabric is facing you. Glue two ribbon on the top of the slit, and two ribbon at the bottom. Glue the last set of ribbons in the middle. Make sure that the ribbons are sticking out from under the slit.Overlap the end of the ribbon and the edge of the slit by about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters).
You can use hot glue or fabric glue.
 You can leave your skirt plain, if you'd like, or you can decorate it further to match the theme of your tree. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Add appliqués out of felt or flannel. Attach them using hot glue, fabric glue, or fusible interfacing.
Draw simple designs using glitter glue. This works best on skirts made out of felt or fleece.
Glue a trim around the edges. Great trims include rickrack, bias tape, and pompoms. You can use hot glue or fabric glue.Cut a fringe into the outer edge of the tree skirt. Make the fringe ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) long. This works best on flannel.Cut poinsettias out of felt, then glue them around the outer edge of the skit. For a nicer touch, add some pearl beads to the center of each poinsettia.