 To make your baby’s many daily wardrobe changes easier, faster, and painless, dress them in shirts that are easy to slide over the head. Stock up on 4 to 7 shirts for the first month in size 0 to 3 months. Buy a few simple shirts that have buttons along the shoulder, or opt for tee shirts and turtlenecks that have larger neck holes.


Ask friend and family members if they have any hand-me-downs that they would be willing to pass along to you.;
, Speed up diaper changes by dressing your baby in pull-over pants or leggings. Buy pants with elastic bands, and look for pants that are fastened with Velcro or easy-to-open pop buttons.Keep 5 to 7 pairs of pants on hand during the first month.
 Newborns spend a lot of time sleeping, so it is important that they have comfortable, cozy sleepsuits and bodysuits. Plan to have 6-8 sleepsuits and 6-8 bodysuits during the first month.Babies grow very quickly, and although it may seem like a lot of clothing to have at home, you will be thankful for the selection when some are dirty or are in the wash.


Store a variety of hassle-free bodysuits and sleepsuits, including a few long-sleeved and a few short-sleeved options.Stock suits that will fit a 0-3 month-old infant., Dressing your baby in layers not only makes a diaper change more efficient, but it will also help you regulate your child’s temperature. Babies lose heat more rapidly than adults do.Keep a sweater or a cardigan on hand to easily warm up your baby if they are cold. If your baby was born during the winter months, plan to stock up on 2 or 3 of these warmer items.


Look for sweaters that have buttons down the front so you do not have to struggle placing the sweater over your child’s head., It is important to protect your child’s head from both the cold weather and the heat. In the winter, have a warm cap or a winter hat to ensure that your baby does not lose heat through the top of their head. In the summertime, make sure your 1-month old has a wide-brimmed hat to protect them from the sun’s harmful rays., Your newborn will need 3-4 pairs of socks and booties to keep their feet warm and protected.Socks are easily lost and kicked off, so be sure to have some extra pairs around during the first month. Check to see that your baby is able to wiggle their toes while wearing them, and opt for pairs that have elastic bands to keep them snug and secure., Newborn fingernails are soft, but they are strong enough to cause some marks and scratches to show up on your baby's face. To protect their skin, keep 1 or 2 pairs of scratch mittens in your baby’s closet.Buy soft, cotton mittens for your newborn to wear during nap time.
 If your baby is due during the cold winter months, you will need to dress your newborn in layers to keep them warm and to protect them against frostbite and hypothermia.Babies lose heat more rapidly than adults do. It is best to dress them in an undershirt, pajamas or a dressing gown, and then cover them with a blanket or add a winter coat.The rule of thumb is to dress them in one more layer than you would typically wear in those conditions. Be sure to store plenty of warm layers.


If you are going out in the snow, your baby will need a pair of winter boots and gloves.
 If your baby will be outside in the heat during their first month, you can reduce your baby’s clothes to one layer to prevent them from overheating.Stock up on long-sleeved, lightly-colored clothing items to protect them from sun exposure. A natural fiber like cotton will absorb sweat easily. This will help them from overheating and will prevent heat rash from developing.If your baby is premature, plan to dress them in an additional layer of clothing in all weather conditions., If something looks like it can be removed from your child’s clothing, don’t use it. It could be a potential choking hazard. Do not place your baby in clothing that is decorated with beads, bows, or drawstrings or anything else that looks like it can be easily removed. Many baby clothing brands do not add these decorations, but be mindful of homemade clothing or hand-me-down items when you are stocking up on clothing.