 Pick a room or area in your house that will be designated as your toddler’s space to play in. Remove all dangerous or sharp objects from the room and fill the space with safe toys.


Set the room or space apart from the rest of the house by securing it with a baby gate.;
, The kitchen can be very dangerous to your child because it is filled with this that can burn, cut or injure your toddler. To prevent your child from getting into the kitchen, put a baby gate in the doorway of the kitchen to keep your child out.


Having a gate can also be useful because you can work in the kitchen and keep an eye on your child in the next room, as baby gates keep you from having to shut the kitchen door.
 Give your child a toy that is adapted to your child’s specific age. In particular, look for soft toys that don’t have any small parts that could break off. The toy should also be free of sharp parts that could cut your child.
 If your child were to knock something over, like a vase, that shatters, your child could get cut. Because of this, it is important to remove breakable objects from the reach of your child.


If you put the breakable objects out of reach of your child, make sure that they are on a stable surface that your child cannot move. For example, if the vase were put on a table that could be moved around easily, your child might lean on the table and accidentally cause the vase to fall and shatter. Instead, put the vase on something sturdy.
 Chemicals can be very dangerous because your child could swallow them, and some can be very toxic. Household products often contain sulfuric and phosphoric acid, chlorine, ammonia, formaldehyde and phenol. To keep these chemicals out of the reach of your child:


Close the door of the room containing the chemicals. If you cannot close the door for some reason, make sure you put all the chemicals out of the reach your children.
Paints and varnishes can also be extremely toxic and should be kept away from children or avoided.
 There are some household plants that can actually be toxic if eaten. Because of this, it is important to make sure that all of your houseplants are not toxic, in case your toddler decides to chew on a leaf. Some of these toxic household plants include:


Aloe Vera, Burn Plant, Chrysanthemums, Cyclamen, Heart leaf philodendron, Philodendron, and Azaleas.
Additionally, do not use stones as decorations because your child could try to eat the stones, or could fall and injure him or herself on the stones.
 Put a fence or grate around the fireplace and put padding on all the sharp edges and corners. If your child tends to play near the fireplace, you may want to consider not using the fireplace until the child has grown up a bit and knows not to go near or try to touch the fire.
 An often overlooked source of poisoning is the over-the-counter medications or prescriptions that some women keep in their purses for when they are away from home. Adult strength medications can be very detrimental to the small body of a toddler.


Toddlers should never be allowed to play with purses, even though it may seem cute, because one person’s purse might be full of safe things for a toddler to play with, but someone else’s might not be.

