 Just how skin is different, so is hair. Keeping your hair clean and healthy with the right products sets it up for quicker growth.

Some types of hair respond poorly to silicone, which is found in most anti-frizz products. Try a number of products and see what works best for you.
Don't feel the need to wash your hair every day. Good, natural oils need to build up in your hair--rinsing them away dries out your hair and scalp.

Do a deep treatment. In addition to shampooing and condition, deep treat your hair a couple of times a month. The extra proteins ensure hair health and shine.
 This generally means foods high in iron, zinc, and vitamin C. A hair-healthy diet is a body-healthy diet. What's good for you is good for your hair.


Feed your strands iron-rich foods like spinach, beans, and meats. It's essential for oxygen getting to your hair follicles.
Ensure your hair has the building blocks to grow with protein-heavy foods like fish, eggs, nuts, and soy products. Hair is mostly keratin, a protein in itself.
Zinc keeps your hair from damaging. Whole grains, oysters, peanut butter, and seeds are all good sources.
Add more fruits and vegetables to your diet. They contain vitamins A, C and E, all of which have antioxidants that help maintain scalp and hair health.
Never, ever, ever crash diet. Refusing to give your body the essential nutrients it needs not only makes you feel weak and lousy, but it will stunt your hair and nail growth and make your skin appear dull.
 Eating well, exercising regularly, and getting a good night's rest are all huge factors in staying stress-free. Intense stress of any kind can lead to all sorts of physical symptoms--including reduced or stunted hair growth.


Your body only has so many nutrients. Unfortunately for your hair, it's not a top priority. Your brain and other vital systems get first dibs. Taking care of your body first allows your body to take care of you in return.
Exercising regularly produces higher levels of endorphins. Higher levels of endorphins lead to lower levels of stress. If you won't walk your dog for his sake, walk him for your hair's.
 If you have noticeably slow hair growth, you may have a medical issue that can be dealt with.


Genetics or family history can also be a player in health and hair growth. Ask your family if any patterns exist in your family's health history.
Slow hair growth or hair loss may be due to medication. Discuss the side effects of the prescriptions you're on with a medical professional. Often, alternatives can be found.
Get checked for a scalp infection. These are easily treated and hair growth will return to normal once addressed.

