 You will take four naps a day. That means you will need to nap for 30 minutes every 6 hours. You can set those naps whenever is most convenient for you, but you must stick to your schedule once you set it.For instance, you could nap at 2 AM, 8 AM, 2 PM, and 8 PM. Alternatively, you could nap at 5 AM, 11 AM, 5 PM, and 11 PM.;
, You will only sleep during your nap times. That means that you won't be sleeping at night, except during your prescribed schedule. In other words, you'll only be sleeping 2 hours a day., Falling asleep at first can be difficult, if you're not accustomed to falling asleep during the day. Make sure you are getting comfortable for your naps and not trying to sleep at your desk.Also, make sure you are tired by getting some exerciseand skipping caffeine.You can also try the age-old trick of counting sheep. Meditation, such as focusing on your breathing, can help clear your mind for sleep.
Also, trust the process. Once you start to adapt, you will have no trouble falling asleep for your naps.
 It's best to set an alarm for 5 to 10 minutes before you must sleep, though you will start feeling tired. You don't want to miss your sleep time. Once you are ready to nap, set an alarm for 30 minutes from your current time. Make sure to use a loud alarm or one you can't turn off easily.


If you're afraid of not being able to wake up, have someone nearby who will commit to waking you up.
 Your body needs time to adjust to this new schedule. Basically, you're training your body to drop into REM sleep as soon as you start napping, rather then going through the other stages of sleep. It takes some time for your body to adjust to this idea., You will feel very tired in the first week or two, so you shouldn't try anything too dangerous while adjusting. That can include driving a car. In addition, you may experience lucid dreaming, where your dreams are especially vivid. Many people count this side effect as a positive., While some people do succeed at this type of sleep schedule, other people find it is not for them. In addition, the long-term effects of such a sleep schedule are not known, so it could also be detrimental to your health in the long term., Once you get your rhythm, you should be able to maintain your nap schedule indefinitely. However, if you do find it too difficult, you could try less-rigorous versions, such as the Everyman (3 hours of sleep plus 3 20-minute naps spaced throughout the day) or the Uberman (6 20 to 30 minute naps spaced throughout the day)., You cannot survive on this type of schedule without a good alarm clock. Basically, when you take short naps on schedule, your body will not want to wake up sometimes. Therefore, your alarm clock needs to be loud or one you can't turn off easily., If you're going to do this schedule, your family must be on board. If you have family obligations at certain hours that will interfere with your naps, you may have a problem following this schedule., To be on the Dymaxion schedule, you must take naps on time. If you skip naps, you are going to feel awful. Therefore, your schedule must be flexible enough that you can take naps when you need to do so., Most everyone else will still be on a 6 to 8 hours a night schedule. That means you will have many hours when your family will be asleep that you must fill. While you can be more productive, you may find you have too many hours in the day.