 Dystopian worlds generally involve a government, regime or individual which restricts its citizen's rights and monitors their lives in what is called a totalitarian state. So, assuming you live in a fairly liberal country, just list all the rights you know you have, for example: A right to an education, a right to travel, freedom of speech etc, and revert them all. For some of the rights, for example, the right to an education, limit it to the upper class or the wealthy. That way there is scope for an interesting character in the lower classes.;
, As with '1984' by George Orwell, there is a mystical figure whom the citizens of Airstrip One (Britain) trust completely. A sort of Supreme Leader, this person will lead your controlling totalitarian government as its one and only head. Make them reminiscent of Stalin, Kim Jong Il, Pol Pot or even Hitler, all of whom lead (or in Kim Jong Il's case, still lead) totalitarian governments. These frankly terrifying figures, when woven into your own Supreme Leader character, will give the reader a chilling sense of familiarity.
 Show the politicians at the top and then the lower classes, to which your protagonist could belong. Give some examples of how the upper class is exempt from some of the hardships of the lower classes. This will show how unfair their society is.
 Maybe start it off with an execution. Add cameras. Lots of them. Show that these people are monitored non stop. An execution, particularly public, would show how the government keeps their people under control. This would kick the story off with making the reader feel uneasy, which is what you want. Make sure the protagonist of the novel has a certain way to act so as not to be thought of as acting 'suspiciously'. Make sure there are police forces/armed forces and lots of them. Drill home that there is a constant danger to this world.
 If there are a lot of people who believe completely in the power and authenticity of the government, it will make it even more risky for your protagonist to stray from the social 'norm'. Make sure there are a few people who your main character is not sure of, whether they are another clone of the state's ideologies or whether they too are straying and breaking the rules. This will increase the tension, suspense and danger.
 Make sure your protagonist can easily associate themselves with the lies, as they are unlikely to go out their way to find lies in such a dangerous world where they are monitored closely. Another example might be that your protagonist has a son/daughter who brings home a book on history, which has only the history of the government in it and lies about its establishment.
 It's always good to make your world a bit more miserable than in real life. Start off with a rainy day or a cloudy day. Make sure you describe the buildings as a bit old, tiles from the roof slipping, the walls damp. Make the lower class's living conditions bad. Exhibit the power of the state through their better living quarters and brighter colors.

