 An important part of overcoming your fear is learning to identify the symptoms as they arise. Fear is a chemical reaction that creates a physical response. Take note when you experience the following:


Sweating is an evolutionary trait designed to keep you cool as you fight or flee a danger. If you begin to feel sweaty, fear may be taking over.
Increased heartrate is your body preparing to take action.
Shortness of breath occurs when the muscles and nerves in your chest contract.
Dry throat occurs as your body diverts fluids to other areas of the body.;
, Fear exists inside the mind, once you have a handle on what’s happening to you and why, you can focus on overcoming it.


Fear is an adapted response humans developed to protect us from real or perceived danger.A fear of spiders may be inherited through your DNA as a leftover from early man.Appreciating that your fear is simply a leftover from another time may help you overcome it.
Fear is just a chemical reaction in your brain, but so is courage. Your reaction to the daddy longlegs is not based in reality, and you can overcome it., Often fear requires a level of discomfort with a situation. In order to overcome your fear of daddy longlegs, change how you frame the situation in your mind.


Try to imagine the daddy longlegs in a different way than that which frightens you.Look at it the same way you might look at a different bug or insect that you aren’t afraid of. Treat the daddy longlegs like you might treat a lady bug or butterfly.
Step back and look at the big picture.The daddy longlegs you’re afraid of is much smaller than you, and doesn’t pose any real danger to you.
 Don’t just focus on what won’t happen in terms of your fear, think about what will happen as you gain control.


Use positive coping statements to yourself like, “I’ve been this close to a daddy long legs before and nothing bad happened.”Imagine yourself free from your fear of daddy longlegs and how good that will feel. Imagine how empowered you will feel once your fear is behind you and let that motivate you to continue., Lots of people are afraid of spiders and daddy longlegs, but if it begins to affect how you live your life, you may need to seek medical attention.


A phobia is an overwhelming and unreasonable fear of something that doesn’t actually pose any real threat to you. However, phobias can result in significant physical and psychological repercussions from exposure to one’s fears.Mental health professionals can offer various treatment plans and counseling services to help you overcome your fear or phobia of daddy longlegs.
 If your fear is affecting your ability to perform at work or participate in social situations, you should consider seeking treatment for arachnophobia.There are a number of medications that can help you overcome your fear of daddy longlegs that a doctor may prescribe: beta blockers, anti-depressants and sedatives are some examples of types of medicine that can help.Not all phobias require medication. Often phobias can be overcome with various forms of psychological treatment, many with lasting results., Daddy longlegs are not dangerous at all, and learning more about them may help you to overcome your fear of them.


Daddy longlegs are not venomous. They don’t even have fangs!Daddy longlegs aren’t actually spiders or bugs. They are arachnids but only have one pair of eyes and can’t produce silk to make spider webs. In fact, daddy longlegs eat mostly decomposing plants.Do more of your own research so you can better understand daddy long legs. Familiarizing yourself with them can help ease your fears.
 One effective way to reduce your fear reaction to certain things is to expose yourself to it slowly and in controlled way until you begin to feel more comfortable. This process is called, “systemic desensitization”or “exposure therapy.”Take it slow. If you become too uncomfortable, take a break and allow your fear reaction to subside.
The point of exposure therapy is to ease your fear response and train yourself to replace it with relaxation exercises. Focus on keeping control of your feelings and look for the symptoms of a fear reaction in yourself., This will aid your efforts toward exposing yourself to daddy longlegs without getting too upset and help you maintain control when you feel a fear reaction taking hold.


Keep reasonably good posture with your head in a resting position.
Focus on your breathing; keep your breaths steady and intentional.
Allow your chest and abdomen to fully expand with each breath., This will give you a frame to base your following steps on.This list is called a “fear hierarchy.”


Begin the list with things that only cause a slightly anxious feeling and list things in a manner that creates a progressive increase in your discomfort and fear.Start with something like, “seeing a daddy longlegs a few feet away” or “having a daddy longlegs in my room.”
Imagine yourself in the least frightening scenario. Picture it often and with a positive mindset until imagining it does not illicit a fear reaction.
 As you progress with the imaginary exercises, approach a daddy longlegs when you come across one, placing yourself in your first step (i.e. “seeing a daddy longlegs a few feet away.” Gauge your response and control your breathing. Continue to work on it this way until no longer experience a fear reaction when near a daddy long legs.As each situation becomes more manageable, move toward the next step on your list.
Approach each step by first imagining the scenario and managing your fear of it, then apply that practice to real life., If you begin to feel overwhelmed by your concerns, challenge those fear based thoughts with the knowledge you have.


Avoid “fortune telling,” or convincing yourself something bad will happen.Don’t over-generalize the situation. You may have had a negative experience in the past that helped solidify your fear of daddy longlegs. Don’t allow yourself to believe that will happen every time.Don’t exaggerate the situation. Encourage yourself to recognize the situation for what it is. Avoid exaggerations in your mind about the danger of the situation or what has happened.
 A common response to something scary is rapid breathing, but that can make it very difficult to regain control of your body.


Focus on taking slower, intentional breaths.
Slowed, deep breathing encourages a better oxygen exchange within your body. By improving the oxygen to carbon dioxide ratio within your body, you can lower your heart rate.Breath in through your nose, allowing your chest to fully expand, then exhale in a controlled manner through your mouth. After a few minutes, you should begin to feel more in control of your reaction. , You know daddy longlegs are not dangerous and that they can’t possibly harm you. Consider what you know and try to reason with yourself.


Stay calm and recognize what is happening to you. Have you noticed the common symptoms of a fear reaction in yourself? Identify them and recognize them for what they are: simply a chemical reaction.
Remember that you’re in charge. Your reaction is there to serve as a tool, not make decisions for you.
 Joking about the situation you’re afraid of is an extremely effective form of “cognitive reappraisal” that will help you cope with fear.Let yourself make light of the situation to subdue your fear reaction. Negative jokes are effective, but finding a way to make positive light of the situation works best.
Even making just one quip or joke about the situation or about your fear can have a marked effect on your ability to cope with the situation.