 As you are approaching a nearby defender, dribble the ball between your left and right feet. The trickery of the Rai Flick is in full effect when you are directly in front of the defender. As you are dribbling the ball, get within about 3 feet of the defender, right in front of him/her. If this is your first time practicing the trick, it is better to use a cardboard cut-out or an object as representative of the defender. Otherwise, you could wind up hurting someone as you practice., After you have dribbled the ball, stop about three feet in front of the nearby defender. You will want to position the soccer ball between your two feet. It is best if the ball is near the middle/back of your feet rather than the front of your feet. Your two feet should come together tightly around the ball. The more control you have over the ball, the greater "lift" you will be able to achieve., Your upper body (chest, arms, head, etc.) should begin to move forward fairly fast. By moving your torso forward, you will create extra room behind your body to swing your legs up. Make sure that you maintain control of the ball between your feet as you do so., As your torso is leaning forwards, you will want to kick your entire body upwards. As your body jumps upwards, your legs should do one of the following options: swing backwards, or swing to the side. The option you choose will depend on your position on the field. If the net is directly behind the defender, you will want to swing your legs backwards in order to get the ball directly behind the defender. If the net is to the side, or you plan on passing the ball to a teammate, swing your legs to the side.Option 1 Behind the Back: Move your torso forward and jump using both of your legs to lift the ball up in the air behind you in an arc in order to get the ball overtop of the defender.
Option 2 Around the Side: Move your torso forward and jump bringing both legs over to the side of your body and flick the ball over the defender. If you choose this option, it is best to swing your legs towards the dominant side of your body (right handed, right side; left handed, left side).
Whatever option you choose, always maintain pressure with your feet against the ball. You do not want to lose control until you release it.
 You will want to release the ball when your legs have swung upwards at least 90 degrees (waist level). This is important because if you release it too early, the ball will go backwards or in a different reaction. Once your legs have kicked up at the position of your waist, let the ball go by releasing the pressure created by your feet. The ball should fly in the air, creating an arch, and land on the other side of the defender.After you have released the ball, make sure to stabilize your body, and land safely on both feet. You may have to stretch your arms slightly in order to maintain your balance.
 Move around the defender and find where the ball landed. Maintain control of the ball and begin dribbling again. You can either take the ball directly to the net, or pass it to one of your teammates., In order to master the Rai Flick it will take a lot of practice. Use a cardboard cut-out or an object representing a defender before you move on to practicing with teammates. You will also need to perform the steps fairly fast in order to garner enough acceleration and velocity to swing the ball above and around the defender. It is fine to take it slow at first, but you will need to graduate to a fairly fast pace in order to capture the real trickery and illusion of the Rai Flick., Dribble the ball downfield towards the opponent's goal. In order to perform the Rai Flick in a real game you need to make sure of the following criteria: there are few people around you, there are few people behind the opposing defender, and you have a sightline towards the goal.You need room around you in order to perform the move, otherwise you could hit someone with the ball, or hit your legs on a nearby defender.
The goal line should be in your vision so you know what direction to swing the ball towards.
 As you are dribbling the ball, direct your body position towards a single defender. You want to square up with their shoulders, as you move no less than three feet away from them. Instead of going around the defender, you will go full speed towards him/her. Once you get close enough, slow down, and maintain control of the ball between your feet., Your momentum carrying you towards the defender is what you will use to perform the trick. Maintain control of the ball between your feet. Move your torso forward, jump upwards, and kick your legs back or too the side. When your legs have reached mid-waist level, free the ball by releasing the pressure between your feet.#*If there is space to the side of the defender, swing the ball to the side. If there are defenders surrounding him/her, swing the ball overtop of them.


Try your best to direct the ball towards the goal.
 After you have flicked the ball overtop of the defender, the surprise of the Flick should stop them in their place. Use this split second to jolt around him/her. Quickly find where the ball is and reclaim it. Maintain control, using your feet, and continue on dribbling towards the goal. You can also use the Rai Flick as a way to pass the ball towards a teammate. Just make sure that either your eyes or hands are signaling your teammate as to what you are about to do., The whole point of the move is that it is a trick play. You want to catch the defender off guard, as they come too close to you. Only perform the move a few times per game. The move is also a great way to pass the ball when you are being double/triple teamed. Choose your spots, know your surroundings, and perform the move as fast as possible.

