 Purchasing long term care insurance early, ideally during your 50s, can reduce your premiums considerably. This is the reason why long term care planning should be done way ahead as well.


Acquiring a policy at this stage is highly encouraged for two reasons. First, it may mean a lower premium for you. Second, you can lock in annual discounts that can save you huge amounts in the future.
Different companies have varying rates and pricing systems, but generally, premiums for younger policyholders are lower than those who acquired long term care insurance at an older age.
When you’re young and healthy, your likelihood of making a claim from your insurance policy is very slim; the insurer is taking a low risk (at least at this stage) of providing you with coverage.;
, Streamlining your coverage and benefits is one way to make long term care insurance friendly to your budget. At first glance, purchasing a lifetime policy with a huge benefit amount seems to be the smartest move to take. However, this can be unwise especially if you’re trying to minimize your premiums.


Instead of paying for a coverage that will offer lifetime protection, go for a policy that will shield you for a determined term. Sure, nobody knows how much care you’ll need or if at all. However, that should not be a reason for you to pass on long term care insurance or allow yourself to overpay for a policy.
According to the US Department of Human and Health Services, the average length of time that a person will need care is 3 years. Likewise, it was also found that 32% of long term care insurance buyers opt for this term. You can use these figures as a basis in deciding how long your coverage will be. #*Meanwhile, if you have a family history of chronic illness, you may want to opt for a longer policy, say, 10 years. Though more expensive than a three or five-year term, it is still way cheaper than a lifetime coverage.
In order to determine how much your benefit amount should be, you need to figure out the amount of savings or assets that you want to protect against long term care expenses. However, if you want to reduce your premiums, you can reduce how much your policy will pay and just resolve to shoulder the difference—should you exceed it. #*It’s just a matter of determining how much you’re able to pay out of pocket as well as the risk you’re willing to take. However, if you have a considerable source of retirement income and savings, privately paying for a portion of your care expenses will not be financially catastrophic.
Remember that long term care insurance is not a one-size-fits-all product. The best policy is not always the one with the broadest coverage; rather, it is the one that best adheres to your requirements and financial capability.
 Elimination period refers to the time in which you need to wait and shoulder your care expenses before your policy will start paying off benefits. The longer it is, the lower your premium will be. This can mean considerable savings on your end that can amount to at least 20% of the annual cost of your policy.


You have the option to set your policy’s elimination period from 0 up to over 100 days. 83% of people who purchase long term care insurance opted for an elimination period that will last for 90-100 days.
When it comes to lengthening elimination periods, most people tend to think of the risk that come along with it and seem to be discouraged about the concept of them paying out of pocket for their care expenses. However, you need to look at your policy as your safety net for a severe need that can be financially catastrophic. Your initial expenses are less likely to be grave and could be easily handled by your nest egg, retirement income and even social security.
To further emphasize the benefits of a longer elimination period, let’s look at home insurance for example. You don’t purchase this policy just to cover minor house repairs - rather, you bought it to protect your home against towering expenses due to something drastic such as fire or flood. Same goes for long term care insurance.
Actually a longer elimination period offers a win-win situation. First it gives you higher savings. Second it lets you get your money’s worth by reserving your policy for huge and more severe care needs and expenses.
 In one of the surveys done by ACSIA Partners, LLC, inflation protection is one of the most important long term care insurance features that you shouldn't forego. It ranked as the second, while insurance company reputation ranked first—which is not a rider per se.


The importance of inflation protection cannot be ignored as it will keep your long term care insurance at pace with the rising cost of care services. This means that overtime, this rider grows your benefits so that when you need to tap into it, its chances of falling short of your care expenses will be close to impossible. However, this feature comes with a cost that can double your premium.
If you are still in your 50s, a compounded rate is ideal for you. However, this could be pricey. Meanwhile, if you’re in your 60s and beyond, a simple inflation rate can be more advantageous and cost-effective for you.
When you’re farther away from needing care, the higher your inflation protection should be. This seems to be the rule of thumb for this feature. Since that is the case, make it a point to evaluate your need for this rider as you age. Apart from that, ask what your insurer’s rules are if you want to decrease the level of your inflation protection.
 Those who are married can save considerably on long term care insurance if they go for a joint policy. Going for this can mean a discount of 15-40% annually. So how does this work?


A shared policy allows spouses to share their individual benefits. If one of them has exhausted their policy, they can tap into the other’s benefits if they still need care. For instance, each spouse has a policy that has a three-year benefit. When aggregated, they have six years to work with. If one of them needs to receive care beyond 3 years, they can use the other’s policy to pay for care expenses that exceed their individual benefit amounts. This way, they are spared from towering out-of-pocket payments or the cost of applying for new long term care insurance.
Meanwhile, some insurance companies offer joint policies that build a third pool of money that spouses can tap once they used up their policy. Instead of tapping into the other’s benefits, they will dip into this other fund for their care needs.
There are different conditions that need to be met in order for you to avail a shared policy. It all depends on the insurer. Typically though, insurance companies require that both spouses purchase an identical coverage.
Meanwhile, if you’re in a committed relationship and both you and your partner are living under the same roof, you can still opt to purchase a joint policy. More so, partial discounts can also be given even if only one spouse in insured. Ask your insurance provider what their terms are regarding these situations.
 Companies usually offer different payment terms when it comes to settling your long term care insurance premiums. You can choose between an annual, semi-annual, quarterly or monthly mode of payment.


If you’re working on a limited budget, you may initially opt to go for a monthly mode of payment. It’s normal to feel skeptical about handing a lump-sum amount to your insurer. However, if you want to lessen what you spend on premiums, you might want to consider paying one-time each year.
Going for the monthly mode of payment is convenient, that’s true. However, consumers tend to overlook one fact and that is they have to pay for the “convenience” in the form of interests or surcharges.
Meanwhile, if you choose to pay annually, you are spared from these additional fees. That would mean more savings on your end. In fact, you can save up to 8% of your premiums if you choose this payment method.

