 First and foremost, your partner will want to feel like you care about them as a person, not as an object.;
, This will make your date feel you like them more than your money. If they decline and would rather go Dutch (splitting the bill), go with what they want. Don't take it personally.
 Your date decided to go out with you and not some other guy for a reason. Whatever you do, don't mislead your date about who you are in any way, shape or form - it'll come back to bite you later.
 Offer to carry her books for her, open doors for her (especially when she is getting in and out of your car), and call her parents Mr. and Mrs. when you meet them.
 This doesn't mean you shouldn't have your own style - on the contrary. But when a boy becomes a teenager, his body changes, and you need to dress a little differently to look your age - you will impress a potential date more if you look as mature as your age. This means tidying yourself up throughout the day - make sure you are clean and not wrinkled, and that your hair is looking good. Wear a belt regardless of whether your shirt is tucked in or not. As a boy ages, he usually loses some of the "curve" of a boy's frame, and that's why most grown men you see are wearing a belt! You'll get used to the tighter feeling. Also, make sure your clothes fit well and are appropriate for the occasion. Consider being trendy, but be yourself too. Develop a style, but remember that men generally have less options than women and, though the world has changed, men are still expected to dress a certain way, especially for fancier occasions. So if you're going out, dress a little nicer than you would if you were lazing away a weekend. But, you must have your own style and individuality.
 Let them know some of your interests, whether it's in movies, books, or music. This is always a good way to start a conversation. It will be easy for them to reply on one of the subjects mentioned. If you have a class with them, then mention something about that class. They will come back with either they did not notice you in class, or will mention that they did notice you. This way, the conversation can be woven around the class, and will go from there.
 Compliment how your date looks, which is always appreciated, but also compliment them on other things, such as their abilities in art or sports. If your date is kind, say so. It is important not to lie for the sake of giving a compliment, however, because people usually know what they truly are worthy of being complimented for and will feel patronized if they catch on that you are lying.
 Do not talk only about yourself; ask about things that interest your date, such as their hobbies, friends, or what matters most to them. If your date asks you a question about yourself, answer, then say something like, "What about you?" in order to avoid monopolizing conversation. This will also help you learn more about them.
 Smile when either of you speak, make eye contact consistently -especially when sitting at a table having a bite to eat - always look directly at your date when they talk to you. It is irritating and annoying to talk to someone while they scan the room with their eyes or turn around to look at someone who just walked by. It shows a total lack of interest in whatever they are talking about and makes them feel that you are not interested either in them, or what she is saying.
 If your partner is not reacting well to the date, does not want to hold hands when you try, or does not converse easily, then back off for awhile. If, however, your date just looks bored and not interested in you, cut the date short, and take them home. It's okay, and it's not your fault. Remember, this is just practice, and with enough practice, every date will go well.
 It will show your date you're having fun and that you genuinely like them.

