
Despite the effluvium of interpretations of Scripture, and the apparent availability of passages that might suggest otherwise, understand that the Bible is a reflection of spiritual principles, and it is incorrect, and sinful, to use the Bible to condemn others, which is plainly stated, in many places. Thus the references to "homosexuality" should likely be taken in the same spirit as "prostitution" in the following: Hosea 4:12 My people consult a wooden idol, and a diviner's rod ...... My people ask their wooden idols for help. A piece of wood tells them what to do. A spirit of prostitution leads them astray.
 don't you know that there is no marriage in heaven? So, no heterosexuals will inherit, either, in that sense. But since this is still not clear, and you have not heard a witness yet,
To put that another way, we are "two men in a bed," in an incestuous relationship with Law and Grace, and one is taken, and the other is left. And this is a divorce, which we can read about @ "And I saw that for all the adulteries of faithless Israel, I had sent her away and given her a writ of divorce..." (hmm, more sexual innuendo). We are invited into a marriage, of Law and Grace.(be advised that you probably do not want to engage with those people, however)
See that God is not interested in who you are sleeping with, per se, although that is an expression of our spiritual state, speaking broadly. He only cares about your incestuous marriage. We can read of prophets walking around stark naked for years, too. Now, shouldn't this mean it is ok to be a hedonist, in that case? Christ came, not to judge you, so do not expect judgement from anyone other than people, ok. But recognize the spiritual state of a hedonist, which since that sounds religious recognize how a hedonist comes off to you, to people, that being self-centered, egotistical, and we are now discussing the part that matters, rather than the part people obsess over.
 These will verify this position....just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, since they in the same way as these indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh, are exhibited as an example in undergoing the punishment of eternal fire.
This is the biggie. scary, huh. get that one tossed at ya a lot, don't you. Do they ever recite the whole thing though? Here's the frame,For certain men have secretly slipped in among you--men who long ago were marked out for the condemnation I am about to describe--ungodly men who have turned the grace of our God into a license for evil and who deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. Now I desire to remind you, though you know all things once for all, that the Lord, after saving a people out of the land of Egypt, subsequently destroyed those who did not believe. And He has kept, with eternal chains in darkness for the judgment of the great day, the angels who did not keep their own position but deserted their proper dwelling.
And so, we see people who have "denied Christ, and turned Grace into a license for evil" being compared to the Wanderers who had no faith, equating them with the Nephilim, who did not keep their position (who again are conflated with "sexual" perversion, even though angels are sexless), portrayed as having "indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh in the same way as these."
Now you will see other translations of these verses--and you should go read them , you always get a fuller understanding in parallel; there are five in parallel right there--some with a more "sexual" take on "license for evil," etc. but rather than detracting from the point, notice how they add to it, because again, it is Grace that is portrayed as being perverted, into...well, quite a number of different characterizations, an amazing variety, actually, let's lexiconthat, wherein we see
"asélgeia (from aselgēs/"brutal") – properly, violent spite which rejects restraint and indulges in lawless insolence (wanton caprice)"
being done to Grace.
We'll just bring up the other four occurrences of "sins of Sodom" for a complete picture,The expression of their faces bears witness against them, And they display their sin like Sodom; They do not even conceal it.
(the Israelites, haughtily denying God)Now the men of Sodom were wicked exceedingly and sinners against the LORD.
(setting up the famous violence scene at Lot's house)But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil; all of them have become like Sodom to me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah. (prophets "committing adultery")
And finally, a listing of the sins of Sodom,Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters had arrogance, abundant food and careless ease, but she did not help the poor and needy.
(Sodom being the "sister" of Jerusalem, here; get it?)
Which pretty well encompasses the state of mind of the inhabitants, including the (psychotically) arrogant episode at Lot's place, wherein careless, violent debauchery is being portrayed, and gay people who love your neighbor simply are not.
A perspective that is broadly understood to be "unnatural" by most people--yet which feels completely natural to you--is being used to expound upon our perversion of Grace, in such a way as to provide a false imprimatur for oppression of others, so that hearts may be revealed, and strangely--because let's face it, God is strange, the Unknown God--to work a blessing in the oppressed, which might be hard to grasp, until you reflect upon the parent/child relationship that you have been on at least one end of. And if you are a child with absentee parents, and cannot relate to that, suffice it to say that people are often hard on other people out of love, and not always fear., Seek your own salvation. You are specifically commanded to read for yourself, with the Spirit as your guide; and you might note that Paul, the writer of much of the body of the New Testament--who incidentally is talking in the same code, because he is talking about the same stuff--purposely avoided the other Apostles in Jerusalem for three years, so as not to absorb their opinions, but be led by the Spirit. And, when he did finally meet them, he found no cause to be impressed, or change his point of view., As a great first read, try a Message Bible, and don't hesitate to go to the lexicon--a click away now--and make up your own translation, based upon the most applicable definitions of each word. You are not compelled to trust anyone else's translation, when you have the virtual original, right there in the Lex, and in fact that comes the closest to honoring the Scriptural instruction. "Find the right translation, and then let the Spirit guide you" is not in there, anywhere.