 Using eye drops or artificial tears can help moisturize dry eyes, which may relieve eye soreness. You can use plain saline (salt water that matches the salt in tears) or medicated eye drops. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions.


Don’t become dependent on eye drops. If you use eye drops frequently, make sure they do not have medication or preservatives in them. Overusing medicated eye drops can actually aggravate eye problems.;
, Using a warm compress can help relax the muscles around your eye, which may relieve eye strain and that twitchy feeling tired eyes get. You can use dry or moist warmth, depending on what feels best for you. If you wear glasses or contacts, remove them before using any compress.For a dry compress, fill a clean sock with uncooked rice or beans and knot the sock to keep it closed. Microwave the sock for about 30 seconds, or until it’s warm but not too hot. Apply the compress to your eye.
For a moist compress, wet a clean washcloth or several paper towels with warm (almost, but not quite, hot) water. Lay the cloth across your eyes. You can apply gentle pressure with your palm if you want, but don’t press too hard. Leave the compress on until it cools.
 Using your palms to apply gentle pressure to your eye area can help reduce eye strain and relieve pain. If you wear them, remove your glasses or contacts before using your palms as a compress.


Cross your hands with your palms facing you.
Gently press the palms of your hands against your eyes.
Continue for 30 seconds, then relax. Repeat as often as necessary to reduce soreness.
 Some herbs, such as chamomile, goldenseal, eyebright, calendula, and Oregon grape/barberry, have anti-inflammatory properties that may help soothe your eyes.While there is no scientific evidence to suggest that a tea bag is more effective than another warm compress, you may find the herbal aroma relaxing.Place two tea bags in a mug and pour boiling water over them. Allow the tea to steep for about five minutes, or until the water is still warm but not hot.
Squeeze excess liquid from the tea bags and place one over each eye. Lean your head back and relax. Once the tea bags have cooled, remove them. You can repeat this as often as you want.
If you can’t find tea bags, you can cut the toes off a nylon knee-high stocking, pour the dried herb into the toe, tie it off, and use it as a tea bag.
 It’s every teenager’s favorite weapon, but the eye-roll can also help relieve eye strain. Close your eyes and focus on breathing deeply while you perform the following motions:


Roll your eyes clockwise. Then roll them counter-clockwise. This full movement is one complete eye-roll.
Repeat the eye-roll 20 times. Start off slowly and get a bit faster each time.
Do this 2-4 times a day to help relieve and prevent eye strain.



Try to stand up, move around, and shake yourself out every hour or so. This will help refresh you and keep your eyes from getting strained in the first place.
 Anxiety, stress, and muscle tension can cause eye strain and soreness. Take a few deep breaths, shake out your limbs, and roll your head around. Get up and take a quick walk. Do some stretches. You can also use progressive muscle relaxation on your eyes to help relieve soreness and strain.Find a quiet, comfortable place away from distractions, if possible. Breathe deeply and evenly.
Clench your eyelids as tightly as possible. Hold this tension for ten seconds, then relax. Open your eyes.
Raise your eyebrows as far as you can. You should feel like you’re opening your eyes as wide as they’ll go. Hold this position for ten seconds, then relax.
Repeat these two exercises throughout the day as needed.

