 This only applies to those with dyed red hair. Becoming a redhead means you have to put keep your hair looking vivid, and this involves touch-ups when your hair fades. There are many steps to caring for dyed hair, and this is the most important.If the shade of red you chose is very different from your natural hair color, be prepared to dye your hair again every few weeks.


Touch up your roots as needed. Walking around with roots showing can be embarrassing unless that is the look you are trying to achieve. Check your hair every few days for fading.
Remember that semi-permanent dye and permanent dyes last 6 weeks at the most.
Set up an alert on your phone that keeps track of when you need to dye your hair.
Ask a close friend that you see often to alert you if he or she sees any roots showing.
Keep an extra box of your at-home dye handy just in case you need to dye your hair but cannot get to the store.
 If you’re already a redhead, buying products that protect red hair will make your color naturally more vibrant. There are shampoos and conditioners made specifically to protect red hair. If your hair is dyed, invest in a gentle shampoo and conditioner to make the color last longer. Remember, red dye is notorious for fading quickly.


Now that you’re a redhead, pay attention to what hair products you buy even more than you already did.
Notice which products are made for dyed hair.
Don’t overuse hair products to avoid damaging your hair and color.
 Now that you have dyed hair, staying out of direct sunlight for long periods of time is essential. Red hair pigments are particularly sensitive to the UV rays from the sun.


Find a cute hat or scarf to protect your hair from quickly fading while still remaining stylish.If you’re going on vacation, remember to avoid sunbathing so your hair does not get dry.Certain shampoos have sunscreen in them, which will help your hair to fend off harmful UV rays.
 Many at-home dyes recommend that you don’t shower for the first few days after dyeing your hair. This will cause the color to fade, especially semi-permanent dyes. Not washing your hair every day is another good idea. Also, cold water is best for washing colored hair.This may be uncomfortable at first, but using cold or at least lukewarm water on your hair is guaranteed to prolong the color.

