 For this barometer you will need a marker, an empty ketchup bottle, a drinking glass, and water. The bottle does not have to be a ketchup bottle it just needs to be able to rest upside down on the rim of the drinking glass without touching the bottom of the glass., Starting at the top of the bottle, make a black mark every 2 cm until you reach the bottom of the bottle. These markings will serve as a relative scale to measure changes in pressure.Number the marks starting with 1 at the top of the bottle until you reach the last mark at the bottom. The bottle will be upside down in the glass, so write the numbers with the bottle upside down.
 Using tap water, add enough water to the empty bottle until it is about half-way full. The exact amount of water added does not matter.
 This process can lead to some spilling if you’re not quick enough. The water will come out of the bottle and fill the glass part way, but the water level in the bottle will be higher than that in the glass.


If the water level in the bottle isn’t higher than in the glass, add more water to the bottle and try flipping it again.
 When air pressure increases, more water will be pushed into the bottle. For the barometer to work properly, the bottle opening needs to stay submerged in water at all times. Adding this extra water ensures that the bottle will remain submerged during pressure changes.You want the water level in the glass to be just above the lip of the bottle at all times.
 When air pressure decreases, the water level in the ketchup bottle will decrease. Lower air pressure corresponds to rainy, cloudy weather. When the air pressure increases, the water level increases inside the ketchup bottle.Higher pressure indicates sunny, clear skies.


Take note of where the water level is in the morning. Check it again in the evening to see if it has changed.
Compare the actual weather with the changes in water level. Can you predict the weather with relative changes in the water level of your barometer?

