 Camping means killing without being tracked down. That being said, you should equip your player with stealth perks in order to be an effective camper. Here are some of the most effective perks for camping:

Off the Grid. This perk makes you invisible to enemy SAT-COMs. This will make your location hidden even if they deploy SAT-COMs (which is supposed to give away your location on the radar).



 


Ghost is also a vital perk to be equipped, since it removes your name when an enemy’s crosshair passes you by.






After killing an unsuspecting enemy, their location will automatically show on the map. However, if you have the Takedown perk equipped, killing enemies will not reveal their death skull icons on the opposing team’s mini-map.





;
, Camping is usually associated with snipers. That is appropriate, as they are known for being stealthy assassins from afar. But how about stealthy “ninja” assassins? They operate at close distances and can also effectively kill by camping.

For a sniper class, make sure to equip the stealth perks mentioned so you will kill lots of enemies while staying hidden on the map.






For “ninja” campers, it is advisable to use a combination of Speed and Stealth perks. Make sure you have Stalker and Agility equipped for speed and Off the Grid and Dead Silence for stealth perks.
 Most of the maps in CoD Ghosts include debris and a lot of collapsible structures. Take advantage of those terrains to find your “sweet spot”. This is where you will hide from the enemy and shoot only once an enemy is in sight.

Hiding in the shadows is one effective way of camping. Usually you will do this in dark corners inside structures. Once an enemy passes you by, sneak from behind and go for the kill.






Go to high places, especially if you are a sniper. You will have a good vantage point from above and with this wide view, you can simply target moving enemies on the ground.






After you familiarize yourself with the maps, you will then notice the usual passage points of your enemies. Knowing these passages will make your camping easier. Just camp in an intersection and wait for the unsuspecting enemies to pass by.
 Since there are a few variations on camping, it is important for you to know which weapon is suited for your chosen camper type.

For snipers, obviously, sniper rifles are the way to go. Using the L115 seems to be a good option since it is capable of single fatal shot, depending on the distance.






For non-sniper campers, most of the agile ones use shotguns for those instant kills in close combat. The more experienced ones just use a pistol or knife to further improve their speed and agility on ground combat.
 While camping, you are immobile. These means that most of the time you are just steady in one location, patiently waiting for an enemy to pass your way. While doing so, using the right Lethals and Tacticals will surely protect you from unwanted attacks and threats.

I.E.D. is one type of lethal equipment that functions just like a claymore from previous COD games...only, it sticks anywhere (like C4) and explodes upon enemy contact. This can protect your back while you are focused in another direction.






Trophy System, on the other hand, is a type of tactical equipment that protects you from grenades and other throwable threats. It instantaneously destroys the first 2 enemy projectiles before self-destructing.
 As a camper, it is likely that you will land numerous numbers of kills. With this, you must be able to plan what kill streak rewards you would like to use to benefit your camping.

Guard Dogs are super effective in protecting you from enemies that are outside your peripheral vision. Dogs attack nearby enemies (even the ones that are hiding or camping).






I.M.S., just like I.E.D.’s, can be placed behind you so that you are safe from sneak attacks from the enemy. Unlike I.E.D.’s, I.M.S.'s can kill enemies multiple times as long as it is not destroyed.
 Although you are technically invisible on the map, you will still be shown on the enemies’ radar once you land a kill. Though camping may involve staying in one location, make sure to move once in a while to confuse the enemies as to where the kills are coming from.

