 You can either run an internet search to find out when a casting call in your area might happen, or you can go on to the Playboy website--they have a map that shows where the ongoing casting calls are happening. If there are no scheduled casting calls in your area and you think you have what it takes to be a Playmate, you can travel to the areas that do have casting calls to audition.


Having modeling experience isn’t required--the photographer at the audition will guide you through the photo process.;
, In the weeks leading up to your audition make sure you maintain a healthy eating and exercise regime. Playboy is looking for the sexiest girls around. Get to a point where you feel confident and comfortable in your own body. After all, a big aspect of Playboy is feeling comfortable being nude.


You may want to practice some poses in a mirror to know what flatters your figure the most. Practice your best ‘smoldering temptress’ look. Learn how to flirt with your eyes. Get a friend to take pictures of you posing in different ways to see how each position looks.
 You are required to either wear lingerie, a bikini, or a swimsuit with heels. Go shopping before the casting call and find your perfect outfit. Look for a sexy, unique wardrobe that will show off your best assets. Pair your look with the perfect heels--these should match and make you look like you have legs that are a mile long.
 While you might be wide awake with nerves, excitement, or a combination of the two, you really should get some rest the night before. After all, you want to be on your A-game for the audition, bright-eyed and lively. However, don’t take anything to make you fall asleep--things like sleeping pills can make you groggy the next day.
 Playboy requires that you bring two forms of identification to the casting call proving that you are 18 or older. One of the IDs must be government issued and have a photo, your birth date, and an expiration date (like a driver’s license, passport, or state ID). The other does not need to be government issued but should have your name and birthday on it (this could be your birth certificate, social security card, voter registration card, etc.).


You don’t need to bring a portfolio with you. However, extra photos will be accepted and added to your bio form. Keep in mind that these photos won’t be returned to you.
 Playboy requires that you have your hair and makeup done already before your show up for your casting call. Remember, less is more! Aim to look your absolute best--if your hair looks best with a curl in it, curl it before you get there.
 When you get to the casting call, you will have to show both of your IDs and complete a bio form. You can also fill out a model release form, but this is optional. You will then change into your lingerie or bikini, put on a robe, and wait to be called. The interview will be casual, during which time you will have a professional photographer take photos and a video of you. This interview and photo shoot will last 15 to 20 minutes. Show ‘em what you got girl!Keep in mind that you are auditioning for Playboy and should be alright with nudity, even during the interview--a certain level of nudity is actually expected of you.
 Playboy may take four to six weeks to get back to you after your casting call. Playboy states on their website that they will not accept calls about your audition status. If you do get selected as a Playmate, Playboy will give you specific instructions to follow. You will sign a contract and have your own spread in their magazine. Plus, a playmate is a playmate for life! That means attending parties and entering into the running for Playmate of the Year.


If you haven’t gotten a call from a Playboy representative within six weeks, it means that there isn’t an open position for you in the magazine at this time. However, your casting call audition will be kept on file and considered in the future.

