 Talk to your parents and agree on a method for removing your leg hair if they’re concerned about the safety of shaving. Buy razors with nourishing strips and multiple blades to avoid cuts, or opt for waxing or a hair removal cream like Veet to avoid razors altogether.You can also opt for electrolysis or laser hair removal treatment later in life, but this is definitely an option to wait on till you are older and have enough money for the procedure.
 Make a deal with your parents that you’ll do all the research about the health and safety risks of shaving and show them that you understand how to prevent those risks before you can start.


Let them know that you understand shaving can cause razor burn or bumps, nicks and cuts, and even skin infections or painful ingrown hairs, and that you should use sharp and clean razors with shaving cream or soap and water to prevent these problems., Allow your parents to give you a short shaving lesson either from them, an older sister, or a video. Make them feel more comfortable with you shaving by letting them control the information you get about doing it safely.


You can even offer or agree to have your parents there with you while you shave the first couple of times. Consider sacrificing a little bit of privacy for what you want.
 If you haven’t started shaving your underarm hair, ask your parents if you can start doing that first. Get them comfortable with the idea that you’re shaving at all by doing it to a smaller area of the body, and then they should soon work up to the idea of you shaving your legs, too.


If you do already shave your underarm hair, you can use this to show your parents that you are already mature enough to shave safely. Make the point that doing the same to your legs is really no different.
 Make an agreement with your parents to pay for any of the equipment you need to start shaving, like a razor and razor blades, shaving cream or gel, waxing strips, or hair removal cream. Save up your own money from an allowance or job for this.


Offer to pay either for the first round of supplies, or for all shaving products in the future.
Make a payment plan with your parents if you need to pay them back for supplies by agreeing to a certain amount taken out of your allowance every week, for example.
 Start out by shaving your legs below the knees only if your parents are okay with just that. This is where hair is usually darkest and more noticeable anyway.Your parents might also ask you not to shave more than a certain number of times per week or something similar, which you should follow.
 If they won’t say yes right away, agree with your parents on a time when you can start shaving, or when you can bring up the issue again for them to reconsider. Show your parents that this means a lot to you by being patient and waiting until the agreed-upon time to ask again or get an answer.Schedule and write down a time that everyone agrees with so you won’t forget and can remind each other.

