 Never hang a kayak from drywall or plywood. You need a sturdy wood beam or strong metal pipes that will support the kayak. Choosing a good location to hang it from is important to ensure the safety of the kayak and the wall.Most wall mounting storage systems require you to install them in the studs of the wall.
 A rope system works by attaching the ropes to your wall and wrapping the ropes around your kayak. A bracket system works by supporting the kayak on top of the brackets, which are installed into the wall. They are both good, safe ways to hang a kayak, but a bracket system is more expensive.


You can purchase a tilt storage rack for $100. This is a storage rack that consists of two large brackets that you will mount to a wall. They securely support your kayak and fold out of the way when not in use.You can purchase a kayak hanger for $25. It works by attaching ropes to the wall with hooks. It is easy to install and the ropes go around your kayak to hold it in place. Or if you already have sturdy ropes, you can build your own for free!, If you purchased a storage system, refer to the manual and follow its instructions. Different installation is required for different systems.


To attach the tilt storage rack, you must locate the studs of your wall and then drill a hole into the center of the stud. You will attach one post at a time, making sure they are perfectly level. You will attach the top of the post first and then the bottom. Your distance between the posts will depend on the size of your kayak. Their distance should be at least the diameter of the kayak’s cockpit.To attach the kayak hanger, you must locate wall studs or ceiling rafters. You will then drill a hole for the eye bolts. The distance between them should be about a third of the total length of the kayak. You will screw in the eye bolts by twisting them into the hole you drilled. You will then insert a hook into each eye bolt. The rope will hang down and you can wrap it around the kayak., Tilt the kayak onto its side. The kayak should be hung horizontally with its cockpit facing out. Its backside should lie flat against the wall., The cockpit is the strongest part of the kayak. The ropes or brackets should support the kayak right outside of its cockpit, one on each side., This is accomplished by making sure the straps or brackets are equidistant from each end of the kayak. By placing them just outside of the cockpit, it should be fairly centered, but feel free to adjust the kayak’s position so that it is completely level and not tilting towards one side or the other., It may seem convenient to hang a kayak by its carrying handles on its ends, but these are not meant for storage. The kayak will be put under a lot of stress by supporting it at its weakest points and will likely warp.