 Opening the door and greeting a guest also gives you a chance to check them in with the hostess. Knowing and using a guest's name is an important first step in creating a valuable repeat customer who may request your station when they return, and they usually tip much higher.


This might not be possible on busy shifts. That said, you can still help your guests by having waters ready and at the table, for example, right before they sit down.Checking in quickly to say "hello" or "welcome, as they sit down is a quick, small way to make a connection before the meal begins.;
, If your table orders fries, you might be wise to bring ketchup (these are often called pre-sets or pre-drops). If your table orders messy food, bring extra napkins. Be a great waiter and anticipate their needs, don’t make them ask. Keep an eye on the table whenever you pass by, and make a mental note of any pressing needs -- empty water glasses, dropped forks, etc. -- and step in when needed.
 Checking on them verbally every time you visit your section may backfire and become irritating. Your guest will let you know if they need anything when you are walking through. Providing refills, napkins, etc. will ensure that the only thing they should ask you for is the check.


There is a fine line between anticipating needs and annoying your guests. To help, imagine that your guests are always in the middle of a very important conversation. They don't want this conversation to be broken up or interrupted unless completely necessary. Refilling waters quietly, placing silverware, etc. are fine, but stopping them to ask "if they need anything?" every 5 minutes will quickly grow old.
 People will have questions, want to make substitutions, and may even want recommendations. When taking orders, stand close to the table, and even consider crouching slightly so that you're nearer to eye-level. In some studies the closer a waiter gets to the table, the higher their tips became.


Ask kids and women for their orders first. This is basic, but most waiters and waitresses miss it. When you follow this basic cultural rule you will be amazed how the tips just seem to roll in.
 Several studies have discovered that you earn more tips if you repeat the order of each guest exactly - not paraphrased. Your guests will then (unconsciously) think that you are similar to them and it will help to make a connection.


This also shows lets them feel like they are being paid attention to, and assures them that they will be taken care.
 This is so basic, but when not done well it can really hurt you financially. If you know they suck those things down, you might consider bringing them two at once. Don't feel the need to ask them for refills: if it gets low, bring another. When the whole table orders water, bringing extra doesn't hurt either., Print their checks after you send the order, desserts, coffees, etc. and place in a check presenter. No guest wants to wait for their server to return with their check so it helps to always have it on the ready. One minute to a server may feel like five to a guest.


Once the check is presented, don't disappear. When people get the check they're ready to leave, so you need to get it processed and finished to move them out the door.
 Instead of bringing your guest a box, offer to do it for them. Some will say no, in which case you may bring a box for them, but this will really be going the extra mile and will help your case when it comes time to tip.


Note: this is illegal in some states. - Make sure you know your employer's policies beforehand.
 You cannot earn your tips alone, and a chef with a grudge could always wait a little longer to cook your food if you've been rude to them. As a result, your table will be left to wait, and they'll likely pay you less in tips as a result.


This is not just for restaurants where the entire staff splits tips. You should always be kind, courteous, and helpful with your staff -- as neither of you would have jobs without the other.

