 Since drifters are seen as people that would prefer a quick meal and a nap before heading out, you'll impress the Salvation Army, Catholic Charities and similar organizations simply by asking to work for the day. Much like any business to person interaction, be prepared to show your state issued identification or driver's license, along with social security card or proof of birth.;
, Ask permission to approach truckers for 'lumping' gigs, which entail you unloading their semi (if their loads are 'full touch') for $50-$100. If the manufacturing company is kind, they'll loan you a pallet jack or similar device just to assist.
 Otherwise known as 'feed store' or 'grain store', you'll run into farmers early in the morning buying their hog feed at cooperatives, or co-ops. Perhaps offer your services for the day at a mutually agreeable rate. Some farmers will throw in dinner, prepared by skilled farmers' wives.
 Not only will you need to secure some sleep for the evening, you can learn about business owners that come by and hire help intermittently. Shelters will also post day labor gigs for the day, or preceding days, in plain view for those interested in making money. If these gigs aren't publicly viewable, make sure to ask the attendant whether the shelter frequently receives visits from individuals looking to hire able-bodied men.
 In bigger cities, Labor Readywill open their doors as early as 5:00AM for people to sign in to look for work. This company operates much like Manpower, Career Glideror any other local staffing agency, except they're contracting you by the day. Perks include an in-office ATM where you can withdraw money, the opportunity to work several consecutive days, and safety equipment rental. Those with cars tend to make more because they'll receive compensation for each person they transport to a job, on top of their own earned wage. State issued identificationand social security card are required to begin working here.
 You might find opportunities to help with construction or moving, or other odd jobs that could fit your skill set (like repairing a juke box or setting utility poles). It's not a bad idea to check the "barter" listings under "for sale/wanted" as sometimes people are willing to offer goods in exchange for labor. Ask for goods that will be useful through your travels, or ask for food.
 Town folk that know each other quite well will frequently visit these places. Strike up a conversation and let the other party know you're intending to look for work that day, and wish to be paid and gone from the city by dusk. You could end up washing dishes, taking out trash or performing similar duties for the owners just by showing tenacity.

