 As an adult, you have the responsibility of guiding your children on technology use. But consider why before setting up rules.


Balancing real life and technology use. Unrestricted screen time is harmful to children, and it is addicting. Children need limits to help them not spend all day in front of screens.
Appropriate material. The internet has a tremendous amount of wonderful material for young audience. Unfortunately, it is also full of sites, games, and images that are wholly inappropriate.
Cyber crime. The internet can take advantage of individuals unwary of bad practices like viruses, games with in-app purchases, identity theft, pedophiles, and the like. Children are very easy targets, because they are trusting and not very savvy about such things.
Social networking. With social networking, there is a lot of great benefits to being able to network with friends and family. For teens, it is often a primary way of communication and not having access to it can be socially problematic. However, having it has raised several problems:
Cyberbullying. Bullying online happens, and since it happens silently on the screen parents can be completely unaware that a child is being bullied, is being a bully, or a bystander.
Sexting and other photos. Young children and teens can take photos and send them easily. What they may not consider is that once a photo is sent, it is out of the child's control. Even with Snapchat (where the photo is posted temporarily), one cannot be certain the recipient is the one intended.;
, There is a big cognitive difference between a five year old and a fifteen year old. A child that's overly trusting may need some restrictions on what they do online, and be limited to using non-online apps.


If your child is age five, for example, it would be better to block all non-game or non-learning sites and restrict device time to one hour per day. When your child is sixteen, however, this is often seen as far too restrictive.
The general responsibility level of your child. Kids and teens vary a lot in what they can handle in terms of responsibility. Tailor your rules on technology based on the level of responsibility your child consistently shows. (However, understand that responsibility is not quite the same as judgement. A child can be very responsible, but still not yet quite have the judgement to negotiate the internet in the same way as an older child.)
Consider the appropriateness of games, applications, and the like. Even if your 7 year old is old enough to play a first-person-shooter game, it does not mean it is appropriate for them.
 One fourteen year old may be very responsible, while another not. Guidelines for one child may not be appropriate for another--you as a parent are generally the best judge.


This can be a tricky thing, especially with multiple children in the household close in age. Keep in mind, too, that children will often share or sneak in time with another family member's device.
Even responsible children can get into trouble online, and not understand how or why. (Such as posting photos, chat features, downloading games). Even the most responsible child or teen needs to be monitored.
 Technology should not be a giant list of "don't"'s, but you'll want to set some ground rules for your child so that they get a basic idea of what they should and shouldn't do online. Make sure the list of rules is age-appropriate ("no accessing websites without checking with a parent" may be good for a child in early elementary school, but sounds ridiculous in high school) and there are consequences for violating these rules.


A sample list for a preteen may look something like:

No downloading software or apps or buying in-app purchases without permission. This may include free apps as well. The parent needs to know what programs are on.
No installing programs on the computer without a parent's knowledge. (Be aware sometimes this can happen by accident on certain sites without the child realizing he or she downloaded a game, however.)
No tampering with programs installed by a parent (e.g. antivirus software, parental controls).
No accessing sites that are not known and trusted. The parent decides what is known and trusted.
No texting or IM'ing people you've only just met online. (For younger children the rule might be only doing so with family.)
No use of the internet to bully or harass others, whether they're known in person or not.
Parents have the right to access technology at any time, for any reason. This for reasons of monitoring what is being accessed, usage, and so on. The parent is ultimately responsible for what the child is doing, and is paying for usage and the device, so this is the rule. That does not mean the parent should be a tyrant about this, but it should be clear that the device is monitored.


Try to base these rules on past behavior, as stated above.
 Some parents allow their children to sign up for social media sites when they're under the age of 13 (which is the age restriction for most social media sites, due to child privacy laws), while others forbid their child from using social media until a certain age, if at all. This choice is completely up to you, but it should be made responsibly. Additionally, anyone-whether over 13 or under-should never use social media in a way that endangers them or others, or bullies people; make a rule with your child or teen that if they are found behaving this way, their social media privilege will be revoked.


As a general rule, a child under the age of 10 probably should not be on social media sites such as Facebook. Because your child is still fairly young, they may not properly understand that what you put on social media is out there forever, and they may make some bad choices.
Those under 13 that are allowed on social media should have their accounts supervised to make sure that they're not abusing the accounts.

Only check your child's social media account once in a while or if you have a good reason to suspect your child is abusing their social media privileges. If you do this too often, your child may feel that their privacy is being violated, leading to a loss of trust and a bad parent-child relationship.


Set special rules on some social media sites; certain websites are known for having many, many bullies.
 Before putting these rules in place and starting to enforce them, bring your child into the decision. Lay out the ground rules. Explain which rules are non-negotiable (for example, no tampering with parental controls or using social media for engaging in bad behavior), and which rules you'd be willing to compromise on, and let your child give their input. Be willing to listen and compromise, but also be sure to not let your child run the show. You are a parent, not someone who comes up with ideas that your child scraps.


Be smart about making exceptions. It is always best to be consistent, but due to circumstances you may need to be flexible with internet use. Some exceptions to consider:

Homework (or similar work) does not fall under "screen time". If your child needs an hour to work on that research project, it is not wise to take it out of your child's Minecraft time...this will likely end up with a poorly research and rushed project!
You may want to allow Skyping with friends and family to not count or fully count towards screen time.
Although the internet should not be routinely used as a babysitter, sometimes a parent may elect to allow some extra time for extraordinary situations. Used sparingly, this may help out parents in a pinch.
Always explain the reason behind each of your rules, including consequences that may follow infractions. This will help make things more clear for your child and not seem like you are making arbitrary rules. This does not, however, mean your child will fully understand the reasons. Nor does it guarantee your child will fully agree.
 For younger kids, there is little reason to have full (if any) internet access. Many systems (such as Nabi) make it impossible for a child to get on the internet, and adults control what gets downloaded.
 Administrator accounts on any device - computer, tablet, phone, or so forth - prevent your child from installing or uninstalling software on the device without your knowledge. It also prevents them from changing settings on the parental controls if parental controls have been installed. Make sure the password is something hard to guess (so don't use a pet's name, a birthday, or anything else that your child could easily figure out), and don't let your child know what it is.


As with all passwords, don't write the password anywhere in the computer, even if it's in the administrator account. A child with good enough computer skills would know how to find this without signing in to the administrator account.
 Spending too much time in front of screen is not good for a child's brain and eyes. For young children, one or two hours of screen time per day should be enough. Set a limit on how much time your child can spend on the computer, and enforce it.


The only exception to your child's time limit should be if they're trying to do their homework and have run out of time. However, you may want to do this sparingly, as many children and teens put off their homework and then rush to get it done at the last minute. Consider limiting this to when they have a big assignment only.

You can also stop homework from counting towards screen time. Make sure your child is on task when working on homework online.


Use of multiple devices at the same time should be avoided.
You may want to set parental controls on the child's accounts that prevents them from logging on at nighttime hours, and perhaps limits their time on the devices in general. However, be careful about this - some parental control programs have been known to be faulty, even ones that come installed with the computer's operating system!

, Many children stumble across things on the internet that they don't mean to; often, the best way to prevent this is to prevent those "things" from being accessed. Create a balance between safety and freedom. You should strive for an environment where your child is safe, productive, and fun.


If your child repeatedly breaks rules regarding internet usage, try setting a password to prevent him or her from accessing the Internet on their own.
For younger children, using "safe search" can also be useful. Be warned that safe search often blocks false positives, i.e. websites that don't actually contain inappropriate content.
Depending on your child's behavior, you may want to use a program that requires sites to be whitelisted before they can be accessed. However, a few programs go over-the-top and block sites such as Google, so be careful as to what you install. In many cases, it may be better to use a program that allows you to blacklist sites, rather than whitelist them.
 Unfortunately, most children and teens end up misusing the internet at some point; if and when this happens with your child, you'll need to respond accordingly to prevent it from happening again. Depending on how serious the offense was, it may work to simply take down the offending content, or you may have to impose a temporary ban on a certain technology.


Do not ever yell or curse at your child during this process. For example, rather than shouting, "Why on earth would you do that?! That's such a stupid thing to do!", say calmly, "I understand that you showing our address in that video online was an accident, but it's still against our rules of the internet," or, "Your behavior towards your classmates online is unacceptable, and we agreed that you would not use the internet to behave in this way".
Everyone makes mistakes once in a while. If it's the first time a minor rule was broken or your child simply forgot about a minor rule, be willing to forgive your child for what they have done.
 A parent should be a good mentor so that a child will come to you if anything happens. By setting a good example and responding appropriately to both positive and negative behavior, your child will have a fun and safe experience using technology.

