 Before you can add color to your lips, it's a good idea to get rid of dry skin that tends to build up there. A layer of dry skin can cause your lips to look dull and unhealthy. You can make your own lip scrub using ingredients you probably already have in your kitchen cabinets. Use the scrub to massage your lips, then rinse away the dead skin. Try mixing the following ingredients to make a scrub:1 teaspoon sugar (brown or white)
1 teaspoon honey or aloe
1 teaspoon lemon juice;
, If your lips are too dry for a scrub to do the trick, using your toothbrush to exfoliate your lips is another great option. Simply wet your toothbrush and scrub your lips using a circular motion. The dead skin will get scrubbed away to reveal the fresh, pink skin underneath.
 Store-bought lip serums contain certain ingredients that cause your lips to look plump and healthy. You can replicate these effects using household ingredients that stimulate circulation in your lips. Try rubbing one of the following serums on your lips:


1 teaspoon of coconut oil mixed with 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon of coconut oil mixed with 1/8 teaspoon cayenne powder (careful, it might sting a little)
1 teaspoon of coconut oil mixed with 1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract

, Using a moisturizer conditions your lips and keeps them from getting dry and flaky again. Use a good lip balm or make your own moisturizer by spreading some coconut oil, almond oil or olive oil on your lips. Let the moisturizer absorb into your lips before you use a a lip stain., This natural method for adding a subtle pink color is easy and delicious. Cut open a strawberry, raspberry, cherry, or another fruit with bright red juice. Rub it over your lips and let the juice absorb and dry. Keep adding layers until you're happy with the color, then seal the stain using clear lip balm.


For a more precise application, try squeezing the fruit juice into a cup. Dip a cotton ball or cotton swab into the juice, then apply it to your lips.
If you want a deeper, richer color, you can reduce the juice to concentrate the red pigment. Squeeze the fruit juice into a small saucepan, and heat it over medium heat so that it begins to simmer. Cook the juice until it's reduced to a thick syrup. Let the syrup cool before applying it to your lips.
 Beets have a beautiful red color that creates a bright pink hue when applied as a stain. Cut a fresh red beet into slices. Rub a slice over your lips and let the beet juice dry. Continue adding layers of beet stain until you're happy with the shade of pink you've produced. Seal in the color with a layer of clear lip balm., Kool-Aid drink mix is made with food dyes that can linger on the skin for hours. To use Kool-Aid as a stain, just open a packet of the red powder, dip your finger in it, and rub it on your lips. The more you use, the darker pink your lips will be.


For a more precise application, wet a cotton swab, dip it into the powder and apply it to your lips.
You can also mix the Kool-Aid with petroleum jelly to create a glossy finish., If you enjoyed popsicles as a kid, you probably already know that cherry and strawberry flavored frozen treats make the perfect pink lip stain. Open up a popsicle and eat the entire thing, periodically rubbing your lips with the tip to make sure they get a dose of food coloring with every bite. By the time you're finished with the popsicle, your lips will be bright pink. Seal the look with clear lip balm.
 Pink-tinted lip balm conditions your lips and makes them beautifully pink at the same time. You can easily make your own using one of the following formulas:


1 teaspoon clear lip balm mixed with 1/2 teaspoon dried beetroot powder
1 teaspoon clear lip balm mixed with 1/2 teaspoon red lipstick
1 teaspoon coconut oil, 1/4 teaspoon beeswax and 1/2 teaspoon dried beetroot powder (melt the ingredients together, pour into a container, and let harden before use)

, The sun darkens and dries out the skin, and your lips are no exception. Make sure you protect your lips from the sun all year round to keep them looking healthy and pink. Use a lip balm that contains SPF 15 or higher to prevent your lips from getting darker.
 Do your lips tend to get dry and chapped? This is often caused by dehydration. If you aren't drinking enough water and other healthy liquids, your lips are often the first place it shows. Make sure you're drinking enough water throughout the day to avoid getting chapped lips.


Whenever possible, switch out coffee, soda and other drinks for pure water.
Avoid salty foods and alcohol, which dehydrate the body.
 Winter wreaks havoc on the lips, causing them to get dry, chapped and even cracked. To maintain good lip health throughout the winter, exfoliate often using a homemade scrub or a toothbrush. Keep your lips moisturized with a good lip balm or coconut oil, too.


If your lips seem to get chapped no matter what you do, you may want to try sleeping with a humidifier. Humidifiers add moisture to the air, which can really help your skin when the air is at its driest in the winter months.
Don't be tempted to pick your lips during the winter; that'll just make things worse, and you may even end up with bloody lips. Instead, exfoliate and condition your lips often to keep large skin flakes from forming.
 Cigarette smoke causes lips to get darker, thinner and more wrinkled over time. If you want pink, healthy, supple lips, now's the time to quit smoking.,