 If you’re out all day and can’t get someone to monitor your dog, you should try to at least limit the damage in the event your dog can’t wait to void until you return. You can do this by putting your dog in a single room, preferably one with a vinyl or tile floor that is easily cleaned up. If you don’t want to give your dog the run of the whole room, you can limit its space even further by placing it in a smaller nook or in a hallway and placing a baby gate (or gates) in a strategic location to keep your dog confined to the smaller space.Rooms with carpets are not preferred since they are difficult to clean up if your dog soils them.;
, If your dog needs to go to the bathroom more often, the easiest thing to do is to put it out more often. Provide opportunities for your dog to go out when it wakes up and before it goes to sleep, especially. Come home doing your lunch break, if possible, to let your dog out.If it is not possible to let your dog out frequently during the middle of the day, ask a family member or trusted neighbor to let your dog out while you’re at work or school.
 You may want to give your dog an indoor option for the times when he can’t hold it. Some things you might try include:


Getting a doggy litter box. Set up a large litter box for your dog. If you notice that he is about to soil in the house, then take him to the litter box. Do this a few times and he may begin to understand that the litter box is an option for him if you are not there to let him out.
Placing puppy pads or newspaper around the house. You can also show your dog these options when he seems like he is about to soil in the house.
 Not only can a dog sitter let your dog out more frequently, but they can be there to relieve your dog’s anxiety due to being alone. Feelings of loneliness can contribute to an increase in your dog’s house soiling, especially in older dogs who might be more fearful due to a decline in their senses.If you have a family member who can be home with your older dog during the day, you should be able to reduce the number of house soiling incidents your dog has.
If you don’t have a family member who can help out, hire a pet sitter. You can find pet sitters both online through classifieds and through the recommendations of your friends who also have pets.
Sometimes you can get neighbors or their teens to pet-sit for you.
Ensure that your pet sitter, neighbor, or family member understands that your pet is older and needs special attention.
 If your older dog suddenly feels it does not have enough space, it might start house soiling in order to mark its territory. For example, if you recently had a baby, obtained another pet, or got married, your dog might now feel cramped for space. Provide your dog with a spacious crate and/or comfortable dog bed where it feels secure. Your dog can retreat there to self-soothe when it feels stressed and house-soiling incidents will (hopefully) decline., Doggie diapers are like regular diapers, wearable items designed to manage your older dog’s accidents. This should be the last thing you try and you should consult your dog’s veterinarian first. To use the doggie diapers, slip your dog’s rear legs through the diaper, lift it up and around its rear end, then seal the diaper using the built-in sealing mechanism.Doggie diapers are single-use and available at most pet stores.
Consult manufacturer directions for more information about how to use your doggie diaper.

