 Your choice of airlines depends on your location, your travel destination and connecting flights. Here are some things to think about when selecting an airline:


Layovers between connecting flights. How much time do you want to spend hanging out in an airport?
Airport services. Airports offer a range of food and entertainment activities. When you're forced into a long layover, find an airport that has something you'd like to do. For example, at Chicago O'Hare airport, travelers can tour the airport's hydroponic vegetable garden.;
, Each airline has different rules about checked-in baggage and carry-on baggage. Check the airlines website before you travel to find out their weight and size restrictions. And, check to be sure you don't pack a prohibited item in your luggage.
 When you book your flight, choose your seat at the same time to be sure that you get the seat you want. Do you like to sit by the window? Or would you rather sit by the aisle? Here are some things to consider:


How does the airline board passengers? Are passengers boarded by row number with the back of the plane loaded first? Or, are people with window seats loaded first?
Do you need extra room to stretch your long legs? If you do, then an aisle seat or a seat in the emergency row may be your best choice.
 It's not easy lifting a heavy suitcase into the overhead bins and other travelers may not be willing to help. If you can't lift your carry-on, ask the ticket agent to check your baggage to your destination.
 Wear loose fitting clothes and slip-on shoes. Pack an extra sweater in case it gets cold inside the airplane.
 Long flights and overnight flights are a good time to catch up on your sleep. A small fleece blanket will keep you warm and fits in a small space. A neck pillow will give you a soft spot for your head and can be hung on a backpack.
 Instead of waiting for the flight crew to serve drinks and snacks, bring your own. Here are some ideas:


Nuts, dried fruit and trail mix. These snacks are easy to carry and don't make a mess. Avoid peanuts in consideration to other passengers.
Dark chocolate. Because chocolate makes everything better. Choose one that is labeled as 70% cacao or higher; these have less sugar.
Water. Buy a bottle of water from an airport vendor before boarding the plane. Take a sip every now and then during your flight to keep hydrated.
Cough drops. These will help relieve that itchy feeling from the dry air in the cabin.
Chewing gum. This will help keep your ears from popping when the plane takes off and lands.
 Listening to the airplane engines and the passengers can be distracting. A good pair of noise-canceling headphones will block the noise so you can watch a movie, read a book or go to sleep.
 Before it is time to board your plane, visit the airport restroom and freshen up. This way, you'll avoid the hassle of crawling over other passengers and waiting in line to use a cramped and smelly airplane toilet.

