 For example: at school, if you are known for being geeky or slutty, then it make take some time to get to a good level. This may take some time; some people need a minor change and it may take simply a few weeks. Others however may need a year or so to get a better reputation.;
, However, not much is needed. Look for ways to get money. Post adds on a neighborhood website offering babysitting and pet sitting. If you have a lawnmower, offer to mow peoples lawns or rake leaves. Do something to get money whether that is simply asking your granny or you having to work for it.
 With the money you have collected (anywhere from about $150-$1000) you need to go shopping. Go to outlet malls where clothing is a bit cheaper than at the retail stores. Tommy Hilfiger, Abercrombie and Fitch, Armani Exchange and even Dolce and Gabanna clothing can be purchased for a lower price. Also, check wholesale stores that sell gently used clothing for a much cheaper price then at the actually store.(check tips for a minor addition to this section)

, Makeup can cover up any marks, scars or unwanted facial features that may cause people to look at you much differently then you really are. Choose a foundation and cover up that is lightweight and matches your skin tone well. Look for cheaper brands such as Revlon or Covergirl as opposed to M.A.C. or Estée Lauder. Apply the makeup lightly and evenly to establish a blended, air brushed look. Apply an eye liner that makes your eyes pop and that contrasts to your eye-shadow. Buy a light or neutral colored lip gloss that makes lips shimmer with out a flight-attendant red color.
 Shower daily with a good shampoo and conditioner. Use a generic brand of shampoo- instead of using Nexxus for example, use Suave (compared to Nexxus). They have the same look, smell and effect but you get more for your dollar. Buy a good facial cleanser- generic brands are good but depending on the condition of your skin, a full set of Proactive or AcneFree will do you well. Also, facial masques can be bought in bulk and applied once or twice a week to help keep skin looking clean, fresh and radiant.
 While both male and female celebrities wear over-sized designer sunglasses, other accessories are gender specific. Save up for a nice watch, wear good scenting cologne (start off with a knock off perfume or cologne, and save up for the real thing. Juicy's knock off is called Jazzy, and you can barely tell the difference). Purchase a nice wallet from Coach or Prada and make yourself look nice. A note on the sunglasses- many people now make knock off sunglasses available for some 80-95% cheaper. Knock off purses can be purchased to for around $60.
 Being snooty may get you noticed and you may be able to fit in with a more "classy" crowd- but make sure you look at the good and the bad before you choose the way you act. Being snooty like celebs such as Paris and Nicole, or being sweet and sensitive such as Jennifer Aniston will affect the way people look and act upon you. Also pay attention to the way you walk and sit. Watch how the really rich and famous behave in public.
 Make sure this is an image you can keep up with to avoid another image- a poser.

