 Make certain the chafed area is clean by washing it gently with a mild, unscented soap and then rinsing it very well.Consider using a plant-oil based soap. Good options include Pears, Puracy and Burt’s Bees., After showers, make sure any parts of your body that are chafed or prone to chafing are completely dry. Using a clean, cotton towel, pat your skin dry and don’t rub as this can cause further irritation.You can also use a hair dryer on a low setting to ensure that the chafed areas are dry. Don’t use high heat because that can dry your skin too much and cause even more irritation.
 Use a natural lubricant to keep the skin moisturized. Lubricants such as almond oil, castor oil, lanolin, calendula oil or A&D ointment (note: A&D ointment contains fragrance, so if you are sensitive to fragrances, choose another lubricant).


Apply the lubricant to clean, dry skin at least twice a day. You may require more applications if the chafing is on an area of your body that still rubs against clothing or other skin.
After lubrication, you may find it very useful to get some clean gauze and gently place that gauze over the chafed area. This can help keep the area protected from further contact with your skin or clothing while also keeping it breathable., Aloe vera is commonly known as a home treatment for burns, but it also provides natural chafing relief because of its many medicinal properties. It contains nutrients that can repair the damage to the skin, reducing irritation and itch.The gel from the plant can be applied to the chafed skin and bring almost instant relief to the itching and redness. Just by keeping a potted aloe plant handy, you can break off a small piece of the leaf and apply the gel whenever you want to easily treat the problem.
You can also purchase pure aloe vera gel from any drug store or pharmacy. Just make sure to purchase 100% aloe vera gel.
 Dry, chafed skin occurs when the skin constantly rubs against skin or other materials it comes into contact with. Over time, the constant friction causes skin to peel and even bleed. Oatmeal has various medicinal properties that moisturize, cleanse, and act as anti-inflammatory agents as well as soothe and protect the skin. An oatmeal bath is a relaxing and helpful way to treat chafed skin at home.You can make an oatmeal bath at home by filling the bathtub with lukewarm water and adding a one to two cups of rolled, steel cut oats. Allow the oatmeal to set for a few minutes before lying in the tub. Sit in the bathtub for 20 to 25 minutes. Allow the oatmeal to bind to your skin and sooth the chafed skin on the body. Repeat once daily.
Resist from scrubbing or rubbing the skin. Instead pat the skin with any excess oatmeal and water to treat a more intense spot.
Use lukewarm water to rinse the body of the oatmeal and water mixture. Take a towel and pat the skin dry.
 Olive oil is very good for the treatment of chafed skin as it is a powerful moisturizing agent. Apply olive oil directly on the affected area, preferably after taking a bath.Making a simple paste with olive oil and oatmeal can also be an effective and natural anti-chafing medicine for the skin. Combine the two ingredients and then spread the paste liberally over the chafed skin. It should be left in place for 20 to 30 minutes a day. The paste will help to soothe the skin while also helping to restore some of the essential moisture needed to heal the chafing.
Because of its property to retain moisture for long periods of time, olive oil works as a good conditioner for the skin, chafing or not.
 When vitamin E oil is applied on the affected area, it provides instant relief from itching and inflammation. You can also try lotions and creams containing vitamin E that may promote the healing of the inflamed skin.You can apply the vitamin oil or cream on the skin and place a piece of gauze over it to keep the moisture locked in. This makes the application last longer. However, make sure to change the gauze every 6 hours or so to give your skin time to breathe.
 Chamomile helps in reducing inflammation and itching. It promotes the healing of skin and prevents bacterial infections. You can use it in lotion, oil, or pure flower form. Here are some options:Take a large bowl of water, add a few chamomile flowers, and boil it for few minutes. Let the water cool and then add some ice cubes to it. Now soak the affected body part in this cold water for 10 to 15 minutes.
Chamomile can be used as lotion, too. Just liberally spread it over the area and allow it to soak into your skin.
Additionally, chamomile oil or tea can be added to a cool bath. Adding a few drops of the oil or a few teabags can turn your bath into a soothing, relaxing, effective method of treatment.
 This herbal remedy is used externally as an ointment for skin inflammations and wound healing. It has mild anti-biotic, anti-viral and anti-fungal effects. It can be taken internally as a tincture, pill, or tea to prevent infection of the chafed skin.Echinacea is not very nice to ingest as a tea. For this reason, echinacea is most often taken as tincture or as pills. Teas and tinctures, however, appear to be more effective than the powdered herb in capsules.
Besides its use as an immune stimulant, echinacea is recommended for individuals with recurring skin lesions, such as boils, and as a tonic to improve the liver's ability to reduce the effects of environmental toxins.
 Thyme produces thymol, a powerful antiseptic oil which is classified as naturally antibiotic and anti-fungal. Thyme tea has the power to chase away and eliminate bacteria and viruses so it can be helpful if your chafing is due to either or these or if it becomes irritated from scratching. Take it in your tea to chase away the infection on the chafed skin.Thyme essential oil safeguards wounds and sores against infections. This is mainly due to the presence of components like Caryophyllene and Camphene in thyme. They inhibit bacterial growth within and outside of the body.
 The organic sulphur compound in neem leaves can be very effective in healing skin conditions. Neem oil has anti-inflammatory and wound healing properties and has been studied in children with burns. Here's how to use neem oil to fight chafing:Take a handful of neem leaves and crush them well.
Add lemon juice extracted from ½ a medium-sized lemon.
Blend the mixture well to form a paste and apply it on the skin for relief.
 Add one or two drops of any of the following oils to four tablespoons of your lubricant. If you are using a balm or an ointment as your lubricant, mix the drops of essential oil right into the balm or ointment. Use these herbal mixtures throughout the day (about three to four times), making sure that the affected area is always being treated. Be sure to try these mixtures on an unaffected area first to make sure that your skin doesn’t react and that you are not allergic to the herb. Some of these herbal mixtures may sting a bit at first.Calendula oil is anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and anti-fungal. It may be able to heal skin irritation quickly.
Almond oil helps to moisturize the skin and prevent chafing. Massage it into the area for a soothing effect. Almond oil is a rich source of vitamin E and is an antioxidant. The omega-3 fatty acids in almond are thought to make your skin glow, too. Gently massage the oil in the affected area for a few minutes and leave it to soak in.
Lavender oil has a soothing effect on the skin, too. It also helps in reducing swelling and itching of the affected area.
Yarrow oil comes from a plant called Achillea millefolium. It got that name because legend has it that the ancient Greek warrior, Achilles, used yarrow to help heal his warriors on the battleground. Today, we know that yarrow has anti-inflammatory properties and supports healing

, Ar-turmerone, which is a major compound of tumeric, can aid in treating skin conditions. Its presence makes turmeric anti-fungal, which helps to treat chafing. Here's how to use it:Add 3 teaspoons of turmeric powder to a teaspoon of water and mix well until it blends to make a paste.
Apply the paste on the affected skin and cover it with a cotton cloth.
Leave it for about half an hour before you wash it off with water.
 The antibacterial and antiseptic properties of garlic aid in cleaning the skin and healing it. Allicin, a major compound in garlic, helps to keep your skin dry, thereby helping to shrink the swollen, reddened area that arises from chafing.Take 10 cloves of garlic and grind them to a smooth paste. Dip a cotton ball in the paste and gently apply it on the affected area. For quicker relief, do this three times a day.
 This isn't a thick jelly-like substance made from lemon – it's an herb. It can be applied as a wash to chafed areas to relieve the heat and sting. To make the wash, add the herb to boiling water and let it steep for 10 to 15 minutes. Let it cool before applying with a clean cloth., In addition to the aforementioned oils, these three can be effective, too.Terpinen-4-ol in tea tree oil is believed to have antiseptic properties, which aid in destroying pathogenic microorganisms and treat bacterial infections in the skin. Take a piece of wet cotton and add a few drops of the oil to it. Press the cotton gently over the affected area. Do it twice a day until the chafing improves.
Coconut oil may have antibacterial and antifungal properties that aid in killing fungal and yeast infections, thereby helping treat irritation and rashes. Apply coconut oil on the affected area before going to bed. It will soothe your skin and help cure the irritation. You may apply it in the morning as well.
Sandalwood may have anti-inflammatory, anti-bacterial and antiseptic properties. Santalol, the main constituent in sandalwood oil, can aid in soothing the skin and healing inflammation, thereby reducing the urge to itch. Apply the oil on the affected area two to three times a day for relief.
 Chickweed is said to begin healing on contact with your skin. This soothing little herb can be added to an herbal salve that is helpful in healing chafing, scrapes and other minor skin irritations.Leave the salve on the area for up to 30 minutes. To increase its healing effects, rinse the affected area with rose water to seal in moisture and then pat dry.
 Tight clothes can cause chafing. Avoid wearing clothes that are too close to your skin for comfort. Give your skin breathing space by wearing reasonably loose fitting clothes to avoid friction and chafing. Be willing to compromise style for comfort. Chafing can restrict your free movement owing to severe inflammation and swelling. It can make you very choosy where your outfits are concerned.Avoid belts, tight underwear, and clothes that cause you to sweat. All of these are keeping your skin from breathing and can up your chances of worsening your chafed skin.
 Wear cotton whenever you can. Fancy shirts and trousers may be tempting but consider first if they are skin friendly. For women, the best bet would be cotton dresses. For men, loose cotton shorts and shirts. Cotton is a fabric that lets your skin breathe. Regardless of the area that is chafed, try to keep the area as breathable as possible.


When exercising, some people prefer synthetic materials that “wick” away all moisture. These synthetic materials help reduce perspiration and dry faster than natural materials.
In general, you should always choose materials that feel good against your skin. Avoid any materials such as wool or leather that are coarse, scratchy or keep in moisture.
 The key to healthy skin is that it is neither too dry nor too wet. Extreme wet or dry skin can cause chafing as both can trigger itching as a starting point. Ensure that your skin is moisturized but at the same time is not too wet.If you notice your skin is on the dry side, use a cream or lotion for added moisture. And if it's on the oily side, use a mild cleanser to wash the area, pat dry, and leave the area uncovered to keep moisture from developing.
Sweat can make chafing worse because sweat is relatively high in minerals that can irritate the skin even further. After sweating, remove your clothes, rinse off in the shower and dry your skin completely.
Unscented baby powder can be used to keep the area dry as well.
 If you are overweight, you have a higher chance of getting chafed skin, especially on the thighs. Since obesity can cause chafing, it is best to exercise and monitor your diet as a preventive measure. The best way to lose weight is to burn more calories than you are consuming. Talk to your doctor about about good weight loss strategies. There is no one-size-fits-all when it comes to a weight loss program. You want something you can stick to and enjoy that will keep you motivated and happy.


Aim to eat healthy, well-balanced meals that include plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables, complex carbohydrates (like whole wheat bread, pasta, and rice), and protein.
Incorporate exercise into your weight loss plan, rather than just cutting calories. For healthy adults, you should get at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity; you can do less the more intense your activity is. You should also incorporate strength training into your exercise regimen at least twice a week., Try to incorporate more vitamin A, vitamin C, zinc, and beta-carotene rich foods into your diet. Vitamin A and beta-carotene have antioxidants that help protect your body and especially the skin. Vitamin C, meanwhile, provides a boost to your immunity and helps maintain the integrity and health of your skin.Yellow and orange-colored fruits and vegetables tend to have high levels of vitamin A and beta-carotene. Spinach, animal fats, and egg yolks are also good sources of vitamin A.
Citrus fruits like oranges, grapefruits, and lemons are excellent sources of vitamin C can be found in citrus fruits.
In addition, try to avoid fatty, processed and pre-packaged foods. This can help you lose weight and reduce skin folds, which can cause chafing.

