 Once you think your child might have sensory processing disorder, gather a list of the symptoms you’ve observed and make an appointment to share them with your child’s pediatrician. Based on your doctor’s conclusions, they can either send your child for further testing or refer you directly to a specialist.If your child’s teachers, coaches, or other adult family members have ever noted similar problems with your child, bring documentation of these episodes to corroborate or flesh out your own observations. The more information your pediatrician has, the more specific and on-target their referral and help can be.
 Once you’ve been referred to a specialist, you’ll probably begin working with an occupational therapist. Based on their specialized diagnosis, they’ll decide what plan of treatment to pursue. Generally speaking, a hypersensitive child will receive soothing therapy designed to calm their senses. A hyposensitive case will undergo maximally stimulating sessions resembling vigorous play time.Due to the fact that sensory processing disorder has not been accepted by the most recent edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, it occupies a tenuous position within most insurance plans. If your insurance provider won’t cover your child’s case, you can expect to pay about $7,000 a year for hour-long weekly appointments with a therapist., If your specialist deems that your child is hyposensitive, they’ll probably prescribe therapeutic sessions in sensory gyms. These places can look like big jungle gyms, replete with bouncing balls, climbing apparatuses, toys, and puzzles. The idea is that your child is under-stimulated, so they need to be re-engaged with their environment through multi-faceted and varied cognitive and physical sensations.If you can’t afford a therapist, you can still take your child to a sensory gym. Look up local establishments calling themselves sensory gyms and you can attend and play with your child using the special equipment provided., While hypersensitive children can also benefit from the safe, fun activities supplied by sensory gyms, it’s also believed that they can be treated by calming therapies intended to soothe their overactive senses. Methods such as weighted vests, rubbing the skin with a soft-bristled brush, and joint compression have been said to reduce tactile defensiveness and general sensitivity.Some support forums and methodologies advise using these methods at home as well. Activities such as the ‘sandwich game’—where your place pillows on either side of your child and apply pressure until your child wants to stop playing—can be done easily and at home, but be sure to ask your therapist about them before trying it out and monitor your child's response to it., Using a washcloth to scrub and apply pressure during bath time, playing with sensory toys at home, reducing visual clutter, and taking regular time-outs are all ways you can carry occupational therapy into the household and everyday routine.