;
, Get a good look at your arena and the people are going to be playing against. Put your food in your hotbar and be sure your armor is at high durability and you are full health


If the server you are on supports the McMMO plugin, then it may be wise to train up the skill of your weapon choice before going into battle, which will give you bonus damage, as well as with acrobatics, as that can allow you to dodge some attacks.
 This can change depending on your play style. This could mean TNT or flint and steel, or a bow and arrow, or a sword. Having several buckets of lava to put down is recomended as they can deal big damage quickly. Flint and Steel could be used too.
 Some servers also use only items such as health potions or golden apples.


If the server you are playing uses health potions, learn how to quick use them.
 Make sure they are not an admin, have better things than you, or just plain scary.
 If you caught them off guard, you should be able to land a few easy hits in before they realize what is happening. You could also put a cobweb down around them so they couldn't run away or put down a block of lava to slow them down and put more damage on them.
 This will not only make you a hard target to hit, but it can give you critical hits. Contrary to popular belief, criticals are not achieved by jumping, but rather by falling. Knowing this, time your shots so that you will hit the enemy as you are falling from your jump.
 This is where you hold the right mouse key with your sword out in between hits and jumping. Blocking reduces the damage taken from all sources by half, including TNT and other people's attacks. However, this limits your mobility, so knowing to do this when not running is vital.
 This is called strafing, and makes it harder for your opponent to hit you, but is easy for you. Many players are good at this, and will help you a lot. When strafing, you can also change sides by switching keys, and make a pattern

, Odds are your enemy will be just as skilled as you are with their attacks, so you are going to need to be able to outlast them in the food department. Using the numbers above your keyboard, you should be able to switch to the food, eat it, then switch to your weapon/other food with a matter of seconds. This may seem challenging at first, however with good typing management, this is easy.

