 While you are completing your Master’s degree, you will need to complete a practicum. The practicum is an important part of getting a counseling degree. The practicum gives you supervised counseling experience and helps you to develop your counseling skills.You may be required to participate in a group practicum, individual practicum, and an externship. The externship may take place at a clinic or hospital while you are still in school, such as during the last two semesters of your program. A supervisor from your program will likely need to be on site for an externship as well.
You usually need about 600 hours of practicum to meet your requirement.
Keep in mind that practicum and externships are not something that you can just go out and get. They must be approved by your program director.
 After your practicum and your coursework is complete, you will need to sit for your NCE exam. You can usually do this towards the end of your last semester or after it is over. Some states also require an additional state exam, and all states have a jurisprudence exam. Find out about licensing requirements in your state to determine what tests you need to take.


Check with the licensing board in your state to find out what tests you need to take, when the tests are offered, how much they cost, when you need to take them, and any other specific requirements you will need to know about.Prepare for the exam in advance by reviewing course material from your graduate program, participating in an exam preparation program, or joining a study group.
 After you pass your NCE exam, you will need to send your passing scores and proof that you have completed your practicum (in-school clinical hours) to the state board to receive your provisional license.


This license usually has a special term in it to indicate that it's provisional, such as "LPC-Intern" or "Licensed ASSOCIATE Counselor."

, Next, you will need to get an entry level counseling job that requires a provisional license. It is usually something like an intake employee at a hospital, a case worker, or working for a non-profit. You can use this job or internship to obtain your required post-master's degree supervised clinical hours.


During the years that you are working in this capacity, you will need to keep track of all your face-to-face contact hours and meet once weekly with a clinical supervisor to review your cases.
 Once you have completed all of the required hours at your job or internship, you will need to submit documentation to show that you have completed the required post-master's hours. You will need to submit this proof to the state board to receive a full license.

You do not need to take any additional tests after this point.
Full licensure is usually called something like "Licensed Professional Counselor" or "License Professional Clinical Counselor."

