 You can roll this device over the surface of your furniture to pick up dog hair. You can be find a lint roller at any drug or grocery store. You can use a lint roller on furniture, clothing, and even your dog itself. The adhesive isn't strong enough to harm skin, furniture, or clothes.;
, Flatten a section of sticky tape against the furniture, let it sit for a few moments, and peel it away to remove stubborn dog hairs. Use broad sections of tape to make the process go more quickly. Duct tape and masking tape are good choices. You may have to do this many times to get all the hair off.


Consider making yourself a makeshift lint roller using tape, preferably masking or duct tape. Rip off a generous piece of tape and put it around your hand so that the sticky side is facing out. Then pat the furniture where the hair is so that the hair comes off with the tape. You may have use several pieces of tape depending on how much hair there is.
Be careful using duct tape (and other especially strong types of tape) on furniture that is coated in paint or another thin veneer. If you do use duct tape, don't leave it on for more than a few seconds. Strong adhesives might peel away paint from your furniture.
 Removing pet hair from any cloth surface is easy if you use a damp washcloth. Wipe cushions or clothing in one direction only and the hair will lift off. You can also try a damp sponge mop to remove pet hair from your carpets. Again, wipe in one direction only, and the hair will pile up and can be easily picked up by hand.
 Use the detachable hose of a vacuum-cleaner, use a small handheld vacuum, or lift a vacuum onto a surface a couch or chair. Depending on the type of furniture, vacuuming may or may not work.


If there is a very large amount of fur, don't vacuum it. This may clog up the vacuum or even damage it.
Consider using a shampoo vacuum cleaner for fabrics. Make sure that your pet shampoo product is safe to use on furniture.
In the future, consider brushing your dog more frequently or covering your dog's favorite furniture with blankets in order to prevent excessive shedding.
 For just a few clingy hairs, try using an old toothbrush. Dog hair is hard to clean out from between brush bristles, so do not use a toothbrush that you plan to use for anything else.
 Static electricity and low humidity make already annoying pet hair that much worse. Mitigate these two factors, and fur will remain more friend than foe.
 Wear a pair of disposable rubber gloves, and dampen them with water so the hair will stick. Run your hand over the surface to attract hair. Simply rinse off the glove when it’s covered with hair, and repeat as needed. If you don't have rubber gloves handy, try a slightly wet sponge instead. This method doesn’t use up lots of tape needlessly.


You can also spray a mix of water and fabric softener onto your upholstered furniture, then wipe the hair off.
To remove pet hair from wooden furniture, use a soft cloth and furniture polish or anti-static dusting spray. The spray will eliminate the electric charge, making removal easier and lessening the likelihood that the hair will re-stick.

