 Shampoo and conditioner hair every other day or every three days, depending on your hair type and length. Use conditioner to soften the hair after shampoo.


Get highlights and see your hair stylist about what sort of cut will look good on you. Layers are cute for straight hair, and for frizzy curly hair, long is better with a de-frizzing gel or spray.;
, Blow drying too much can cause your hair to dry up, so avoid doing this most days.
 Wash your skin every day and night. Don't pile on thick foundation; let the skin breathe.


Use a cleanser and moisturizer twice a day without fail, plus a sunscreen of at least SPF 10 to protect your face.
Choose an oil-free moisturizer, to avoid minor infections and clogged pores.
 When you wake up in the morning, maybe your eyes are puffy, lashes are stubby and generally your peepers look awful. Fill a sink half-full with a combination of cold water and ice cubes, then press a soaked towel to your eyes and face for at least 10 seconds each.
 Here you have a choice, even if your school doesn't allow makeup. A tinted moisturizer, to even your skin tone, conceal flaws and save time (foundation and moisturizer in one) - or some mineral powder with concealer on top will work for both a non-makeup school and one that allows it.


Dust a translucent powder on top to minimize shine. Or, you could always use a clear smoothing primer, to minimize sallowness, create a smooth canvas and an alternative to moisturizer.
 For bright flushed cheeks, choose a baby pink blush and, using a brush, dust it on the tops of the apples of your cheeks, then blend.
 Putting on chapstick before going to sleep with help keep that moist feeling when you wake up. Lip gloss is always an eye catcher.


Make sure you wash off yesterday's lip products before putting on a new coat. Lip stainer can stain your lips a color you don't like, and it takes a lot of time to wipe that stuff off.
No harsh reds or deep purples. Light pinks are okay, but the recommended choice would be a nice, nourishing chapstick.
 Line your upper eyelids in black, brown or smoke-gray eyeliner, and lower eyelids in white eyeliner. Curl your eyelashes and put on one or two coats of a good, non-clumpy mascara.


Get an eyeshadow in smoldering gold. Dip your pinkie in it and dab it at the corner of your eyes, then across the bottom of your lids. Use a concealer to cover up your dark circles.
Go a little natural and light with the eyeshadow. Fake eyelashes are not a good idea.
 Use a sweet or citrus cream, moisturize your entire body (but not your face). Perfume is another good way to keep a fresh smell lingering on you. Good smelling hair products work well too, if it doesn't damage your hair.
 For example, a lace shirt, skinny jeans, high tops. Or, for a more preppy look, a skin tight cherry that is not too long, some cute bracelets, and extra-high sandals. You don't need to wear designer clothes to feel good, just an eye for what looks best on you.


If you have a uniform, make sure the skirt is short, the shirt is a little loose, the tie/bowtie is loose and long and you have at least one bright, cool accessory and preferably two. Sweet Bohemian outfits are the cutest to go with your natural look, like fringed skirts, silky shirts, suede fringed bags, earth tones combined with hot pinks and lime greens, and flower-power jewelry.
 They are the key matter in looking good with dress code rules.
, What are some of your positive traits; flirty, nice, supportive, thoughtful, sensitive, outgoing, funny? Make the most of your best traits and talents.
 Be as nice as you can, and don't take life too seriously. Remember, you only live once!

, All the make up in the world and a cute outfit can't hide a cranky face.
 People are considered natural and gorgeous if they are able to carry an interesting conversation and are knowledgeable. Care about other people; this isn't all about you.

