 In the US, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) monitor global health trends and statistics to develop a vaccine for the strains of flu virus that seem most dangerous that year.Flu vaccines are offered at doctor's offices, health clinics and even drug stores. They don't guarantee a season free of flu sickness, but they protect against many different strains of the virus and reduce your chances of getting the flu by about 60%.The flu vaccine is available via injection or nasal spray.In the US, most cases of flu occur between October and May, peaking in January or February.You may have mild symptoms, such as soreness, headache, or low-grade fever after getting the vaccine. The vaccine does not cause the flu., In general, all people over the age of 6 months should get a flu vaccine unless they have contraindications.If you have any of the following, you should talk with your doctor before getting vaccinated:A severe allergy to chicken eggs or gelatin
A history of severe reactions to a flu vaccination
A moderate or severe illness with fever (you can get the vaccine once your fever has resolved)
A history of Guillain-Barré Syndrome (GBS)
A chronic condition like lung disease, heart disease, kidney or liver disorders, etc (only for nasal spray vaccine)
Asthma (only for nasal spray vaccine)

, The flu vaccine is available as an injection and as a nasal spray. Most people can choose either, but you should take into account things such as your age and health conditions when deciding.Also, keep in mind that flu vaccines are made new each year, so their effectiveness will vary. The nasal vaccine may be especially susceptible to this. Talk to your doctor to find out which vaccine is best for you.
The flu shot is approved for children 6 months and up, as well as pregnant women and people with most chronic medical conditions.
People who are younger than 65 should not get a high-dose flu shot.People younger than 18 or older than 64 should not get the intradermal flu shot, which is injected into the skin instead of into the muscle.Children younger than 6 months cannot get a flu shot.
The nasal spray vaccine is approved for people between the ages of 2 and 49.Children younger than 2 and adults over age 50 cannot use the nasal spray vaccine. Children aged 2 to 17 on a long-term aspirin regimen cannot use the nasal spray vaccine. Children ages 2 to 4 with asthma should not use the nasal spray vaccine.
Pregnant women and people with weakened immune systems should not get the nasal spray vaccine. Caretakers for people whose immune systems are extremely compromised should not get the nasal spray vaccine, or stay away from those persons for seven days after vaccination.
You should not take the nasal spray vaccine if you have taken antiviral drugs for the flu within the past 48 hours.
 The flu is highly contagious, and it can cause serious medical complications. Thanks to vaccination, death rates from flu have been falling steadily for decades, from 40 people per 100,000 in the 1940s to 0.56 per 100,000 in the 1990s. Still, it’s important to seek medical treatment if you display the symptoms of flu, and do your best to avoid contagious situations.


The 2009 H1N1 pandemic caused more than 2,000 deaths worldwide. The CDC believes that another such pandemic is possible, particularly if people do not get adequately vaccinated., Washing your hands frequently, especially after returning from a public outing, is a good way to keep yourself from catching the flu. Carry antibacterial hand wipes to use when you find yourself in a place without a sink and soap.Use an alcohol-based hand rub or soap.
Avoid touching your face, especially your nose, mouth, and eyes.
Cover your nose and mouth when you sneeze or cough. Use a tissue if you have one. If you don’t, sneeze or cough into your elbow -- you’re less likely to spread germs this way., Eating well, getting your body's daily recommended dose of vitamins and nutrients, and keeping in shape with exercise is a good defense against the flu. If it does strike, your body will be well-equipped to deal with the illness.


Getting enough vitamin D may play a role in preventing the flu. Studies suggest that a daily supplement of 1200 IUs per day can help prevent influenza A.Good sources include sunshine, fatty fish such as salmon, and vitamin A and D enriched milk.