 Perhaps your disability is as new for you as it is for your employees. In this case, before you have a discussion, you will need to develop a full articulation of the disorder so that you can best share it with your staff. Discuss your vision with your doctor to better assess what is going on.Take notes if you need to.
Avoid doing a lot of research online as this can be misleading and can lead to confusion and fear.
 If you would prefer to get the conversations over with quickly, doing so in a full staff meeting might be the best course of action. However, if you would prefer a more personal approach, you can do so individually.If you have a large staff, you can also consider meeting with the heads of your departments and then entrusting them to give any necessary details to their own staff.
 After you have a better understanding of the changes to your vision, have a talk with you employees. Tell them about what is going on with you and let them know that you will share any important updates with them as they develop. Tell them what you need from them right now.You might say something like “I’ve recently been having some problems with my vision and my doctor tells me that I am going blind. The timeline for this is unclear but I will share that when I know more. At this time, I do need all of you to please print everything in large print or send me documents electronically.”

, Talk to your doctor about what accommodations they might suggest that you utilize at work so that your visual impairment doesn’t worsen and so that you can still maintain your career. Share any information that relates to your employees with them.You might ask your doctor about what types of products can help you at work. For example, you might start using a speaking bar code scanner to identify items, or you can use a talking calculator.One small request to make would be to ask everyone to identify themselves when in meetings. You may no longer be able to make out their faces or voices if they are new.
 Though life with this visual impairment is likely difficult, don’t forget that your staff is there to push forward the work of your company and part of doing that is making sure that their boss is okay. Ask for help when you need it during this time of adjustment. Your staff is likely more than willing to help you.


Remind them of the newness of this for you.
If your duties are starting to overwhelm you, do not be afraid to delegate tasks to your employees.

