 Companies can reap the benefits from groups like waste management. Experts from waste management can be scheduled to appear at your business to review your hazardous waste and give you their opinion. They can show where you fall on the EPA’s category assessment of how much waste small businesses generate:


Conditionally exempt small quantity generator (CESQG). This means that you are exempt from hazardous waste management regulations. You must generate less than 220 pounds a month to fit this category.
Small quantity generators (SQG). Your business is deemed SQG if your establishment generates between 220 and 2,200 pounds a month. This classification must comply with EPA requirements for managing hazardous waste.
Large quantity generators (LQG). The EPA considers any business that generates 2,200 pounds or more of hazardous waste a month to be LQG. This classification must adhere to the strictest rules deemed by the EPA., Any type of business, non-profit organization, or government office is eligible to join the EPA’s WasteWise program. Participants can utilize the free technical assistance in disposing and consultation about hazardous waste. There are even opportunities for WasteWise to assist with your business’ sustainability and environmental impact.There are opportunities in networking and public recognition for your companies environmental efforts.
 Many industries are looking for ways to reduce the amount of hazardous chemicals they use, which in turn reduces the amount of hazardous waste they generate. The Environmental Protection Agency lists various approaches to do this for businesses:


Lean manufacturing is a reduction tactic that emphasizes eliminating wastes that don't add value.
Energy recovery is enacted through gasification. Gasification converts materials containing carbon into synthetic gas. This type of gas can be used as fuel to generate electricity and other features.
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) is a system for assessing a company's environmental footprint.
Green chemistry is a designing outlook that strives to create products and chemicals that reduce or remove hazardous substances.
 Many items that can become a hazardous waste problem can be recycled, or in some cases, reclaimed. This is a process that recovers what is left of an usable product. Some reclamation processes recover acetone from spent solvents and lead from metals.


Zinc can be gathered from smelting furnaces.
Used oil, hydraulic fluids, refrigerator compressors and more can be recovered from cars and fridges.
Batteries can also be recycled.
 Land disposal of hazardous waste contains the waste in a landfill, waste pile, injection well or other land based disposal area. These areas fall under regulation to help protect the families around them as well as reduce environmental impact., The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) is a permitting program in place to ensure that specific requirements are followed in safe treatment, storage, and disposal of hazardous waste. Permits are issued by authorized states or by EPA regional offices. Electronic permits are also available.