 If the temperature is over 75 degrees and there is no lighting within miles or thunder to be heard, take your child outside to splash in the puddles and play in the water. Fill up buckets, scoop the water with your toddler's shovels, watch leaves flow down the road, or run around, splashing through the water. Consider putting a rain poncho or a rain coat on your child so that they don't get sopping wet. Make sure that your child wears rain boots if you don't want wet and muddy feet (though you can let your child play in the water bare foot and in a swim suit, as long as the temperature permits and you are not out to long)!;
, Take your child to the local indoor playground, a gym, or the YMCA. If that is not practical or possible, let your child take a bath full of splashing, bubbles, bath toys, pots and pans, bath markers/crayons, plastic dolls, glow sticks, animal-shaped sponges/washcloths, bath clings, and great scents. Your toddler could also take a shower if they are comfortable with it. Punch a pillow, throw beanbags, run in place, bang on drums, have a jumping contest, just get rid of all of that extra energy!

, Place the following things in the rainy day box with everything new:new crayons, stickers, paints, and paper, new Play-Dough, a new stuffed animal and accessories, a few new books, a new recipe to make and supplies for it, a new toy, a new DVD, a new music tape. This will help keep your toddler busy with all of these new toys and supplies. You can even have some bonding time with your toddler while playing with the rainy day box contents.
 Hang new or toys that haven't been played with for a month or more and some favorite toys on the sides and front of your child's high chair or feeding seat tray. You can also put some puzzles or messy food such as yogurt or pudding to play around in on your toddler's high chair tray. Sit your child in a gated playpen with at least 10 new, favorite, or old toys and books. Hang a mobile over the changing table to look at and attach a pinwheel to the side with tape to watch and play with, under adult supervision.
 Sweep the floor together, wash the tables, water the plants, make beds, set the table, wash dishes, clean the playroom, and make a meal. This is a great time to get done what you may have been dreading and to teach your child how good it is to help. Children don't find chores boring so this is sure to be an entertainer!

, Play on some online learning websites for toddlers, let your toddler play on appropriate apps on your phone or IPad, watch a little TV (no more than an hour). Let these be a lifesaver but, don't use these for over 1 hour (60 minutes). You don't want to get your toddler addicted.
 Try to read books, dim the lights, have a snack of milk and cookies, sing songs, and lay down. You are definitely going to need a break but don't make a child nap more than usual!

, Give your child the bed sheets and let him/her make forts with them, tents, and houses. Try to throw rolled up socks or balls into a laundry basket. Hide a stuffed animal or doll in the house to find. Place dry rice inside a small, plastic tub for your toddler to mix around and sit in.
 Read a lot of potty books, watch some potty movies or videos from online, sing along to a potty CD, and print out a potty coloring page to color. You can also make a drink and wet doll go in the potty. Make a potty friend by placing clear contact paper over a potty seat. Cut out eyes and a mouth. Set your toddler on the potty seat on the toilet (if she has done this before) and tell her to try to "feed" her potty friend. Have Potty Time. Read the article How To Conduct Potty Time to learn how to have potty time. Hide the potty chair, underwear, or training pants around the house to find.
 Instead make them fun by cutting food out into different shapes, try to make food all one color, or making kabobs out of fruit. Talk to your toddler as you eat together. Let your toddler take his/her own sweet time as time permits.
 This is a great time to look at those flashcards, play an educational game, play with letter magnets, read books, and talk about counting. Sing the ABC song and remember to challenge your toddler to find everything in one color. Type numbers and letters on the computer and watch a little educational TV.
 Your toddler will most likely be amused by all of the scenes. He/she may even fall asleep! A lifesaver for you! You can even attach toys to your child's car seat to keep them entertained!

, Take her to her favorite place the next day. Let him/her choose what to do next. Praise your toddler for good behavior always, always.

