 Despite there not being any identifiable medical condition contributing to the symptoms of conversion disorder, sufferers may benefit from physiotherapy. These people are not consciously in control of their symptoms, so weakness and muscle contractures may occur due to limb inactivity.


Participating in physical therapy allows a person with conversion disorder to have “power” over improving their symptoms, enabling them to return to functioning in their social, occupational, and physical lives. Benefits include decreased stiffness, improved posture, heightened confidence, greater independence, and less anxiety.A physical therapist may recommend a range of exercises including stretching, biofeedback, gait and locomotion training, and relaxation training among others.
 One of the foundational approaches for effective treatment of conversion disorder is psychotherapy. Also known as talk therapy, psychotherapy allows mental health providers to focus in on the emotional stress and conflict associated with the disorder.


Cognitive behavior therapy, in particular, has shown great success in treating conversion disorder and other medically unexplained conditions.This form of therapy enables patients to identify and challenge negative or irrational thought patterns that may contribute to their condition. It also teaches problem-solving and coping skills for life stressors.Other forms of therapy used in the treatment of conversion disorder include psychoanalysis, behavior modification, and family therapy.
 It is very common for people with conversion disorder to also suffer from some other psychiatric condition, such as somatization, depressive, and anxiety disorders.Recognizing any underlying disorder and including proven treatments for these disorders in a comprehensive treatment plan can lead to better outcomes.


For example, if a patient is also suffering from anxiety or depression, a two-prong approach involving pharmaceuticals and psychotherapy can improve the patient’s prognosis of conversion disorder., One type of potential treatment—which is still in the early stages of research for use with conversion disorder is a brain stimulation therapy called transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Patients suffering from conversion disorder may benefit from this approach.


Typically used for treatment-resistant depression, TMS stimulates brain nerve cells by using magnetic fields. This non-invasive treatment affects how certain parts of the brain are functioning.