 Finish the sentence with something specific, not something general. Then they know that you are listening. This also makes them feel like they are being heard., Telling a joke or use humor—not to make everyone laugh, but because humor can help diffuse the situation.It will also show that you are not afraid. Make sure you do not cross the line and say something that will offend the person and get you in even more trouble.
 Everybody likes to hear good things about themselves, so find ways to compliment them.Be kind and respectful, but don't go overboard or they will see through you. Remember, flattery isn't just complimenting, sometimes it's stroking someone's ego and making them feel powerful and in charge. "Wow, you guys get to wear the coolest uniforms. I've always wanted to be a cop when I grew up."

, If you are in trouble, then they are focusing on making your uncomfortable. When you swing the spotlight back in their direction, it will neutralize the situation and they will not have as much control over you.Again, tread lightly, you just want to shift the conversationally naturally on to them, not suddenly become the accuser.
 Convince someone that you getting out of trouble is in their benefit. Instead of making it clear what you want—to get out of trouble—use your words to make them feel a perceived self-interest in doing what you want them to.. For example, "I'd hate for you to have to waste your time writing this ticket out, maybe we can work something else out?"

, Can you find a connection to the person? Maybe you are from the same area, or know the same person, or even know them really well. Use that connection to remind them that you are similar. This will make the person have more empathy for you and will be less likely to want to get you in trouble., You should still deny the main accusation, but studies have found that admitting to a lesser offense are more likely to be believed than someone who admits to a smaller offense than flatly denying any involvement.. "Well, I may have been messing around in the no skateboarding zone, but I wasn't actually skateboarding" or, "I have to confess, I have skated here before, but that was years ago, I was younger and didn't know what I was doing."

