 Listen to your desires and there must be purpose in your desire. No matter how impossible it looks at the beginning, dream big.Your feelings should be attached with whatever you desire.;
, This steps is necessary because, if you do not write things down, your mind might change on the way to achieving the results, and that is a dangerous thing. If you are confident about the clarity of your desires and think that you will not change your mind, you may skip this step.
 When you read, make sure to visualize. Create clear mental pictures of what life would be like when you have achieved the things you want. Let your mind marinate into your dreams. Feel the joy and happiness of already having the things that you desire.
 Be thankful of all the things you already have right now, and all the things that you will have once you have achieved them. This stage is the most important step of all. Once you have started feeling grateful for the things you already have, your mind will recognize the potential of those things and find a way to use them as tools to create your future. Gratitude creates the bridge between your current reality and your future reality.
 At this point, your mind will start kicking out ideas on how to get to your future desires. When that happens, act on faith. Believe in yourself. Do not hesitate. Obstacles might show up on the way, but you must believe that you have the ability to go through or around those obstacles when they show up. Do not waste your time thinking about future obstacles now. This is the stage where most people fail. They have magnificent ideas, but they fail to act on those.
 Whatever the thing is you want in your life, you will look at yourself and tie that thing to your personality, your likes . Set goals. Act on them now, not tomorrow. The stronger you associate to other positive energies in your life, the more important the new thing becomes in your life.
, When you are acting on your desires in this way, you will be rewarded with smaller success too. Do not forget to celebrate on your smaller successes also. Reward yourself and be more grateful that you are well on the way to achieving your goals.

