 You can add a vanilla bean or vanilla extract to your basic syrup recipe in order to create a syrup suitable to serve over dessert dishes.
 Adding freshly sliced ginger to a simple syrup recipe can create a delicious, zesty syrup worth adding to club soda or hot tea.
 Most fruit syrups are fairly simple to prepare. Add fruit juice or fruit preserves to the recipe as you simmer the syrup mixture.



Try a sweet strawberry syrup. Fresh strawberries, water, and sugar are combined to form a syrup worth adding to pancakes, waffles, ice cream, and a variety of other treats.

Make a lemon syrup to add to drinks or food. Lemon syrup can be prepared with fresh lemons, sugar, and water. You can also prepare a version using tartaric acid.

Opt for a lime syrup, instead. For another citrus alternative to the standard lemon syrup, add freshly squeeze lime juice to your simple syrup recipe.

Prepare blueberry syrup. Add blueberries to your simple syrup recipe for a syrup you can drizzle over breakfast dishes and desserts.

Mix things up with an apricot syrup. Ripe apricots, cointreau, lemon juice, and sugar can be combined to form a rich, elegant syrup that can be used for baking, cooking, and drink preparation.

Try cherry syrup. A sweet, tangy cherry syrup can be prepared using sugar, lemon juice, orange juice, vanilla beans, and fresh cherries.

Create a flavorful, unique fig syrup. Simmer figs in brandy or sherry long enough to cook off the alcohol. Blend the thick syrup before using it.

Make a great grape syrup. Concord grapes can be combined with light corn syrup and sugar for an unusual syrup made with familiar flavors.
 There are several flowers you can add to syrup.



Try a rose syrup or a rose and cardamom syrup. These syrups can be made with rosewater, rose essence, and organic rose petals.
You could also make violet syrup from fresh, organic violets.
 The process requires you to collect and filter maple sap. This sap then goes through a boiling process to turn it into syrup.


Alternatively, prepare a batch of imitation maple syrup using maple flavoring or extract.
 By adding strong brewed coffee and rum or orange juice to a basic syrup recipe, you can create a syrup with a rich, deep flavor that makes a perfect addition for cake or milk.
 Unsweetened cocoa can turn a simple syrup into a delightful addition to milk or ice cream.
 By adding tea leaves into your syrup, you can create a sweet iced tea without diluting the flavor of the tea.
 This specialized syrup is a key component of a drink known as "mai tai," and can be made with almond meal, sugar, vodka, water, and rose water.
 This syrup makes an interesting alternative to maple syrup and can be served with French toast, pancakes, or waffles. It gets its flavor from apple cider, sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg.

