 You may never get off the ground famous-wise but you can still enjoy the experience and learn a great deal. Be in this because you love music, love rock and want to experience the camaraderie of playing with mates who also love the same things as you. If anything else comes of it, that's a bonus but for now, enjoy it for what it is––experimentation and a fun hobby to share with friends.
 Realize that fame is not the key to success (and definitely shouldn't come before learning how to be really good at what you do). Don't get your expectations too high, chances are, you won't become that famous. You're doing this for the sake of music, not profit. The problem with doing it for fame is that you might focus more on image than substance, and that's the killer for any music.
 This applies to basically anyone who does not know vocals or how to read music (You need to know how to write music to start a band).


Grab an instrument that suits the genre you want to play. This can be Guitar, Drums, your voice, any possible thing can be one... Learn the instrument you picked. Be able to tune it in-and-out. Practice a bit and get to know your equipment.
 Not everyone can do this but if you can, hone it. This will come in handy later.
 These include amplifiers, software, guitar plugs, etc.
 Once you've run out of friends to choose from, look for other players from a wider pool of potential band members. For example, there are some socializing websites that are devoted mainly for to find people just like you.
 You can advertise on schools, community centers, libraries, anywhere you want. But remember to ask the owners of the establishment first. Mention on the advertisement that you need a guitar player, a base player, a drummer, a manager, and an electronics person.
 You don't want Danny from down the block trying to "Judas" by Lady Gaga with the palms of his hands. No, you need someone experienced with talent. Have you ever seen those cartoons where kids try to start rock bands but they all suck? Yeah, you don't want that. So have try outs in your basement or local community centers to make sure people actually can play.
 Also determine the parts for the members who are now part of the band, and the genre.
 You will need about six to seven songs, and it's fine if you have more. This way, you can perform at clubs, pubs, or wherever you please without having to be bothered by a lack of repertoire or someone complaining that they've heard it all before.
 Before actually recording anything, you need to rehearse the songs you've made. Keep playing until you're perfect. No body can make mistakes. You all need to work on one accord.


Jam practice a lot. You must practice to know your instrument and to sync in more with your band. Watch the main guitarist or singer for cues and entrances/exits on your part(s).






Keep practicing throughout your rock band hobby or career. Although you may think, "Well I'm already in a band I don't need to practice anymore.." Wrong. You must practice to get better with your crew/band and to discover new creative ways to extend your band's talents and music.
 Several people do this, and several people have become famous this way. You need to start YouTube, Google +, Facebook, Soundcloud, Bandcamp, Twitter, and Tumblr accounts.
 Also hire (or appoint) a web designer for a website or a site on any socializing sites.


Get a clued-in sibling to do an internship for your band. Your sibling gets the experience and you get the scheduling and management needed. Win-win all around.
 Follow the steps in the "How to Make a Demo CD" guide. Use these steps, but instead of sending it to record companies, upload the music to your website. This is where your electronics guy/girl comes in.
 Instead, send it to record companies. Try local ones, but also try ones that are maybe a state or two away. Look at the article mentioned in the beginning for help. Both your tech and manager should be in on this one.
 This is where your manager comes in. Tell him/her that you're ready to put on shows. Tell them to call local restaurants, pubs, etc., to see if they're looking for some entertainment. Tell your manager to send your EP along with it. Remember to play some of your songs along with covers of other songs. Don't be afraid to interact with the audience. Do everything your favorite rockers do. Get your crowd rallied up!


Jam in a place with some vented areas so that the sound isn't trapped. If it is, people won't hear you.
 Just keep sending out your demo, making EPs, and performing concerts. Each tour should become bigger and bigger; because you want to spread your name further and further. (This step itself can take months, even years)

, Interstate buses will become your best bet for long distance gigs. If you don't have any cars, then Greyhound is your best bet. Your drummer can't take his/her kit (obviously). You need to make sure he/she knows and understands that.
 Everyone should know how to pull their weight when traveling. For example, your electronics player should know how to plug the laptop with the drum samples into the amplifier. If he/she doesn't, he/she needs to learn. Your electronics person should record every concert you have and upload it to your websites., This is your "major tour". Performing in two major cities really does something. You might see an increase of two to four hundred fans. That's really something. Most bands would kill for that.
, Battle of the Bands, etc., you know, things like that. Always search for things like this, to promote your band.
 This is your bands first album! You've made it this far! Give yourself a pat on the back.
 You need people with home studios, and people who really know their stuff. Your record company will give you a DJ/mixer to help. Your record company will pay some of the cost. So dig into your pockets and get some of that EP/tour money out.
 This is how your record company makes money, so don't be surprised if they take 45% of your profit. Just enjoy the fact that you have creative freedom and have fun (You plan the events). Some record companies will pay for your hotel, some your airfare. What I'm saying here is, don't go bankrupt with your tour. If you can only afford to perform at 5 cities around your country, that's fine. Remind yourself that the manager is the one that manages finances/tour. So chill, and let him/her handle it.
 This is what every band does. Keep doing this, and you might hit the big time.
