 There are lots of different types of orchids, which makes choosing one dependent on the type of environment you can offer them. Things like the temperature of your house, how much light you get, how much attention you can give will decide which orchid is best for you.The easiest type of orchid to grow indoors is the moth orchid (Phalaenopsis orchids). These orchids last for months and grow best in medium-grain bark mix, warm temperatures, and low to medium light. They are good for first-timers, and are pretty forgiving of mistakes.
If you tend to over-water your orchids then you'll want to go for the slipper orchids (such as Phaphiopedilum, or Phragmipedium). On the other hand, if you tend to ignore your orchids Cattleya, Oncidium, or Dendrobium are the best choices.
If you don't get much light in your house then Jewel orchids (Paphiopedilum) are the best choice. For those with only a small windowsill mini-cattleyas (Pleurothallis) or miniature moth orchids are the best choice.;
, The most basic and common pot is the terracotta pot (in clay or plastic). There are many different kinds to choose from. Some considerations: if you're a heavy waterer use a clay pot with a coarse potting mix; if you tend to let your orchids dry out use a plastic pot and a fine potting mix.Clear plastic pots let light reach the roots and allow you to keep an eye on the orchid's root growth. These can be good if you don't have a whole lot of time.
Pots with a net basket insert or with bi-level drainage make for great drainage and air circulation, which is good if you over-water.
Wooden baskets tend to be constructed of a rot-resistant wood, like teak. If you do use a basket then you'll need to first line it with sheet moss and then put in your potting mix.
 The roots of orchids need more airspace than dirt provides, so orchid mixes tend not to have potting soil. The mix tends to have things like fir bark, coconut husk, sphagnum moss, tree fern fibers and perlite, and is frequently a mixture of two or three of these materials.A fine mix is best for smaller types of orchids and ones that have small roots and need to stay on the damp side, like slipper orchids, most oncidiums, miltonias. Make a fine mix from 4 parts fine-grade fir bark or coco husk chips or redwood bark, one part fine charcoal, one part horticultural-grade perlite or small-grade Aliflor.
The medium mix is good if you aren't sure which mix to use. It is particularly good for cattleyas, phalaenopsis, and most mature orchids. Make it out of four parts medium-grade fir bark or medium-grade coco husk chunks, one part medium charcoal, and one part horticultural-grade perlite or medium-grade Aliflor.
If you don't want to make your own, you can find good orchid potting mixes at most home improvement and garden shops. There are plenty of mixes that serve a wide range of orchid types.
 Orchids need lots of light and depending on the type of orchid, they need filtered light or full on light. Pick a window facing north with direct light that is partially filtered (like through filmy/sheer curtains).


Check your orchid to see if it needs more light or less light. That will determine whether you use sheer curtains or whether you use no curtains.
Use fluorescent lights to supplement the natural light. Gardeners have found that just plain, normal fluorescent lights can do the trick very nicely. The light that comes in through your window may not be consistent enough, especially on cloudy days or if you place your orchid near a window that only lets minimal sunlight through. Investing in a couple of 20 watt fluorescent tubes or other similar lighting can simulate more ideal conditions.

