 The more educated a person is, the more likely they are to act heroic. Take the time to learn about cultures and societies different from your own, as well as issues facing the community in which you live. Expand your heroic horizons by educating yourself about the world. Studies have shown that heroes are more likely to be educated about their own communities and the world at large than those who have not acted heroically., Having empathy means sensing another person’s emotions and trying to understand what they are feeling by putting yourself in their shoes. If you can put yourself in someone else’s shoes, you can understand what type of help might be meaningful to them. Empathy reduces racism and bullying, fights inequality, and fosters heroic acts.If you see someone being bullied at school, think about what it would feel like if you were the person being bullied.
If you see a refugee from Syria on television, think about what it might feel like to lose your home and job and be forced to migrate to another country because of war.
 The more you come to know someone or a group of people who are different from yourself, the more able and willing you will be to stand up for them.In a study of Gentiles who sheltered Jews during the Holocaust, researchers found these heroes were more likely to report having regular interactions with family and friends than their neighbors who did not help Jews during the war.
 Men and women sampled by researchers in one study were asked to report on whether or not volunteering was a part of their lives. One-third of the men and women who researchers classified as heroes spent a significant amount of time volunteering in their communities and elsewhere. Some heroes reported spending as much as fifty-nine hours per week volunteering!You could even get involved in a non-profit organization to have an even broader reach. For example, you might volunteer to help plan events or become a member of a subcommittee.
 Publically declare that you are a hero-in-waiting to your friends, family, and colleagues. Pledge that you will act when you are confronted with a situation you feel is wrong, that you will work to develop heroic sensibilities like empathy and compassion, and that you will strive to believe in the heroic capacities of yourself and others.Make your hero pledge public on social media and invite your friends to also make a pledge.

