 No matter what type of fruit you're canning, the flavor and texture will hold up best over time if you use fruit that's perfectly ripe. Discard fruit that's overripe and bruised, and leave out fruit that's not quite ripe yet., Since each type of fruit has different properties, it's a good idea to follow a canning recipe designed just for the fruit you're preserving. For example, if you want to can applies, you might decide to process them as applesauce first. For peaches, you may want to peel and slice them before canning. Here is a list of techniques used to process different types of fruits for canning:


Can sliced apples
Can applesauce
Can sliced peaches
Can sliced pears

Can berry jam; this works for any type of berry

Can stonefruit jam; this works for apricots, plums and peaches

, Fruit contains a lot of acid, which acts as a natural preservative and helps the fruit keep for a long time after canning. The canning method that works best for fruit is called water bath canning. This involves placing the fruit in sanitized jars and heating the jars to a certain temperature to kill off any bacteria. Once the jars are sealed, the canned fruit lasts many months. Here's what you'll need:


Boiling water bath canner or a large, deep saucepot with a lid and a rack to keep the jars from touching the bottom
Glass canning jars with new lids and bands
Jar lifter

, Run them through the dishwasher or wash each one with hot, soapy water, making sure to rinse them thoroughly when you're finished. Keep the jars hot until you use them by leaving them in the dishwasher or placing them in a pot filled with water that's hot, but not boiling.


Keeping the jars hot until you use them prevents jars from breaking when you pour hot fruit inside. If you poured hot fruit into a cold jar, the glass could break.
 Fill the canner half-full with water and bring it to a simmer. If you're using a pot instead of a canner, place the rack inside the pot, then fill it halfway with water and bring it to a simmer.


If you don't have a rack designed for home canning, you can use a cake cooling rack, or even make a rack by tying jar bands together with string and placing them on the bottom of the pot.
It's essential to use a rack of some kind to prevent the jar from touching the bottom of the pot, which could cause it to overheat.
 One at a time, take a jar from the dishwasher or pot where you're keeping it warm. Set it on your workspace. Use a ladle or funnel to fill the jar with the fruit from the recipe you prepared. Use a wet cloth to wipe off any residue that gets on the rim of the jar, then place a lid on the jar and secure it with a band.


If you're canning a soft spread, like a berry or plum jam, leave 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) of headspace at the top of the jar.
If you're canning whole or sliced fruit, leave 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of headspace at the top of the jar.
 Lower them onto the rack until the canner or pot has reached maximum capacity. The water should rise above the tops of the jars by at least one inch. Put the lid on the canner or pot, and make sure it's securely in place.
 The canning recipe you're using will provide the correct amount of time you should boil the jars to adequately heat the fruit. The higher your altitude, the longer the amount of processing time. Check the recipe you're using and add time accordingly:


If your altitude is between 1,001 and 3,000 feet (0.0 m), add 5 minutes
If your altitude is between 3,001 and 6,000 feet (0.0 m), add 10 minutes
If your altitude is between 6,001 and 8,000 feet (0.0 m), add 15 minutes
If your altitude is between 8,001 and 10,000 feet (0.0 m), add 20 minutes

, Set them on a towel and allow them to cool completely. Leave them undisturbed for 12 to 24 hour hours to give the lids time to fully seal.
 If the jars were properly processed, the lids will have flexed inward instead of staying popped out. If you see lids that are popped out, they were improperly sealed, so you'll need to store the jar in the refrigerator and eat the fruit within a week. Jars that are properly sealed should be stored in a cool, dark place.