 Kate Middleton always smiles, even if she had a bad day, so you should do the same. Don't let anyone go on your nerves, just be cool and ladylike. Also, be well mannered and polite to everyone you meet. Don't forget your table manners!;
, This means you take care of other people, even if you don't know them very well or at all. Try to raise some money for charity, if that's possible. If not, try volunteering.


A huge pro of Duchess Kate Middleton’s is her constant charitable work. No matter what cause, she is there giving her time and kindness to those who are less fortunate. Even if you aren't able to accomplish the above mentions points, no need to worry. If you do charitable work you will be seen as a princess regardless because your selfless need to help others is a royal treasure in itself.
 Kate has years of studying and good bringing up behind her. Try to enter some prestigious university, like Oxbridge. Ivy league is perfect too (Kate studied at St Andrews University in Scotland).
 Kate studied history of art, so you should try to be informed about upcoming artists, events or pieces of art.
 Kate maintains classic style, so you can follow it. Kate usually wears:


Nice dresses (she barely wears pants).
Heels
Cardigans
Purses
Jewellery (bracelets, earrings etc)
Hats (Kate's must have, in any colour and shape)
Coats (especially red, dark blue and black)

, She's naturally beautiful, so you shouldn't put much make-up. Nothing should be overdone. Smokey eyeliner is what you see at dance clubs, not at business meetings and bridal luncheons. An elegant, yet toned down essence is essential to your appearance.
 Elders, first time acquaintances, and those who are not direct family members or close friends should always be addressed in a formal manner. Once the other person gives permission, the use of a first name basis is acceptable.
 The rule is the right leg should have the left one tucked under so you look like you have one and a half legs. Straight and crossed legs are not permitted.
 Head up, shoulders back and glide. Eyes should be at eye level, not the ground! A drooping and hunched back demeanor gives off a lack of self-confidence and poise.

