 Pick up a roll of standard concrete reinforcing wire. This is type of wire mesh typically used for construction projects, though it also works marvelously for heavy-duty gardening projects. Concrete wire handles similarly to chicken wire, but is much sturdier and longer lasting. You can find concrete reinforcing wire at most home improvement stores and garden centers.The price of concrete wire will vary, but you might be better off shelling out a little more for more durable wire. You will make up the cost by not having to replace the cages as often.;
, Use a pair of wire cutters to cut roughly 5’ of wire from the role (about 12 squares in length). Make sure you wear gloves, eye protection and clothing with sleeves while cutting the metal wire. The edges of the wire spokes will be very sharp after you cut them, and it can be easy to slice yourself while molding the body of the cage if you’re not careful.Take proper safety precautions when working around sharp metal edges. Place the wire roll on the ground and hold it far away from your face while cutting.Store extra concrete wire for patch-ups or other future projects.
 Using your hands, simply curve the length of wire until both ends come together. This should be easy to do, as the wire comes in a roll and will want to curve in on itself naturally. Bend the spokes at the cut ends and hook them together to connect them. Your tomato cage will be approximately 2 feet in diameter, making it spacious enough to accommodate most larger tomato plants.Give the hooked ends an extra twist to make sure they stay secured.Make sure any exposed cut spokes are snipped away or covered.
 Now that the body of the cage has been assembled, stand it upright and cut away the horizontal ring on the lower edge of the cage. This will leave you with an unobstructed section of vertical spikes at the bottom of the cage that you’ll force into the ground to stabilize it. Insert the spikes into the soil around the tomato plant about 5” deep. You’re done!The open squares in the concrete wire will be small enough to contain overgrown foliage, but large enough to allow you to water and pick ripe tomatoes.
These cages are tough, lightweight and easy to remove and store.

