 This common infection affects the skin of your toes and soles. Because feet come into contact with floors used by many people (at home or in a sports facility), the infection can be spread easily and quickly.Don’t share shoes or towels with anyone.
Avoid walking barefoot in locker rooms, public swimming pools, communal showers, or gyms.
Wear flip-flops or shower shoes when showering until the infection is cured.
Keep your laundry separate so items like socks and bedsheets don’t contaminate other laundry.Keep surfaces of home bathing facilities clean.
Put on clean, dry socks every day or more often if necessary (such as after playing sports).;
, For mild cases, an over-the-counter medication can be an effective treatment. For more severe cases, prescription medications may be necessary.


Apply antifungal ointment, spray, powder, or cream.
Take an over-the-counter medication. Examples include butenafine (Lotrimin Ultra), clotrimazole (Lotrimin AF), miconazole (Desenex, Zeasorb, others), terbinafine (Lamisil AT), and tolnaftate (Tinactin, Ting, others).
For severe cases, get a prescription medication. Topical medications include clotrimazole and miconazole; oral medications include itraconazole (Sporanox), fluconazole (Diflucan) and terbinafine (Lamisil). Note that these oral medications can interfere with other medications such as antacid therapies and some anticoagulants.
 Several non-conventional treatments are thought to be effective for fighting skin and nail fungal infections.


Use tea tree oil, applied in a light coating to the affected areas two to three times a day—use products that are 100% tea tree oil.Apply grapefruit seed extract, which is thought to have antifungal properties when used in full strength—find this product at stores specializing in natural food and bath products.
Expose your infected foot to sunlight and fresh air—wear open shoes such as sandals and keep your feet dry and clean.
Treat with garlic, which contains antifungal compounds shown to be effective against a number of fungal infections including athlete’s foot. Finely crush several garlic cloves, add them to a foot bath, and soak your foot for 30 minutes. Alternatively, mix freshly-minced garlic with olive oil and rub it on the affected area with a cotton ball.