 Ask yourself if the salary is appropriate for the area you will live, your personal budget, and the amount of experience you have in your profession. You can figure out if the salary is appropriate by checking salary guides online, talking to mentors, or looking into what the company usually pays employees in your position. If you don’t think the offer is reasonable, you can try to negotiate the salary., If you’ve done your research and feel that the offer isn’t enough, then you can try to negotiate for a salary that you would be happier with. Negotiating salary is not unusual, so don’t feel shy about doing it. Come up with an amount that you think is realistic. Then, contact your potential employer by phone, email, or in person and tell them what your ideal salary would be. Keep in mind that they may say reject the offer. If they do, ask to take some time to make a counter offer or have a counter offer ready.Explain to them why you would be a valuable employee and why your ideal salary is reasonable.
Tell the potential employer how you are genuinely interested in the job.
Do not get defensive if the answer is no in the end.
 Benefits should be considered along with salary. Benefits include important things like healthcare, but it also includes more minor things. Consider if your company has a gym, wellness programs, tuition reimbursement, and flexible hours. You can negotiate for your benefits when and if you negotiate salary. It’s also an option to negotiate for better benefits if the company is unwilling to compromise on salary.Benefits also include your 401(k), travel stipend, and paid time off.
You should research what benefits are typical for someone in your position.
Check out what the company’s competition offers as a benefits package if possible.
 You shouldn’t ask to go on vacation right away, but it’s okay to ask what the vacation package is like. Consider how much vacation you will need to visit family or keep from burning out at work. If the offer has less days than expected, you could try to negotiate. Research what the typical vacation time is for someone in your position with your level of experience. Come up with an amount of vacation time that seems reasonable. Present this amount of time when and if you negotiate for salary and benefits., You may be offered the job directly on the phone. If not, you might be asked to call back. It's best to call the hiring manager responsible for interviewing you. You can go ahead and let them know that you intend to accept the offer, or have questions answered first before accepting.Don't leave a voice message indicating your acceptance of the job offer. If the hiring manager isn't present, leave a voice message indicating you'd like to talk to them about the job offer.
 It’s important to express your gratitude for the opportunity. Let them know how excited or thrilled you are to have been offered the position. If you aren’t ready to say yes at this point in the call, expressing appreciation is vague enough to let them know you’re interested without committing before questions have been answered., Once you’ve had all of your questions answered, ask for the details of this conversation to be sent to you in writing. Ask them to write down the salary, benefits, start, and start dates that were discussed during the phone call. That doesn’t show your potential employer that you don’t trust them. It’s just a way to protect yourself in case the employer goes back on their word., It’s especially important to know this if you currently have a job that you need to give notice to. You can ask for a later start date if the date given doesn’t work for you. Don’t push it too much, though., You can address it to a different person if you are asked to, though. Make sure to write down your contact information and phone number at the end so the employer can get in touch with you.
 Your future employer may already know that you've accepted the job, so don't ramble on about how good of a fit you are and what you can offer the company. They know this by now if they offered you the position. You should, however, include the following:Thanks and appreciation for the opportunity
Direct acceptance of the job offer
Starting date of employment

, Because it's sometimes tough to recall every single detail of the job before you've actually started it, you may need to ask your contact questions about your future employment. Don’t feel like you’re being annoying. This is expected by the employer. These questions can include, but are not limited to:


Questions about supervisors and/or who you'll be reporting to.
Questions about work eligibility and/or visa requirements if accepting a job overseas.
 This may not be applicable, but it is good to let them know if there will be any conflicts. You don’t want to surprise them after you’ve started the job. Be sure to remind your liaison of any dates you will not be able to work on because you scheduled something before you accepted the position.


For example, if you agreed to travel across the country for your grandfather's 80th birthday two weeks after your start date, inform your liaison that you won't be able to work those days because of a prior scheduling conflict

, Finally, you can say “yes” to the offer. Congratulations! You can say something like “I would be happy to accept this position.” Or, “I’m thrilled to accept the offer and become a team member.”, Make sure that your email is well-written and that you've proofread it for typos and grammatical errors. Even though you already have been offered the job, you want to make sure all your correspondence is professional. They likely won’t revoke the offer due to a few grammatical errors, but it could be embarrassing.