 Each Sunday, before school begins for the week, take some time to plan your schedule. Start by penciling in your classes and anything else you are required to do (such as a job, sports practice, or other specific obligations). Then in the space remaining, pencil in times for homework, exercise, and leisure. Look ahead to any big assignments and break them down over a few weeks. Following a schedule takes away the stress of not knowing how to get everything done, and makes for smoother and happier school days. Use a planner. Find a design with enough space to schedule everything you need.
Use different colors to designate different kinds of activities: such as yellow for class, blue for homework, green for exercise, and pink for leisure time.
An app or online planner can be an option too.;
, Schoolwork always turns out the best, and causes the least amount of stress, when it is completed in manageable chunks. It can be tempting, however, to put work off until the last moment. Work on avoiding procrastination, as putting things off will only induce stress and cause your school work to suffer.When you get a big assignment, break it up into small chunks, and give yourself mini-deadlines.
Try to remove any distractions. Go to a quiet place where you can work. Turn off notifications from your phone, email, or social media.
Try to work a little bit each day instead of thinking you can do it all at once.
 Trying to figure out what to wear every day can be a big source of stress and unhappiness, especially so early in the morning. Make it easy on yourself by planning your wardrobe for the week each Sunday. By spending this time prepping for your week, you will feel confident, comfortable, and happy each day.

Start by checking the weather.
Select an outfit for all five school days.
It may help to use a hanging storage rack in your closet, where you can store each outfit for the week.
 It is easy to keep yourself constantly busy with academic and extracurricular pursuits, but it is just as essential to your health and happiness to do something fun every day! School days can be packed with obligations, but carve out at least a little bit of time for something you really enjoy.Listen to fun music.
Spend some time joking around with a friend.
Work on a craft project like crocheting or collage.
 Whenever you feel overwhelmed by all that you need to do, stop and make a list of all the things you have already completed! Keeping a list of what you’ve done (instead of focusing solely on what you still need to do) reminds you of all your hard work, helps keep things in perspective, and makes for happier days at school., A big part of staying organized involves paying attention and participating while you are actually in class. Believe it or not, staying engaged in class discussion is the most effective way to make the time pass quickly! Additionally, if you are prepared to participate in class, you are less likely to dread attending.Set yourself up for success by reviewing what you will be covering in class ahead of time.
Be sure you have done any reading or other homework.
Come up with a couple of comments or questions so that you can easily get involved in the dialog.

