 Communication is key. Spend some time getting to know one another. Since you have to learn to live together for at least a semester, if not an entire school year, do your part to ensure you and your “roomie” can agree on the most important things.

Share information about your home and family life.
Discuss favorite activities to learn if you have mutual interests.
Chat about why you chose this particular college.
Talk together about decorating and arranging the furniture so it’s mutually convenient and comfortable.;
, You might learn you have some of the same classes or extracurricular activities. Perhaps you are on the same sports teams or work in the same place either on or off campus. On the other hand, you might be totally apart all day and only see each other in your room. Then you could decide to create time to do something together. Determine if you have any mutual interests.
Go to classes or activities together.
Travel off campus to eat at a favorite college hangout, to go to the gym, or to see a movie.
Spend time apart with your own circle of friends.
Respect each other’s space and need to abide by the limited privacy available.
 Remember, communication and respect are very important when you’re sharing a small space. When arguments occur, which is only natural at times, try to agree to disagree politely. Always discuss every aspect of room use with your roommate before making plans.

Communicate. Communicate. Communicate.
Check with your roommate before inviting friends or family members to your room for a visit or an activity.
Discuss everything related to the room, from activities to decorating to study times.
 Put in your best effort to have a friendly, comfortable relationship with one another. If you both learn you really can’t get along, you can usually talk to your dorm supervisor or resident assistant to apply for new roommates. Hopefully, however, you can be cordial and abide by some simple rules of etiquette.

Treat one another with mutual respect.
Gain—or grant—permission for reasonable requests.
Don't do anything to the room, or invite people to your room, without agreeing on it with your roommate, and vice versa.
 While you want your room to remind you of the comforts of home, keep in mind—your roommate wants the same thing regarding making the room reminiscent of his or her home! So the two of you will have to share the space and respect each other’s personal belongings and decorating tastes.

Bring your favorite pillow or afghan, or anything special and reminiscent of your bedroom at home.
Personalize with your own posters, small knickknacks, and family mementos.
Print some of your favorite photos and arrange them in nice frames in your portion of the room.
 You’re going to be in your dorm room for at least one semester, if not the entire school year. You don’t want to feel like a traveler staying in a hotel, or just a temporary visitor. Settle in as if this room is yours at home—because it will be yours for awhile!Unpack your suitcase. You’re not just passing through, so don’t live out of your suitcase!
Arrange your clothes in your closet and dresser, just as you would at home.
Be mindful of space if you have to share portions of a closet or dresser with your roommate.
 One of the best ways to make your dorm room feel more like home is to make your bed as comfy as the one at home! You may be stuck with the mattress and frame provided by the college, but you can enhance your bed with your own touches. You will probably also sleep better if your bed is comfortable, and that’s especially important to get appropriate rest. Make your bed with your own favorite sheets, blanket, and a comforter or quilt.
Add your own pillow, or a pair of pillows from home. You might also add some throw pillows to the mix.
Include a favorite stuffed animal or two, if you have any that are especially meaningful or sentimental to you.
Purchase a wedge-shaped pillow, if you don’t have one already, as you are likely to spend a lot of time sitting up in bed studying.
 This is another way to make your room feel more like home. Add your own touches or accents that remind you of home. Again, make sure you discuss additions to the room with your roommate first. It’s likely he or she also has specific accessories to add, and you should mutually agree on everything first. Try to find out ahead of time if your room has curtains. If not, bring some from home, but discuss decorating with your roommate before hanging them up.
Include a small desk or table lamp, or a wall lamp. You will spend a lot of time studying and doing assignments, so make sure you have adequate lighting.
Determine if you could invest in a room-size carpet or a throw rug or two, and perhaps chip in money together to purchase one or more.
Add plants, either green leafy ones or floral ones. Make sure your roommate doesn’t have pollen allergies, first! In the event he or she does, perhaps you can agree on green plants with no blossoms, so they won't aggravate allergies.
Decide if there’s room to add a cozy chair or two, or a small desk and chair if the dorm doesn’t already provide them.
 You and your roommate will be spending a considerable amount of time in your room. Discuss how you can enhance the ambiance or atmosphere of your room to make it pleasant and inviting. You could try a number of things, as long as you both agree and nothing is objectionable.Rearrange furniture, if necessary, to create a more comfortable living space.
Play music you both agree on, in various genres, depending on your individual tastes and activities of the moment. For instance, you might need soothing background instrumental music while studying, and more upbeat tunes by favorite artists at other times.
 Many colleges won’t allow candles in dorms for safety reasons, but you could enjoy the fragrance of candles through other means. Just make sure you check on the dorm’s policy and never leave any of these items unsupervised. Also check with your roommate regarding allergies to any particular scent.

Try fragrance plugins or wax melters.
Use aromatherapy diffusers with essential oils. Different essential oils have specific therapeutic effects that could prove beneficial during your college experience.
 Dorm rooms are typically small (about 10’ x 10’). You can use some space-saving storage pieces and tricks to make the most of the space and even make it look larger.

Use bright or light colors for curtains and room accents, as long as your roommate agrees.Arrange mirrors and expose the window to let in more natural light, rather than crowding “stuff” in front of it, to make the place seem a little bigger. Rearrange furniture, or opt to remove some for even more space.
 It’s a small room, but make every effort to create and recognize your own space within the space. You don’t have to literally draw a line, but at least figuratively create equal portions of the room for each of you. For instance, if your roommate always puts books or bags in a certain spot, don’t move them and put your stuff there.Share space as equally as possible and don't encroach on each other's space.
Establish boundaries to also respect personal space when you're each studying, sleeping, visiting, or engaging in other activities not involving the other.
 Focusing on the reason for college attendance—your education—will demand most of your time. You will be less likely to feel homesick or distracted by other things. If you maximize your class and study time, and you will likely find some time for recreation and leisure.

Attend all your classes.
Learn efficient study techniques.
Complete your assignments on time.
Participate in or observe sports or other events.
 Always check with your roommate first to find out his or her plans. If the time is right, plan some study or leisure time with friends. Enjoying these moments can also make you feel more at home.

Organize a study group and invite friends to your room to study.
Arrange mutually convenient down time and invite friends to your room to watch a movie, listen to music, or just hang out in your room to chat.
Plan a dorm pizza party, game night, or another mutually agreeable activity.
 If you have a close family, you will likely miss them especially in the early weeks of college. For their sake and yours, make time to keep in touch with them to let them know you miss them and keep them informed about how your college adventure is going.

Arrange regular times to call, Skype, chat on Facebook, or whatever means is mutually convenient.
Send text messages when you’re not in class.
Surprise family members with old-fashioned “snail mail” deliveries of special cards, photos, or gifts.

