 The summons tells you the court in which the lawsuit was filed and how long you have to respond, while the complaint lets you know who filed the lawsuit and what his or her allegations are against you or your institution.In federal court, you have 21 days after you are served with the lawsuit to file your answer or other response to the lawsuit.
The complaint provides details regarding the person or group of people suing your educational institution, and the Title IX violations they believe exist.
The complaint also will detail the type of relief the plaintiff is asking the court to order. Typically plaintiffs aren't allowed to recover monetary damages, unless they have evidence that the violation was deliberate.
In most cases, the plaintiff will seek an injunction ordering the educational institution to take specific actions to remedy the gender discrimination, or to eliminate policies that are discriminatory.;
, Schools and institutions of higher learning typically have legal offices with attorneys on staff to handle lawsuits dealing with gender discrimination in general as well as Title IX violations.Your school's attorney will want the complaint filed as soon as possible so that he or she can assess the allegations and file an answer in the case.
After reviewing the complaint, the attorney may request additional information gathering, either about the plaintiff or about specific allegations.
Depending on the type of discrimination alleged, the attorney also may want to see athletic records, scholarship budgets, or personnel files.
For example, if the complaint alleges that coaches of female teams are less experienced and of a lesser quality than coaches of male teams, the school's attorney may want information on the background and experience of all coaches currently employed by the school.
 Your answer typically will consist of denials of most, if not all, of the plaintiff's allegations. Your attorney also may include other affirmative defenses if applicable.Your attorney may want to go over the answer with you before he or she files it. Make sure you understand everything included in the answer and agree with it before you give your attorney the okay to go ahead.
Your attorney also may want to file a motion to dismiss in response to the complaint. This motion may be based on procedural reasons, such as that the plaintiff filed in the wrong court or didn't serve the complaint correctly.
A motion to dismiss also may be based on substantive reasons, more specifically that the allegations listed in the complaint do not constitute a violation of Title IX even if they are true.
 Your attorney will file your answer or other response with the clerk of the court in which the plaintiff filed his or her lawsuit.Once the answer is filed with the court, it must be served on the plaintiff or the plaintiff's attorney. Service must be completed by the 21-day deadline or you risk being unable to defend yourself against the plaintiff's claims.
If your attorney filed a motion to dismiss, there likely will be a hearing on that motion before the case proceeds into litigation. Your attorney will work with you to get the information necessary to argue this motion. 
Typically you won't have to attend the hearing on the motion, unless your attorney intends to call you as a witness.
 Using the complaint as a guide, review the allegations to determine which programs you will need to look into for possible Title IX violations and the details regarding the alleged discrepancies between male and female student-athletes.For example, if the complaint alleges that male student-athletes are offered more money in financial aid than female student-athletes are, you'll need to gather documents and information about the school's budget for athletic financial aid.
Often financial aid complaints focus exclusively on scholarships, but if other financial aid is offered such as loans or work-study, you may be able to defeat the lawsuit as long as the total financial aid dollars available for student-athletes of both genders are equal.
If the complaint alleges discrepancies in the facilities and services offered, you will need to gather documents and information related specifically to the facilities available for each gender, including locker rooms and practice areas, as well as services such as tutoring, training, and medical assistance that are available.
 You may have a defense against athletic gender discrimination if you can show a history and continuing practice of expanding athletic programs to combat gender discrepancies.This defense has two prongs: history and continuing practice. You must prove the existence of both to satisfy the test and successfully defend yourself on these grounds.
You can prove a history of expansion to address discrepancies with school records that show, for example, that new teams are being added for the under-represented gender once every few years on a planned and regular basis.
New teams added must be in response to a documented student interest and evidence of student skill in that sport. For example, the school might add a women's soccer team in response to stated interest by students and skill evident in the fact that there were strong female soccer players competing on intramural or club teams.
You also must show an official policy and procedure through which students can register interest in new sports This policy must be effectively communicated to the student body in such a way that most students know about it and know how to respond if they are so inclined.
Keep in mind that as of 2015, no school has overcome a complaint of a Title IX violation with this defense.
 If the plaintiff alleges male and female student-athletes are provided different levels of benefits and services, you need to look at what your school offers to student-athletes and understand where disparities exist.Generally, facilities, services, and other benefits provided to student-athletes must be equal for both genders. The law doesn't allow much leeway here for discrepancies in the quality or quantity of benefits and services offered.
For example, if the plaintiff's allegations deal with the quality of the women's locker rooms as compared to the men's locker rooms, you would have to tour both locker rooms and evaluate the relative quality of those facilities.
If the allegations in the complaint deal with a lack of trainers or medical staff for female student-athletes relative to male student-athletes, you would have to investigate that part of the athletic department and analyze the time spent by training and medical staff members with female student-athletes.
 Particularly if the complaint alleges that there are unmet needs or interests among female student-athletes, interviews can help you determine the extent to which that is true.Another defense available is to prove that despite disparities between the genders, your athletic program fully accommodates the interests and abilities of the under-represented gender (usually women).
To successfully use this defense, you need statements not only from female student-athletes but also from female members of the student body at large that demonstrate there isn't any unmet athletic interest among women on campus.
Even if there is unmet interest, it typically must be enough to sustain a varsity athletic team at the school's current level of competition.
For example, if there are only a dozen or so female students who have expressed interest in having a women's soccer team, but none of these women played soccer for more than a year and are only interested in having a team so they could be spectators, this typically wouldn't rise to the level of unmet need for the purposes of overcoming the defense.
 Even if you discover disparities in the way male and female student-athletes are treated, you may have a defense under Title IX if you can point to a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for those differences.For example, if the complaint alleges that there aren't as many scholarships available for female student-athletes as for male student-athletes, a non-discriminatory reason for that discrepancy might be that the school is in the process of phasing in a new team.
Staggering scholarships over several years to avoid committing the entire financial aid budget for that sport in the first year is recognized as a legitimate non-discriminatory reason. This allows schools to recruit good athletes each year and continue to grow the new program.
For allegations that there is a discrepancy between the benefits and services offered to male and female student-athletes, non-discriminatory reasons could include the high injury rate of a particular male-dominated sport such as football, or the provision of greater resources to a revenue-producing sport.
However, keep in mind that these reasons are not taken at face value. If you want to assert a non-discriminatory reason as a defense for a Title IX violation, you must provide in-depth evidence to support that reason.
For example, if you claim that the football team receives more trainers and more training hours because it is a high-injury sport, you also should present data that women's teams in other high-injury sports such as gymnastics receive similar levels of training.
 A mediator is a neutral third party with training in dispute resolution, and can help facilitate a settlement to the issue in a non-adversarial way. Mediation also has the benefit of being confidential.Unlike some other forms of dispute resolution such as arbitration, mediation is a voluntary process and you aren't compelled to come to a settlement.
However, you also have much more control over the outcome. The agreement you reach through mediation comes from mutual agreement, rather than being handed down by a judge or jury.
Mediation thus reduces the uncertainty a trial has, and also potentially can save you a lot of time and money.
Because the process and outcome are confidential, you can protect your school's reputation from being compromised by having to defend against a Title IX violation in court.
 Typically a Title IX plaintiff cannot collect monetary damages, but is asking for changes to be made to the school's athletic program to eliminate disparities.Before your mediation appointment, you and your attorney will sit down – probably with other administrators or officials in the athletic department – and go over the actions the plaintiff is asking the court to order you to take.
Looking at the state of the athletic department and student-athletes, as well as any evidence you've uncovered from investigation or from interviewing student-athletes and athletic staff, you can determine options that would best remedy any legitimate discrepancies while also fitting the school's budget and other constraints.
Come up with a range of compromises, from most to least desirable. For example, if the plaintiff wants two new women's sports teams established within the next two years, you might create a compromise in which the two teams are phased in over the course of six years, with the most desirable option being an eight-year period and the least desirable being a four-year period.
 You and your attorney will meet the plaintiff and his or her attorney and attempt to negotiate a settlement to the dispute that is mutually agreeable and keeps you out of court.Typically the mediator will first sit down with you, the plaintiff, and both of your attorneys to explain a little about the process of mediation and lay out any ground rules.
Then each side will be allowed to give an opening statement, similar to the way you would give an opening statement in court. During this statement you will explain your position and take on the dispute, and perhaps offer reasons you are open to mediation.
After the opening statements, the mediator may attempt a little preliminary negotiation with everyone together, or he or she may separate you and the plaintiff and talk to each of you individually.
 Rather than stone-walling the discussion, listen to the mediator's suggestions and remain open to the possibility of reaching a settlement in the lawsuit.The mediator typically will go back and forth between you and the plaintiff in an attempt to negotiate a settlement. With each meeting, you may reveal various evidence or other information you have that either supports your position or weakens the plaintiff's argument.
Based on the information provided by you and the plaintiff, the mediator will attempt to find a common middle ground between the two positions.
When the two of you seem close to a resolution, the mediator likely will bring you all back into the same room to hammer out the details of a settlement.
 If you and the plaintiff do reach a settlement through mediation, make sure the agreement is written down and signed by both parties so it will be legally binding.Keep in mind that mediation itself is a completely voluntary process. The outcome of any mediation only becomes legally binding to the extent it is included in a written contract that is signed by both parties.
Depending on how far along in litigation you are, any settlement reached may have to be approved by the court, or by the Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights, which enforces Title IX.

