


Only use food-grade DE. Some DE is used for cleaning swimming pools, but this variety usually contains pesticides and other chemicals that can be toxic to pets and small children if ingested. On the other hand, food-grade DE is non-toxic.
DE is a natural compound made from ground, fossilized shells of diatoms, a type of small marine organism.
The powder is very abrasive and absorbent. Once an ant crosses over it, DE dissolves the waxy, protective coating on the ant's exterior. The ant does not die instantaneously, but it does eventually die from dehydration.;
, Mix equal parts baking soda and powdered sugar. Place small amounts in areas you expect ants to locate, including suspected points of entry or frequented hangouts.


The powdered sugar is used to bait the ants, as many species of ants are attracted to sweet food sources.
The baking soda is what kills the ants. Ants have an acidic substance inside their bodies, and this substance reacts with the baking soda once the ants ingest it.
While this tactic is not instantaneous, it can be highly beneficial. Ants carry the food source back to their nest, where the queen an other ants consume it. As a result, you may succeed in killing off a larger portion of the ants.
 Spread small piles of cornmeal near entryways, nests, and frequented food sources.


Ants must ingest the cornmeal before this technique can prove effective. Usually, the cornmeal itself is appetizing enough to encourage ants to eat it. If the cornmeal remains untouched after several days, though, you could try mixing a little sugar into it.
Cornmeal disrupts the digestive process of the ant. While ants do not die immediately after ingesting the cornmeal, they die a few days later from starvation. Moreover, since the ants take the cornmeal back to their nests, more ants die off in the long run.
 Sprinkle small piles of this common breakfast cereal in areas you expect ants to roam in. This can include points of entry, kitchen counters, or any other gathering place you might notice.


When an ant ingests cream of wheat, the product undergoes a reaction that causes it to expand. Within hours, any ant that has ingested the food will quite literally burst.
Plain, flavorless cream of wheat will usually work, but if the ants do not seem attracted to it, try spreading a flavored version. Cream of wheat flavored with brown sugar or fruit can be especially effective, but stay away from the kind that uses cinnamon since cinnamon repels most species of ants.
 Put some undiluted vinegar in a spray bottle and attack any ants you see roaming around.


White vinegar and apple cider vinegar both have fungicidal and insecticidal properties that can be deadly to ants.You can also spray areas that ants frequently walk across, such as points of entry or major food sources.
If you know where the ant's nest is located, pour 1/2 to 1 qt (1/2 to 1 l) of vinegar directly over and around the nest. This will kill the ants quicker and more effectively.
 Stir 2 to 3 tsp (10 to 15 ml) of an artificial sweetener containing dextrose, aspartame, maltodextrin into 1/2 to 1 cup (125 to 250 ml) apple juice. Mix the solution in a spray bottle and spray it on any ants you see.


This artificial sweetener acts as a neurotoxin.
You can also spray this concoction around areas you expect ants to travel through, including entryways and common gathering spots.

