 To ready the oven for baking the cookie bowls, it’s important to preheat the oven. Set the temperature to 350 degree Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, grease two 6-cup muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray.You can use softened butter to grease the muffin tins if you prefer.
 Add 2 ¾ cup (305 g) of all-purpose flour and 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt to a medium bowl. Use a whisk to blend the ingredients together until they’re fully combined. Set the bowl aside., Add 1 cup (225 g) of softened, unsalted butter and 1 ½ cups (150 g) of sugar to a separate large bowl. Beat them together with an electric mixer on medium until the mixture is light and fluffy.You can use a stand mixer to mix the cookie dough if you prefer.
You can also mix the dough together by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
 After the butter and sugar are combined, add 1 egg, 1 ½ teaspoons (7 ½ ml) of vanilla extract, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of almond extract to the bowl. Beat the mixture on medium until the ingredients are fully combined.You can omit the almond extract if you aren’t a fan of the flavor.
 Once the egg and extracts are blended in, gradually mix the flour mixture into to the butter mixture. Stir it in 1 cup (110 g) at a time and mix well after each addition until a dough forms., Once the dough has come together, transfer it to a floured surface and use a rolling pin to roll it out to a ⅛-inch (3-mm) thickness. Next, cut the dough into (12) 4 ½-inch (11-cm) circles using round cookie or dough cutters.If you don’t have round cookie or dough cutters, you can use a glass to cut the dough into circles.
 After you’ve cut the dough into circles, place one of the dough rounds into each muffin cup in the tins. Use clean fingers to gently press the dough into place to form a bowl shape.Make sure that the dough has as smooth a surface as possible when you press it into the pan.
 When the dough is in place in the muffin tins, place them in the preheated oven. Allow the cookie bowls to bake for 11 to 13 minutes, or until they are firm and a light golden brown color.Keep an eye on the cookie bowls, particularly near the end of the baking time, because they can burn quickly.
 Once the cookie bowls are finished baking, remove the muffin tins from the oven. Allow them to cool in the pans on a wire rack for 10 minutes, and then use a small offset spatula to gently loosen the bowls. Lift them out of the pan, and let them cool completely for another 15 to 20 minutes before filling.