 Stress can worsen or predispose you to lockjaw, and yoga is a great stress-relieving activity. Yoga is an integrated practice, which means it aids the physical and energetic body. When doing yoga you are encouraged to go to the root cause of stress that has caused the muscle spasm of your jaw. Various yoga postures that help in curing lockjaw are as follows:Asanas (yoga postures) such as the "Adho Mukh Svanasana" (Downward Facing Dog) improve the blood flow to the head and jaw. In this asana, the person assumes an inverted ‘V’ pose with the hips facing the ceiling while the heels and hands are on the ground.
"Salamba sarvangasana" (Shoulder stand) is a pose in which the shoulders rest on the mat or blanket and the entire body from below the shoulders is perpendicular to the floor. This inversion also increases blood flow to the head. Learn how to do this posture correctly before trying it on your own to prevent injury.
"‘Viparita Karani" (Legs-Up-the-Wall-pose) is done by lying on the floor, supporting your lower back with a firm bolster, and stretching your legs upwards using the support of the wall.
"Shavasana" (Corpse pose) acts as a muscle relaxant and helps in reducing muscle tension. It is a pose of complete relaxation. Lie flat on the floor face up with your arms at your sides palm up, and consciously relax all the muscles of the body from head to toe.;
, Relaxation techniques may improve TMJ.A great pose to start releasing the temporomandibular joint of the jaw is seated meditation.Begin by sitting in a comfortable position for meditation and focus on relaxing your tongue. Often, the tongue will cling to the palate without you even realizing it. Relax your eye, and soften your jaw. Soften the skin at the corners of your mouth.


These instructions are the starting steps of "pratyahara," i.e. internalization of sensory awareness. Decompressing the jaw in this manner takes practice but is very useful.
 Exercises play an important role in the treatment of lockjaw. If done correctly and regularly, they help treat as well as possibly prevent lockjaw. To begin with, relax and lower your shoulders, relax your lower jaw, and relax your tongue. Make sure your teeth are not touching.Warm up the jaw muscles with small up-and-down and side-to-side movement of the jaw. Be sure not to grind your teeth. Open and close your mouth as much as possible without pain or discomfort.
Move your jaw as far as possible forward and then back. Make similar movements towards both sides and then relax.
 Push your fist below your jaw while opening your mouth, and push your thumb against your chin at the time of forward movement and against the right and left side of your chin during side movements. Keep your jaw at the extreme point of movement for a few seconds, holding it there. Open your mouth as wide as possible, then try to close it while resisting this movement by pushing downward against your lower front teeth with your fingers.


While looking in the mirror, try to move your lower jaw straight up and down, avoiding any deviations as well as any movements producing clicking or locking of the jaw.
Each exercise should be performed for at least 10 counts each day.
 TheraBite is a portable system devised to treat lockjaw and provide patients with anatomically correct jaw motion. This system usually provides both stretching and passive motion for jaw rehabilitation.Cancer in the head and neck may cause lockjaw, especially if you have radiation therapy. TheraBite exercises may help in this case.