 Break all eight of the eggs into a medium-sized bowl and discard the shells. Free-range or organic eggs will produce the fluffiest, yellowest scrambled eggs.






;
, Whisk the eggs vigorously, using a fork, a wire whisk or an electric whisk.









Whisking the eggs before cooking incorporates air into the mixture, which makes the eggs extra fluffy.
The eggs will turn a pale yellow color after whisking.
 Melt the two tablespoons of butter in a large non-stick sauté pan over a medium-low heat.









Tilt the pan so that a layer of butter covers the entire bottom of the pan.
The pan is ready when the butter starts to bubble or a drop of water added to the pan sizzles.
 Add the eggs to the hot pan and begin stirring immediately, using a heat-resistant rubber spatula. Add in the 1/2 cup of milk.









Many recipes will tell you to let the eggs sit in the pan for a minute before you begin stirring, but if you want fluffy scrambled eggs you need to work at it!
Stir gently but constantly, using the spatula to scrape the egg from the bottom of the pan, otherwise the eggs will become overcooked.
 Remove the saucepan from the heat before the eggs have finished setting, in fact, they should still be slightly runny.









Continue to stir the eggs after you have taken them off the heat. They will continue to cook from the heat of the saucepan.
At this point, you can add your salt and pepper. If you add the salt before the eggs are cooked it will break down the eggs and make them watery, rather than fluffy.
 Once the eggs are cooked to perfection, you can add in any number of delicious extras to further enhance your fluffy scrambled eggs. Divide the eggs onto plates and serve while still hot. This particular recipe will serve four people.









Add in some freshly chopped chives and smoked salmon for a sophisticated twist.
Add in a tablespoon of maple syrup for a slightly sweet twist.
Add in a tablespoon of crème fraiche for a creamy finish.
Mix in some cooked, chopped bacon and grated cheese for an all-in-one breakfast.
