 It is important to learn the threats of the system or systems passing by.


Look for the threat area. If your family is at risk, call them in advance to let them know about the storm.
Know the threats; for example, they may be tornadoes, flooding and hail. Make the proper adjustments beforehand. If there is the possibility of flooding, move everything you can to higher ground. Also take note of all the threats as well, High risk of tornadoes and a moderate risk of hail? Highlighted.
How severe are the threats going to be? There is usually marginal, slight, moderate, and severe. But this varies in different countries, if there is any threat, things could change rapidly. Still plan if it is a marginal threat.
Is it a nocturnal threat? They're often the most dangerous since they cannot be seen. Don't even think about trying to find it! Many people have died trying to see a tornado in the nighttime.
What does the weather center or news channel say? (Example: "Tornado risk is highest in X.") Even if the projected location is 10 miles (16.1 km) north or south of you, assume it's in your area, for your safety.
If there was an event planned for the day, may need to postpone it. Only go out when it is an absolute emergency.;
, Your safety plan will depend on the exact kind of weather approaching.What will you need in your situation? In tornado outbreaks, you may want battery powered flashlights and a plenty of food and water sources. However, you will definitely need other items as well.
How much do you need? You would want your safety plan to last for 72 hours or more, and you would want enough food and water to last you. Nonperishable foods are recommended.
Why will you need it? Battery powered flashlights for after the storm and for turning off gas (If you have any.), First aid to administer to injuries caused by the storms, and a weather radio for weather bulletins.



A Tornado watch means that the conditions are ripe for severe thunderstorms to produce tornadoes.
A PDS (Particularly dangerous situation) tornado watch is a special type of tornado watch. It is rarely used, it means that there is a chance for long track, potentially dangerous tornadoes.
A Severe thunderstorm watch means that the conditions are ripe for severe thunderstorms to develop. Depending on your situation, it may be upgraded to a Tornado watch. They span for 3-6 hours.
A Tornado warning means that the radar or trained storm spotters have detected a tornado in your area. Move into a windowless room immediately!
A Severe thunderstorm warning means that winds have exceeded the severe limit (58 MPH). It could also include hail and a little bit of rotation. If the rotation gets too strong, it may be upgraded to a tornado warning.
 No one in your household needs to be out in the event of severe weather, Such as flooding, tornadoes, and the like.


Has your employers and/or local schools let out early? That should be a sign to get home immediately, rather than running any other errands such as shopping.
Have you called to check in with everybody? You should have done this a bit in the first step. Make sure to have your family at home to grab the emergency supplies and the pets. By the time the storm comes, they should be able to get to the safe shelter in the matter of seconds.
 You wouldn't want your radio to be broken at the most needed time.


Be sure to grab your insurance papers and have pictures of your possessions, put it in a protected box in your safe place. Extra points if it's waterproof! (Who knows? You may need it.)
Is your safe place secure and ready to go? Make sure you pack plenty of batteries, water, and nourishing food. You should also bring toys if you have children (in order to keep them occupied) and pet food for your pets.
Put your animals in their cages and get ready to move to the safe place.
 Make sure your radio is ready to grab if your power goes out. It is highly recommended that you set your emergency items right next to the radio.


If you have a waterproof basement, sleep there for the night. Just make sure your gas is in check.
Put your things in a cooler, just don't pack loads of ice cream. Unless it is for calming your kids down in a tornado.
 Panicking will impede your judgement and cause the others around you to panic. If your kids are scared, keep them close and warm. Make sure they have their favorite stuffed animal. But if it is where the storm is, it's good as gone..


Tell them about how many new toys and clothes they'll get! Just don't make it sound bad.
If you don't see your pets in your safe shelter, don't cry or think about the worse. They're smarter than you think! Don't be surprised if they join you or come out after it's over.
 More storms may be on the way.


Can you still hear a deep rumbling sound or a sound of a freight train or a jet lifting off? That means the tornado is still there and more are coming. Don't freak out if your weather radio or siren gets crossed (Connection gets knocked out.), That should be a definite sign to not come out. Wait until the emergency personnel come knocking on your door, if you can't get the door opened. Do not freak out. They'll be able to get you out.
 If you were unfortunate and your house was destroyed or there were some injuries in your neighborhood, remember, help is coming. If you were fortunate and still have your house. Help others! Not everyone was lucky.


After a life changing storm, your town or state may become more tight-knit than ever.
Did you make sure you had your insurance box? Show it to your agent. Some things may be salvageable, there may be some possessions that are salvageable but may not be worth much in sentimental value.
 For the next storm, rebuild with preparedness in mind. Will you add a basement in ground or above ground? Will the new house have more strength then the old one?


If you're rebuilding, you should try to have at least two severe weather shelter places in the house. A windowless room, such as a closet or basement, is highly recommended.
 Don't let it haunt you for the rest of your life. In order to feel even safer, you could invest in a stress ball (or doll) and always have your severe weather outbreak shelters, supplies and papers on hand.
 Overpasses act as wind tunnels that strengthen the tornado's winds.


Get into a ditch or low lying area and cover your head. Don't waste time by bracing your iPad. Don't forget any of your children in the panic.
If you see the impending storm miles away from you on the interstate, go to a nearby town and ride it out. If you are nowhere close to a town, put on your emergency blinkers and go on the side of the road. Be sure to turn on the closest weather station and listen for warnings.
Learn which county you're in! Don't make the mistake of thinking you are in Blakely county to find out the hard way you're in Duchess county. In the U.S.A, they are posted on the right side of the road on a green sign.
 Get ready to pull on the side of the road to wait it out. Do not use your phone when driving; this is illegal.


Be completely certain that a tornado isn't out there. Be 100% sure, not 95%; the missing 5% can get you killed.
Is there a high risk of flooding? If you can, avoid traveling until the danger is over.
If you got caught in a hailstorm, immediately grab a helmet or anything that could protect your head and eyes and stabilize your child's car seat. Put the overhead on to protect the young child from the hail and glass.
 Some cities sound their sirens for severe thunderstorm warnings during a tornado watch, others don't. Be sure to know about this in advance.


Also learn the sounds of the sirens of those towns you are going in/by, A high pitched noise could be a tornado warning and a moderate pitch could be a severe thunderstorm warning.
Be aware the sirens can be crossed by the storm, so keep your own set of warning systems as well.
If the sky appears clear and the sirens go off, seek shelter. Lightning and tornadoes can come in the absence of clouds.
If you have animals in the car, bring them up front and put them in their cages. Put a sheet over the cage to protect it from the falling glass. If a tornado is very close to you, take your pets out of their cages and put them on their leashes and get into a low lying area with them. Be careful to not injure them, they'll probably be as scared as you are. If you suspect that they may have been injured, bring them to the nearest pet hospital.



You can stay at your relatives' or friends' house in another state until it blows over. Be sure to tell your family about the storm, and mention that you are okay as well.
 It could be blizzards or ice storms, in meteorological terms it is considered a winter weather outbreak.


For example, in a winter weather outbreak, you would want to pack emergency blankets, canned foods, and a lot of gas. You would want to tell your family where you're going in case of an emergency.
Another example is a prolonged period of heat, also known as a drought. You still would want to tell your family where you are going unless your car stalls.
In the western U.S, Fire weather is common. It can happen anywhere, wildfires are classic examples of this.
 They can be a danger to life and crops in many ways. This is obvious, but confusion is still a problem.


When you are stranded on the interstate or highway with snow up to your doors, you should turn off your car to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning. Only turn it on in intervals for the heat. Remember to clear the exhaust pipe to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning.
Never go out if there is a risk of ice, snow, or an avalanche. You would be better off waiting until the storm is over. Don't think that you can avoid ice either, it isn't worth it.
 Heat sickness is a problem, never leave your children or pets in a hot car. The temperature goes up 10-12 degrees per hour. For example, the temperature outside can be 85 degrees while inside the car can be 97 degrees.


Do not perform strenuous exercise in the heat, heat stroke can set in a number of minutes.
Check in on any elderly neighbors and little children.
Do not become dehydrated. You should also avoid rationing water; your body needs water. Merely rationing water can make you faint in the heat, which can lead to death if the emergency services aren't called. Make sure everyone gets an adequate supply of water.
 Did you think you could beat the waters? Now that you gotten caught in the floodwaters, now is the time to do some serious thinking.


If your car is floating in the water, take your seat belt off and break your windows open. If you have a sunroof, even better! Break the glass open or if you can, use what's left of the car's battery to open it and climb out. Remember to get your children and pets out first and foremost. Note that this is for cars that are still floating.
If your car has sunk, there is still a chance to get out, cut your seatbelt off and get ready to open your door. If the pressure isn't allowing you to open it, break the window. Rescuers may be on the way so stay calm and don't thrash, you do not want to waste your energy panicking when you need to get to the surface!

, If you notice a drought and fire weather watches, a wildfire is likely imminent. Don't attempt to stay home and fight a wildfire with a hose.


If a wildfire is close but not close enough to your house or flat, start collecting your insurance papers, pets, and family. Get out of the house! Don't try to save anything else other than your life and insurance papers.
Don't stay to fight the fire, but rather leave as quickly as possible. Get out of the path of the wildfire. Your belongings can be replaced but your life, your family and pets can't. Act quickly.

