 Wear SPF 30 lip balm, either alone or under your lipstick, all year round. If you don't like using SPF products, at the very least use a moisturizing product and keep out of the sun during the harshest times of the day.;
, Buy products specifically made for this purpose, or get the same results by mixing sugar and olive oil into a paste, gently rub it on your lips with an old toothbrush, and rinse off. Apply this scrub once a week, and give your lips the once-over every morning with a plain, wet toothbrush.
 Or open up a vitamin E capsule and rub the contents on your lips. Plant-based oils—like olive, coconut, sunflower, and jojoba—work, too.
 For temporary bee-stung lips, use an over-the-counter lip plumper, which contains irritants that swell lips. There are also over-the-counter topical treatments that may slightly enlarge lips over time because they contain peptides or hyaluronic acid.


To make your own plumping product, rub a small amount of cayenne pepper on your lips. It’s the main active ingredient in many commercial plumpers.
 Create the illusion of bee-stung lips by lining them—except for the corners—with a pencil that matches your natural lip color. The lip pencil must be the same shade as your lipstick or lighter for this to work.Smudge the lip lining next.






Next, apply a thin line of liquid highlighter at the top center of your upper lip (just above the Cupid's bow) and blend. Or, blend small dots of reflective foundation on your upper lip to emphasize a natural pout.Finally, apply a neutral lip color. Use a lip brush to "fill in" your lips. Use sheer lipstick to build up the lips rather than matte color.The sheer lipstick catches the light best, giving a sense of greater fullness and plumpness.






To finish off, dab a tiny bit of shimmery gloss on the center of your bottom lip, at the fullest part.






Try some darker powder subtly under your lower lip to create the illusion of a gentle shadow from a bulge., If you’re interested in a longer-lasting plumping solution, collagen or hyaluronic acid injections or a lip implant may be an option. Remember that these are invasive medical procedures, and completely optional. Consult a doctor, and consider the possible downsides very carefully before making any decisions.