 A person that lights up a room is the one everyone wants to be around. Acting confident--whether you are or not--is the first step to presenting the image you're aiming for.


Hold your head high! Body language speaks much more loudly than words. Keeping your back straight and your chin up causes people to notice your presence and self-assuredness.
Make eye contact. Let others know you're paying attention to them. If you shy away from their gaze, you'll seem nervous and inhibited. Confidence is not only sexy, but gains others' trust more quickly.
 Happiness is contagious. If you're the one who's always funny and smiling, others will be naturally drawn to you.


Not only will those around you feel the mood lift, but you will too! Your brain takes cues from your muscles; smile and soon you'll feel it's natural, even if it wasn't in the first place.
 When you're feeling crappy, everything is harder to do. Being perfect is much easier to manage when you feel and look your best.


Stick to a healthy, balanced diet. When we treat our bodies, we treat ourselves. Loading up on whole grains, fruits, and vegetables not only prevents weight gain, but it also leads to more energy, lower risk of disease, and a longer life. Stay away from too many processed goods--they often lack nutrients and are high in unhealthy, unnatural sugars.
Stay active. Exercising has shown to make skin glow and lead to better sleep, in addition to its numerous health benefits. Even taking a walk a few times a week will help to clear your mind, complexion, and leave you feeling more relaxed.
 In order to be truly confident and beautiful, you must love the skin you're in. This may seem difficult, but, luckily, you are the only obstacle in your way from true self-acceptance.


Write down a list of all your good qualities. If that's a struggle, ask others what they think. Go over this list every morning, adding qualities as you notice them.
Stay positive! If you find yourself thinking negative thoughts, immediately stop. The negative thoughts are completely controllable. If they keep on returning, busy yourself with an activity. If you need to, get it all out in a journal. Bottling an emotion up leads to stress and frustration.
 With a closed mind, we cannot see perfection in all its forms. The world out there is large and you may not have all the information. As you form opinions, put yourself in others' shoes.


Keeping open-minded will lead to positivity, empathy, and understanding--attributes all humans are attracted to. You'll be more open-minded about your own flaws, the shortcomings of others, and the less glowing facts about our world. Others will see that you accept them for who they are and they, in turn, will be more likely to accept you.
Let things go. Being bogged down by those who have hurt or betrayed you weighs down your spirit. Happiness, positivity, and confidence--keys to being perfect--are not attainable if you're caught up in grudges and revenge. Forgive, forget, and move on. You don't have time for negativity anymore. This new, perfect you is better than that.

