 You probably own some items that you can use with your new style. Not only will this make your transformation cheaper and easier, your well-worn clothes will add authenticity to your rockstar look.


Sort clothes into sections. Note what percentage of your clothes are darks, whites, or bright colors. Dark colors and blacks are common for rockstar style. If you have a large percentage of bright colors, look to pair them with darks for balance.
Repurpose clothes. If you have plaid shirts, wear them loosely with a white T-shirt and a pair of jeans. This will give you a simple, versatile grunge rock look.
Take a new look at old clothes. Tattered and torn clothes are popular in rockstar fashion.
 Several patches, or a large band patch on the back, can transform an ordinary denim jacket into a common rockstar emblem. Patches or pins can make clothing or a bag seem more personal or add an edge to ordinary clothes.
 Jeans are important for rockstar looks because they are durable and they don’t need regular care. They are consistently in style, and they are versatile. Skinny jeans expand your options without stretching your budget. Low maintenance clothes are especially important for musicians that may need wear the same clothes multiple times while on tour.
 The right leather coat, a denim jacket, or a blazer can elevate the rest of your wardrobe. The right jacket can add edge and personality to the rest of your clothes. Invest in stylish and durable outerwear that best suits the type of rockstar style that you are emulating.


Many stores also sell cheaper pleather, or fake leather, jackets. This could be a good option if you're on a tight budget or are only looking to wear a rockstar look for a short period of time.
 Unless you are emulating a glam rock star style, you are most likely to look like an authentic rockstar by keeping it cheap. At a thrift store, you can find various styles at inexpensive prices. You also will have a one-of-a-kind look that others will not be able to imitate.


Unclaimed dry cleaning can occasionally be bought cheaply, though dry cleaners are more likely to donate unclaimed clothes to charities. Nevertheless, laws regulating unclaimed property vary by state so you may find a dry cleaner that will sell you unique items at discounted prices.

