 Combine the garlic, jalapeno, black pepper, olive oil, lemon juice, oregano, basil, and salt in a small dish, whisking well to combine., Divide the fillet into four to six equal portions, depending on how many servings you want the fish to make.


Use a sharp serrated kitchen knife to divide the fillet.
For this method, preserving the delicate flesh is not an issue, so you can cook smaller portions without worrying about the fish falling apart on the grill. Smaller portions will also cook quicker.
 Place the fish in the marinade. Turn to coat all sides, then refrigerate both the fish and marinade for 30 minutes to 2 hours.


Keep the kingklip in either a non-reactive glass dish or a resealable plastic bag as it marinates. Do not use a metal baking dish.
 When the fish is almost done marinating, preheat your grill the a medium-low or medium temperature.


Set the burners on a gas or electric grill to a medium heat.
Light a moderate pile of coals when using a charcoal grill. Wait until ash begins to form on the coals before proceeding.
A medium-low to medium heat setting is ideal when using foil packets. Kingklip and other fish can overcook quickly, but using a moderate heat level can reduce this risk.Since the fish will not come into direct contact with the grill grate, you do not need to worry about scraping the grate clean or coating it with oil.
 Remove the kingklip fillets from the marinade and wrap each fillet separately in separate sheets of aluminum foil.


Discard the remaining marinade.
To wrap each fillet:Spread out a sheet of aluminum foil large enough to wrap around the fish two full times.
Center the fillet over this piece of foil.
Fold the top and bottom edges of the foil toward the center of the fillet.
Bring the left and right edges of the foil together over the fillet. Bend them together, folding them several times, to create a tight seal.
 Set the foil packets over direct heat on your preheated grill.


The seam side of each packet should face upward. At no time during the cooking process should the seam face down into the grate.
 Grill the packets over direct heat until the fish is done. Thin fillets should be done in 10 minutes, but thicker fillets may require up to 20 minutes.


Use tongs to reposition the foil packets as needed while they cook.
You may need to open one of the foil packets to check one of the fillets for doneness before pulling them all off the grill. When done, the center should flake easily with a fork and appear mostly opaque. The internal temperature should also be between 130 and 135 degrees Fahrenheit (54 to 57 degrees Celsius).
 Allow the kingklip packets to rest off the heat for 5 to 10 minutes.


Check the internal temperature again after letting the fish rest. The kingklip should have continued cooking off the heat to a temperature of 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius).
 Open each of the packets after allowing the kingklip to rest. Serve immediately.


Be careful as you open each packet. Steam should have built up inside of the packet, and if you aren't careful, it could burn you as it bursts out.

