 Choose tops and bottoms that fit snugly enough so that they don’t slip off or become snarled during play. At the same time, avoid tight clothing that constricts movement. Wear clothes that allow you a free range of motion. In ideal weather or indoors, wear the following:Shorts that fit your waist perfectly and hang loosely to your knees or thereabouts.
A t-shirt, jersey, or singlet that isn’t binding. Favor sleeveless tops to allow your arms the maximum freedom of movement.;
, Use combinations of long-sleeve t-shirts, thermals, warm-ups, and/or sweatwear. Give yourself the ability to adjust to sudden changes in weather by stripping or adding layers as needed.Avoid constrictive outerwear like coats, jackets, and bulky hoodies, which may weigh you down and restrict movement.


For very cold weather, wearing a tighter-than-normal article of clothing as your first layer will help trap body heat more efficiently.
If you wear a number of layers at once, choose a larger size than normal for your outermost layer. Accommodate the greater girth created by all the layers underneath so you can still move with little or no hindrance.
 Reduce the risk of injury to your ankles and feet on the court. Buy shoes that fit properly so your feet have the greatest range of motion possible.Before purchasing, lace both shoes correctly to judge how they will feel on the court. If possible, avoid buying sizes that are larger than needed to keep your feet from sliding around inside the shoe. Also make sure the sole is non-skid so you don’t slip on the court.If you are younger and are expected to “grow into” a pair, ask your parent or guardian to buy one that is only a half-size larger than your current size. This way you will grow into it much quicker.
Prevent blisters and chafing by wearing socks that cover just as much skin as your sneakers do.
 Both styles of sneakers are acceptable, but many people prefer high-tops for the extra support that they provide your ankles. However, be aware that wearing high-tops all the time can create a dependency on that extra support. If you decide to wear these for basketball, prevent this dependency by:Wearing low-top sneakers and shoes for casual wear.
Walking barefoot as much as possible.
Warming up and performing light exercises either barefoot or with thin-soled sneakers like Chuck Taylor’s.

