 Like many other cuts of meat, New York strip steaks can be given extra flavor by soaking them in a marinade before cooking. We've provided a recipe to one simple but delicious marinade above, but literally hundreds of others will also work well. There aren't any hard and fast rules for making your own marinade, but there are a few basic guidelines that most marinades follow. If you're a novice, try including the following ingredients in your marinade to start with:


A source of fat. Usually, this is an oil, like vegetable oil, canola oil, olive oil, sesame oil, etc.
An acid. This can be a citrus juice (like lemon, lime, or orange), wine, vinegar (balsamic, red wine, apple cider, etc.) or another acidic liquid.
Other seasonings. You can get creative here — anything from Worcestershire sauce to dijon mustard to peanut butter to parsley to garlic to soy sauce can work, depending on whether it pairs well with the other ingredients.
Salt and pepper to taste.
 When your marinade is mixed, put your steaks in an airtight plastic bag or a seal-able fridge container and coat them evenly with the marinade. Let them sit in your fridge for at least two hours so that they're able to soak up the flavor of the marinade — some chefs let their meat marinade overnight or even several days to give it an extra dose of flavor.
 As with pan-searing, good grilled steaks require a high-temperature initial searing to develop their delicious crust. For this reason, you'll want to start your grill or barbecue well before you plan to cook. Keep the lid close to speed up the grill's heating process.


For gas grills, pre-heating is easy — simply set one or more burners to "high" and shut the lid for 5 minutes or so.
For charcoal grills, first, you'll need to light your charcoal, wait for it to flame up, and finally ash over before cooking can begin. This process can take upwards of half an hour, so leave yourself plenty of time. Once your charcoals are ready for cooking, spread them out evenly with a grill tool to prepare the entire grill for cooking.
 Use a grill brush to lightly paint the bars of the grill with olive or vegetable oil, then lay your steaks on the grill surface with a pair of tongs. Allow them to cook much as you would during a pan searing, flipping them after three to five minutes once a suitable crust has formed.


Once you're familiar with a gas grill, you can usually expect to get consistent results from it. The same can't necessarily be said for charcoal grills, whose cooking times can vary based on how much charcoal is used and what temperature the charcoal is burning at. Thus, you'll want to keep an extra-close eye on your steaks when cooking over charcoal — turn them as soon as you're satisfied with the dark brown crust on the bottom edge.
 After your initial turn, allow your steaks to continue cooking for another two to four minutes until they're cooked to your liking. Check for the same signs of done-ness as described above (firm texture at edges, soft in middle, no red inside the meat, etc.) and, if satisfied, remove them from the grill and serve!


Optionally, you may want to consider painting the steaks with leftover marinade during the cooking process to help them develop a delicious exterior. However, you won't want to apply any marinade once the steaks are finished cooking — since the marinade has come in contact with the raw steaks, this can transfer harmful bacteria to them.

