 It is important to distinguish the differences between sport fighting and a life or death struggle. When sport fighting, like in boxing, there are rules in place to protect the contenders and ensure a "fair fight."In a brawl situation, adherence to these rules can result in you getting hurt. In the real world, you can't always trust your opponent to follow the rules., The basic boxing punches are: the jab, the cross, the hook and the uppercut. Knowing how each of these is executed is the first step in understanding how you can stop the blow., This is a fighter's most frequently used punch. The most effective way to block this shot is to deflect it with your palm, thereby deflecting the punch above your other shoulder., Blocking in boxing isn't just about using your gloves; you'll also need to be comfortable defending with your shoulders as well. A cross is a straight power punch thrown by your opponent. There will likely be too much power behind it to block with your hand, so you should instead try to take the blow on your shoulder.After you take the punch on your arm, you can shift your weight to your back foot, rotate your body hard and execute a counter punch.
 By turning hips slightly in time with the oncoming punch, your opponent won't have time to alter the course of his punch and it will "slip" right by you. Swaying requires you to lean straight back from your hips giving you time to move your head out of the way of an oncoming punch in a swaying motion.Though not technically a block, by evading the blow, you achieve the same purpose and, in some cases, leave yourself in a more fortunate situation/condition. Some opponents will be much stronger or larger; in this case, blocking the punch could be dangerous.
 There are two main benefits to this technique, one is avoiding a blow, the other is to give yourself an opening at some easy body shots. Duck your adversary's mitt by dropping down in an erect position. This move may cause the glove to graze your head or miss you completely., You can escape an impending punch by "bobbing" your head while sliding underneath or to the side of your opponent's glove. As the mitt advances, bend your legs and move laterally in either direction. Once you have evaded the punch, "weave" into a standing position to either side of his outstretched arm., Also known as the rope-a-dope technique, this defensive move requires fighters to lean against the ropes of the ring while shielding themselves with their mitts and their body. The goal is to weather the assault, exhaust your opponent, and conserve energy. Successfully performing the rope-a-dope will leave your foe weakened and unable to throw any punches you have to worry about.

