 He will turn into a beast and he will start charging at you. You can't target him so get out your arrows and aim for the jewel on his head. Hit it hit his stomach with the master sword (other swords will not work).


Repeat until he starts warping when you fire arrows at him. That's your cue to transform into a wolf (Midna is with you again). You will see red portals all over the place and the one that turns blue is the one Ganon is coming out of. Step back.
Now you can target him as he charges at you. Midna's hair/hand thingy will go up and you'll be able to grab him but don't press the button too early or too late or you'll be tossed aside. Once you've gotten a hold of him, toss him left or right (these actions are exactly like catching an Ordon goat). Then transform into a human and hit his stomach again. Repeat.
 Most of them will be red. After he's disappeared into one of them, numerous red portals will appear all over the room. You need to keep a sharp eye out for a blue one to appear. This portal will be the one he will come charging at you through. When he does come out of it, have your bow and arrows equipped and quickly shoot an arrow at the glowing piece on his forehead.
 After he's hit with that arrow, he'll crash on the ground and you may possibly be hit by his body sliding at you. Jump out of the way after you shoot him and go over to his belly. There's a white, glow-y scar. This is his weak spot and the only way to defeat this stage. Hit it as many times with your sword. Afterwards, he'll get up and run through another portal. Repeat this process.
 After awhile, he'll start to change his strategy and jump high into the air to avoid your arrows. Now you need to transform into Wolf-Link and wait for him to come out of the red portal. When he's charging at you, "L" target him and use "A" to grab his head with Midna. Then while using the joystick (depends on if you have the Wii version or GameCube version), toss him left or right onto the ground. As Wolf-Link, go to his belly and attack it. After you've done this a few times, he should be defeated.

