 Wash your face twice every day and make sure it is clean and soft. Many teens have acne and it's perfectly normal and nothing to be ashamed of (after all it's not your fault). See your doctor about a medication for it and slowly, it will improve.;
, Wash every day and shower every other (or as often as you see fit). If you want to, shave your legs and/or armpits and/or any other body parts you choose. Make sure you wash any parts that develop odor and wear deodorant under your arms. Use lotion to keep your skin well hydrated and soft.
 Wear your hair in a cute and stylish hairstyle. A common one is to leave your hair and flip it to the side. But, make sure you research more into it. Not every hairstyle is going to work for you. Take care of it, too! Wash it according to your hair type and use appropriate products. Don't heat style it too much, or it will fry. Be adventurous with your hairdos - after all you hair is your best accessory!

, Wear bright, stylish clothes in colors like pink, teal, blue, green, yellow, etc. Jeans are always in and skirts and shorts are cute as well. Dress according to the weather. Don't wear a big winter coat if it's ninety-three degrees outside, and vice versa.


These are the basic clothes you will need in your wardrobe

V neck, tank and camisole solid colored tops, graphic tops, graphic tank tops
Skinny jeans, boot cut jeans, jeggings, sweatpants
Tights, socks, etc.
Cute cardigans, V neck sweaters, hoodies
UGGS, moccasins, flip flops, slippers, Vans, Converse, etc.
Knitted scarves, beanies and gloves in winter
Cute accessories. See tips for what you need.
 Always coordinate your shoes with the rest of your outfit(otherwise, it just looks silly). Wear shoes YOU can handle. Do not wear five inch stilettos and hurt yourself in them because you want to look like a model. Work your way up with a wedge or something! Wedges are super cute and comfortable for school.
 Eat as healthily as you can, this is the only diet you will need. Enjoy your food and find ways to prepare healthy recipes that you like (it's not good food unless it tastes good, but you might need some time to adjust to new tastes). But don't forget to treat yourself as well: "You only live once", so you might as well enjoy that cookie if you really want it. Also, don't become obsessive about your looks: Media and advertisement will always try to tell you that there is something you need to fix with your body but in truth they just want to sell you things. If you can, learn to love what you have and work with it. Everybody's body is different and everybody will have things they'll like more about themselves than other things. Don't fret, physical perfection doesn't exist, so there's no point getting really worked up about it. Just do what makes you feel good, don't let anybody tell you what you should or shouldn't be doing with your body (this includes anyone from your mom, to your classmates to the media). Always remember: Your body, your rules.
 Get a cell phone (if you don't already have one) and text your friends. Attend parties every now and then and hang out with a group of friends over the weekend! Don't be afraid to loosen up a little. But if you feel truly uncomfortable in a situation or you feel pressured to do things you really don't want to: bail. Popularity isn't everything and I'm sure you'd rather have a smaller circle of friends and be happy, than be the most popular girl in school and constantly feel anxious and unsettled.


Always have at least 1 good friend with you and talk about stuff like boys, hair, clothes, makeup and teen stars. Make sure you pick your friends wisely though and always have one or two friends you deeply trust to help you when you need support.
 Teen girls typically LOVE to shop if they have the money. This can be another social thing. Take some friends and ask for their opinions on clothes. They will be honest and can help broaden your stylistic horizons.
, Don't let people push you around, pursue things that interest you and have a good time. Do things you really enjoy, not just things that you think you should enjoy.

