 You must have receipts or other evidence that proves you hired the doctor to perform medical services for you.


Generally this isn't a difficult element to prove. The existence of a doctor-patient relationship typically goes unchallenged in most medical malpractice cases.;
, To establish the existence of a doctor-patient relationship, you must also prove that the doctor agreed to perform the medical services you requested.


Evidence that you hired the doctor, and that the doctor agreed to be hired, together constitute a doctor-patient relationship. Where this relationship exists, the doctor has certain duties towards you as a patient.Part of this duty includes the duty to use the applicable professional standard of care when providing medical treatment to you.Showing the existence of a doctor-patient relationship is crucial for proving medical malpractice. Medical malpractice is negligence, and no one is liable for damages due to negligence absent a legal duty of care to the victim of that negligence. In a medical malpractice case, that legal duty of care arises out of the doctor-patient relationship., Records such as bills or other correspondence can provide additional evidence of a continuing doctor-patient relationship.


Although existence of a doctor-patient relationship is an element of medical malpractice that is seldom challenged, this evidence ensures the doctor doesn't have an opportunity to claim there was no relationship.You often can prove a doctor-patient relationship even absent an explicit agreement, if the care actually happened. For example, if a doctor provided treatment to you in a public park during a medical emergency, that would be considered a doctor-patient relationship regardless of the absence of any explicit agreement.Questions about or challenges to the existence of a doctor-patient relationship most often arise when another physician was consulted about your case and offered advice but did not treat you directly., The medical standard of care for a given procedure generally would be what a doctor exercising ordinary care would do in that situation.


Just because you are unhappy with the treatment or dislike the result of a procedure does not mean that your doctor committed malpractice. He must have breached a particular standard of care.The medical standard of care is what the doctor should have done. You generally must prove that the doctor didn't do what a similarly-trained doctor would have done if working under similar circumstances., Most states require doctors testify as expert witnesses regarding the medical standard of care.


These experts must be willing and able to provide meticulous details about what a reasonably skilled doctor in your doctor's situation would be expected to do.To establish a generally accepted standard of medical care, other doctors qualified in the same area of medical practice as the doctor you're suing must be willing to testify as to what level of care is recognized in the profession as that used by someone competent and qualified to practice.Geographical area also has some bearing on similarly situated doctors for the purposes of establishing a standard of medical care. For example, you would not hold a doctor in Buford, Wyoming (the smallest town in the U.S.) to the same standard you would hold a doctor practicing in New York City.
Your experts will first establish what a competent and reasonably skilled doctor would have done in the same situation as your doctor. Then they will apply that standard to your case to demonstrate what your doctor did wrong.In some situations, general clinical practice standards also may be used to demonstrate the accepted standard of medical care, but these published standards are typically considered supplemental and would not replace expert testimony.Some states require some sort of expert testimony to be included when you file your initial complaint., To prove your doctor was negligent, you must show that your doctor's care failed to live up to the medical standard.


Generally your experts must be able not only to identify the appropriate standard, but to testify that the actions of your doctor did not meet that standard.There may be different types of standards for different aspects of practice. For example, your doctor may have negligently prescribed medications if he ignored the manufacturer's instructions or provided an incorrect medication or dosage. In these cases, you may need a representative from the pharmaceutical manufacturer to testify as to the information typically provided to doctors.In some cases, it also may be negligence if your doctor failed to get your informed consent before she performed a specific procedure., You may lose the ability to file a medical malpractice suit if you delay too long.


Missing the statute of limitations means you can no longer recover for any damages you suffered.
In many states, you must file your claim fairly quickly after the negligent act occurred. Others start the clock ticking from the point you should have discovered the injury. Regardless, you typically have between six months and two years to file your claim.If you think you may have a medical malpractice case, check the statute of limitations in your state or consult an attorney as quickly as possible to avoid losing your ability to file suit.
 You must show all money you spent that you allege were a result of your doctor's negligence.


All of your medical bills will serve as evidence of the costs you incurred treating the additional injury you suffered as a result of your doctor's malpractice.
 If you have any friends or family members that have seen your suffering as a result of your doctor's negligence, ask if they are willing to testify on your behalf.


In addition to monetary losses such as additional medical costs, medical malpractice plaintiffs also are able to collect money for physical and mental pain and suffering.Solid testimony from witnesses is crucial to establishing any extensive pain and suffering.
Keep in mind that many states limit or "cap" the amount of money you can win in a medical malpractice case. Often these caps apply more stringently to damages awarded for pain and suffering., Any time you missed from work as a result of the doctor's negligence also should be included in your damages.


Your damages include any income you lost or will lose as a result of being unable to work.You also can claim damages for lost earning capacity.For example, you may have lost so much time from work that you were passed up for a promotion you otherwise would have gotten.
 It's not enough to prove that your doctor was negligent and that you suffered harm, you must also prove that your harm occurred as a direct result of your doctor's negligence.


For example, one common type of medical malpractice is a doctor's failure to diagnose. If you can prove that a competent doctor would have discovered your illness or made a different diagnosis in time to provide you with a better outcome, your doctor may be liable for damages due to medical malpractice.Part of showing your injury was caused directly by your doctor's error is showing that your injury was reasonably foreseeable as a result of your doctor's error.For example, suppose it's well known among doctors that infections are common following a certain procedure. However, there's a medication that can be prescribed that all but eliminates the risk of infection. A doctor exercising reasonable care would prescribe this medication to his patients after performing that procedure. However, your doctor did not prescribe the medication to you. As a result, you got an infection. That infection was reasonably foreseeable.
 Your doctor may argue that your harm would have occurred regardless of his negligence, so you must be prepared to prove that the harm you suffered was different from the harm you would have suffered otherwise.


The key is to prove that your injuries were directly attributable to the substandard care you received from your doctor – in other words, that if you had received care that met the general medical standard, you would not have suffered the injuries that you did.This may be one of the most difficult parts of your medical malpractice case. Medicine is not an exact science, and both doctor and patient assume all sorts of risks in undertaking any course of treatment. The injuries caused directly by your doctor's negligence may be hidden by the course of injury or disease as a whole., Although expert witnesses may not be required, other doctors often are the best way to prove that your harm occurred as a direct result of your doctor's negligence.


Many plaintiffs find it beneficial in proving medical malpractice to have additional expert witnesses on record as stating that the injuries that are the subject matter of the lawsuit were directly caused by the doctor's substandard care of his patient., The doctrine "res ipsa loquitur" means "the thing speaks for itself," and if you can use it, you can shift the burden of proof from yourself to the doctor.


This means that rather than having to prove that the doctor's acts were negligent, you put the doctor in the position of having to prove that his acts were not negligent.
To use the doctrine, you must ultimately show that your injury could not have been caused by anything other than instruments or actions over which your doctor had sole control.A classic example of res ipsa loquitur in the medical malpractice context is if a surgeon closes up the patient's body after surgery and leaves a surgical tool inside, which later injures the patient in some way.