 By listing your obstacles, you can begin to address and overcome them.


Be honest with yourself when making your list. Don’t write, “I have no time” if the real reason is that you don’t know how to get started.
Creating an honest list of reasons can also help you see that you don’t have as many obstacles as you thought.
For example, you may think you have lots of obstacles to you meditating, but after writing them down, find out that you only have two or three.;
,


If you don't have time to spend an hour meditating, or you get frustrated easily, then try half an hour. Or ten minutes.
One true moment in meditation will be greater than one hour spent fidgeting and grumbling.
Try meditating first thing in the morning or last thing at night. At these times, you will probably be least busy and will find it easier to be motivated to meditate.
Moreover, early morning meditation may help you focus throughout the day, and late night meditation may help you sleep more deeply.
 While simply scheduling it in may not motivate you to meditate, at least you won't have anything else to do at that moment. And since you don’t have anything else to do, why not meditate?


Get out your calendar, planner, or agenda and write the time in for meditation each day or every few days.
Add it to your daily To Do list or set a daily alarm on your electronic device.
You may want to start by scheduling about half an hour for your meditation session and then increasing it over time.
 If you feel physically uncomfortable in one posture, then motivate yourself to meditate by trying another position.


If you are uncomfortable, you'll hardly be able to motivate yourself to practice meditation on a regular basis!
Try sitting on a pillow, cushion, or mat if you are going to meditate on the floor. You can lean against a wall as you sit if you need to.
Meditate while sitting in a chair. Sit back in the chair and make sure you feel comfortable before you begin meditating.
You can also meditate while lying down.
 But, you can motivate yourself to meditate if you remind yourself that in meditation, there is no such thing as failure.Or success, really. With meditation you are attached to the process, not to your results.


Tell yourself, “I can’t be good or bad at meditating. I can’t succeed at it or fail. But, I can do it.”
If you must think of things in terms of success or failure, then consider it a success anytime you attempt to meditate.
For example, if you can only meditate for a minute or two at a time, then give yourself credit for that!

, By thinking about your reasons you will be addressing obstacles to you meditating. And just by focusing your thinking on this one topic, you will actually be meditating.


For example, focus your mind on the thought, “I can find a way to overcome the obstacles to me meditating.”
Allow your thoughts and concerns about meditation to flow freely. Gently redirect your thoughts if they stray from the topic of meditating.
You might say to yourself, “I’m thinking about dinner. Let me think more about meditating.”
As you think of obstacles, ask yourself, “How can I overcome this obstacle?”

