 Your dog should be trained well and able to respond well to voice commands. Your dog should be able to listen and respond to your command. You will be in control of this introduction.Your dog should know basic commands like sit, stay, and lie down. You can teach your best friend these simple commands in a few ways:


Take obedience training classes. Many vets can recommend a good dog trainer. Some pet stores even offer puppy socialization and obedience classes. You and your dog can not only learn helpful commands, but also work on creating a strong bond. Your dog will be more likely to listen and pay attention to you if she feels comfortable with you as an owner and authority figure. Practice commands with your dog. If you and your dog need a refresher course on basic commands like sit, you should practice with your dog in a comfortable place like at home. Practicing these commands will allow the dog to become familiar with your cues and she will be more willing to listen to you. You want these commands to be comfortable with both you and the dog.
 You do not want either pet to feel territorial in the introductory space. You also want a place where you can control both animals. A good introductory place might be a living room or family room. You want to avoid places where either animal eats or sleep, as they may feel territorial of the space. You do not want either animal to feel pressured. A neutral space can help the animal to not have additional external stresses. Meeting new friends is stressful enough! Make sure you dog is not feeling confined with too tight of a leash or collar.
The neutral space will help you relax as well. You want to be able to be comfortable in this space and be able to observe interactions. Pick a place that is comfortable for all involved.
 For the first meeting, you may want to keep the rabbit in a safe space in which the rabbit cannot run away. This will also keep your rabbit safe if something unpredictable happens.
 During the first meeting, you want to make sure you have your dog under firm control. Experts suggest keeping your dog sitting or lying down. This allows you to keep a firm eye on the dog, as well as a way to control him.
 Ask a family member or friend to help by holding your rabbit or dog. You want the most supervision possible and having an extra set of hands and eyes will work to your advantage. .

