 Waxing is a more expensive but also more low-maintenance solution to removing body hair. Hot wax is applied to a small portion of body hair, then a cloth is used to rip the wax away, bringing the hair with it. Make an appointment at your local waxing salon and have a professional wax the hair on your preferred body part.Waxing is one of the more painful methods of hair removal.
You can buy at-home waxing kits, but for best results you should see a professional.
Waxing generally costs between 15 and 350 dollars per session, depending on how many body parts you are getting waxed.
Waxing generally lasts between 3 – 4 weeks.
The most popular areas to wax are the legs, arms, eyebrows, underarms, bikini line, entire bikini area, chest, feet, toes, butt and back.
Try waxing if you have a high pain tolerance and are looking to avoid cuts and nicks.
Avoid waxing if you are sensitive to pain, don't have a lot of money or are diabetic., Threading is a technique that is newer to the United States, and therefore, far less popular. Like waxing, threading should only be done by a professional in a licensed salon.Threading is generally used to remove eyebrow hair, but has also been used to remove stray hairs on toes and knuckles.
Threading lasts as long as waxing, but costs less (usually around $7).
Use threading if you need a quick and inexpensive way to remove facial hair.
Avoid threading if you are sensitive to pain or are looking to remove hair from anywhere other than your face.
 Bleach doesn’t remove body hair, but it does make it less obvious, which makes it a good solution for arm hair and facial hair. Because bleach is a chemical, it’s recommended that you make an appointment to have a professional do it for you.Do not bleach large areas or sensitive areas of skin.
Use bleach if you have fine hair and light skin.
Avoid bleach if you're looking to remove pubic hair, if you have sensitive skin or if your coloring skews darker.
 Laser hair removal is a newer trend and a much more expensive – and more long-term – hair removal option. Laser hair removal involves permanently damaging hair producing cells by shooting lasers at them, and should only be performed by a licensed professional.


Laser hair removal is very expensive and generally takes several sessions spread over many months to complete.
Laser hair removal is painful, but only about as painful as waxing.
Laser hair removal lasts, on average, for two years.
Choose laser hair removal if you have lighter skin, darker hair and a large disposable income.
Avoid laser hair removal if you have darker skin and an aversion to pain.
 Electrolysis works similarly to laser hair removal, with a few key differences. Unlike laser hair removal, electrolysis is permanent. Electrolysis also costs more and takes longer to work.Electrolysis can take between 9 and 18 months to treat a single area.
Unlike laser hair removal, electrolysis will work on everyone, regardless of skin tone.
Unlike many hair removal techniques, electrolysis is pain free.
The cost of electrolysis can fall anywhere between 600 - 800 dollars.
Choose electrolysis if you have problems with pain and if you are looking to permanently remove body hair.
Avoid electrolysis if you don't have a lot of money or need to remove hair quickly.

