 The theory of wakeskating is not incredibly difficult to understand, but putting it into practice is much harder. You start in the water with your heels on the top of the board and the board perpendicular to the back of the boat. Holding onto a rope attached the boat, let the boat pull you behind it until you have enough speed to stand up on the board. Once your stand, you pivot your feet so that the front of the board faces the boat, and you're off.


Getting up is almost identical to a getting up on a wakeboard.;
, Before you tell the boat to get moving, get comfortable in this seated position. Your butt should be the lowest point, with your lifejacket keeping your head and torso above the water. The board will be perpendicular to the boat.


If you are right-footed, the front of the board faces to the right. This is also known as "goofy" stance, or "goofy-footed."
If you are left-footed, the front of the board faces to the left. This is a standard, or regular, stance.
 Your toes will be near the center of the board. Keep your heels on the board so that you could push down on them and flip the far edge of the board towards you if you wanted to.


There will be 2-4 inches between the edge of the board and you heels.
 This will "push" the board up to your feet so that your entire sole is on the board. The pressure of the water will keep the board on your feet.
 Bend your knees about halfway, like you were preparing to jump off the board. Your arms will be straight in front of you so that your hands are ahead of your knees.Think of performing a squat (without weight) -- your knees are bent, your butt is down, and your arms are strong.
 This takes some practice, but once you get a feel for the balance it is actually not too difficult. Once the board is comfortably on your feet and the line is taut, slowly stand up on the board. With your knees relaxed, keep your hands out in front and unbend your knees as you let the boat pull you to a standing position.


The boat should be going 13-16mph.
Don't lock your knees -- they should still be slightly bent as you stand up in an athletic position.
 Put pressure on your back foot (the left, if you are right-footed/goofy rider) to turn the board so that it is parallel to the boat.
 If you are right footed, your right foot is in front and slightly to the right of your back foot. Once you're up, the basic body positioning is similar to snowboarding or skateboarding:


Knees slightly bent.
Equal weight on both feet.
Handle at waist height.
Chest "tall," not hunched over or leaning back.