 Make this as easy on yourself as possible by making yourself feel good. Pick a spot that you know well to ease any nervousness or talkative. Good spots generally have few people, are quiet, and are easy to get to naturally. Don't make a big spectacle by asking her to follow you to a romantic spot. A quiet hallway or corner after school is just as good a spot to talk about your feelings as any other.
 If you still feel shy around her, use a bit of humor to lighten the mood. Say something like, "Things were a lot less awkward between us before I inserted a size 12 foot in my mouth." Show that you don't take yourself too seriously and she will feel relaxed as well.


If you aren't naturally funny, that is okay too. Finding humor in a situation is more about finding the best side of yourself, even when things get awkward.
 The great secret to getting over shyness is just coming out and saying what you feel. It is not easy, but it is the only way to do it. Keep it short and to the point. "I really like you, and I'd love to go out on a date sometime," is all you need to say. Some tricks to get it all out include:


Count to 3 in your head-- when you get to zero, you have to say it.
Avoid chit-chatting beforehand. Say hello, ask how she is doing, then launch right in.
 If she is going to ditch you because of a little initial awkwardness, is she really that worth being with? Quickly admitting that you feel nervous may be the best way to break the ice, and she will appreciate your honesty. What you are telling her is that you like her so much you feel shy saying it -- that kind of honesty and vulnerability is going to go a long way. Lines to try include:


"I'm a bit nervous to say this, but..."
"I know I seem kind of awkward, but I want you to know how I feel."

, If she says she doesn't like you back, it's no big deal. Just ask if you can still be friends, and act cool. And don't be mean to her just because she rejects you. It's her choice, after all. And you may have just been chasing after the wrong girl.

