 Windows 10 features a new, simplified Settings menu. To open it, click Start and select “Settings.” You will see a series of nine different categories.;
, From the list given, click the “Accounts” option. You should now see a new page with a series of five different menu options down the left-hand side of the window.
 When you first log into Windows, you have the ability to log into a Local account or a Microsoft account. Most all Microsoft accounts will be an email address “@live.com,” “@outlook.com,” or “@hotmail.com.” Local accounts will simply have a username, and these accounts cannot sync between devices.


The same account will be used to sync all the information between each of your devices, so don’t forget which email you used.
 From the given list back on the Accounts menu, go ahead and click the bottom option, which should be “Sync your settings.” You should see your Microsoft account email listed at the top of the window. It should say “Sync Windows settings to other devices using “youremail@hotmail.com,” where “youremail@hotmail.com” is the email address of the current account that is logged in.
 Under the heading “Individual sync settings,” you should see a series of six different options to enable or disable. These are Theme, Web Browser Settings, Passwords, Language Preferences, Ease of Access Settings, and Other Windows Settings. Each of these are pretty straightforward in showing you what they will be syncing; however, the last one is a bit different. “Other Windows Settings” syncs settings from mouse, printers, File Explorer, and perhaps Taskbar position. By default, each of these should already be activated.


If you would like to disable an option, simply click the white dot. It should change to black and be labeled “Off.” Once you have selected the options you would like, the settings should automatically be saved.
Please note you must have Internet access in order for your settings to be transferred to a different Windows 10 device.
 Once you have another Windows 10 device in front of you, you will need to log in with the same Microsoft account you used above. When you first created a new account on your Windows 10 device, all sync settings would have been turned on by default, so everything should be synced automatically.


If you have made any changes to your sync settings on another device, you will need to make sure that the settings you just enabled on your other Windows 10 device are identical on this Windows 10 device as well.

