 While social media is becoming one increasingly important factor in guiding how we live and interact in our globally connected world, it's obviously not the only factor. Yet, it's clearly an important factor, especially when it comes to coordinating, mobilizing, giving very up-to-the-moment information, and ensuring a morale boost of great immediacy to those participating in political or social change.


The real power of social media is in the fact that you, and all of your friends, coworkers, family members, fellow consumers, and everyone else around you regardless of age, gender, class, or employment status, who has access to social media tools, has automatic access to tools of change. For the first time in history, the immediacy and breadth of access allows almost everyone to have a say, or to watch what's happening, or to become actively engaged in supporting and clarifying what is going on.
However, bear in mind that other factors feed into political change, such as the time being right, there being enough people ready for change, and the availability of basic essentials such as food, shelter, electricity/energy (it's a bit hard to tweet or update without it), good health, and affordability of the tools giving access to social media platforms. And literacy is a must. And clearly not everyone has access to these tools (for example, in Bhutan, access to the internet is extremely controlled and during a crisis, governments have already shown a willingness to interfere with the communications systems). Nevertheless, given what has already been shown as possible, it's now valid to say that activists and visionaries can seize the opportunity inherent in social media to help spur political change.;
, There are the those who argue that social media is not creating political or social change and that it's a poor choice of tool to evoke such change.Others feel that it's overstepping the mark to suggest that social media can serve as a such a tool although it does play a particular role. Yet, recent events showing dissent against authoritarian governments have proven that social media is effective as a participant in spurring political and social change. And as Professor Clay Shirky points out, while detractors may argue that a bunch of people clicking on "Save Darfur" might not be any more helpful than bumper sticker activism, it's wrong to assume from that that people using social media in a concerted and directed way as part of their activist agenda aren't going to be successful doing so.It's recommended that you make up your own mind about the utility and power of social media for you, based on what has already worked for other people and on your own comfort level with using the tools of social media.
 Whatever else social media can or cannot do, it provides a platform for people to present conflicting views free of government indoctrination or silencing, and in a way that permits of a conversation between differing worldviews. This conversation between global citizens can share a wealth of information and ideas that may be new or even confronting to one another but are views all worthy of consideration. Indeed, Professor Clay Shirky believes that this fertile ground for exchange of dissenting and differing views in the public sphere often projected from our home sphere is far more alive and motivating than abstract political ideals., Another benefit of social media is the lack of sanitization of information provided by the average person holding a cell phone in the thick of the dissent or updating via their laptop in a cafe around the corner from events as they're unfolding. While some people may prefer not to see the graphic images or retelling, it's only by really knowing the full, terrible extent of something that isn't right in society that people can be truly moved to want change. The shock, horror, fear, and disgust of those using social media on-the-ground can be a huge source of motivation and understanding to everyone else reading their commentary and updates. The fact that governments-in-trouble are trying to block access to social media platforms speaks volumes.