 Warm water helps relax your muscles and increase circulation. It therefore offers some of the same benefits as getting a massage or exercising can, but is low-cost and won’t risk ramping you up for a couple hours like intense exercise can. Light some candles, play relaxing music and soak in the tub for at least ten minutes.The bath is a great time to do some meditation or practice mindfulness.
Make sure not to do anything that might make you fall asleep. Don’t try to meditate in the bath unless you are experienced and know you will stay alert.;
, You will feel instantly more relaxed.
 It may sound counterproductive to relaxation, but exercising helps you clear your head by burning off all the mental energy saved up during a long day at work or school. Regular exercise also helps your body feel more relaxed and stress-free overall, making the next long day easier to get through. Try going for a walk outside, doing yoga or stretching for at least 20 minutes.Walk around the block or a nearby park if it is still light outside. (Don’t walk by yourself at night.) Better yet, take your dog with you and you can both get some much needed exercise. Focus on enjoying the fresh air and sounds of nature instead of your speed or how far you go.

Do some yoga poses. Child’s pose, in particular, is great for relaxing the body after a long day.
Stretch it out. If your body feels really tired, just spend 20 minutes doing some deep stretches to loosen your muscles from running around all day. , This exercise will help you relax both your body and your mind. If you do it regularly, you will start noticing when different muscles tense up during the day so you can relax them immediately and prevent compounding stress in your muscles.Start by laying down in a quiet room.
Pick one muscle, like your left hand, and tense it up as much as possible for 5 seconds. You should be making a tight fist that feels uncomfortable and may be tight enough to shake. Be careful though not to cause shooting or intense pain, which may cause serious damage.
Exhale as you relax the muscle quickly. Pay close attention to the difference you feel between a tense muscle and a relaxed one. Remain relaxed for 15 seconds.
Move on to the next muscle group and repeat. Do this for all muscles in your body.

