 Dye only adds to the color that is already there. If you use a colored rose, the dye may end up a different color, or it may not show up at all. For best results, use a rose that is fully open.This method is suitable for both fresh and dried roses., Use a sharp knife to cut the base of the stem off as an angle. Next, trim off any leaves, thorns, and buds. Place the rose into a vase filled with clear water while you prepare the dye in the next step.

Hold the stem under water while you cut it. This will help prevent air bubbles, which can clog up the stem and prevent the rose from drinking.
 How you prepare the dye depends on the type of dye you are using. Ink, food coloring, and fabric dye are all suitable options. If you can find floral dye, such as Dip It, you will get even better results. Choose your preferred dye, then prepare it in one of the following ways:Mix ink or food coloring into 1 gallon (3.8 liters) of water. Stir in 1 tablespoon (13 grams) of alum.
Mix fabric dye in 1 gallon (3.8 liters) of water. Use enough dye to get the color you want.
Prepare floral dye according to the instructions on the package.
 Hold the rose upside-down by the stem, then dip the flower part into the dye. Swirl it around so that every petal gets coated. You only need to leave it in the dye for about 2 to 3 seconds.This method is different from the typical dyeing methods. You are only dipping the flower part into the dye, not the stem

, Hold it upside down over the bucket so that the excess dye can drip back. Give the rose a gentle shake, if you need to, but be careful not to get droplets of dye on anything that might get stained., Give it another shake to get rid of any extra water. If the color came out too dark, rinse it under water a little longer. Keep in mind that the color will lighten as the rose dries., If the rose didn't turn out dark it enough, let it dry completely first, then repeat the dyeing process.While the rose dries, you can dye more roses, if you need to. Don't get impatient, however; if you use the rose while the dye is still wet, you will risk staining your skin, clothing, and other items in your arrangement.

If you dyed a fresh rose, make sure that you fill the vase with water so that it doesn't wilt. Dried roses do not need water, however.
 If you are using fresh roses, be sure to add a packet of floral preservative into the water. This will help the roses last longer. Because you only dyed the flower part, you do not have to worry about the dye leaching back into the water. This means that you can use a clear vase without worrying about the water changing color.