 Even though you may feel too tired to exercise, taking the initiative to get active can actually give you more energy. If you are feeling fatigued, even moderate exercise such as simply walking around can give you a boost and get you feeling more motivated and energetic.


A 10 – 15 minute walk around the neighborhood qualifies as moderate exercise, which may be more energizing than a more intense workout, like 45 minutes on the treadmill.Practice yoga. Yoga can produce a calm energy that can help you be more productive than the typical tense energy we often have that does not last long and can even lead to depression. Calm energy is a confident, energetic, optimistic energy that is high-energy but low tension.
Practice pilates. Pilates is another moderate exercise that can help cultivate a calm energy.Practice tai chi. Tai chi can also help give you calm energy.Practice resistance strength training. Resistance strength training practiced slowly and calmly can also produce calm energy in its practitioners.
 Paired with moderate exercise, music can help with developing calm energy.


In-progress studies show that music can produce calm energy. This could especially be true when music is paired with moderate exercise.Listening to music while exercising, then, can help produce calm energy during exercise, which will help you feel more energized afterward and for longer.
 Even moderate exercise can tax your body to the point that you move beyond the calm energy it can produce and into fatigue.


An intense workout will leave you feeling fatigued initially, but even intense exercise will eventually leave you with more energy than you would have with no exercise.
Keep in mind that intense exercise can lead to a more tense energy, which can help you be productive, but associated fatigue can be more intense., Fruit has many health benefits to the body — including some that work well in tandem with exercise.Eating fruit can help break down food, which allows the body to absorb more nutrients.
The absorption of nutrients that comes with eating fruit before exercise gives energy that fuels exercise, which then contributes to having more energy throughout the day.Oranges, bananas, and apples are good choices.

