 Aim for multi-use items. If your backpack is too heavy – you won’t be able to walk longer distances. Basic recommended items: a compass, a fixed blade knife, sharpening stone, a multitool, a change of clothes, cook cup, canteen, first aid kit, enough paracord, lighter, a hatchet or machete, fishing supplies (fishing line, a hook, and a split-head sinker), candles, pop tab, blanket, lantern/heavy duty flashlight, food, water purifier and water, a mirror, and a durable backpack. If you don’t know how to get started, it might be a good idea to get a quality pre-made survival kit that includes the above items.;
, Make sure everything fits in there nicely.
 Find out the average temperature, geographical features, and what animals inhabit the area. After the research, plan out what you are going to structure for a shelter, what defensive weapons you could make and how you could hunt certain animals.
 Leave a copy of the map to someone you trust, and make sure you tell them when you are planning to return. They should alert authorities if you don’t get back within the time specified.


Water: Water is one of the most important things in a survival situation. The most likely way to find water is downhill. Going downhill, will probably lead to a stream or river. Make sure you always use purification tablets, or boil your water.
Food: There are many ways to get food. Usually if you see an animal eat it, then it is probably edible. But always know there is a risk of that food the animal ate might be harmful to humans. You can also hunt for food by using trips fishing fences or spears. A spear is a valuable weapon when it comes hunting. Chop a tree down. Cut a cylinder shape of wood. Sharpen one point. Fishing fences are when you make a fence in the water. Make sure the fish won't be able to get out the side of the fence. Leave a small opening for fish. Bait. Come back a couple hours later.
Fire: There are many ways to start a fire, make sure you know and have practiced at least two different ways. Being able to start a fire and stay warm at night can mean the difference between life and death.

