 Build your fire and allow it to burn for about half an hour before you start cooking the apples. As the wood burns, it will break apart and form a layer of red-hot coals. These coals provide a hot, even surface for cooking food.


Don't try to roast your apples directly over the flame. They will char instead of cooking.
Use a fire poker to spread the coals into an even layer. Make sure they're still close enough to the flame to remain hot.
 Use a vegetable brush to scrub the skins, then pat them dry with a towel. Any type of apples will work, but Granny Smith or Red Delicious apples make great campfire-roasted apples.
 Use either an apple corer or a paring knife to remove the cores and hollow out the apples. Don't cut all the way through, though. Keep the bottoms intact, since you're going to fill the apples with the remaining ingredients.


If you're using a paring knife, make four deep slices around the stem of the apples. Use a spoon to scoop out the core and seeds.
If you accidentally cut through the bottom of an apple, simply reinsert the bottom piece to block the bottom of the hole.
 Poke shallow score marks into the skin all around the apples. This will allow heat to penetrate to the middle of the apples as they roast.
 Evenly distribute the brown sugar and cinnamon among the four apples. Then evenly distribute the butter cubes among the four apples. Drop the cubes directly into the holes so that they rest on top of the sugar mixture.
 Take one apple and place it upright on a large piece of aluminum foil. Gather the edges of the foil to the top of the apple and twist, so that the apple is completely wrapped with a foil "handle" on top. Repeat with each remaining apple., Place the wrapped apples directly on top of the burning coals. Roast them for 45 minutes to an hour, depending on how hot your coals are. Use tongs to rotate the apples (keeping them upright) two or three times to ensure they cook evenly on all sides. When you can feel the apples give when you poke the foil with the tongs, they're ready to come out of the fire.
 Let them cool for a few minutes, then carefully unwrap the aluminum foil. The apples should be soft and steaming. Serve them with spoons that can be used to scoop out the flesh.

