 Upon completion, Alturus sends you to Dalaran with the quest Contact from Dalaran.;
, He gives you the quest Khadgar, to return to Shattrath.
 He gives you Entry Into Karazhan, which requires a trip to Shadow Labyrinth in Auchindoun. Your goal is to obtain the first key fragment, located near Murmur, the last boss in Shadow Labyrinth. An elite guard spawns when you open the container; loot the fragment off of its corpse. Return to Shattrath with your fragment. Note that it is possible to sneak by Murmur if you are a rogue, druid, or mage and fight the spawn without fighting Murmur.
 The second key fragment is in The Steamvault in Coilfang Reservoir. The container is in the corner at the bottom of a deep pool of water near the first boss. Note: The second key fragment was originally lootable from the box directly, and could be done solo by mages, druids and rogues. With patch 2.0.7, the key is now looted off of an elite guard that spawns when you open the container. For this reason, you may be more successful if you go with others. (Druids are still ok - he is a beast so hibernate will work when you need a rest)

, Entry into the instance requires a key or a rogue with 350 lockpicking. You need not kill any bosses to get to the key shard, located up the "glass" ramp in the first room where you encounter voidwalkers. As you enter, the container is to your immediate right in the corner of the room. Note: As with the second key, this one requires a group to kill the guard. Two rogues can distract the patrolling voidwalker while a druid (feral) and another rogue kills the guard (with the first rogue distracting joins the fight) can make things easier. Still stealthable, just challenging.
 He then sends you to The Black Morass in the Caverns of Time to speak to Medivh, who activates your key. Note: This step requires Opening the Dark Portal, where you protect Medivh from waves of mobs (including elites) while he opens the Dark Portal. From every sixth portal a boss will spawn. After the 18th portal the Dark Portal will open and the task is complete. You can now speak to Medivh and claim your Master Key to Karazhan. Note: If you are not inside of the instance when Aeonus is killed, you will not be able to speak with Medivh.
 He then gives you the quest The Violet Eye. This sends you back to Karazhan, where your Karazhan quests will begin.

