 Be polite, cheerful, and charismatic. A good attitude will help you more than you think. People will want to hear what you have to say -- after all, it's getting in the door that's the hardest part.


You don't want them thinking that you want to force your point of view on them. Be suave and confident -- they'll be more likely to believe every word.
 Show them all the benefits of your idea. Not for you, though! Tell them how it will benefit them. That always gets their attention.


Be honest. If you have a product or idea that just isn't necessary for them, they'll know. It'll get awkward and they'll stop believing even the words that may have truth to them. Address both sides of the situation to assure them that you're rational, logical, and have their best interests at heart.
 And be ready for any that you may not have thought of! If you've practiced your pitch and have sat down to give it a thorough evaluation, this shouldn't be a problem.


People will be looking for something to nay-say if it seems like you get the greater gain from the transaction. Minimize this. The listener should be the one who benefits -- not you.
 Negotiation is a huge part of persuasion. Just because you had to negotiate doesn't mean you didn't win in the end. In fact, tons of research has pointed to the simple word "yeah" having persuasive powers.


While "yeah" may seem like an odd candidate for a persuasive word, it seems to have power because it makes you seem agreeable and amicable and that the other person is part of the request. Framing what you're looking for as if it were an agreement, rather than a favor, may lead the other person to "helping out.", If you're talking to your boss or some other person in a position of power, you may want to avoid being too direct. The same goes for if your proposal is rather ambitious. With leaders, you want to guide their thoughts, allowing them to think they came up with it themselves. They need to maintain their sense of power to feel contented. Play the game and feed them your good ideas gently.


Start of by making your boss feel a little less confident. Talk about something he/she doesn't know much about -- if possible, talk outside of his office, where it is neutral territory. After your pitch, remind him who’s the boss (he is!) -- thus making him feel powerful once more)-- so he can do something about your request., Getting wrapped up in emotions never makes anyone more effective at persuasion. In situations of emotion or conflict, staying calm, detached and unemotional will always give you the most leverage. If someone else is losing it, they'll turn to you for a sense of stability. After all, you're in control of your emotions. They'll trust you in those moments to lead them.


Use anger purposefully. Conflict makes most people uncomfortable. If you're willing to "go there," making the situation tense, that is, it's like the other will back down. Don't do this often, however, and definitely don't do it in the heat of the moment or when you've lost a grip on your emotions. Only use this tactic skillfully and purposefully., It cannot be stressed enough: Certainty is compelling, intoxicating and attractive like no other quality is. The guy in the room who's spouting off a mile a minute with a smile on his face reeking of confidence is the one persuading everyone over to his team. If you really believe in what you do, others will see that and respond. They'll want to be just as confident as you are.If you're not, it is seriously in your interest to fake it. If you walk into a 5-star restaurant, no one has to know you're in a rented suit. As long as you don't walk in in jeans and a t-shirt, no one asks questions. When you deliver your pitch, think along those same lines.

