 Take one or two cinnamon sticks and place them in a pot of water. Put the water on high heat, bringing it to a boil. Let the mixture boil for a while, releasing the scent of the cinnamon into the air. The cinnamon will help disguise the odor in your kitchen and house.Make sure you watch the water levels in your pot. You want to keep plenty of water in your pot so it doesn't burn and cause more unpleasant smells in your kitchen.
 Just like it eliminates odors on your hands, you can use baking soda to reduce odors in the air as well. Take a few tablespoons of baking soda and combine it with a generous amount of water in a slow cooker. Turn the slow cooker to low heat and leave the top off. The heated baking soda will help pull the odors from the air.Instead of just eliminating odors, you can turn this method into an air freshener as well. With the baking soda, try adding a few drops of vanilla, a few teaspoons of your favorite spices such as cinnamon or clove, some essential oils, or a few slices of lemon. The baking soda will still eliminate the smell and the extra ingredients will replace the smell of onion with a fabulous new fragrance.
 This method will leave your house smelling citrus fresh. Slice a lemon and place it in a pot full of water. Bring the pot to a boil, then reduce the heat to medium low, simmering the mixture. The acid in the lemon will help pull the odor out of the air and leave a nice scent behind.You can also try this with oranges or limes. The acidic content in each fruit is similar and will have a similar effect.
Make sure you watch the water levels in your pot. You don't want your mixture to burn.
 A good way to chase out the scents left behind by onions is to bake something to replace the smell. Try baking cookies or a cake. Anything that has a naturally pleasing aroma will help cover up the odor of the onions and exchange it for the smell of baked goods. The added bonus is that you will have a yummy dessert after you're through., Before you start chopping your onion, mix some vinegar with a teaspoon of vanilla extract. Sit it next to your cutting board or work area while you cut the onion. The mixture can help soak up the smell coming from the onion and keep it from making your entire kitchen smell.


Move it next to the stove if you plan on cooking your onions. This way, it can help reduce the smell coming from the cooked onions as well., Burning candles can make a room smell great, but you can also use them to help reduce the scents left behind from cooking. Burn a candle in your kitchen to help reduce the odors left behind from chopping and cooking onions. Try scents that have citrus or vanilla in them. The extracts used to make these scents will help reduce the odors that remain in the air in your kitchen and around your house.