 Some airlines offer what’s called a commuter book (or, alternatively, airpass memberships). Commuter books are books of coupons (usually 10) that can each be redeemed for one one-way flight between two specific airports on that airline. You pay one set amount for the book and can then use the coupons to book flights any time in the future. These are an especially good option if you know you'll need to be traveling frequently between the same places but aren't sure of exact dates yet.The price of the commuter books varies depending on where you’re flying from and to, so it’s best to shop around before you choose one. If you usually fly in one area of the country, look for commuter books through regional, rather than national, airlines.
Once you're ready to book your flight, you'll input your traveler information and seat preference like you would when making any other flight reservation, but instead of putting in credit card information to pay, you'll enter the code off of one of the coupons in your book. Keep in mind that you may have to pay extra for things like flight insurance.
 Some airlines provide flat rate tickets for a limited time. Purchasing a flat rate ticket allows you to buy one ticket that you can use as frequently as you want within a certain time frame. These tickets are more expensive than a regular one-way or round-trip ticket, but it can work out to be much cheaper than booking multiple individual round trips.


Make sure you double check the details of any flat rate tickets you're interested in purchasing: you might be restricted in the airports you can use or the cities you can fly to.
With a flat rate ticket, the booking process works the same way as any other booking, but you would enter the information from your flat rate ticket instead of your credit card information.
There are now third-party apps and subscription services, like OneGo, that allow you to purchase a flight subscription for a set amount per month and give you the freedom to book with more than one airline. These are a great option for very frequent business travelers.
 If you’re booking large group travel, call the airline’s group reservation desk directly. Their representatives have considerable experience booking air travel for large groups, and they can help guide you through it.


Before you decide on one airline, call a few different group reservation desks to compare prices as well as flight details. It might work out that you can get a better rate or better flights if you book the different legs of your flights on different airlines.When you're ready to book a group flight directly through an airline, make sure you have all of the travelers' information in front of you: their full legal names, the type of ID they'll be using, their addresses, and their birthdates. The airline's group reservation agent will need this information to reserve your block of seats and issue boarding passes for all of the members of your group.
 If you’re booking for a group, you want to reserve your flights approximately 8 to 10 months before your planned departure. Airlines release individual seats for specific flights up to a year in advance, but they don’t release groups seats until later.Airlines release group seats at slightly different times, so check the specific timeframe for group seats with your airline.

