 Choose a ball that is specifically designed for the type of play for which it will be used most often. Ask yourself if this is for the occasional fun game, regular training, or official matches. From there, decide between:Premium match balls
Match balls
Training balls
Mini/skills balls;
, First, determine whether you will be playing inside or outside. Next, consider the surface on which you will be playing. If it isn’t natural grass, buy a ball that is appropriate for that surface. Choose between:Indoor balls
Beach/street balls
Turf balls for artificial grass

, If you are purchasing a ball to train for league soccer, buy the appropriate size ball for your age group. Refer to your coach or league officials to find out the exact size needed. This may vary from league to league, but they generally follow these guidelines:#5: ages 12 and over
#4: ages 8 to 12
#3: ages 7 and under
#2 and #1: not used in matches, but can be used for fun or to develop footwork, Soccer balls range in price from a few bucks to a few hundred. If you're purchasing a ball, consider what use it is intended for. Also think about how often you expect to use it.If you're just looking for a ball to kick around once in a while, a cheap one should suffice.
For children, purchasing a cheaper ball is usually a good idea even if they're in a league, since they will age out of the current size needed.
For extensive use, it's usually worth investing in a quality ball, since they are more durable.
Do a little research about specific balls if you're willing to spend a lot of money, since the most expensive aren't necessarily the best.
 If you're simply trying to choose the best ball to play with (as opposed to buying one), take a few from the bag, closet, or wherever. Inspect the seams to make sure they're intact. Discard any that are missing panels or have loose ones, since these will affect the ball's play. Then give them a few test kicks and dribbles. Pick whichever one goes where you intended it to go, at the speed that you wanted it to travel.If you have a pump handy, don't immediately discard any under-inflated balls. Balls with latex bladders are often considered the best, but they do lose air more quickly than others.

