 In love birds, droppings are made up of feces, urates, and urine. Urates and urine are produced in the kidneys, while feces is produced in the intestinal tract. In healthy birds, dropping should contain mostly beige/white, semi-solidified feces with a small amount of liquid urine. If your bird has more liquid in their droppings, but the fecal matter appears solid, this is a condition called “polyuric” that is sometimes mistaken for diarrhea. If your bird’s beige/white feces is watery or runny, this is true diarrhea.Some causes of diarrhea in love birds include:

Bacterial infections
Viral infections
Fungal infections
Changes to diet
Non-food items lodged in the intestinal tract
Ingestion of chemicals, toxins, or spoiled food;
, If diarrhea is the source of a medical problem, often it will be accompanied by additional symptoms. Pay close attention to your bird, and look for changes in their behavior. It can be helpful to jot down a few notes about your bird’s symptoms. This kind of record can be very helpful for your vet.Some symptoms to watch for include:

Ruffled feathers
Tucking the head beneath the wing
General lethargy
Loss of appetite or refusal to eat
Vomiting
Blood in the stool (which may appear black or dark green)

, Occasional diarrhea is perfectly normal. However, if your bird’s diarrhea lasts longer than 24 hours, returns frequently, or is accompanied by additional symptoms, you should seek the advice of your vet immediately.Birds tend to hide their illnesses as long as possible. As a result, when you notice symptoms in your bird, they may already be quite ill.
It is a good idea to look for a vet before your bird becomes sick. If possible, look for an aviary specialist.
 In order for your vet to make an accurate diagnosis, they will need as much detailed history about the condition as you can provide.Be prepared to discuss:

When the diarrhea began
How often it has occurred
Any additional symptoms and how they have progressed
A detailed description of their diet and how they have been eating
Whether or not they have been exposed to other birds and when
Any other medical conditions your bird has been diagnosed with
Any medications your bird is taking
Your vet may also ask you to bring in a stool sample.
 Diarrhea in love birds can be caused by a number of different ailments, ranging from serious to benign. As such, your vet will likely need to run a series of diagnostic tests to determine the cause of your bird’s diarrhea, and determine the best course of treatment.Some tests you vet might run include:

A physical examination
A complete blood count (CBC)
A serum biochemistry panel
An endoscopy
Fecal tests
X-rays

, Once your vet has diagnosed the source of your bird’s diarrhea, they can offer you some treatment options. Be aware that diagnostic testing and treatment for your love bird may be expensive. Speak to your vet about costs and payment options before you proceed. Some treatment options for diarrhea-related conditions include:

Hospitalization to provide fluids
Antibiotic or antifungal medications
Endoscopy or surgery to remove obstructions
Medications to protect and help heal the intestinal tract

, When your bird is experiencing diarrhea, it is important to offer a mild diet and plenty of fresh water. Provide your bird with the pellets they normally eat, but do not offer fresh fruit, vegetables, or other treats until they have been diarrhea-free for 24 hours. Also, be sure they to change their water regularly.If the diarrhea seems to have subsided, you may begin offering small amounts of fresh produce.
If your bird will not drink water, contact your vet immediately.
 Clean out your bird’s cage and remove any litter from the floor. Instead of adding litter to the clean cage, place paper across the bottom. Keep an eye on this paper, and change it daily, in order to monitor the status of your bird’s droppings.

Be aware that some conditions in birds can be spread to humans (such as Psittacosis). It is a good idea to wear rubber gloves and a mask while cleaning your bird’s cage and handling the bird while it is sick., Depending on your bird’s diagnosis, your vet may prescribe antibiotic or antifungal medication for you to give your bird at home. Usually this will come in a liquid form that can be added to your bird’s water.Follow all instructions from your vet.
Even if your bird’s condition has improved, continue to give your bird the medication for as long as your vet has advised.

