 There's no point in asking someone to join your clique if you've never talked to them before.;
, You want to give a good impression. If you ask someone to join your clique, then they will need to be able to listen and understand you, instead of noticing the fact that you smell horrible and haven't showered since last week.


Wear something that represents you. If you don't have pride in what you're wearing, it will show. Don't always try to follow the trends. If you don't fit in, don't try to.
Style your hair the way you like it best. You can make a nice braid, ponytail or just wear it down. Make sure it is clean and smells fresh.

Smell nice. It's not mandatory, but you might want to spray on some perfume, but make sure it is not too overpowering. Some people can't stand the smell of perfume if it is too strong.
 Before you ask, you will need to loosen up so that the person will be open to your ideas.
 You can also send a note. But asking them in person puts you in a better light, and makes it friendlier. You can be blunt, and just ask them to be in your clique, or just see if they want to hang out, then ask. Be nice, and don't pick on any flaws. The last thing you want is to have the girl you want in your clique to think that you're mean.
 Let them know what the rules are, but don't go overboard, or they won't understand a word you say.


Don't make your clique sound like something it's not. There's no success in having someone join only for them to leave once they learn the clique is not what they thought it was.
 If they refuse, play it cool. Just let them know that it's okay, and that they're welcome to hang out with you anyway. Say something along the lines of: "That's okay! Just know that you're always welcome to hang out if you want to!" You should never force someone to join your clique.
 Let your friends get comfortable with a new clique member. After everyone greets her, take your clique to do something fun, such as a swim in the pool, or a picnic at the park. You want to keep her interest level up so that she won't decide to leave. You need to give her a sense of what clique life is like.
 There's no reason to degrade someone because they're new to the group. Also, that will make your newest member feel left out, which is the opposite of what you want. Let her explore the clique for herself.

