 Your cat should be able to have at least ten to fifteen minutes of exercise each day. Playing with your cat will not only ensure that they get the proper exercise but it will help socialize them as well. It is important for you to interact with your cat as indoor cats do not have as many opportunities to socialize with other animals and people.Older cats will be harder to entertain for a long time so consider breaking up the play time throughout the day. For example, you could have five minutes of play before your cat's breakfast in the morning, five minutes of play after work/school, and five minutes of play before bed.;
, Catnip is a plant that causes energetic frenzies in some cats. You can buy a potted catnip plant, and sprinkle its leaves inside a ball, cardboard tube, or felted toy to entice your cat. You can also buy spray from the pet store and coat their toys in it.


Catnip is safe for cats, but some cats can get aggressive when exposed to it.Cats are usually affected by catnip for ten minute periods. After this point, they may need up to two hours before catnip will have the same effect again., Balls are great fun for cats. Your cat may bat, chase, and pounce on a ball, giving them plenty of exercise. You can have several small balls for your cat to play with. Different types of balls can keep your cat interested for a long time.


Some balls have a small space inside for treats or catnip. Your cat will work extra hard getting the treat out.
You can fold small paper balls for your cat. Simply scrunch up a small piece of paper or tissue. You can fasten it with sticky tape if you want. One standard sized tissue is the perfect size for a ball. Avoid making them too big as it won't roll as fast at the end as well.
You can spray a ball with a catnip if you want to encourage your cat to play with.
 Cats are attracted to moving points of light. Direct a laser pointer or flashlight against the wall. You can simply wave it around and your cat may chase after it.You may not want to do this in area where you have delicate or breakable items. Never direct the light against anything valuable, such as a TV or a vase.


Flashlights may work better in the dark where laser points will be effective in the light.
Do not shine a light or laser into your cat's eyes or you could damage their vision.
When you are ready to put away the laser, finish the game by pointing the laser at a crumpled up piece of paper or a ball so your cat can pounce on it. Otherwise, your cat might get frustrated or stressed by not having caught the laser. Turn off the laser as your cat pounces on the object.
 Ribbons, strings, and cords can be slowly dragged across the ground. Your cat will try to pounce on the end, or they may try to engage you in tug of war. If your cat does not seem interested at first, try wiggling the string or gently thumping it against the ground. Your cat may suddenly take notice and try to hunt the string.


You can also drag the string behind you as you walk across the room.Always put away any loose string or ribbon after you are done playing. If your cat swallows it, it can cause intestinal blockage., A popular cat toy is a wand with a string attached to one end. Dangling at the end of the string might be a mouse toy, some feathers, or another object.


Your cat may try to hunt this object. Slowly drag the string across the ground to get your cat to pounce on it or grab it.
You can also lift the toy in the air and swing it gently in front of your cat’s face (making sure not to hit them). Your cat may try to jump at the toy and wrestle it away.
You may also try tickling your cat on the stomach with the wand. If they roll over and expose their belly, gently bounce the dangling toy off their stomach., Cats can get bored of toys after a few days. If you want to keep your cat active without constantly buying new toys, you can put some toys away and put other toys out. Once your cat gets bored of these other toys, you can bring the old toys back out. Your cat may think they're brand new.