 Whether you are painting a room or just decorating it, the amount of light in the room may affect what color looks best in it. Lighting may be affected by the size of the windows, the amount of artificial light, and the direction that the room is facing.


Lavender, yellow, powder blue, orange, and bright pink are good for rooms with low lighting. Darker shades such as charcoal, dark blue, and brown work nicely in a room with plenty of lighting.North-facing rooms should have bright colors and jewel tones. East-facing rooms should feature oranges, reds, and yellows. West-facing rooms do best with neutrals. South-facing rooms do well with both dark and light colors.Cooler shades, such as blues and greens, may be better in bedrooms and offices whereas warm colors, like reds and yellows, may be better for living rooms and kitchens.;
, Bold colors will appear more vibrant against a neutral backdrop. When adding color to your house, establish neutral base tones to emphasize and brighten your bold palette. Keep about 80% of the room in neutral colors with the other 20% being your bold colors.Some neutral colors include:


White
Gray
Cream
Pale yellow
Tan
Beige
Chocolate brown

, If you want to mix and match different colors, choose complementary colors. These colors will work well together. They can both be bold without overwhelming. Some complementary colors schemes you may choose include:


Turquoise and red
Red and yellow
Green and pink
Orange and pink
Teal and copper
Lavender and yellow, If you only want to go for one color, find different shades of the same color, and layer them around the room. This will create depth without oversaturating the room with one particular hue.For example, if you want to add red to your room, find accents in scarlet, crimson, burgundy, maroon, and sienna.
 When choosing colors, you may want to have different palettes for each room in the house. This will give you some variety when choosing colors, and it will allow you to pick colors for the individual function and design of each room.


For example, you may decide to have a black, white, and red palette for your kitchen but a seafoam green, sandy brown, and yellow palette for your living room and a purple and gold color scheme for your bedroom.
Consider which rooms can be seen from other rooms. Choose similar or complementary color palettes for rooms that open up into each other.