 This may give you a slight advantage when playing against other people. Try to get a rifle and some sort of sniper or sword type weapon.;
, Aiming will be easier and you'll gain confidence in your weapon skill. This is the first step, psychological training.



When you have good confidence at sensitivity 3, you can either move up to 4, or stay and hone your skills at 3.
, Strafing is important because it reduces your chances of getting hit from ranged attacks (as in, other riflemen or snipers). Also if you're careful and control your strafing well, it can actually increase your accuracy.


When up against a person with good sniper skills, strafing won't help too much (they probably know how to counter it) at this point. It's a good idea to find a hiding place that has multiple sides to attack from.






Pop out quickly and lure them to camp at one side, then go to another side and scope em. This will knock them out of the scope.






Next, proceed to strafe while shooting them and they won't have a way to react quickly enough to live.






If they found cover, try to lob a grenade there. Even a grenade 15 feet (4.6 m) off target will kill. If you didn't toss a grenade, or did, but didn't kill them, then you can:






Rush and hopefully get them while they're still recharging
Camp them.


Less experienced snipers should be no problem, since often they can barely hit a stationary target.
 Become paranoid, assume all red blips are close range maniacs. This will naturally cause you to widen the distance between the enemy and you. Now, just pick them off with the scope. IF YOU ARE CAUGHT OFF-GUARD, run from them. Strafing will only slow you down here. Back pedal and start pumping rounds into their head. They will most likely be headed straight at you so this shouldn't be difficult. If you have plasma grenades, stick them on the enemy and run like the wind. If you think they are inexperienced, jump over their heads, and BXR them (B...XR) that's how the sequence works. Or, if they're very inexperienced, just jump, spin and assassinate them with a melee attack to the back.
, Two rifles doesn't mean 2x the power.

