 Talk with your family member about your concerns regarding his or her substance use. Try to do this in a way that is non-confrontational, supportive, and non-judgmental.


Focus on your feelings rather than making accusations or judgements. For example, you might say: "I'm really worried that your drinking may be affecting your health," rather than "you drink too much. Don't you know it can destroy your liver?"
You can ask friends and family members to voice their concerns as well. Help your loved one see how his or her addiction has affected him or herself.
Tell your loved one how her or his behavior, goals, or attitudes have changed since she or he started using. Remind your loved one about goals he or she held before, or the person he or she wanted to be., Do not ignore the drug use of your loved one. Instead, acknowledge the addiction and the strain it is putting on the family or relationship. Respectfully discuss this with your loved one and encourage him or her to seek help


For example, you might say: "I'm really worried that if you keep using drugs, something terrible will happen to you. I know it might be hard to give it up, but there are services our there that can help." You might even offer to help find a group, doctor, or therapist to get the process started.
The earlier your loved one seeks treatment, the better the chances of overcoming addiction., Talking to your loved one about treatment options can help the experience seem less threatening. Let him or her know what you have found in your research. Help your loved one understand that many others struggle with addiction too.


Let your loved one know that you will be supportive as she or he goes through the process of treatment and recovery.
Expect his or her reaction to be negative at first. Hearing that your loved ones want you to change and disapprove of your behavior is a hard thing to hear. Understand that your loved one may not be receptive to your concerns. She or he may deny that there is a problem or offer excuses for the behavior.Prepare to hear these things and offer support, but maintain your position.
 It may take some time before your loved one is ready to accept that she or he has a problem with addiction. It is important to remain supportive and remember who this person is apart from the addiction.Be ready to suggest places to get help, call and make an appointment, or attend appointments with them.
Your loved one may make several appointments then cancel them before attending. This is normal behavior for those struggling with addiction. Help remind him or her of why treatment is important.

