 If your dog barks compulsively for no reason, or tends to bark when she's left alone (in the yard, for example), she may be engaging in boredom barking. Dogs that bark when left alone may be experiencing separation anxiety, but there are usually other symptoms which accompany that problem, like destructive behavior, bathroom problems, and following you around when you're home. Common signs of compulsive or boredom barking include:


excessive barking in a repetitive patternpacing or running back and forth, usually while barking or shortly before/after barkingbarking whenever left alone (without other signs of separation anxiety)barking whenever you stop paying attention to her, Exercise and play time are the best remedies for compulsive and boredom barking. While walking your dog is, of course, an important part of getting her exercise (even if you have a fenced-in yard), it may not be enough. Try having your dog run back and forth between two people for 10 to 20 minutes, chase a ball or toy, or take your dog jogging with you before you leave for work.Giving your dog at least 20 minutes of vigorous exercise each day is important for her physical and mental well being, and may help reduce incidents of problem behavior like boredom barking.You should also spend some time each day playing with your dog. You can play hide and seek, or just toss a ball around and have her chase or fetch the ball., Learning and practicing tricks is an excellent way to prevent boredom in dogs and discourage compulsive behavior. Tricks require focus, attention, and retention of lessons, which can occupy your dog both physically and mentally.Once your dog has learned a few tricks, have her perform them everyday. This will help her remember the tricks she's learned and also help keep her occupied and engaged., In addition to exercise, leaving distractions around the house is a great way to inhibit problem behaviors like boredom barking. You can use a puzzle toy stuffed with peanut butter, or simply toss a handful of treats in various places around the room. You can also leave a radio or television on for the dog so the sound will distract her.