 Compression bags are fantastic if you just can't avoid taking bulkier items, like ski gear or heavy winter coats. Compression packing bags work by removing all of the air from the bag, so the items takes up a much smaller space than before. Many brands do their own version of the compression packing bag, including Spacepak bags from Flight 001 and Space bags from Ziploc., Bundling is the current packing method de rigueur which makes excellent use of space and prevents clothes from becoming overly wrinkles. It is done by wrapping several items of clothing tightly around a central object such as an organizer pouch (filled with more items - of course) to form a cylindrical shaped bundle. Several of these bundles can then be packed into a relatively small space, making for very economical packing.When using the bundling method, place the most wrinkle-resistant items like jeans and jackets on the inside of the bundle, and more delicate, wrinkle-prone items like linen trousers and fine knits on the outside.
Wrap each item individually, rather than all at once, making sure the fabric is pulled taut enough that it doesn't wrinkle, but not so tight that it stretches the material.Once you have reached the bottom of your pile of clothing, place the bundle into your bag or suitcase and pack tightly or secure tightly with the bags tie-down straps. If the bundle is not secured properly before travelling, it may unravel, causing your clothes to crease., Simply folding your clothes and stacking them one on top of the other is not the most efficient method of packing, regardless of how your mother used to do it. Folded clothes take up a lot of space and are more prone to becoming wrinkled during transit. Stick with the bundling method outlines above, or at the very least try to roll your clothes so they take up less room., Don't forget about all the empty space inside your shoes that you can use for storing smaller items like socks, underwear, jewelry or anything else you can think of. When packing efficiently it is important that you use up any and all available space.Once the shoes have been packed, place them at the bottom of your bag or along the edges of your suitcase.
If they're a little dirty and you don't want them touching your clothes, wrap each shoe tightly in a plastic bag first.
 Always put any heavier items like books, laptops, shoes or hair dryers (not that you should be bringing one if you're traveling light!) at the bottom of the bag or suitcase. This is because they are more secure at the bottom and less likely to move around during travel. In addition, putting heavier items at the top of your bag would increase the chance of wrinkling the clothes underneath.
 Item like suits or delicate, easily-creased dresses should be laid out flat at the top of your suitcase, in a protective garment bag, if possible. They should then be removed and hung-up as soon as you reach your destination.


If your items do happen to become wrinkled during travel, hang them up in the bathroom while you are having a shower. The steam from the hot shower should help gently work out any creases, eliminating the need to iron.

