 Avoid responding immediately to a request you believe you will turn down. A quick "No" will rob you of time to formulate a kind decline. A simple "Let me check my calendar and get back to you" will often work. This gives you time to create a response in your head.
 If you are lucky you will have a scheduling conflict. You can honestly decline due to the conflict. If the conflict is the only reason for declining, let them know so that they will know to include you later.If the person is persistent, they may ask you for a better time. Be prepared to respond with a more direct decline. When you see your calendar is busy, take a little extra time in advance to think about a kind decline if they ask for a better time.
 This is like saying you are free for anything a manipulative person is waiting to ask of you. Some people will ask about your schedule before making an offer or request. This way you have little excuse to turn them down without being mean. More importantly, you sacrifice the "Let me check my calendar" time to formulate a polite decline.If someone starts asking about your schedule, you can simply reply, "I don't know, why do you ask?" and remain polite. This is a good practice even if you intend to accept.
 If you know you want to decline before checking your calender you have a reason in mind. Do you dislike the task? Were you planning to go to that event with someone else? Think about reasons you can decline that focus on aspects of the offer or request and not aspects of the person offering or requesting.
 Once you know exactly why you are declining you'll be able to imagine how circumstances might be different. Maybe if they asked you to do something different or offered more money. Keep these in mind if the other party asks why you are declining.


Be cautious about reasons for declining a request.If it is obvious that the exhaustive answer would hurt their feelings consider a vague response. If necessary, you may be able to get by with "I'd rather not say."

, You may have made up your mind already but you must turn down a request to be polite. Ignoring the request may hurt their feelings or put you on a list of "have not replied." If you do not respond, they may assume you feel they are not important. Reply to requests promptly. Emphasize non-personal reasons for declining. Avoid disparaging the offer or person making the request or offer.
 Consider how fortunate you are that the other person values you. They may be disappointed but not hurt. Be polite and you can decline their offer or request without long-term hurt feelings.

