 Some of these distributors also sell tickets by phone and through physical locations. Consider downloading any relevant apps so that you can stay in the know about ticket sales. Make sure that you are buying from a reputable seller. If you’re not sure of their trustworthiness, look the company up through the Better Business Bureau’s website. You can also confirm that they belong to the National Association of Ticket Brokers, which means they agreed to practice basic consumer protection.Some examples of well-known ticket sellers are StubHub, Ticketmaster, and Live Nation.
If you’re buying online, get on the website at least 15 minutes ahead of the online sale and make sure you are logged into your account.Have multiple devices ready, in case the website is overloaded with many other users vying for the tickets.For example, try using a computer with a wireless router and a mobile device that uses its own network. Don’t use multiple devices through the same internet network, because your requests will be coming from the same IP address and you may get blocked by the website. Similarly, don’t use different web browsers on the same device., Go to the venue’s box office when ticket sales open. If there is a reasonable number of people standing in line, physical box offices will often count how many people are there and subtract that number from the public sale., Ticket distributors and venues often host contests that offer the public a chance to win tickets. Check their websites and social media pages. There may be a requirement to enter the contests, such as sharing a post about the event.


You will probably have a better chance of winning if you look for regional giveaways rather than national contests, or enter both. For example, if a national ticket distributor is offering a ticket giveaway, check to see if they have a social media account that is local to your state or city that offers additional chances to win., Go online and search for the artist’s name, along with the keywords “tickets” and “sweepstakes.” There are sweepstakes websites that specifically offer concert tickets. Sometimes music television channels offer sweepstakes for event tickets, too.
 If you haven’t gotten your ticket(s) yet, check in regularly with sources like ticket distributors, the venue, the artist or band, and promoters.. Extra tickets can be released a week before an event, or even a few hours beforehand.Held-back tickets that become available shortly before the show are often lower in price because brokers want to fill seats on short notice., If you’re having trouble scoring tickets, you may want to search for fewer tickets. The less tickets you need, the better your chances are. If you want to go in a group, you may want to split up the seating and just carpool together.You’re likely to get a good seat during a public sale if you’re only shopping for one ticket.