 To start your pregnancy journal, you will need to gather a variety of supplies. By getting everything you need in advance and making a firm decision to journal, you will be able to stick to your plan and create a beautiful journal. You will need some necessities, and may want to add some materials for fun. Some ideas are:


If you plan to keep a journal in written form, get a notebook with a hard cover, preferably with no lines.
Get wrapping paper to decorate the notebook, and scissors, glue, pencils, markers and anything else you plan to use to fill in the journal.
Get a camera to record images of important events during your pregnancy.
Get a computer if you plan to keep a diary in electronic format - in the form of a blog or video blog.;
, An easy way to structure you pregnancy journal is to split it into three parts, one part for each trimester. At the beginning of each trimester, mark your calendar and use it to keep track of important moments such as:


When you found out that you are pregnant
The first date you felt your baby move
When you told your parents
When you first saw a doctor

, To make sure that you are getting all the details of your pregnancy, start writing immediately. If you postpone your writing for later, you may find some of the details fade from your memory.


Write about how you found out that you are pregnant. Did you find out from the doctor, a pregnancy test, or your own intuition?
Take pictures of the test if you are able to. Were you planning to become pregnant or not? How did you feel when you found out? What was the reaction of your partner? How did your family react?

, Writing a bit about your biography will help set the stage in your mind for when you read your journal later in life. The background information will help bring you back in time, and allow you to remember how you viewed the world when you started your journal.


Refer to important landmarks and important decisions in your life, write about them and explain why you made them.
Finally, as the last important piece of your biography, specify your decision to have a child.
 Choosing a specific time to journal will allow you to stick to a schedule and consistently add to your journal. It can be hard to journal when your everyday life gets in the way, but you will grow to see your journaling time as a welcome respite from the pressures of the day.


If you have a lot of time and a lot of strong emotions, write in your journal every time you feel something noteworthy.
If you have a lot of obligations, mark important moments in the calendar at the top of each trimester, but take the time to write at least once a week or more often, when you are most motivated.
 Writing for more than 15 minutes will let you take note of things that you wouldn't think about in three minutes. Write about everything you can think of, from how you feel, what happened during your pregnancy to you and others, to any changes you noticed within yourself.


When you start writing, the words will flow.

