 This method does not require quite as much time as a full unraveling, but it will be more time-consuming than cutting your locks out.


Depending on how many locks you have, how old the locks are, and how much of your hair you intend to keep, this process could take anywhere from 2 to 15 hours.
 The exact length is yours to decide, but typically, you should plan on saving at least 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) to make this method worth the time.


This method works best if you want to keep some of your hair but have locks older than four years. When you've had locks for more than four years, it is best to cut off half of your hair or more before trying to unlock the rest., Use barber scissors to cut each dread one at a time, keeping roughly the same amount of each one intact.
 Fill a bucket or sink with warm water. Sit in front of the water and tip your head back, submerging as many of your locks as possible.


For best results, try to soak your locks for 5 to 10 minutes. Any amount of soaking time is better than none, though.
 Work detangling shampoo into your locks, scrubbing it in thoroughly using your fingers. Use hot water during this process, as well.


The water should be hot, but not hot enough to burn your scalp or fingers.
Washing your hair should help remove some of the build-up that would otherwise interfere with the unlocking process.
Rinse the shampoo out of your locks before continuing.
 Rub a little conditioner or specialized lock removal product into each lock, working with them one by one.


Do not rinse the conditioner out of your hair after applying it.
 Pierce the bottom of the lock with the tail or teeth of a metal comb. Use the comb to pick out loops and tangles within each lock.


Start at the bottom and gradually work your way up the rest of the lock.
Comb out the loosened hair after every 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so.
Repeat this process on each dread, working one at a time, until all the locks have been undone.
 After undoing your locks, apply conditioner to your hair again.


Let it sit for a few minutes before rinsing it out with warm water.
The extra conditioner you apply now should help repair damage to your hair.
 Brush out the loosened hair and carefully trim the ends to balance out the entire style.


Note that it might be easiest to do this while your hair is still wet. Dry your hair after tidying it up, not before.
 Your hair may seem frizzy and unhealthy at first, but if you wash it regularly and apply conditioner after each wash, it should become notably healthier within a week or two.

