 It may sound simple, but spend some time asking yourself what goals you want to meet and where the challenges may be. Your goal may be to overcome your problems associated with depression, such as getting better sleep, concentrating more effectively at work or school, starting to exercise, or getting back to hobbies and activities.How do you want to challenge yourself? What challenges appeal to you?;
, Don’t think of all the ideal things you’d like to be doing or like to have. This can trigger more depression when you fail to meet these lofty goals. Keep your items specific and attainable.Instead of vague, overarching goals, clearly define what you want.


Make sure the goal is attainable and not so distant that you’ll forget about it or become discouraged. For instance, if your goal is to complete college in the next year, but you've fallen way behind due to your depression or other factors, this might not be an attainable goal. Examine the courses you still need to take (and any you may need to retake) and set a goal like: "finish college in the next three semesters, taking one class over the summer."
Choose goals that are specific, encourage action and can be measured. For example, instead of the vague “stop isolating,” set the more specific goal of: “spend at least three days a week socializing with friend or family.”

, Figure out what is most important to you and your healing. Prioritize your challenges in terms of what may be most helpful to you. Especially if you have limited energy as a result of your depression, figure out what you need accomplished for the day or the week. Write down what you’d like to get done, then put them in order from most important to least important.If you’re in the throes of severe depression, getting out of bed or buying groceries may be your current challenge. Keep other challenges for later and work on meeting your basic needs.
For example, if you are considering medication to treat depression, make a phone call to schedule an appointment before you make other phone calls or respond to emails.
 While a goal may seem daunting, create small steps to complete over time to make the task feel more manageable.This can help take a ‘problem’ and turn it into a ‘challenge.’ Knowing you can complete the steps can help you realize that you can complete the larger task.


For example, if you’re unemployed and need a job, don’t get overwhelmed by all the tasks you need to do or give up trying because you lack energy. Instead, work on one or two things each day (update your resume one day, search online for opportunities the next day, reach out to your network on another day, etc.). Take advantage of periods when you feel motivated or at least can give a 20-minute effort each day.
 Tell some close friends what you’re trying to achieve and ask them to offer support and encouragement.Likewise, ask them to join you in supporting your goals. If starting to exercise to treat your depression is one of your challenges, enlist the help of a gym buddy or workout partner. If your goal is to get out of bed and take a shower, ask someone to call you each morning to check on you.


If somebody offers to help you, say yes. Let them know what kind of help you need, whether it be helping you with groceries, spending time together, or getting to work on time.
 If you have depression, incentives may need to be immediate in the beginning rather than too far down the line. For instance, if you complete your exercise for the day, you can watch an episode of your favorite show. Then you can gradually increase what it takes to achieve your rewards — and the rewards can become more elaborate as well. Rewards can help you stay motivated and feel good about your success.


Using the above example, you may eventually move to rewarding yourself for completing your exercise goals for an entire week, you can buy new running shoes.
 It can be so satisfying to cross items off of your to-do list. Find a way to keep yourself motivated and meeting your challenges. For example, use a sticker chart. Whenever you complete part of your challenge, choose a sticker and put it on a chart. While it seems simple, it can be satisfying to track your progress and add to it in a tangible way.


Use a phone application to track your progress. You can set goals and challenges and find exciting ways to meet them on a daily basis.
 While you may want to go to the gym and start exercising, you might not have the energy to do so. Ideally, you want to exercise 30 minutes per day. If this sounds like too big of a number to start, work up to that goal and don’t feel like you need to exercise that much today. Start slowly in your exercise and aim to take a walk every day.It may be easier to break up the exercise throughout the day. Try going for a 10-minute walk in the morning, then again at lunch, and in the evening.
Certain cell phone applications encourage working out and fitness through games, medals, and social motivation. Use one of these apps to challenge yourself to exercise.
If you have a dog, say that you’ll take a 10-minute walk before work and/or after work.
Think about activities that sound fun to you that are active. Maybe you’ve been wanting to try yoga, aerial hoop, or salsa dancing. Check out classes and make it a goal to go once each week.
 Alcohol can contribute to depression and make you feel a whole lot worse. It can become a vicious cycle of drinking to feel better and then feeling worse because of drinking.If you tend to drink as a way to cope with depression, challenge yourself to cut back and/or abstain from alcohol completely.


In some cases, it is not advised to cut back or cut out alcohol, as your body may become dependent on it. If you are alcohol-dependent, withdrawal can be fatal and you must be medically detoxed.
If you notice other substances affect your mood or contribute to symptoms of depression such as caffeine, nicotine, or other drugs, aim to stay away from those, too.If you need help with addiction, check out How to Find Substance Abuse Treatment.
 If you have a medical condition such as diabetes, cancer, heart disease, or another illness, depression can make these conditions worse and vice versa.In order to stop this cycle, take care of both your depression and your medical illness. Sometimes diagnoses can be a shock or you may be in denial, yet taking care of any illnesses is important in your treatment.


It is possible your depression is due to an undiagnosed condition. Make an appointment with your physician for a physical evaluation (with blood work) to see if there are any medical issues contributing to a person's depression.
Your doctor may be able to prescribe you medication, such as antidepressants, if needed.
If you struggle to remember medications, follow-up appointments, or other medically related things, set a challenge for yourself to fully engage with your medical treatment. Set a timer for daily medications and schedule necessary refills and follow-up appointments.
Sometimes medication can cause side-effects that worsen depression. If this appears to be the case for you, speak with your provider and consider changing your medications.
 If you have seen your doctor and ruled out any medical conditions that may be causing your depression, consider making an appointment with a therapist who can help support you and teach you coping techniques. There are many forms of therapy you can choose from, such as:


Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBD). CBD is considered an effective way to treat depression. Your therapist will work with you to challenge problematic thinking and replace it with more productive, healthier ways of thinking.Psychotherapy, or talk therapy. This type of therapy, usually done in conjunction with other forms of treatment like medication, can help relieve stress, keep you on track with your medications and goals, and give you a new perspective on problems.Interpersonal therapy. This is a short-term form of therapy that focuses on your interactions and relationships with other people.Psychodynamic therapy. This is another form of talk therapy, the type that is often depicted in movies or on TV. Your therapist will help you explore your subconscious and help you uncover any thoughts, feelings, or issues you may not be aware of., Depression often causes people to want to isolate and be alone. It might feel like a huge effort to spend time with people or even just to leave the house. Make it a goal to spend time with friends and family at least once each week. If you notice yourself isolating from other people, pick up the phone and call someone or schedule plans to meet up.If you feel lonely and don’t have many friends, consider volunteering with older adults, children, or at a spiritual center. You can even volunteer at an animal shelter or farm sanctuary to help animals and meet other people. Volunteering is a great way to help your community and meet other people.If you are far away from loved ones, make video and phone calls a regular occurrence. Even when there’s distance between you, you can still stay in touch and share in each other’s lives.
 Getting into a habit of regular relaxation can help you cope with stress and to calm down. Practicing relaxation for 30 minutes each day can help you to manage depression and can help stabilize your moods.It can also help increase your sense of well-being.


Make relaxation a part of every day. Set aside time to relax and make it special time each day. Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation. Find one you like and stick with it.
You can find free guided meditation videos online with a quick search and you can even download apps onto your smartphone that you can listen to on the go.
 If you feel like you tend to bottle up your emotions, find a way to express them. This can be a challenge in itself, especially if you’re not comfortable engaging your feelings! Start by buying a journal or find a private way to write online or in a word document. Spend some time each day writing about your feelings, and recognize it’s okay to have them and to express them.While it may feel uncomfortable or silly at first, stick with it. Challenge yourself to write when you feel anxious, overwhelmed, depressed, or uneasy. You can also aim to write in your journal at least once each week.
You can also confide in a trusted friend or see a therapist to discuss your feelings.
 Many people who suffer from depression have difficulty balancing their sleep, either oversleeping or having problems with insomnia. Consider your current sleep patterns and ask yourself how you feel. Are you getting enough or too much? Put some effort into getting good quality sleep. Make evening plans around your sleep schedule and prioritize healthy sleep.This can help you manage your depression more effectively.


Have a bedtime ritual that allows you to relax and fall asleep easily. This might include taking a bath, sipping some tea, and reading a book while listening to calm music.
Go to bed and wake up at the same time each day, even on the weekends. Having a consistent schedule will help your body settle into a routine.

