 A thong is the go-to underwear of choice for fashion stylists for many reasons – they’re completely invisible under even the tightest pants and skirts, plus because they lack seams, they can sometimes be more comfortable to sit on.In addition to reducing panty lines, wearing a thong can also help cure any acne you might have on your backside.
Certain fabrics cause friction when they rub up against the skin, which can lead to acne. Wear a cotton thong to avoid or help clear up any pimples you might have on your butt.
Many people prefer thongs because it’s almost impossible to grow out of them. Since there is less fabric, thongs tend to grow and shrink to accommodate any weight fluctuations you may have.
Wear a thong underneath a pair of tight fitting jeans or skirt.;
, The G-string or V-string as it’s sometimes called, is the skimpiest form of underwear. G-strings are similar to thongs, but with even less coverage on the back and sides.Wear a G-string with a bodycon dress or in any situation where you might otherwise choose to forgo underwear entirely.
G-strings are also a good choice if you're planning to wear a sheer dress or skirt.
 If you can’t bear to part with your fuller cut underwear, boyshorts might be a good alternative for you. Boyshorts are cut similar to briefs, but they fall under the butt cheek, which means they are less likely to be noticed underneath tight pants or skirts.Look for a lace boyshort – the lace will help the panty line look less conspicuous.
Always choose a flat lace. Textured lace will cause your underwear to bunch underneath your clothing.
Wear a boyshort under yoga pants for coverage and comfort as you work out.
 Laser cut underwear is the thinnest form of underwear available on the market and is meant to look and feel like you aren’t wearing underwear at all.Laser cut underwear comes in a variety of different cuts, so you can find a pair that feels comfortable for you.
Because laser cut underwear is seamless, it will never unravel after a wash.
 Men can get panty lines too, so if you're wearing a pair of tailored pants that hugs your rear, you may want to swap out the boxers for a jockstrap.Jockstraps can be purchased online or in sporting goods stores.
If you don't feel comfortable wearing a jockstrap, a pair of briefs is the next best thing for fitted pants.

