 Typing the essay on a computer will help you save time when you revise and edit the essay. If possible, type up your essay draft on the computer so you can revise it easily and efficiently.If you do handwrite the essay, make sure you double space it so you can add in edits or adjustments when you revise it.;
, To stay focused on your essay, make sure you reduce any distractions around you. Turn off your phone and your wifi connection, if you don't need the internet for essay research. Close the door to your room or choose a quiet spot in the library to write. Having less distractions will ensure you get the essay done efficiently and effectively.


If you are writing the essay at home, let others around you know that you are working and not to be disturbed. If it is noisy around you, put on headphones to block the noise out so you can focus on the essay.
 Start by identifying the topic, subject, or main focus of the essay. If there is a prompt or question for the essay, read it carefully to ensure you understand it. Read the prompt or question out loud. Underline or highlight any keywords in the prompt to ensure you understand the topic.For example, if the prompt is, “Explain the consequences of Mao’s Great Leap Forward campaign,” you may then focus on identifying the consequences of Mao’s Great Leap Forward campaign and analyze how it affected China in your essay.
 There are three main types of essays: analytical, expository, and argumentative. Determining which type of essay you are writing will help you better tailor your essay to the topic. It will also give you direction and focus when you sit down to write.An analytical essay breaks down a topic or concept to better examine and understand it. For example, an analytical essay prompt might be, “What is the source of the violence and unrest in Shakespeare’s King Lear?”
An expository essay teaches or illuminates a point. For example, an expository essay prompt might be, “Explain the consequences of Mao’s Great Leap Forward campaign.”
An argumentative essay will make a claim or back up an opinion to change other people’s point of view. For example, an argumentative essay prompt might be, “Do you think Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream is a comedy, a tragedy, or a combination of both? Why?”

, Once you have a clear topic for the essay, do a quick brainstorm to generate ideas for the essay. Brainstorming will help you get your ideas down and feel more organized going into the writing of the essay. Write the topic in the center of your paper or on a new document on your computer. Then, start writing ideas that are triggered by the topic. Cluster ideas around the topic as you generate them.You can also draw lines from the topic to your ideas. Try to list three to five ideas that you can use in your essay. Think about examples that work with the topic or that correspond with the topic.
You may need to review your sources to help you get ideas for the topic. Have the sources, such as online scholarly articles or textbooks, close by so you can review them during your brainstorm.
 Create a short outline for the essay so you are organized during the writing process and more efficient with your time. Start by writing the topic on the top of the page. Then, make a space that says “Introduction.” Underneath that, quickly note how many paragraphs you plan to have in the body of the essay. Finish with a space that says “Conclusion.”The standard rule is to have one introduction paragraph, at least three body paragraphs, or three supporting points for your thesis statement, and one conclusion paragraph. This makes a five paragraph essay.
However, many teachers will accept essays that are longer than five paragraphs and will allow you to have many body paragraphs in your essay. Speak to your instructor about their expectations on the structure of the essay so you can follow their guidelines.
 Once you have your outline, include a brief one to two sentence summary of what you plan to discuss in each section. Keep the summaries short and to the point. You can use bullet points or complete sentences.


Note what you will include in your introduction, such as a strong opening line, a thesis statement, and a discussion of the main points of your essay.
Briefly note the claim or focus of each body paragraph. Include a note on sources or quotes you will use in each body paragraph to support your claim.
Have a brief summary of what will be in your conclusion section, such as a rephrasing of your thesis statement and a strong final line.
 Your thesis statement will act as the guide or map for your essay. The thesis statement responds directly to the prompt of the essay and should be no longer than one sentence. Creating a strong thesis statement up front will help you save time as you write the essay. A strong thesis statement can make the essay writing process more efficient.


Your thesis statement should tell the reader the point of your essay. It will consist of two parts. The first part will state the topic and the second part will state the point of your essay.
For example, if your topic is “Do you think Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream is a comedy, a tragedy, or a combination of both? Why?”, your thesis statement might be, “Though there are elements of tragedy in Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, the structure, themes, and staging of the play fall into the genre of comedy.”

, As you write your body paragraphs, break them down by thinking about them as mini-essays. Each body paragraph should be at least three to five sentences and should be relevant to your thesis statement. Follow this structure for each body paragraph: claim, evidence, and analysis.In each body paragraph, start with an introductory sentence that explains what the paragraph is going to be about, or your claim. Then, use quotes from your sources as evidence to support the main idea of the paragraph. Finish by responding to the quote and analyzing how it supports your idea.
Make sure you end each body paragraph by answering the question, “What does this paragraph have to do with my thesis?” This will help to ensure you stay on track as you transition from paragraph to paragraph. It also keeps every body paragraph relevant to the overall idea of the essay.
 Your conclusion should include your final thoughts on the topic. It should also reword your thesis statement in a creative way. Do not add new information to your essay in the conclusion, as this will look sloppy and confusing. Instead, have three to five sentences that include your final thoughts on the topic.For example, you may reword your thesis statement as, “While there are tragic moments in Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, the structure, themes, and staging of the play fit within the genre of comedy.”

, Rather than try to work through the introduction cold at the beginning of the essay writing process, leave it to last. This way, you do not waste time getting stuck on the introduction and complete the essay more efficiently. Doing the introduction at the end of your essay usually makes for a stronger essay overall. It is often easier to do the introduction after you have examined and explored your thoughts in the body paragraphs.Your introduction should include your thesis statement. You may find yourself editing your thesis statement when you complete your introduction. This is to be expected, as some of your wording in the thesis statement may need to be sharpened or adjusted.
 Refer back to your outline and make sure your body paragraphs hit all of your supporting points. Notice if your thesis statement is present in your introduction and in your conclusion. Check that each paragraph develops a claim with supporting evidence and relates back to your thesis statement.Confirm that each of your body paragraphs includes quotes from the source text to support your claims. You should also cite your sources properly in your essay, based on whether your instructor wants APA or MLA style.
 Take the time to review the essay for flow and organization. Note if the transitions between each paragraph are clear and effective. Check that your sentences make sense and are easy to read. Remove any paragraphs that do not fit or rearrange them so they flow better.


You should also revise any sentences that sound awkward or long-winded. Break sentences up into several sentences if they are too long.
If you are revising a handwritten essay, only cross out a word or phrase once and write neatly above it. Do not write large marks or dark scribbles on the essay, as this will make it harder to read.
 You should also check that all your spelling, grammar, and punctuation is correct in the essay. Do this by reading the essay backwards so you can check each word to ensure it is spelled correctly. Always proofread your essay before you turn it in.


Reading the essay out loud can also help you catch any spelling, grammar, or punctuation mistakes.
If you are writing the essay in class, leave at least five to ten minutes to proofread the essay carefully and thoughtfully before you turn it in.

