 Check the eligibility criteria and deadlines.;
, Write your article keeping in mind the kind of people attracted to the publication. Remember, many of them may be experts in your chosen topic. Choose your subject and vocabulary suited to the audience demographics.
 You should have professional/personal experience or knowledge of the topic. You needn’t be a pro in the subject. You only need to know it well. E.g. If you were once in clinical depression and overcame it, you could write an article on how to recognise symptoms of suicide. You might provide a personal angle, unlike a psychologist. If you have loads of experience in dating, you could share tips with less lucky folks.
 All facts and figures need to be accurate, especially while writing technical articles. It is advisable to carry out background research for personal articles too.
 People are interested in people. If your story is filled with facts and figures alone, readers will simply shut the magazine and go facebooking. Sprinkle analogies and anecdotes wisely. Never too little, never too many!

, Sift through words and sentences; arrange and rearrange paragraphs. Think like a photographer: 'How can I present this article in a fascinating new angle?'

, Maintain a notepad and divide it into sections for ideas, research, statistics and references.
 Editors are hard-pressed for space and it is distressing to see a laborious article brutally cut down to fill space.
 It will start you in the right direction and you will come across as a knowledgeable person.
 The introductory paragraph should be attention-grabbing. It should contain the gist of the article. (You may break this rule when you want to entrap the reader into a mystery, in which case, you don't declare the subject of your article outright. But beware! You need to be sufficiently skilled to use this device.)Your article should have a logical flow and rhythm. The concluding paragraph should sum up the matter and leave the reader satisfied and even provoked for further thought and action.
 It may be full of errors. Never mind! That is why it is called the first draft. It is better to write slightly longer than the required length. One can edit in the next stage. If your first draft is shorter than the requisite length, it is tough to think up new ideas, especially while facing deadlines.
 Yes, it is important to have distance between your 1st and 2nd drafts so that you do not get emotionally attached to your work. In the editing stage, you no longer assume the role of a free-flowing writer but that of the brutal editor.
 Turn your article into a compact piece that informs and entertains in minimal words. However, avoid going to the other extreme and being too terse. Add and subtract points as you deem fit.
 Does it match the needs of your target audience as well as those of your publication?

, Are the grammar, spelling and punctuation error-free?

,, Take care of margins. Avoid fancy fonts: Arial or Times New Roman are good enough.
 In case of rejection, look for publications that accept similar pieces.
, Who knows when those trophies might come home with added bucks?

