 Hot peppers are hot because they contain capsaicin, a compound that gets the body to release endorphins. The pain that your body feels from the heat of the pepper causes the endorphin release as a way to sooth the pain.The hotter the pepper, the greater the endorphin release is likely to be; however, hot peppers can be extremely painful. Experiment with different levels of heat before trying super hot ones.
 This one shouldn’t be too hard to get on board with. Part of the reason people crave chocolate is because of the endorphin rush they get after consuming it.The higher the cocoa content, the better the chocolate will be for an endorphin rush. Check the label, as many finer chocolates will list the percentage of cocoa in the product.
Milk chocolate usually contains significantly less cocoa, so it will not be particularly effective.
 People who have low endorphin levels tend to crave fats and sugar. Eating a moderate amount of comfort foods that contain these pleasurable elements can help release endorphins.Don’t go overboard. Eating too much fat and sugar can make you sluggish. Eat enough for it to be pleasurable, but not so much that you feel stuffed.
 Alcohol should always be consumed in moderation; however, if you’re of legal drinking age, a glass of wine or a pint of beer can help release the endorphins you need to ease your pain.It’s easy to develop a tolerance for alcohol. To avoid this, avoid drinking too frequently. That way, you’ll be able to get the endorphin release without needing to drink excessively.
If you are a recovering alcoholic, or you’ve struggled with substance abuse in the past, avoid alcohol altogether.
 The scent of vanilla is thought to improve mood and enhance overall well being. Vanilla helps to reduce anxiety, which is often associated with depression. To get the health benefits of vanilla add some to your coffee before it brews, buy some scented candles, or add the essential oil extract to your bathwater.Another scent that may be helpful is lavender, which can improve symptoms of depression and insomnia. Add a little lavender to frosting if you're indulging in a cupcake, or try a scented candle or use oil in a diffuser.

