 If your symptoms change, you should call your doctor and make an appointment to be seen. They can help you to assess the seriousness of the change and what should be done, if anything. Your primary care doctor will most likely to refer you to neurologist during the flare up for the follow up and change of therapy.If you cannot get in to see your doctor for quite awhile, ask to have a consult over email or over the phone. Getting feedback from your doctor is important, even if it is not in person.
While initial diagnosis and ongoing monitoring of multiple sclerosis therapy, blood tests, and adverse effects of treatment can be addressed by your primary care doctor, periods of flare ups should be addressed by neurologist.;
, There are some MS flare symptoms that will get worse for a while but then go away. This is due to central nervous system inflammation that eventually decreases. Discuss all new and changing symptoms with your doctor and decide whether they need immediate treatment or if you can wait to see if they go away on their own.Some symptoms that may not need treatment include mild sensory changes and increased levels of fatigue, as long as they don't limit a person's activities. These mild sensory changes include feelings of numbness or pins-and-needles sensations. However, fatigue may be one of the first sign of a MS flare up coming on.
 Don’t wait until your symptoms become severe, or some changes may be irreversible. Most experts believe in initiating therapy early before inflammatory processes worsen the injury to the nervous system., If you are having a severe flare, then you may need treatment with medication. It is a severe flare if the symptoms are interfering with your daily life or your ability to function safely. This type of symptom flare could include loss of vision, loss of balance, tingling in your in your hands and feet, incontinence, memory loss, depression, extreme weakness, or an inability to move.Treatment for this type of flare-up usually includes a round of corticosteroids. A high dose of IV corticosteroids, sometimes followed up with a longer course of oral steroids, can help to eliminate inflammation in the central nervous system.
Common corticosteroids that are used for flare-ups include methylprednisone and prednisone.
There are other drugs used in managing remission-flare ups of MS such as disease-modifying/immunomodulating drugs which have been shown to greatly reduce relapses. However, it can take a few tries to find the drug that works best for the individual, and these drugs are available only by injection., If you have lost some level of function due to a flare in your MS, it's important to work to get it back. For example, losses in movement and balance can be counteracted in many cases by targeted physical therapy and losses in speech can be worked on with a speech therapist.Even setbacks with memory and mental acuity can be worked on with a cognitive remediation specialist.
Discuss your rehabilitation options with your doctor, your physical therapist, and any other health professional you deal with due to your MS.
 While it is important to continue on with your life even when having a MS flare, you need to keep your safety and comfort in mind. Thus, if you are having a flare you may need to adjust your activities so that you can avoid pain or so that you can protect your safety.


For example, if you are having increased instability when standing or walking, you may need to use helpful equipment. This could include a wheelchair, cane, or crutches.
 If you are having a MS flare, you may need to address the psychological impact of the setback, along with the physical impacts it is causing. This could be as simple as talking to family and friends about how the flare is making you feel so that you can get their emotional support.


Dealing with the psychological impact of the setback could also require discussing your problems with a professional, such as a psychologist or a therapist.
 While individuals with MS can have vastly different symptoms, there are some that are more common. Some common symptoms include:Fatigue
Walking difficulties
Numbness
Tingling
Stiffness
Spasms
Weakness
Vision problems
Dizziness
Bowel problems
Bladder problems
Sexual problems
Pain
Emotional changes
Cognitive changes
Depression

, There are some symptoms of MS that are less common but could still be related to the condition. If you have any of these symptoms, you may be having a flare:Speech problems
Swallowing problems
Tremors
Seizures
Breathing problems
Itching
Headache
Hearing loss

, In order to gauge whether your symptoms have increased or new ones have emerged, it's important to keep track of the symptoms you already have and how severe they are. Use a tracking form, which can be found online, to track your symptoms day by day.Tracking your symptoms closely can help your doctor to stay updated with your treatment's progress, as well as tracking any setbacks.
 If you have MS, it is very important that you take your medications regularly. The drugs your doctor prescribes can help keep your symptoms under control and can help to prevent flare-ups.If you are unable to cope with the side effects from your medications, don't just stop taking them. Instead, talk to your doctor about the side effects and what can be done to minimize them.
 Stress can trigger MS flare ups, so do your best to avoid stressful situations. Use relaxation techniques, meditation, or yoga to keep your stress level down., Many people with MS can get a flare when they are exposed to hot temperatures, whether it be from hot weather or being in a room that is extremely hot. It is best to try and avoid this situation if at all possible, in order to keep flares to a minimum.In order to avoid getting overheated, stay out of the direct sun and avoid activities that will cause you to get overheated. Additionally, make use of air-conditioners and cool beverages to stay cool.
Avoid taking a very hot showers which can worsen symptoms.
 Even a fever can bring on flares, so be careful when ill that you take measures to avoid getting a fever. This could include taking medication to keep your illness under control or taking a cooling bath or shower when you are beginning to get overheated from the illness.


If you are sick, you should see your doctor. They should be able to advise you about how to keep a fever at bay.
 The healthier you are, the more likely it is you will be able to keep the symptoms of your MS at bay. For instance, getting ill, such as getting the flu, can set you back and cause flare-ups. In order to avoid illness, get regular medical care, use preventative care, such as the flu shot, and avoid unhealthy activities and foods.An example of an unhealthy activity that can make your MS flare-up is smoking. In order to take care of your health, you should consider quitting smoking.
When exercising, which is important for your health, you should make sure not to get too overheated, which can cause an MS flare. Make an exercise plan with your medical professional so that you can balance the need for exercise with the need to stay cool.
 Local and online support groups can be a wonderful way to connect with others with MS. To find local or online support group go to National Multiple Sclerosis Society and enter your zip code to find a group near you or to join an online group.