 Baltic amber contains succinic acid, which is a natural remedy for inflammation and pain. Watch out for fake teething necklaces that are made of plastic as plastic will not work to bring your child relief. Keep in mind that some children may not have their pain relieved by these necklaces as it has not been confirmed that they actually work, though many parents and homeopathic practitioners believe that they do.When amber rests against your baby’s body, it heats up because of your baby’s body heat. When amber heats up, it releases oils that may help your baby to feel less pain while teething.;
, There are many fake amber teething necklaces out there. It is important to make sure that the one you purchase is real amber. To do this:


Heat the necklace by holding it near something warm, such as near a candle. If the necklace releases the scent of pine wood resin, it is real amber.
If the necklace begins to smell like its burning, it is most likely not real amber.
 Try to choose a necklace with small beads as teething necklaces could be a choking hazard if the baby were to lay down with a heavy necklace made of large beads around his or her neck. However, you should never leave your child unsupervised while he or she is wearing the necklace.


Look for beads that are round so that they do not have any edges that could cut your baby’s skin.
 Look at the necklace closely; can you see any knots in between each bead? These knots will prevent all of the beads from falling off the necklace if the necklace were to break. It is important to have these knots because if the necklace without knots were to break, the individual beads could become a choking hazard.
 Necklaces are generally 31 to 36 centimeters (11 to 14 inches) in length. To find the right size for your baby, measure the circumference of your baby’s neck. Then, look for a necklace that is a little larger than your baby’s neck so that it does not squeeze his or her neck.


At the same time, you should avoid really long necklaces that dangle down on to your baby’s chest. This is because a dangling necklace is more easy for your child to play with a potentially break.
 These clasps are the hardest to unhook, which is helpful if you are concerned that your baby will figure out how to take the necklace off.

