 You can bathe your hedgehog in a sink or tub in your home. However, hedgehogs slip easily. Lining the tub or bath with a non-slip mat will keep your hedgehog safe during bath time., This amount of water is enough that your hedgehog can comfortably stand in the water without being submerged in it. Do not fill your tub or sink higher than this for your hedgehog's safety., Hedgehogs should be bathed in warm water for their comfort. The water should be warm to the touch without being scalding. Strive for a temperature that would be comfortable for a human baby., Hedgehogs may squirm or become nervous during bath time. It's a good idea to have all your supplies laid out ahead of time. Place the following near your sink or tub:Tear-free baby shampoo
A towel
A soft toothbrush
Nail clippers

, Place a dime-sized portion of shampoo in the palm of your hand. Rub your hands together to form a thick lather with the shampoo. Gently rub the shampoo over your hedgehog's back, belly, and legs.Keep shampoo away from your hedgehog's eyes and face.
 Take your soft-bristled toothbrush. Gently scrub down your hedgehog's quills and feet with the brush, going slowly to keep your hedgehog calm. The toothbrush allows better control to get into hard-to-reach areas that you cannot access with your hands.Again, keep the shampoo away from your hedgehog's face and eyes.
 Pour a cup of clean, warm water over your hedgehog. Repeat as needed until the water runs clean. It's important not to leave any shampoo residue in your hedgehog's fur, as this can cause skin irritation., As you're already handling your hedgehog during bath time, it's a good time to do a routine foot and leg check. Things like loose threads and hairs can sometimes wrap around a hedgehog's foot or leg, which can result in injury. If you notice anything wrapped around your hedgehog's foot, carefully remove it during bath time., Remove your hedgehog from the water and wrap it in a dry towel. Gently rub the towel over the hedgehog until its quills and fur are dry. Keep one hand on the hedgehog and one hand on the towel as you dry your hedgehog.If you have someone helping you, have them warm up the towel with a hair dryer while you're finishing bath time.
 A hedgehog's nails are generally softer after a bath, so it's a good time for a trim. Hold your hedgehog's paw in your hand and, one at at time, use a baby nail clipper to clip off the tip of the nail. Only clip off a small portion of the tip to avoid hitting the quick.If your hedgehog tends to squirm a lot, have another person help you. One person can hold the hedgehog while the other clips its nails.
If you do hit the quick, apply a blood stopping powder, like Styptic powder, to the nail to stop the bleeding. If the bleeding does not stop on its own, see a vet.

