 If your friend has a partner, work together to come up with a plan. Her partner probably spends more time around her than anyone. They may know what to do better than you in order to help your friend. Stay in contact with each other and give updates on how she’s doing. Together, you may be able to get her through this.Ask your friend is it OK to discuss her condition with her partner first. Make sure she understands that you two are working together to help her get better. If she doesn't like the idea, back off and help in some other way.
 People deal with postpartum depression in different ways. Some people want to be surrounded by others while some may want to be left alone. Ask her what she needs the most and try your best to respect her wishes.


If your friend asks you for space, respect her decision. But let her know that you are always a phone call away if she were to need you.Make sure to keep calling her now and then as well. She may be asking for space as a way to push you away, but she will be grateful that you are sticking around.
 She may feel anxious to talk to a stranger about what she’s going through. You being there with her may give her the support she needs to feel comfortable enough to really talk about what she’s experiencing and hopefully get better.


Encourage your friend to also go to a support group for her PPD. Talking with other women who are enduring this depression may help her.Ask her what she would prefer for you to do during the appointment. She may want you to describe some of the things you have noticed, or she may just want you to be there as a comforting presence.
 If you see improvements in your friend’s condition, however small, make sure to point them out to her. For example, if you notice that she is getting out of the house more often, making time for her personal grooming, or even just smiling more, then these are signs of progress.

Try saying something like, “I am so glad to hear that you went to yoga class yesterday! That is a great sign of progress and a very nice thing to do for yourself.”

, While many mothers who suffer from postpartum depression quickly recover, some experience severe symptoms that can have serious consequences. If you suspect your friend has severe postpartum depression or postpartum psychosis, you should get her to an experienced mental health provider immediately.Severe postpartum depression, including postpartum psychosis, involves more extreme symptoms. Mothers may have thoughts of harming their babies, become violent, or have hallucinations or delusions.
If your friend makes a comment about harming her baby, seems confused, experiences blackouts, or claims to see or hear things that no one else does, get her to a doctor right away.You may need to call an ambulance or enlist the help of other people to help your friend. Remember that her safety and her baby’s safety come first and any anger she feels towards you for calling for help or telling other people what is going on is something you can work out later.

