 The amount of vinegar you use may vary depending on how many brushes you are attempting to soften. However, you should have enough vinegar to coat your brush/brushes from the tip of their bristles to the ferrule or handle base. Keep in mind that the vinegar will start to evaporate once it begins to boil, so you may need to add more.If you aren’t sure how much to use, aim for 2-3 cups.
 You are going to need to stand your brushes up, bristle side down, so make sure whatever container you choose has enough height. You can try using something like an old mason jar, or even an old, clean paint can. Just be careful as both of these items will be hot to the touch once you pour the vinegar.


You can also place your brushes directly into the boiling pot of water, but be extra safe!

, Once the vinegar has begun to bubble, remove it from the heat and pour it into whatever container you chose. You want to make sure you only pour enough to cover the bristles. If you pour past the brush’s ferrule it can loosen the glue that keeps the bristles together.


Let your brush/brushes soak for 20-30 minutes., If there is any excess paint leftover, gently remove it with a brush or a comb. You can use either a plastic brush or an old hair brush comb. However, avoid using anything metal as it can bend and ruin the bristles. Start at the base of the handle and slowly comb downwards.


If you can’t get all of the paint off, simply return your brush/brushes to the vinegar and allow them to soak longer.
 After you’ve soaked and combed through your brushes, rinse them off in warm water. You can softly massage the bristles as you run them under water. Afterward, take a pea-sized amount of baby lotion and work it through the whiskers of the brush in a similar fashion.
 If you still feel like your brushes are hard after rinsing them and applying lotion, cover the whiskers of the brush in hair conditioner. Then, place your brushes in plastic baggies, with all the bristles facing one corner. Once they’re all in one bag, seal it tightly.
 You don’t need to boil this water, just run the hot water tap to bathwater temperature. Then, make sure the water covers the bristles. This will heat up the conditioner, letting it penetrate the bristles better. Leave them to soak for about an hour, replacing cold water with more hot water as it cools down.


After they’ve soaked, rinse your brushes off.

