 One of the major symptoms of compulsive gambling is an obsession and preoccupation with gambling. You may think about gambling all the time and want to be gambling when you are not. You may get cranky when you can’t gamble, or schedule your life around your gambling.You may spend your time not gambling thinking about your past gambling experiences.
 Many people with a compulsive gambling disorder use gambling to escape from everyday life and troubles. Perhaps you use gambling to help you with your feelings of guilt or helplessness, or use gambling to make you feel better because you are depressed.When you feel depressed or stressed, you feel the need to gamble more than at other times. You distract yourself from your real life with gambling and finding money to gamble.
 People with a gambling problem become addicted to the thrill of betting. They feel excitement from placing bets and taking risks, especially when they place big bets. Due to the nature of the addiction, the risks generally continually get bigger and bigger, which can lead to debt and other serious problems.Because you may need a bigger bet to get the same thrill, you may start betting things you don’t have, like large sums of money, or placing bets with things you can’t lose, like cars, personal items, or homes.
You may find yourself having to borrow money or steal so you can keep gambling and making bigger bets.
 Compulsive gamblers are different than social gamblers because they do not set a limit for themselves. If a compulsive gambler loses all of his or her money, he or she won’t just get up and walk away. A compulsive gambler will keep playing so he or she can recover the money lost. This leads to more losses.Compulsive gamblers spend time they should be at work or with family and friends to gamble. They are unable to control the impulse to gamble.
You may have tried to stop gambling in the past but have been unable to stop.
 Another way to determine if you are a compulsive gambler is to look at your relationships. This includes your family or your work relationships. Compulsive gambling can lead to strains in your relationships because you are lying and hiding your gambling from your family. You may face problems at work because you are missing work or your work is not up to par because you are distracted.You may have put strain on relationships because you have asked to borrow money or failed to pay back loans you’ve received from friends used to pay your gambling debts. You may have upset friends by asking for money multiple times.
 Most people will be able to gamble socially throughout their lives without any problems. However, anyone can develop a gambling problem. There are some characteristics that increase your risk for a gambling addiction. These include:Other mental disorders. For example, compulsive gamblers are often alcoholics or have another substance abuse problem. Mental disorders such as ADHD, major depression, or bipolar may also contribute to it.
Age and sex. Being a compulsive gambler is more common in younger or middle-aged men. However, women can also develop a gambling addiction, especially if they are bipolar or have anxiety or depression disorders.
Family history of gambling.
Being competitive, restless, a workaholic, or easily bored.

