 Research the problems happening to animals and check out your local library for books about animals.;
, Show you care by donating to organizations such as WWF, ASPCA, The Humane Society, PETA, and the Sierra Club.
 Make a PowerPoint, Speech, Keynote, or another presentation and get the word out!, Make posters, T-shirts, buttons, leaflets, and brochures about animals. Pass them out all over your community and show people you love animals!

, Find some time to go to your local animal shelter and help the animals there. Even if you cannot volunteer time, donate newspapers or toys to a shelter near you. Different shelters need different things, so call or email ahead of time and find out what your shelter needs.
 If you see animal cruelty in your neighborhood, report it to a police officer or "animal cop" immediately.
 Reduce, reuse, recycle, and get a compost in your backyard.
 Lots of animals choke or get stuck in litter, so pick one hour each week to walk around town to parks, fields, school grounds, or elsewhere and dedicate that hour to picking up trash you see.
 Try to go veggie and encourage others to also!

, Tell the government to make stronger laws to help animals. If you really want to get them into action, make a petition and get everyone you know to sign it.
 Pet overpopulation is a big problem, but by spaying or neutering you can help.
 Don't buy leather, exotic skins, fur, or any other materials that harm animals. Instead, fill your closet with slogans and designs that promote an animal-friendly world.
 Instead of visiting zoos, consider watching animals in their natural habitat. If you like watching animals in zoos, try substituting by visiting the Humane Society's "Black Beauty Ranch" a facility that rescues animals from the wrong hands.
 Many products are tested on animals, so make sure your products all have a "not tested on animals" label.
 Go to theanimalhelper.com! This website has tips to help, fun facts, and it is a great source of credible organizations to donate to.

