 You will need two people to use this method, but it works well if you have to manually move large pieces of furniture like a large dresser or bookcase. Tilt the furniture backward so that one person carries the top of it while the other side stays low and the second person carries the bottom.Maintain this angle as you move.


This way you don’t have to lift the furniture all the way back up when you are ready to set it upright. It will also fit the angle of stairs more easily.
 Use your core and legs to lift heavy furniture rather than bending from the waist and using your back to lift. You can really hurt yourself if you try to use your back. Your thighs are strong and less prone to injury.
 Turn the chair on its side in an ‘L’ shape. This will make it much easier to fit the chair through doors and sharp corners.Moving heavy furniture is difficult enough as it is without having to maneuver your way through doors with trial and error.


Move the back of the chair through the doorway or corner first and then curl around the door frame to get it through easily.
If you’re confused about how to bend from your hips, start by squatting. Pick up the furniture from the squatting position using your legs to propel you upward.
 The lighter you can make a piece of furniture before you move it, the better. Taking the legs off of a heavy table will make it much less unwieldy. If the table can be broken up into separate sections then move each section one by one.


Separating a piece of furniture into component parts is always a good tactic. Remove each drawer from your dresser prior to moving it. That way you can transport the drawers individually and then come back for the dress itself.
 Trying to move a bookcase filled up with books will be a very challenging task. It’s going to be a lot heavier and you’ll have to worry about balancing the bookcase correctly so nothing falls out.


Take the time to remove the books. It will save you time and energy in the long run.
 If you are unable to find anyone to help you it is probably not a good idea to try to move a massive dresser down a flight of stairs. You might damage your house, break the furniture, or seriously injure yourself. Hiring movers can be pretty affordable if you’re only moving a few items.


Research moving companies in your area and call the company to get a quote.

