 To toast the hamburger buns for the crouton topping, the oven must be hot enough. Set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully preheat.If you prefer, you can toast the buns in a toaster oven rather than a standard oven.;
, For the croutons, you’ll need 3 hamburger buns that have been cut into 1-inch cubes. Lay the cubes out on a baking sheet so they’re in a single layer.You can use any type of hamburger bun for croutons.
 When the oven is preheated, place the baking sheet with the bun pieces inside. Allow them to cook until they become crisp and golden, which should take approximately 10 to 15 minutes.When the croutons are finished toasting, let them cool on the baking sheet until you’re ready to garnish the soup.
 Place a large skillet on the stove. Turn the heat up to medium-high, and let the pan heat for 3 to 5 minutes., Add 4 slices of bacon that have been diced to the hot skillet. Fry it until the bacon is crispy and brown, which should take approximately 6 to 8 minutes.You can substitute turkey bacon for traditional pork bacon if you prefer.
 When the bacon is done frying, use a slotted spoon to remove it from the skillet. Place the pieces on a plate lined with paper towel to absorb some of the excess grease.Allow the bacon to cool until you’re ready to garnish the soup.
 Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil to a medium saucepan. Turn the heat to medium-high, and allow the oil to heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 5 minutes.You can substitute canola oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 When the oil is heated, mix 8 ounces (227 g) of ground beef into the pan. Cook the meat until it is browned, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.As you’re cooking the ground beef, make sure to break it up with a wooden spoon so it’s crumbled.
 Once the meat is browned, turn off the heat. Remove the excess grease from the pan, and set the beef aside until it’s time to mix it into the soup., Add ¼ cup (55 g) of unsalted butter to a large stockpot. Place it on the stove, and heat it over medium heat until the butter melts, which should take approximately 5 minutes.You can also use a Dutch oven to make the soup.
If you prefer, you can substitute margarine for the butter.
 Once the butter is melted, mix 2 cloves of minced garlic, a diced onion, 2 stalks of celery that have been diced, 2 grated carrots, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of Worcestershire sauce into the pot. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined.You can adjust the amount of garlic based on how strong you want the flavor to be. If you aren’t a fan of garlic, cut it down to a single clove. If you enjoy a strong garlic flavor, add 3 cloves or more.
 When all of the vegetables and Worcestershire sauce are mixed, allow the mixture to cook on medium heat until the onions become translucent. It should take approximately 2 to 3 minutes.Be sure to stir the vegetables frequently as they saute to ensure that they cook evenly.
 After you’ve cooked the vegetables for a few minutes, sprinkle 3 tablespoons (27 g) of all-purpose flour into the pot. Whisk the flour into the vegetables and cook until it is lightly browned, which should take about 1 minute., When the flour has cooked into the vegetables, gradually pour 2 ½ cups (591 ml) of chicken broth and 2 cups (473 ml) of milk into the pot. Whisk the mixture as you add the liquids, and allow it to cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until it thickens.You can use store-bought or homemade chicken broth for the soup.
Any type of milk will work in the soup, but whole milk will create the creamiest soup.
 After the soup base has thickened, mix in 2 russet potatoes that have been peeled and cubed. Stir well to ensure that the potatoes are fully incorporated and bring the mixture to a boil, which should take about 5 minutes.You can substitute Idaho potatoes for the russet if you prefer.
 Once the soup base comes to a boil, lower the heat to medium-low. Allow it to simmer until the potatoes are tender, which should take 12 to 15 minutes., When the potatoes are tender, mix the ground beef, 1 ½ cups (150 g) of shredded cheddar cheese, and kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Stir well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully incorporated.Extra sharp cheddar cheese gives the soup a particularly strong flavor, though you can use mild or medium if you prefer.
You can substitute whatever type of cheese you like for the cheddar. However, make sure that it is a type that melts well, such as monterey jack, gruyere, or fontina.
 After you’ve mixed all of the ingredients, continue cooking the soup until all of the cheese melts. Stir frequently as it’s cooking to ensure that the cheese doesn’t stick to the pot.If the soup is too thick after the cheese has melted, you can mix in more milk until it reaches the consistency that you like.
 When the soup has reached the proper consistency, ladle it into individual bowls. Sprinkle some of the burger bun croutons, crisp bacon, and chopped chives over the soup, and serve while it is still warm.If you like, you can top the soup with other common burger toppings, such as chopped onions, diced tomatoes, and/or pickles.

