 Evaluate each part of the problem, and be sure you know what all the terms mean. History teachers place a lot of importance on context: the time period in which something happened, what was going on at that time, and the nationalities and personalities of the people who were involved. Be sure you always describe events in their correct chronological order – getting this wrong is a big faux pas in a history paper!


Why is this event, or time period, so important?
What are the most crucial elements of the situation?
Which people contributed to the situation being discussed?

, If your teacher allows you to pick the subject of a paper or an essay question on a test, the last thing you want to do is write the same thing everyone else will be writing. Your teacher will appreciate the novelty of reading something different for a change, and it will probably translate into a higher grade., Historical essay writing is based on a central argument, or thesis statement. This is your own, particular take on the subject matter, which you will then support in the rest of your paper.Don't simply restate the professor's assignment in your thesis – try to come up with something original on your own. If you really can't think of anything new, at least go with one of the less common interpretations.
To come up with a thesis, think about the instructor's question and ask yourself why it's important. Why do you think your teacher wanted you to research this topic?
A thesis isn't simply your opinion – it's more like the interpretation that you think is most likely true, after you do a bit of research. It's your spin on things, but one that you can back up with concrete evidence.
 Once you have your thesis nailed down, research your topic looking for those particular dates, quotes, and lists that are most relevant to your point of view. Then present this evidence in a way that clearly supports your argument.Always properly quote your source material, and create an accurate list of citations. If your history teacher sees one of their favorite books in your list, this will definitely impress them.
If you really want to impress your teacher, learn how to incorporate footnotes into your paper. A footnote is a way to back up your thesis by challenging the reader – in this case, your teacher – to check your source material to see how it supports your ideas. If your teacher isn't sure where you are going with part of your argument, this will help them understand your thinking.
 When writing a history paper, make an effort to seek out more unusual sources. Most of your classmates will confine their research to the first few Google results that come up, so everyone's answers will end up sounding very much the same. Dig a little deeper when doing internet research, or ask your teacher or librarian if they have any suggestions., Adding visual interest to your homework or research paper will go a long way in making it stand out from the crowd – too often, student history papers can come across as sounding a bit dry. Not only does it show that you put some effort into your work, it will make reading your work more interesting for the teacher.Be sure to make a note of where you found any photographs or charts that you include.
 If you are assigned a research paper, ask your history teacher if you can prepare a digital presentation instead. Create an eye-catching presentation with an online platform like Prezi.com, which is free to use for students. You can add interactive elements that will make your project fun to explore, and your teacher will be impressed that you made the extra effort.

