 There are three different credit bureaus that compile data on business’ credit history: Dun & Bradstreet, Experian, and Equifax. All three companies have roots dating back to the 1800s, but Dun & Bradstreet has been active in the US for the longest.


You can find the relevant part of Dun & Bradstreet’s website at http://www.dnb.com/duns-number/lookup.html.
Experian’s website for checking business credit reports is http://www.experian.com/small-business/business-credit-scores.jsp.
Equifax’s business credit reporting section is at http://www.equifax.com/business/business-credit-reports-small-business.;
, Your next step is to find the company whose credit history you want to research. Do this before you make a purchase, because all of the bureaus might not collect data on your target company. Anyone who is willing to pay can look up a business' credit report, all you need to get started is the company’s name along with the state and country where they do business. Of course, more information makes for a quicker search.


On the Dun & Bradstreet website, you’re going to do a search for a company’s D-U-N-S number, which is the identifying number they use to keep track of businesses. You can find the D-U-N-S number by looking up the business’ name and place of business.On the Equifax and Experian website, you’ll just look the business up by name and address., Once you’ve determined that your target business has a history with the credit bureau in question, all you have left to do is purchase the report. You’ll just need payment and identifying information—name, address, and credit card number. While there are levels of detail with respect to the reports the credit bureaus offer, as of 8-2016, the prices for a basic business credit report for each of the reporting agencies are as follows:


Experian’s basic report is $39.95. Equifax’s basic report is $99.99.Dun & Bradstreet’s basic report is $61.99.Sample credit reports are available for all three companies on their websites, usually in the section where you would select a credit report to purchase.

