 This may seem counter-intuitive, but a surefire way to stop obsessing and feeling bad over your weight is to get rid of your scale. As it turns out, the scale is only one - and not the most reliable - way to measure your progress. Plus, if you are climbing on the scale every morning and beating yourself up because the number stays the same or climbs, it's probably causing you more trouble than it's worth.Weight can be misleading, as 150 pounds will look totally different on a person who is 5'2" than it will on a person who is 5'7".
Instead of focusing on your weight, track your progress in more reliable way such as getting regular blood tests for blood sugar, blood pressure, and cholesterol. These numbers can give way more useful information about your health, and can also indicate disease if they are moving in the wrong direction.
Visit a gym or fitness center and get your body composition taken. Such a measure can tell you if you are within a healthy range for body mass index (BMI) and if you have lost fat and gained muscle, two factors which often influence what you weight may be on the scale.
 If you are feeling lousy about your weight, then following a healthy diet can help you feel more confident. This is one proven way you can take action against body self-consciousness. Strive to eat real, whole foods such as fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean meats, seafood, seeds, nuts, and low-fat dairy. Avoid refined and processed foods that have been altered from their original form.


Visit choosemyplate.gov to learn the recommendations for a balanced diet from the United States Department of Agriculture.If you are interested in receiving personalized, one-on-one feedback about your diet in relation to your current BMI and lifestyle, see a registered dietitian.
 The second most instrumental factor to becoming healthier is adopting a regular fitness program. This doesn't mean spending hours in the gym. A physical fitness program can include a range of activities you enjoy like volleyball, swimming, or dancing. Regardless of what you do, regular exercise helps you to burn calories, feel better about your physical appearance, gain more energy, and relieve stress., Goal-setting allows you to create a road map for your success. Defining our goals helps us to evaluate if our daily actions are moving us toward or away from them. Plus, achieving a goal gives you confidence and builds your self-esteem. If you are wanting to feel less self-conscious about your weight, you may strive to develop a weight loss or fitness goal such as eating more vegetables or doing a workout five days a week. Just make sure that your goals are S.M.A.R.T.Specific. You set a specific goal by answering the w's. Who's involved? What do you want to accomplish? Where will the goal take place? When will it start/finish? Why are you doing this?

Measurable. Good goal-setting includes tracking and measuring progress.

Achievable. Yes, you want your goal to challenge you, but you also want it to be something you can reasonably achieve. For example, you wouldn't want to set a goal to lose an obscene amount of weight in a short period of time.

Results-focused. S.M.A.R.T. goals focus on the outcome. You track your progress over time and see if you reached the goal in the end.

Time-bound. Timeliness is also important in goal-setting. You want to set a time-frame that is practical but also not so far away that you lose focus.
 Another way to kick self-consciousness to the curb is to feel more confident in your looks. Visit your hairstylist to get a haircut or style that is most flattering to your face shape. Also, go through your wardrobe and examine each piece of clothing you own. Ask yourself if each piece makes you feel happy, confident, and attractive. Are you constantly tugging or pulling on certain pieces? If certain pieces don't make you feel great, toss them (or donate to Goodwill).You may not have the cash to go out and pick up an entirely new wardrobe. Hold on to some things that you like, and as you get extra money, pick up new items that make you feel confident and like the person you want to be. You should smile at yourself in the mirror when you try these pieces on.
Seek out a boutique or clothing store that offers tailored, sculpted pieces in high-quality fabrics. These pieces don't have to be expensive but only look and feel of good quality. Choosing well-made pieces can go a long way towards increasing your confidence and making your body look more flattering in your clothes.

