 When you begin writing your letter, you'll want to make sure you are using the correct tone. You will want to make your letter a personal one and discuss the things you are appreciative of. However, you won't want to get overly personal, too dramatic or otherwise strike an unusual tone in your letter. Keep some of these tips in mind when writing your letter to help you find the right tone:Be honest and open in your letter. Feel free to share just how much your teacher's help has meant to you.
Be sincere and earnest when writing your letter. It's always a good idea to write only the things you actually feel.
Write in a respectful tone.
 Although there are no exact rules when it comes to writing your teacher a thank-you letter, you will want to try to keep your letter an appropriate length. Writing a letter that is too long may make for an unusual thank-you letter. Sending a letter that is too short may make your letter seem insincere. You'll need to decide what the right length for your thank-you letter is before sending it. Try to write only as much as you need to express your thoughts.
Most thank-you letters are only a few paragraphs long.
Your thank-you letter may only be one paragraph or a few sentences in length.
You'll need to decide how much you want to say to your teacher to determine the final length of your letter.
 Although you may think very highly of your teacher, it's important to stay on topic when you write your letter. Chances are, you'll have a few key points or maybe just one topic you are writing the letter to address. Try to write the letter so that it focuses only on the main part of your thank-you message to create a great thank-you letter.


You might be writing to say how thankful you are for help studying for your final math exam. Writing about the time your teacher helped you during a fund-raiser wouldn't be on topic.
You might not want to discuss how you loved the decorations in your teacher's class room if the focus of your letter is dealing with their help explaining a difficult concept to you.
 To help you keep your thank-you letter direct and concise, it can be helpful to think of the main points you want to make. Knowing what your letter is really about will help you focus your thoughts, write what you mean to say, and create a great thank-you letter. Make sure you know your key points before setting down to write your letter.
 To give you a better idea of what a good thank-you letter looks like, it's helpful to check out some examples. Knowing what makes a good thank-you letter will allow you to emulate the style, format, tone and structure for your own letter. Try reading over some examples to help you send your own great thank-you letter to your teacher.


For some examples of real letters that teachers have received, check out http://www.edutopia.org/groups/education-leadership/787686

To get inspired, check out some of these example messages http://www.greeting-card-messages.com/what-to-write-in-a-teacher-thank-you-card.php

Remember not to plagiarise any examples you might find.
 Once you know what you want to say with your letter, you'll have a few stylistic choices to make. Because thank-you letters are often personal, the exact style you choose will be up to you. Consider some of the following stylistic options to get an idea of how you might want your letter to look:


If you have clear handwriting, you may want to consider writing your letter by hand.
Typing and printing the letter can help make it easily readable.
You may want to consider the type of paper you are using. Different colors, textures or thicknesses can all help make your letter unique.
You should decide if you want to send your thank-you letter on paper or on a card.
 Your first step in creating your thank-you letter will be to write the opening lines. This opening will address your teacher and help set the tone of the overall letter. Carefully consider how you want to start your letter off to help make it personal, meaningful and appropriate.You'll likely want to address your teacher formally by including their honorific title and their last name. For example “To Mr. Stephenson” would be a good way to address your teacher by name.
You might start by listing a few characteristics you admire about your teacher and describe them in more detail in the body of the letter. "Mr. Stephenson, thank you for always being so patient and helpful." would be a nice start to your thank-you letter.
You might simply begin listing the things you are thankful for. "I can't thank you enough for all of your help with math this year." could be a good opening line.
 The main part of your letter will discuss the action or actions you are appreciative of. You'll want to think of what exactly it was your teacher did to help you and include that in your letter. Letting them know how they helped you is a great way to let them feel appreciated. Take a look at some of these examples to get an idea of what you might want to focus your letter on:"Thank you very much for allowing me to turn in my assignment after the due date."
"The extra credit you offered was such a big help. Because of the extra points, I was able to pass and I have you to thank for them."
"I can't thank you enough for your support and help while I was dealing with bullying."

, You'll likely want to include the impact your teacher's help has had on your life. Letting them know what a positive impact their actions have had on you is a great way to show your appreciation. Try to think of the ways in which their help has made a real change in your life to let them know that they are appreciated. To help get you started, try looking at some of these examples:"Because of your help with my math homework, I feel like I'm actually looking forward to the next math course."
"After your class, I'm certain that I want to pursue a career in chemistry."
"I never really believed that I could do well in school. Thanks to your help, I'm doing better than I ever have."

, When writing your letter, you may want to include certain aspects of your teacher's attitude or personality that you enjoy. These might be small personal details that you have found helpful, encouraging, inspiring or pleasant. Letting them know that you appreciate them for who they are, not just what they've done, is a great touch in your letter of thanks. Take a look at some of these examples to get an idea of what you might include in your own letter:"Thank you for always making your classes so exciting."
"I really appreciate your sense of humor and the jokes make class a lot of fun."
"Because of you, I find biology much more interesting than I did before."
"I wanted to say thank you for making us students always feel welcome in your class."

, Once you've written the body of your letter, it's time to think of a closing line. Your closing line will act as a brief summary of the letter, letting your teacher know what you're appreciative of and telling them just how much their actions meant to you. Try wrapping things up with a final “thank you” and by wishing your teacher well to complete your letter.You might write something like “Thank you again for all of your help this semester! It really was a huge help.”
Generally, you will need a closing word before signing your name. Use something like “sincerely”, “gratefully” or “respectfully” to end your letter.
Make sure you sign your letter by hand.
If you have difficulty signing your letter by hand, you can write or type your name instead.
 Before you get your letter ready to send off, you'll want to take another look at it. It's a good idea to check it over again and make sure it says exactly what you want it to. You may want to remove parts of your letter or add something else in. It can also be a good idea to check it over for any spelling or grammatical errors. Since you can't take the letter back, take your time and make sure it's perfect before sending it.


You might ask someone else to read your letter over to check for errors or offer suggestions.
Once you're sure the letter is in good shape, you can put it in an envelope and send it.
 After proofreading your letter and deciding that it's ready to send, you can deliver the letter to your teacher. The exact method you use to deliver the letter will depend on your own unique situation. However, you'll want to pick a delivery method that you feel most comfortable with.


If you wrote your letter digitally, you can try emailing it to your teacher.
If you see your teacher regularly, you might deliver it to them by hand.
You could try leaving the letter on your teacher's desk for them to find.
You can try asking your school's secretary to leave your letter in your teacher's school mailbox.
If you've graduated, you can try sending the letter to the school your teacher works at.

