 The most reliable way to catch a football is to bring your hands in front of you to form a diamond shape. You can imitate this hand position if you:


Bring your hands in front of your body.
Spread your hands wide.
Nearly touch the tips of your pointer fingers and thumbs., Look through this window to help position your hands in line with the oncoming football.


This technique is especially useful for training those who are new to football. Keeping eyes on the ball is a vitally important part of catching a football.
Underhanded catches result in an inverted hand shape: position your fingers slightly downward and touch pinkie fingers together., Allow your hands and elbows to follow the motion of the football, easing it to a stop.


By keeping your fingers spread and your hands "big," you increase surface area and make the ball easier to catch.
 Raising your arms stiffly to catch a ball dropping in on you will likely result in a fumble. Keep your arms bent, even when extending to catch a high pass. This will lessen the force of impact and improve your chances of catching., You'll need to protect the ball once you have caught it by tucking it to your chest, firmly holding it between your body and arm.
 There is no standard grip for holding a football, so the most natural feeling one is the one you should use. Generally, when throwing a football, you should:


Grip the back half of the football so that you can feel two or three laces.
Hold the ball close to your chest.
 A slight bend in your knees will engage your lower body more so you are prepared to throw at a moments notice. Some quarterbacks further recommend distributing your weight slightly more towards your back leg, allowing you to follow through with more body weight for a better throw.Your feet should also be shoulder width apart to create a strong, balanced stance that is ready to throw., Your throw will begin by you pulling the ball back high, so that your elbow is a little above your shoulder and the bottom of the ball about in line with your ear. Use your fingers to grip the ball and allow an air pocket to from between palm and ball., With your leading leg, step toward the target you are throwing at., Draw your non-throwing hand down to your hip and then out and away from your body to begin rotating your hips. Now square your shoulders so you are facing your target and pivot so your front foot points straight ahead., The motion of your left hand, rotation of your hips, and opening of your shoulders should have caused a follow through motion in your cocked and ready throwing arm. Allow that arm to:


Come forward, rotating your arm with the motion of the throw.
When the rotation or your arm causes your thumb to point downwards, release the ball.
Allow the ball to roll of your thumb and fingers., Follow it until your throwing hand reaches the area of your left pocket to train yourself in a consistent, smooth release.

