 Another thing your dog needs from you is quality time. In order to build a lasting bond with your dog, you need to spend some time with it each day when possible. This will help your dog learn to trust you and rely on you for the things it needs in life.Spend time with your dog by playing with it, taking it with you places, and letting it sit next to you when you’re relaxing at home.
 Let your dog know that you love and care for it by praising it when it behaves the way you want it to. Shower your dog with praise so that it loves you instead of developing a sense of fear toward you.Say things like, “Good boy” or “Good girl” to your dog and pet it affectionately.
 Spend some time training your dog so that it learns to behave the way you expect it to. You’ll need to practice some basic commands and focus on rewarding the dog with praise (and occasionally a small treat) whenever they get the behavior right.


The most important thing to remember when training a dog is to always be consistent. If you don’t want your dog to get on the furniture, don’t give in and let it on the couch with you occasionally when you want to cuddle. This will be confusing to your dog.
 Negative reinforcement is using pain or other forms of punishment to get your dog to behave a certain way. But this builds relationships based on fear rather than love and a desire to please. When your dog does what you want it to do, praise it and give it a treat. This reinforces the behavior in a positive way.This is especially important when you are training your dog, teaching your dog new tricks, or trying to house train the dog.
 One of the most important parts of providing your dog with what it needs is being a mindful guardian and pet owner. This means that you should be diligent in monitoring your dog for any signs of discomfort, illness, or anxiety. If your dog starts vomiting, has diarrhea, or seems depressed for more than a couple of days, you should take it to the veterinarian for a checkup.


If there is something that is making your dog anxious, you should try to lessen your dog’s anxiety in any way you can. For example, if your dog has separation anxiety when you leave the house, you can try using desensitization training to make your dog more comfortable.

