 Renters insurance covers the cost of lost, stolen, or damaged items housed at an apartment or home you are renting. In order to evaluate what kind of policy you should buy, you should make a list of items you own. You can add up about how much your total property costs so that, in the event of a total loss, you'll know how much you would need from insurance to replace your assets.


You can break down your items into categories to help with the process. Start with clothing and soft goods. That is, any shirts, underwear, socks, and so on. In addition to clothes, look at bedding items, like comforters and pillows, as well as things like rugs and carpets.Next, list your electronics. This includes stuff like stereos, computers, video games, iPads, cell phones, and so on.List your furniture and kitchen items. Furniture is obviously chairs, tables, and so on. Also, track your kitchen appliances and supplies, like dishes, toasters, and blenders.List any miscellaneous items. This can include bicycles, athletic equipment, books, jewelry, and so on.Write down serial numbers for items when possible.;
, Having photo or video records of your items will make filing a claim much easier down the road. Record as many of your items as possible, taking care to take clear photos of your more valuable items. Include these photos or videos with your list of items., Once you have a list of all your items, add their value together. Write down about how much each item cost next to where you listed the item on your list. For some items, you may know close to the exact cost. You may have remembered the cost of major purchases, like a television set. However, other items may involve some guesswork. A pair of jeans, for example, probably cost around $20. Figure the total cost of your possessions. This can help you choose the right level of coverage., When you've completed your list of items, along with photos or videos and prices, compile them together and find a safe place to store them. The important thing is that this list should be stored outside of your home. You can keep a physical copy at a friend or family member's house. Alternately, you can use a cloud-based service or your email to store your list online. This protects your list in case you are unable to retrieve it from your home (due to fire or flood)., Some renters may have special considerations to think about when comparing renters insurance plans. You may want to look into a specific kind of policy if:


You have a dog. If so, you could potentially be held accountable for injuries caused by your dog. For example, if your dog bites someone on your property you may have to pay medical bills. You want to make sure your policy provides coverage for incidents involving animals.Ask insurers in your area if pet liability is available as part of a renters insurance plan. This type of insurance may be included, but this depends on the insurer, your state's laws, and the type or breed of pet you have. If this is not available as part of renters insurance in your state, you can shop around for separate pet liability insurance or a personal umbrella liability policy.You live in an area that's particularly prone to a certain type of natural disaster, like flooding or earthquakes. If this is the case, make sure your renters insurance policy covers such disasters. You may have to look into a separate policy that would cover damage in the event of something like a flood., If you're unsure how much coverage you need, there are many calculators you can use online. Such calculators usually allow you to enter your monthly rent, estimated cost of your physical possessions, and other factors like the crime rate where you live. They will give you a general estimate of how big of a policy you should use based on your individual risks. This can be a helpful tool when making early decisions about renters insurance.Keep in mind, these tools only offer an estimate. They may suggest a policy that may be too big or too small for your actual needs. You should also talk to an insurance agent, and possibly an attorney, about your situation and ask him or her for suggestions.
 There are two basic types of renters insurance: cost coverage or Actual Cash Value (ACV). Both have benefits and drawbacks. Spend some time familiarizing yourself with these two types of insurance before deciding on a policy.


Cost coverage pays you the actual cost it takes to replace a stolen or damaged item. If a computer that cost you $1,500 was stolen from your apartment, a cost coverage plan would pay for a computer of roughly the same price.
An ACV plan will estimate the value of the computer at the time it was stolen and reimburse you that amount. As items, electronics especially, lose value over time, the amount you'll get in an ACV plan will not fully cover the cost of a replacement computer.While a cost coverage plan may seem like the obvious choice, there are some drawbacks. Cost coverage plans tend to have expensive monthly premiums. While they pay off in the event of a major emergency, assess your risk. If you live in a safe area that is not prone to natural disasters, you may be better off saving your money and going for an ACV plan., Once you've gotten a sense of what you want out of a renters insurance plan, meet some agents in your area. You want to sit down and talk to a variety of agents before settling on a plan.


You can browse online to find all the renters insurance companies in your area. Big companies, like AllState, usually have locations across the country. However, do not limit your search to larger companies. Local businesses can provide excellent insurance plans as well.Browse the policies. Each company will offer a different set of policies that offer a variety of coverage plans. Certain companies may not offer the kind of coverage you need, making it easy to veto these companies as a potential choice. Narrow down your list to companies that seem to offer what you need out of a renters insurance plan. Go back to the figures you got using online calculators and remember any special policies, like flood insurance, that you may need., Once you've found a handful of companies that may work for you, get quotes estimating how much a plan for you would cost. You can usually get quotes online. However, if you can't figure out a quote online, many agents will give you a quote free of cost. Knowing roughly how much you'll be paying is important. Certain policies may be out of your price range, making it easy to knock a few potential insurance companies off your list., Once you've decided which companies are within your price range, schedule a few meetings with a variety of agents. Many agents will meet with you for free if you're considering buying a policy from their company. It's a good idea to have a sit-down talk with an agent, if possible. You want to make sure you fully understand your coverage before settling on a plan.You may also want to read some reviews online before going into a meeting. While rare, in some cases agents may give false or misleading information. Customers may post warnings about this online.Keep in mind insurance agents are usually paid on commission. Their job is to sell you a policy. While it's unlikely they would give out overtly misleading information, it's a good idea to double check everything they say after the fact. You want to make sure any policy you take out works for you and your needs., When you meet with an agent, there are certain questions you should ask. This will help you make sure you know everything you need to know about your policy before making a decision.


Make sure you know how much of your stuff is covered. Most plans only cover the bulk of your items. Speciality items, like business-related equipment, may require additional policies. You should also make sure what kinds of accidents and mishaps are covered. Does the plan cover fire damage? Smoke? Explosions? Water damage from burst pipes?Make sure you know what happens if someone is hurt at your apartment. Policies vary greatly in whether they cover the cost of injury. The majority of policies will not cover injury in the event you sublet or lease out your apartment. So, keep in mind if you choose to rent your home out using a vacation rentals website (like AirBnB, HomeAway, or VRBO), you may need to purchase additional coverage.If you have roommates, you want to check to see if their items are also covered under your plan. You should also check to see if any items would be covered if they get lost or damaged outside your apartment. Many renters insurance policies cover certain expensive items damaged outside your home. It may be worth investing in these plans, especially if you have very expensive electronics you must bring to and from work each day.Take notes when meeting with agents. You'll want to consult these notes later when settling on a plan.
 Once you've met with a variety of agents, you'll need to sit down and review your notes. You should also consult the company website again. Compare and contrast the policies to find a policy that works for you and your needs.


To start, compare the coverage. Most policies will cover the same basic types of damages, but if you need special coverage for something like flooding, keep this in mind.Keep in mind how claims will be paid out. Actual Value Coverage takes into account how much an item's value has depreciated over time. However, cost coverage plans tend to be more expensive. Try to keep your needs in mind. How likely are you to have an item lost, stolen, or damaged on your property? If you live in an area with a high crime rate, or an area that's prone to natural disasters, you may want to consider paying some extra money for a cost coverage plan. If your area is relatively safe and an accident is unlikely, the extra costs may not be worth it.Keep the premium in mind. While low premiums may seem tempting, consider how much you're getting out of the plan. If coverage is minimal, you may want to pay a higher premium so you'll be protected in the event of an accident or theft., Before you select a company, do some research online. This is an important step many people overlook. You want to make sure you choose a company with a solid reputation. Avoid companies that have a bad track record and low overall customer satisfaction.Websites like Yelp allow customers to provide reviews. Browse websites designed specifically for reviewing insurance policies to find reliable providers.
While browsing reviews is important, keep in mind many customers often leave reviews when they're angry or upset. One or two bad reviews among many good reviews probably means only a small number of people had a bad experience. However, many bad reviews and a low overall rating may be a bad sign.
 If you're still unsure about which policy to choose, consider consulting a lawyer. While renters insurance policies are usually easy to understand, if you're confused about anything, a second pair of eyes could help. However, most lawyers charge if you ask them to review legal documents. Keep this cost in mind.
 Once you've reviewed all potential policies, select a plan that works for you and your needs. Contact the agent and he or she will walk you through the steps to sign up for the plan.


There may be costs along the way. Some plans may have sign-up fees or require the first and second month's premium upfront. Make sure to pay a little more when first obtaining a plan.

