 Theobroma Bicolor is native to lowland rainforests in the Orinoco and Amazon rainforests, primarily in Brazil. The plant is now cultivated in in the American tropics, tropical Asia, and Western Africa. If you spot a plant not in these regions, it is likely not Theobroma Bicolor.
 Theobroma Bicolor grows on what's known as the forest understory, or the the layer between the top and bottom layers of a forest. The height ranges from 6 - 12 metres (20 - 40 feet) but is normally at the lower end of the spectrum. Its leaves are long, ovular, and leathery and can be up to 30 centimetres (1 foot) long. The leaves are a vivid red when they first grow. The flowers are either odourless or lightly foul-smelling. They grow in clusters directly from the trunk and are about 1 centimetre (0.4 inches) tall and wide. Theobroma Bicolor flowers are white, rosy, pink, yellow, or bright red.
 The pods (which contain the seeds) can grow up to 35 centimetres (14 inches) with rare cases growing up to 40 centimetres (16 inches) and take less than six months to ripen. A ripe pod has numerous ridges running up and down the pod. Depending on the variety, the pod is can be pale orange, dirty orange, green, or a dark purple-green. On the inside, each pod holds between 20 to 60 seeds (also called beans). Each seed is about 2.5 centimetres (1 inch) long and is covered in a sticky, sweet, white pulp.
 Theobroma Bicolor lives between 30 and 300 metres (100 to 1 000 feet) above sea-level. The temperature must rarely fall below 20 degrees Centigrade (68 degrees Fahrenheit) or go above 28 degrees Centigrade (82 degrees Fahrenheit). The tree must be protected from wind as the root system is very shallow. Rainfall needs varies greatly depending on the variety, altitude, soil-water retention, but the minimum is 100 centimetres (39 inches) with 150-200 centimetres (59-79 inches) of rain spread throughout the year being optimal. The soil must have good drainage as the surface bark can easily rot and be rich in humus. As Theobroma Bicolor grows in the understory, the plant should be kept in good shade.

