 You might want to start with purchasing a Kong (or two) from your local pet store, a hard rubber toy that can be filled with dog food and stuffing (such as peanut butter or Kong stuffing, small dog biscuits or milk bones). Your dog will have to work at getting the treats out of the cavity of the toy, and this can keep them entertained for hours., Interactive food toys can be stuffed in a way that makes it easy or hard to get the rewards out. As a general rule, the smarter the dog, the more challenging you can make it. If it’s too hard, then the dog’s motivation disappears.
 You can use a mixture of dog food, dog treats, and additional flavorings (peanut butter, Kong stuffing).


Optional – place the toy in the freezer. This makes it take longer to get the insides out but is not necessary. You can use frozen treats, such as Frosty Paws dog ice cream, if you are going to freeze the toy.
 At a scheduled mealtime, call your dog, tell them to “sit”, and offer them the toy.


Supervise your dog while they work on getting the goods out of the toy. Note whether they move around a lot or settles in on one spot. Some toys require movement – such as the Buster Ball – so make sure that whatever falls out is safe for your floor and furniture (Frosty Paws ice cream, for example, is not the perfect add on to your new suede sofa.)

, Pick it up and check to see if they got everything. If they did, then you can try to make it even more challenging next time. If they did not, check to see what the problem was. Milk bones can cross at the gap and prevent items from falling out, stuffing can stick, and other random things can happen. Adjust accordingly by placing fewer or smaller milk bones in the toy, only having the stuffing at the edges, etc.
 Space them apart so that they do not settle in first thing and get them all right away. For example, you may want to place the Kong toy in the kitchen and a Buster Ball in a back bedroom (if your dog is free to roam in the house). If they stay in a crate, provide a couple of toys that don’t require a lot of movement to get the treats out. Make it as hard as your dog can handle to get the treats so that it takes time.


Alternate the toys and treats that are given to your dog so that each day brings a challenge.

