 It is okay to adjust your appearance and behavior to fit in, but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t be true to yourself. Don’t be afraid to like what you like. Own it. This will make you happier and more confident, which makes you seem cooler. On the other hand, someone striving too hard to be cool is obvious to everyone around them becomes uncool.
 No, being studious isn’t considered cool. Neither is being grounded. If you don’t do the work, your parents may keep you in the house, make you go to tutoring, or make you do the work later anyway. In addition, doing badly hurts your future and being considered dumb doesn’t make you look cool either.


You don’t have to announce that you love school. Simply get the work done and do the best you can.
 In the seventh grade, you’re bound to hear plenty of stories of kids who experiment with relationships, sex, drugs, and disobeying. You may want to pull away from parents and teachers, but you’ll have better results not going out of your way to break rules to appear cool.


The risks others take seem cool now, but the time spent being superficial and partying makes you miss out on long-term friendships.The kids who socially strive to be cool by doing things like shoplifting, cutting class, and having relationships lose their coolness as you progress in life and they don’t., Seventh grade is difficult, particularly when you’re around popular kids. Many of them act aggressively to others raise their own status. This however is stressful and nasty. By treating everyone with respect, you’ll avoid making enemies and many who are tired of putting on an act to be cool will appreciate it.


Greet people warmly without offering any disrespect. Do your best to be personable.
Avoid talking behind someone else’s back or other sorts of bullying behavior.
Don’t forget to be friendly to adults, too. Although you want to get away from parents and teachers, showing hostility isn’t impressive and leads to more trouble.
 Fights may be encouraged by other kids, but the flared tempers don’t leave anyone looking cool. When conflicts do arise, try examining the problem, reasoning it through, and discussing a solution. The seventh grade is a difficult time of life, so fighting and being catty makes you look bad when emotions settle and sets you up for future incidents.After you’ve identified the problems and given your perspective, listen to the other person’s perspective.
Don’t use what someone else says to provoke or attack. Instead, find common interests and use these to make a decision.
Showing that you’re in control and have leadership skills will make you seem cool and leadership skills can be used to impress adults.

