 This is the most common block in football, and all the rest, from cut-off blocks to trap blocks, stem from these fundamentals. A block has five distinct parts -- the stance, the run-up, the strike, the stick, and the follow-through. These five parts can be used whether you're a lineman or a running back, depending on the play and your coach's instructions., This stance is the base of every block, and how you'll line up on the line before every play. Getting it right is not about looking good -- it is about maximizing speed and power right off the whistle. Remember:


Feet shoulder width apart, up on the balls of your feet, not your heels.
Knees bent and slightly in front of your ankles.
Bent at the waist, never the back. Your spine should form a straight, diagonal line.
Dominant hand on the ground for balance and support. The other hand is low, parallel to the ground.
Eyes up, looking at your target., Your first step is short, using your non-dominant foot (left foot if you're right-footed) to get yourself into position. It should be a roughly 6-inch step, shifting your weight to effectively close off the running lane. You want your shoulders to match up evenly with your opponent's shoulders.


Stay on your toes with every step instead of going flat-footed.
Remember to keep your head up throughout the block, locking your eyes on your opponent.
 Your first step sets up your line, the second drives you into the block. Use your dominant foot for extra power, taking short, 6-inch steps that keep your knees slightly bent and powerful.


Shorter steps are more powerful, and you can get them in much faster than long, loping strides. This is why so many football coaches do ladder and tire drills to increase foot speed., Don't launch forward with your hands already extended. Rather, as you're making contact with that second step, drive your palms right below the shoulder pads, roughly between the numbers and armpits. You want this explosive contact to drive them back.


Your head is still up, not leading with the top of your head into the opponent. This is both dangerous and illegal.
 As you hands make contact, you'll likely be slowed by the resistance of the opposing blocker. Keep your feet moving with short, choppy steps as you bring your hips in closer to the opponent, keeping your knees bent and your butt low for power. Think of moving the hips forwards and upwards as you connect, continuing your contact forward.
 Pushing slightly upward takes the opponent off their feet, lowering their power considerably. This is why, when you rolled your hips under, you kept your knees bent for propulsive power up and out.
 You must keep your block up throughout the play, as you likely don't know what is happening behind you. While you might not be able to drive upfield, keep your feet moving. Drive into the defender to remove him from the play until you hear the whistle.Note-- on a pass play, you don't want to drive all the way up, you want to hold your line to protect the quarterback.

