 The best way to determine if your gerbil needs to be groomed is by examining his coat. If your gerbil's hair appears greasy or oily, it may be time to let him groom himself.Grooming takes up a great deal of a gerbil's day, and along with eating and sleeping, it is one of his main activities.;
, Gerbils naturally thrive in the desert.Because their natural habitat is dry and sandy, gerbils are not used to bathing in water. Instead, they take what is known as a "dust bath," which means they roll around in sand and use it to groom the exterior coat.


Use chinchilla sand for your gerbil's dust bath.You can find chinchilla sand at most pet stores, or through online retailers.
Even though it is called a dust bath, it's important to give your gerbil chinchilla sand. Do not give your gerbil chinchilla dust, which is a product at many pet stores. The name may confuse you, but remember to only use sand.
Do not give your gerbil sandbox sand or sand from outdoors. Store-bought chinchilla sand is the safest and most effective way to let your gerbil groom himself.Pour the chinchilla sand into a heavy crock bowl and leave it in your gerbil's cage at least once each week.
 If you have multiple gerbils living together (who are not aggressive or trying to breed), they will probably groom each other from time to time. This is a normal part of gerbil behavior. It's used for both cleanliness/hygiene, as well as for social bonding.Gerbils that are close with one another may groom each other on a daily basis.
You should still provide your gerbils with a chinchilla sand bath, even if they groom one another regularly.
 A common indicator of health problems in gerbils is a coarse, rough coat of hair. Though you may assume this means he needs to be groomed, it's actually a sign that something is wrong with your gerbil. Talk to your vet about possible causes of, and solutions to, your gerbil's condition.


In addition to a rough coat of hair, look for a dull coat, matted hair, and any underlying skin irritation.A healthy gerbil should have a glossy, smooth coat, plus bright eyes and a normal level of energy.It's possible your gerbil's rough coat is simply caused by his environment. Make sure your gerbil's cage is well-ventilated and kept in a stable temperature with humidity levels below 50%.More serious causes of a rough coat of hair include infection, parasites, or other diseases.

