 Your doctor may recommend that you take certain medications on a regular basis to help reduce the inflammation and pain caused by the arthritis. Some of these medications, like ibuprofen (an anti-inflammatory), does not require a prescription and can be taken several times a day. The following medications have been known to relieve the pain and inflammation caused by arthritis:Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs — otherwise known as NSAIDs, these types of medication include ibuprofen (e.g Advil) and acetaminophen (e.g. Tylenol). Most NSAIDs are available in some form as over-the-counter medications, but you can also get a prescriptions for stronger versions of NSAIDS (i.e. Tylenol 3s and 4s, etc.)Corticosteroids — mainly used to control inflammation. These drugs are administered with an injection. Oral corticosteroids may be given for rheumatoid arthritis.Analgesics — target only pain relief and do not control inflammation and include acetaminophen (i.e. Tylenol). Analgesics are also available in a cream form (e.g. Voltaren) and can be rubbed into the skin around the area that’s painful. Low level analgesics (like regular strength Tylenol) and a variety of the cream versions, are available over-the-counter. Stronger versions of analgesics are available by prescription.Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs — otherwise known as DMARDs, these drugs actually work to modify your arthritis. DMARDs are available only by prescription.Biologic response modifiers — used mainly for rheumatoid arthritis, they work to block specific steps in the inflammation process of your body. Biologics are only available by prescription.Osteoporosis medications — help to slow bone loss or help to build new bone. There are a number of drugs that are used to treat osteoporosis and all are available only by prescription.;
, If anti-inflammatory medications are not successful, your doctor may recommend getting regular injections at the site of your arthritis. These injections usually include an anesthetic and a steroid, and they can last for several months.While you may find injections successful, they are only meant to be a temporary measure and cannot be continued indefinitely.
 Splints can also be used on your hands and wrists in addition to, or instead of, medication or injections. A splint will help support and stabilize your hand or wrist in order to reduce the stress placed upon it by certain activities.Splints are normally worn for a limited time every day, as opposed to all day, every day. Most arthritis sufferers tend to use splints when performing specific activities which may cause them more pain, such as typing, driving, painting, gardening, etc.
 Unfortunately medications and injections do not always work as well as we’d like. Another option to consider is hand surgery. The exact type of surgery will be catered to your specific situation, but the main goal of the surgery is to reduce the pain over the long-term.Surgery where the joint can be saved or reconstructed is always the first, and best, option. However, if it isn’t possible to save the joint as is, your doctor may perform a joint replacement or a fusion.
Fusing the joint(s) together can significantly reduce the amount of pain you experience, but it will permanently remove any movement you have in that joint. The fact that the joint cannot move is how the pain is eliminated, as the joint can no longer rub together.
Joint replacement involves replacing your original joint with a man-made joint. Man-made joints usually consist of plastic, metals or ceramic and can last a very long time. A joint replacement will not only eliminate the pain you’re experiencing, but it will allow you to continue to use your hand normally.
 No matter what type of surgery you may have, you will need to perform hand therapy (a type of physical therapy) afterwards. Initially after surgery you may be asked to wear a splint full-time in order to limit the movement of your hand while it heals. You may also need to change the activities you perform until your hand or wrist is strong enough.Most people can recommence normal activities approximately 3 months after surgery. However, the speed of your recovery is high dependent on the effort you put towards taking care of your hand or wrist.

