 Authentic Moroccan carpets are hand-knotted. It can take months for a Moroccan artisan to complete 1 hand-knotted rug.
 Rugs are made in several density categories. The higher the knots per inch, the finer the weave of the rug. Intricate designs require higher knots per inch.


Select standard quality Moroccan rugs for basic wool and cotton blend yarns. Standard quality Moroccan carpets typically feature 20,000 knots per square meter (3.3 feet). Because of the looser weave, the rug designs are not as intricate as higher quality Moroccan carpets.
Choose high quality Moroccan carpets for better quality wool and cotton blend yarns. High quality Moroccan carpets typically feature 90,000 knots per square meter (3.3 feet), and have a crisper look to the rug designs than those classified in the standard quality category.
Purchase extra high quality for premium wool yarns. Extra high quality Moroccan carpets typically feature 160,000 knots per square meter (3.3 feet). Because of the dense knotting of the rugs, the designs are the most intricate.
 Most rugs are made of wool and cotton blends.


Choose 100 percent wool rugs for the highest quality product. Wool is the most durable fiber, but there are many grades of wool. For the softest grade of wool, look for rugs crafted from live wool, which is sheared from a live sheep.
Select wool and cotton blend Moroccan rugs. Wool and cotton blend rugs are the most popular type of Moroccan carpet. The rugs are durable, and the blended materials allow for design flexibility.
Avoid rugs made synthetic materials. Because they are hand woven with natural materials readily available in the local geographic area, authentic Moroccan carpets are rarely made with synthetic materials.



Purchase a rug made with natural dyes for greater authenticity. Rural rugs are typically made with all natural dyes. The natural dyes from from indigo plants, poppy flower and saffron provide rich colors. However, the natural dyes may fade over time.
Buy a rug made with synthetic dyes for a wider range of colors. Some urban rugs contain synthetic dyes, especially those custom ordered in specific shades. Often, synthetic colors can appear harsh on a hand-woven rug, so ensure the color palette is pleasing before you purchase the rug. Synthetic dyes tend to hold their color better than natural dyes.

