 If you're going to make the case that someone else bears responsibility for your injury and should pay you damages, you need enough evidence to overcome assumption of the risk.The most common types of sports injuries for which you can sue are those in which someone intentionally injured you, and those in which you were injured because a piece of equipment malfunctioned.
Unless you are involved in boxing or other fighting sports, you generally don't assume the risk that someone will intentionally injure you while playing a game.
The difficulty in these cases is proving that the person's actions were intentional, and not the result of an accident that occurred during the course of a game.
If a piece of equipment is defective and causes you an injury as a result, you may be able to sue the manufacturer of the equipment under products liability.
You have other options if you want to sue because your child was injured playing sports. You may be able to sue for inadequate supervision or improperly trained employees.
For example, if your child was injured during football practice, while the coaches were having a meeting in the locker room rather than watching the practice on the field, this could constitute inadequate supervision.;
, Based on the information you have about the incident and your injuries, you can best determine who is likely responsible for your injuries. Comparing the positions of different parties can help you determine which claim has the best chance of success.Amateur community leagues and school athletic programs typically require participants to sign a liability waiver before playing for them. If you signed a waiver, you won't be able to sue the organization or school in charge of the event.
In situations where you did sign a waiver, you'll have to prove that the waiver doesn't apply to your injuries in addition to proving that you didn't assume the risk of the injury you suffered by your voluntary participation in the sport.
If you've decided to sue the manufacturer because of an equipment malfunction, you may need to do a little research to find the legal name of the company, the location of its headquarters, and its registered agent for purposes of receiving notice of a lawsuit.
 Before you commit to filing a lawsuit, you may want to send a letter to the person, organization, or business you intend to sue. Provide a brief summary of the incident and injuries and ask them to pay you damages.If you plan to file your lawsuit in small claims court, many require you to send a demand letter before you can file suit.
In your letter, summarize the incident using as many specific details as possible. Tell the person you believe he or she is responsible for your injuries, and provide the amount of money to which you believe you are entitled.
Give the person a deadline for responding to your letter, at which point you will file a lawsuit if he or she refuses. Allowing two weeks for a response from the date of receipt is reasonable.
Send your letter using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you'll know when the person receives the letter.
Make a copy of your letter before you send it. Not only will you need it for your records, but you may need to file it with your complaint.
 If you decide to file a lawsuit, hiring an attorney will provide you with the best chances of success. An experienced personal injury attorney knows what evidence you will need to prove your case and how to get over the hurdle of assumption of the risk.If your injuries are less serious and your damages are minimal, you typically can handle the case in small claims court by yourself, rather than hiring an attorney.
Keep in mind that small claims courts only allow you to sue for a small amount of money, although the maximum differs significantly from state to state. You can check the website or call the clerk of the small claims court nearest you to find out what limits apply to you.
If your damages are too extensive to file in small claims court, you should hire an attorney to represent you when you file your lawsuit.
Personal injury attorneys typically work on contingency, meaning you don't have to worry about out-of-pocket legal fees. With this in mind, you have little excuse not to take advantage of an attorney's skills and expertise – particularly given that lawsuits for sports injuries are incredibly difficult to prove.
 Your complaint is the document used by the courts to initiate your lawsuit. It identifies you and the defendant (the person you're suing), lists your allegations, and explains why the defendant is liable for your injuries.If you've hired a personal injury attorney, he or she will draft this document for you with your assistance. You will have to provide information about the incident that caused your injury so your attorney can accurately write the allegations.
You also will need information about your medical costs so your attorney can calculate your damages.
If you're filing in small claims court, you'll have to draft your complaint yourself. Most small claims courts have fill-in-the-blank forms you can use, which may be available for download from the court's website.
When you finish your form and sign it, make at least two copies. You'll need one for your records and one to deliver to the defendant.
 Once you and your attorney have completed your complaint, you must take it to the clerk of the court where you want your lawsuit heard. the clerk will file your complaint with the court to initiate your lawsuit.You will have to pay a filing fee of several hundred dollars. If your attorney is working on contingency, he or she will pay this fee and add it to the court costs to be deducted from any settlement or award you receive.
In small claims court, you will have to pay this fee yourself. Small claims fees typically are much less than civil court, and may be less than a hundred dollars.
If you still don't believe you can afford to pay the filing fee, ask the clerk for a fee waiver application. You must disclose information about your income and assets, but if you qualify you won't have to pay any court costs for your case.
The clerk will assign your case to a judge and give it a unique case number. That number will be used to identify your case in the court and will appear on all documents filed.
 After you've filed your complaint, you typically must arrange for it to be hand-delivered to the defendant along with a summons, so he or she has proper legal notice of the lawsuit. This is referred to as service of process.Technically, anyone over the age of 18 who isn't involved in your lawsuit can serve the complaint on the defendant. However, most people prefer to use a sheriff's deputy or a private process serving company to ensure everything is done properly.
If you filed your lawsuit in state court, the summons and complaint typically are hand-delivered by a sheriff's deputy, who then completes a proof of service document to be filed with the court.
Some states permit service using certified mail with returned receipt requested. If you are suing a corporation or organization, you may prefer to use this method.
 Once the defendant has been served, he or she has between 20 and 30 days, depending on the rules in your jurisdiction, to file a response to your complaint.If the defendant doesn't file any response to your lawsuit before the court's deadline, you can file a motion for a default judgment. If the judge grants your motion, you've won your case – you just have to enforce the judgment.
However, don't expect this to happen. Because it's very difficult to prove that the person you're suing is liable for your sports injuries, he or she typically will fight back.
In some small claims courts, you must make an initial appearance in court before your case will be scheduled for trial. If the defendant doesn't appear, you may be entitled to a default judgment provided you can prove the amount of your damages, so make sure you bring all of your medical bills and other related documents to the initial hearing.
 Particularly in a sports injury lawsuit, you can assume that the defendant will file a motion to dismiss your case for failure to state a claim – also known as a summary judgment motion. You must attend a hearing and argue against this motion to keep your case and your chances for recovery alive.Typically the defendant will assert that you assumed the risk of your injury when you volunteered to participate in sports activity. You must present evidence that would tend to prove that your injury fell outside any risk you assumed.
If you've filed a small claims lawsuit, you won't go through this stage of litigation – but you can expect the defendant to raise similar arguments at your small claims hearing.
Keep in mind that the general rule with respect to sports injuries is no liability. The defendant's summary judgment motion will state that even if all the allegations in your complaint are true, you have no legal remedy – meaning the law doesn't hold the defendant liable for your injuries.
Although a summary judgment hearing is not a trial, and you don't have to present any evidence to prove your allegations, the preparation required can make it feel like a trial.
Your allegations will be treated as though they are true. However, you must prove that the law holds the defendant liable for your injuries. This is primarily a legal argument that will be made by your attorney, although in some situations you may be called upon to testify as a witness.
 Provided you defeat the defendant's motion to dismiss, you're in a good position to send the defendant a letter with an official demand to settle the lawsuit. Work with your attorney to calculate an appropriate demand and settlement range.If the defendant files a motion for summary judgment, he or she likely will be unwilling to discuss a settlement until after the court has ruled on the motion. No defendant is going to pay out a settlement for a case he or she believes the court will dismiss.
However, if the judge rules in your favor and allows the case to proceed, the defendant probably will be more interested in settling as opposed to going through the time and expense of litigation, as well as a public trial.
A public trial could be very damaging to the defendant's reputation, particularly if you are suing a community organization or a school. News of your lawsuit also could inspire others who were injured in athletic contests sponsored by the same school or organization to file their own lawsuits.
 If you and the defendant are unable to reach a settlement privately, you may benefit from the assistance of a mediator. Mediators are neutral third parties trained in dispute resolution, and they can facilitate negotiations to put you on the path toward settlement.Some courts require parties to attempt mediation before a trial will be scheduled.
The mediator will meet with all of you together in the beginning, to get an opening statement from each party and discuss mediation procedures.
Then you and the defendant will be separated, and the mediator will meet with each of you individually.
Often you will get very low settlement offers from the defendant in the beginning – you may even be insulted. However, it is the mediator's job to work the two of you together towards a mutually agreeable solution.
Any agreement you make in mediation typically will be written up by the mediator. Once both of you have signed the agreement, it becomes legally enforceable.
If you aren't able to resolve the dispute in mediation, you must continue with litigation towards trial. In courts that require an attempt at mediation, the mediator typically will fill out a form for you to file with the court that indicates the two parties reached an impasse in negotiations and were unable to settle the dispute.
 If you are unable to reach a settlement with the defendant, you will continue pretrial litigation with an eye toward trial.Keep in mind that the overwhelming majority of personal injury lawsuits settle before trial.
Just because you were unable to reach a settlement at one point during litigation doesn't mean it won't happen later. Litigation in personal injury lawsuits can be long and expensive, and the more it drags on, the more the defendant may be inclined to settle.
Through litigation, you will use various discovery tools to gain evidence and information to use at trial, including sending written questions and requests for production as well as conducting interviews of parties and witnesses under oath, called depositions.
After a particularly damaging deposition, for example, the defendant may renew settlement discussions or put a higher settlement offer on the table.

