 Before you can become who you want to be, you have to realize who this new person is. Record all of your aspirations and goals. Make these dreams as specific as possible. Afterwards, go back through the list. Each goal should be realistic, and positive while focusing on yourself. Realistic means that the dream is reasonable and can be achieved. If you’ve never played golf before, it might not be realistic that you will become a famous golfer, but it may be realistic that you can learn how to play.
Positive means that the goals are good things that will happen to you. Erase any negativity from your dream list. Affirmation will put you further than doubt and uncertainty will.
The goal should be about yourself, not other people. Instead of saying, “I want my boss to like me more,” try framing it as “I want to become more assertive and responsible in the workplace."

, Visualizing your dreams on a daily basis can help motivate you. A vision board is a collage of all your aspirations and dreams. Find pictures that represent what you want out of life. These could be images of material objects such as a nice house, pictures related to your ideal career, or photos of a happy social life. You create the board by gluing these pictures onto a poster or cardboard. Hang the board somewhere where you will see it every day, such as on your bedroom wall or in your kitchen. Seeing the board will remind you of your dreams and give you affirmation that you can achieve them. , It will be more manageable for you to become a new person if you set a schedule for yourself. Where do you want to be in a week? How about two weeks? A month? A year? Write down your schedule in a book or calendar. Set specific benchmarks with tasks that you are able to achieve. As you complete tasks off your schedule, check them off. You will see yourself coming closer to your goals every day. Your tasks on your schedule should be specific and easy to achieve. Instead of writing, “Become less shy by Tuesday,” write “talk to three strangers today” or “rehearse small talk for five minutes in front of the mirror.”

, You may face setbacks on your road to reinvention. If you fail, don’t stop and give up. Realize that failure is an opportunity to learn and grow. Furthermore, if you throw yourself into this new persona, you may experience burnout. This can cause you to revert back to bad habits. If you can, plan for failure, and when it occurs, look back on your list of goals to remind yourself why you’re doing this.