 Don’t Starve has this unique mechanics where you’ll have to watch three different gauges rather than just one or two. The three gauges are found on the upper right part of your screen and are thusly labeled Hunger (represented by a stomach), Health (represented by a heart), and Sanity (represented by a brain). These three determine the fine line between life and death, and must be monitored closely.;
, Your Hunger meter is constantly draining throughout the day, and it’s possible to die of starvation just before the second day if you don’t keep an eye on it and keep feeding your character, since an empty Hunger gauge means you start taking damage on your Health gauge. You can find Carrots lying on the ground and there are plenty of Berry Bushes scattered in the game, which would serve as your main source of food for the first few days. You can harvest them by left-clicking (PC) or pressing the X button (console) on the Carrot or Bush, and you can eat them by right-clicking the item in your hotbar (the bar on the bottom part of the screen, which also serves as your main inventory) or scroll to it with your right analog stick and press the right direction button (console).


Ideally, you should feed your character 5 Berries or Carrots’ worth of food a day, but your character generally can last up to two days before starving to death. Most foods have bigger bonuses or have less penalties when cooked over the campfire, especially Meat items. You can cook your food by selecting your item and then going to your campfire and left-clicking it (PC) or pressing X (console).
 Your Health is a little easier to keep an eye on since it’s affected by things like getting hit by monsters, being set on fire, freezing, and especially starving. The lower your Health gauge, the closer you are to dying, and an empty one means definite death.


Health can be recovered in many ways, such as eating cooked food, using Spider Glands and making healing materials, such as Healing Salves. Spider Glands sometimes drop from slain Spiders and can be consumed the same way as food, though you can’t cook it. Once you acquire a Science Machine, you can craft a Healing Salve with it through the Survival tab, represented by a looped rope icon in the Crafting menu.
Healing Salves cost 2 Ashes (obtained from extinguished Campfires), 1 Rock (found scattered in the world or mined from Boulders), and 1 Spider Gland.
 Your Sanity gauge may be a little less dangerous when it lowers compared to the other two gauges, but lower Sanity levels will bring about some aesthetic changes, and Shadow Creatures will start appearing. At the the lowest levels, the screen turns dim with red cracks, and the Shadow Creatures will become aggressive and start attacking you. Unless you feel like slaying some Shadows, which can be dangerous at the start of things or if you’re low on resources, try and keep this gauge a bit high.


Picking flowers, which yields Petals, is a great way to maintain high Sanity this early in the game, and you can create a Garland with 12 Petals on the Clothing tab (the green hat icon) on the lower portion of the crafting bar at the lefthand side of your screen.
 Once you’ve got a basic grasp on things, it can be a bit tempting to explore and maybe even defeat a few monsters, which is a fairly bad idea for a game like this. Do NOT give in to the temptation—everything can and will kill you unless you’re very prepared. Until you make the Science Machine at the very least, actively seeking and attacking things with only your axe is only going to get you killed, and even when you’re not trying to do anything, you’ll still die anyways if you literally don’t keep an eye on your character.
 Materials are your friends. They’re what keeps you from a death of starvation and/or mauling, and provides you with means to survive at longer rates. You can normally gather these materials by left-clicking on them, or pressing Spacebar once you’re nearby (PC) or by pressing the X button (console), but some materials need tools to be gathered, which is covered in the next section.
 You’ll have to forage for as much Flint (sharp-looking small rocks) as you can, which are fortunately always lying around on the ground, but this should always remain your top priority during the first few days, and you’ll need at least one Flint before the day is over. You can find it practically everywhere during exploration. Later on, when you have your Pickaxe and start mining Boulders, you can get up to 3 pieces of flint with most boulder types.
 Rocks, much like Flint, can be found scattered everywhere, though they are less common that Flint. They’re more reliably found when mining and can be stockpiled faster that way.
 Cut Grass, gathered from the yellowing tufts of tall grass, is extremely essential, since there are a lot of things you can make that require lots of it. They’re renewable and grow back in 4 days, so don’t be afraid to mow down an entire area full of Grass.
 Twigs can be found on saplings, which actually resemble dried-out bushes, and can be found pretty much everywhere, so gather as much of that as you can find as well. Much like Grass, saplings regrow their twigs in 4 days, making this resource renewable.
 Berries and Carrots are a must if you want to keep your hunger at a decent level, and seeing as the game is called “Don’t Starve,” you’ll best be doing that. Berries regrow from their bushes in 4 days, while Carrots do not grow back when plucked from the ground.
 Once you make your tools, chop up as many trees to gain as much Logs as you can muster, but always use the Pinecones dropped from the tree to plant new ones to replace the tree you killed.


Everything you can gather initially, aside from Logs, can be stockpiled in stacks of 40, which means after you get 40 of that item, you can still gather it, but it would occupy an extra slot in your inventory. Logs can be stockpiled in stacks of 20, making it the most cumbersome of the items.
 A game as unforgiving as this means that the earlier you can start crafting things, the better, as they give you another advantage against a quick death. Tools tend to break easily after a few uses, indicated by how high the percentage of its durability is left. The lower the percentage, the closer it is to breaking, so watch out for that! You can easily switch between tools, and later on weapons, by right-clicking (PC) or by scrolling to it with your right analog stick and pressing X (console) the tool you want on the hotbar, which automatically equips your tool into your hand.
 Probably the most important tool you need to make is an axe. An axe is the easiest item to make, gives you the extremely useful ability to chop down trees for logs, and would definitely serve as your go-to makeshift weapon for the first few days.


To make an axe, you first need a Flint and a Twig. Once you get those, click the Tool tab, represented by a symbol that looks like a crossed axe and pickaxe on the left-hand side of the screen, then at the top of the list that appears is the axe you’ll need. Click on it to make one. Approach a tree, and press the left mouse button or spacebar (PC) or the X button (console) to get chopping!

, Another important survival tool is a pickaxe, though the opportunity to use it would depend if you were lucky enough to find a boulder. It costs 2 Twigs and 2 Flints, and its recipe is located just below the axe in the Tool tab. It’s a bit less durable than an axe, so don’t go using it as a weapon. Instead, use it for its main purpose: breaking down large rocks into smaller rocks. Like with the Axe, simply select your tool, go up to a Boulder and start mining!


You will need all the rocks you can gather later on, and if you’re lucky enough to find a boulder with yellow streaks in them, you’ll be rewarded with some Gold, which you can use to make your Science Machine—this lets you make even more things to help your survival!

, Another tool you can make is a Trap, which you can use to catch Rabbits to fill your stomach with. It costs 6 Cut Grass and 2 Twigs, and you can craft them by pressing the looped-rope symbol instead of the crossed axe and pickaxe, then clicking on the first item on the menu that appears.


To use traps, you need to set it down where Rabbits tend to appear, place some bait in it by selecting a berry or carrot on hand, and left-clicking (PC) or pressing the X button (console). Then wait until an unsuspecting sucker walks right into it! You can only use the Trap to catch Rabbits and Frogs, but later on, you can make Bird Traps with your Science Machine.
Bird Traps can be created through the Survival tab for 3 Twigs and 4 Silk with your Science machine, and are exclusively for catching birds. Simply place it on the ground, place some seeds in them as bait, and wait for a bird to land in it.
 The last tool you could possibly make on your own, and this might take a while depending on your luck, is a Science Machine. It requires 1 Gold Nugget, 4 Logs, and 4 Rocks to craft. While it can be tricky to find Gold Nuggets if you’re unlucky, this particular tool will let you make even more items, tools, and even a farm!


Note that this tool is not portable like the others, and so you must carefully consider where you place it.
 When you have at least 2 Logs and 3 Cut Grass, you can make fire! Click the bonfire icon to your left, and on the very top of the list is a campfire. Campfires are essential because they’re the most reliable and easiest way to generate light during nighttime. Without a light source, creatures will constantly attack you and greatly reduce your Health and Sanity with each hit. You can make multiple Campfires as long as you have enough resources.


Later on, if you’ve got at least 12 Rocks and 2 logs, you could make a Fire Pit, which is a permanent version of a Campfire and does not spread flames when you add too much fuel.
 When you make a Campfire, make sure you have at least three other pieces of Logs at hand. The fire periodically gets lower and lower the longer it’s been on, so when it gets a bit too low, select your Logs, go up to your fire, and then interact with it (left-click on PC; X on consoles) to replenish your fuel. This will help brighten your fire, but don’t add too much, or the fire would go out of control and spread to every nearby flammable object.

If your Fire Pit’s flames die out, simply start it up again by adding your fuel to it.
 Torches are a good way to keep a light when you don’t have enough Logs for a campfire, and you can light things with it. However, be careful with that fire; it tends to spread. A lot. And while that may sound delightful to all you pyromaniacs out there, when it manages to burn down all your hard-earned materials, it isn’t as delightful. Torches cost 2 Cut Grass and 1 Twig, making it a very easy source of light.

