 Fresh from your oven, your cookies will be too hot to handle, but even warm cookies can cause your icing to melt and ruin your designs. To prevent this from happening, wait until the cookies are cool to the touch before icing., A pastry bag will help you direct the flow of icing, allowing you to more precisely apply it to your cookies. If you don't already have one, you can buy a pastry bag in the baking section of most grocery stores. You could also make your own by:


Making a pastry bag from a plastic baggie. You'll want to wait until after you've added icing to your baggie, but after that you can simply cut off a narrow opening in one end of it and squeeze the frosting through this opening, similar to how you would use a pastry bag.
Making a pastry bag from parchment paper. Cut your parchment paper into a large square. Fold opposite corners of the square to form a crease running corner to corner. Cut along this crease. Then you can funnel your paper into a cone, fasten the cone with tape, insert frosting, and cut the tip off your cone to create a narrow opening., Plastic squeeze bottles, like the ones often used to serve condiments like ketchup, can work well in place of pastry bags. You may be able to find these at your local grocery, at a restaurant supply store, or through an online retailer.


You'll use your squeeze bottles exactly as you would a pastry bag without having to worry about a tip, since squeeze bottles already have a tip. Simply fill your bottles with your icing and you're ready to ice.
If you lack a piping bag or squeeze bottles, you could use a spoon to apply your icing to your cookies. This technique is generally referred to as "pouring."

, If you don't have an icing tip for your piping bag, you should be able to make do by cutting a narrow hole in the end of your piping bag with scissors and simply using that to apply your frosting. If you do have an icing tip for your piping bag, this can make the application of your icing easier.


Most icing tips for piping bags are designed to wiggle into place on the cut end of the bag. This way, when the bag is squeezed, icing will flow through the hole in the end and out through the icing tip., You can could use a simple store made brand of icing or you could make homemade icing for your cookies. When making homemade icing, you should consider making two batches, one for border icing and the other for flood icing.


Border icing is often thicker and serves well for providing and outline or a boundary in your cookie decorating designs. Flood icing is thinning and is meant to fill in the spaces between boundary icing.
A simple border icing recipe could be made with: 1 cup of powdered sugar (sifted), ½ teaspoon vanilla extract, 2 tablespoons water or milk combined in a small bowl with a fork or whisk until the mixture is thick, smooth, and consistent. It should, however, still be pourable.
Simple flood icing could be made with: 1 cup powdered sugar (sifted), ½ teaspoon vanilla extract, 3 tablespoons water or milk combined in a small bowl with a fork or whisk until the mixture is thick, smooth, and consistent. Opposite the border icing, this icing should drizzle more easily.
Food coloring can be added and mixed in with your frosting a few drops at a time to change its color. The color will thin a little when spread throughout the icing, but it should be used sparingly, as the dye is highly concentrated., Using a spatula, you should be able to scoop or push the icing over the lip of its bowl and into your piping bag. Your flood icing may be thin enough to pour directly into the piping bag. To prevent wasted icing, you may want to collect icing remnants with the edge of your spatula and add this to the piping bag as well.


If you are filling several piping bags with icing, you should be careful not to leave filled piping bags on warm surfaces or in the sun. This can cause the sugar in your icing to melt and create a thin consistency in your icing.
Any leftover icing that you plan to use on future baking projects should be refrigerated to prevent spoiling., The first spurt of icing from the tip of your icing bag can be uneven, so to prevent this from ruining the design on one of your cookies, you should squeeze the opposite end of the bag from the nozzle until icing comes out. You only need a little bit of icing before the nozzle's ready to ice.Extra icing can be wiped off on the rim of the icing bowl and used as a treat for the kids or yourself. If you're not the biggest fan of sugary treats, you can wipe off the extra icing on a piece of paper to be thrown away.
 If you have shaped cookies, like little Christmas trees or stars, this may be as simple as following the outside edge of your cookie with a line of border frosting. You might also want to use your border icing to fill in details, like dots for eyes.


When icing your cookies with a piping bag, you should use firm, steady force to push the icing down to its cut corner and through the tip/nozzle.
Mistakes with border icing can usually be fixed by dabbing them away with a moistened towel or piece of paper towel., You won't have to be as precise as you were with your border icing. Apply your flood icing to the un-iced parts of the cookie inside your border frosting outline. The frosting should be thinner, and should spread until it is stopped by the border icing.If your flood icing has turned out a little thicker than you intended, then you may need to help it spread out by gently pushing the frosting in place with the tip of your frosting bag.
 It's common for even experienced bakers to sometimes ice something inconsistently or make a small mistake. You can smooth your icing with a spatula or a butter knife, though you should be careful not to blend distinct parts of your icing design together.


If the detailed parts of your icing designs need to be adjusted, you can alter icing with greater precision using toothpicks. However, you should do this soon after applying the icing, while it is still soft and hasn't firmed up., While the icing is still soft, accents and added touches will nest easily in it. You might add chopped nuts, sprinkles, or small candies to your cookies to add a unique flavor or a special treat.


You may be able to use edible accents to create special designs in your cookies. For example, you might use green sprinkles for Christmas trees with shiny edible beads representing ornaments., Depending on the climate of your kitchen, the climate of your region, and other factors, like the kind of icing you used, it may take your icing up to 8 to fully set. Many kinds of icing will be firm after an hour of rest time.Placing a fan to blow over your cookies can help speed up the time it takes your icing to dry.
If you live in an especially hot or humid climate, heat can cause the sugar in your icing to break down and liquefy, ruining your designs. To prevent this, you may want to store your cookies in your refrigerator., You might find it easiest to write messages on your cookies with cursive, as that fluid writing style adapts relatively cleanly to piping bag writing. If cursive isn't your strong suit, you might also try writing in bubble letters, as these will be bigger and allow you more leeway when writing.You can practice your writing on a clean, unused paper plate. Write your message several times until you feel like you've gotten the hang of writing with a piping bag.
 It can be difficult to freehand more complicated and/or layered icing designs. For soft cookies that use single layer designs, you could poke the pattern of your icing design into your cookies with a toothpick. Then follow the holes in the cookie when adding icing to create your design.


For multiple layer designs, first add your base layer of icing to cover the cookie. Then use your toothpick to poke your design into the base layer of icing. Follow this guide while adding icing to the base layer to complete your design.
Try to avoid poking too many holes in your cookie with your toothpick. Doing so could cause your cookie to crumble., There are many different kinds of pastry bag tips, and these will create a different effect in the icing after passing through the tip. As most cookies are relatively small, you may want to prioritize thin tips to keep your designs sharp and well-defined. Some common tips you might use on your cookies include:



Round tips are generally versatile and used for many purposes, like scrollwork, dots, lettering, and little flowers.

Star tips are most often used for top and bottom borders, star piping, and rosettes. Narrow star tips can also create textured lettering on your cookies.