 To do so, go to file and select “New” or Ctrl + N. Then, create a new document that has a width and height of 1500x1500 pixels.;
, Fill it with the color: #bf9271.
 Edit the shape and skew it upward on its left side.
 To flip, go to Edit>Free Transform or hitting Ctrl + T on your keyboard to pull up Free Transform.
 This can be anything you wish; the point of this step is to help you remember which is which. Also move the image down to give yourself room for the next step.
 To create the inside, simply copy the first two layers and flip them vertically. Change their colors to a darker brown (use the color: #b07d5b.)

, Draw the first flap by creating a rectangle along the diagonal edge of the box of the box. Then fill the shape with a lighter brown color (use the color: #cfa98d).
 This time, however, fill it with the same brown color used on the box.
 Color the last two flaps fill them with the same color used on the first flap.
 Do so by selecting the layers you want to group and by going to Layer>Group Layers or by typing in Ctrl + G.
 Do so by adding a gradient overlay on the blending options of each layer. You can try your own combinations or you can also follow the details below on the gradient overlay for each layer:


1: Blend Mode: Multiply; Opacity: 44%; Gradient: Reverse; Style: Linear, Align with Layer; Angle: 90o; Scale: 100%
2: Blend Mode: Multiply; Opacity: 44%; Gradient: Reverse; Style: Linear, Align with Layer; Angle: 147o; Scale: 100%
1 Copy: Blend Mode: Multiply; Opacity: 44%; Gradient: Reverse; Style: Linear, Align with Layer; Angle: -90o; Scale: 90%
2 Copy: Blend Mode: Multiply; Opacity: 54%; Gradient: Uncheck Reverse; Style: Linear, Align with Layer; Angle: 133o; Scale: 100%

, Here’s also detail on the gradient overlay:


Blend Mode: Multiply; Opacity: 44%; Gradient: Uncheck Reverse; Style: Linear, Align with Layer; Angle: 90o; Scale: 100%

, Apply a white transparent gradient on top of the remaining flaps.
 To create the white space, draw a small rectangle on top of the flap using the pen tool. Then go to your paths window and Ctrl click your path for the marching ants to appear or to make the selection. Add a new layer and fill the selection with white.


Make sure that when you used your pen tool you have clicked on path and not shape layers in order to be able to draw paths.
, Add a new layer and then Ctrl click your paths to make the selection. Then, fill the selection with a dark brown color and move the layer below the flaps.
 Create the shadow by creating a new layer and applying a black transparent gradient on the layer. The shadow should also be located on the right side of the box.
 To create the background, add a new layer and fill it with a dark color or use the color: #61351d

,