 To determine what your healthy goal weight should be, use the body mass index (BMI), which is an indicator of body fatness. BMI is a person's weight in kilograms (kg) divided by the square of the person's height in meters (m). Identify the weight you would like to be in kilograms and then divide that by your height in metres to see whether it is healthy. Increase or decrease that goal weight so that it fits within the BMI range considered healthy:A BMI below 18.5 is considered underweight.
A BMI of 18.5-24.9 is a normal or healthy weight.
A BMI of 25-29.9 is considered overweight, while a BMI greater than 30 is considered obese.
Along with finding a healthy weight, also realize what is realistic. If you are 100 lb away from your healthy body weight with only a month before summer, consider setting a smaller, more attainable goal.;
, The more calories you cut back, the more weight you will lose; however, it is important that you do not eat less than your Basal Metabolic Rate, the amount of calories your body needs to function effectively when at rest. This number can be calculated using an online BMR calculator.


In general, don't aim to lose more than one to two pounds per week. A loss of one to two pound per week is a healthy rate at which to lose weight; any more than this could be too drastic a change and may signify that your body is not getting what it needs. To do this, try to eat 250 fewer calories per day and burn an extra 250 calories a day. This ratio will create enough of a calories deficit that you should lose one pound per week., During the summertime, you are surrounded by opportunities to eat, whether it’s at a barbecue, pool party, ice cream party, or summer luau. However, if you want to lose weight over the summer, it's important that you cut back on the number of calories you eat. As a general rule, weight loss occurs when you burn more calories than you consume.


To help figure out how many calories you normally eat each day, track your food for a day by writing down the number of calories on everything you eat and drink. Calories are listed on the back of food labels. For foods that do not have labels, you can find information about the caloric value of certain foods online through the USDA Food Database.Pay attention to the number of servings you eat and multiply this by the number of calories per serving. For example, if you at 30 chips and a serving size is 15 chips, you need to multiply the number of calories by two since you ate two servings.
Once you have figured out how many calories you normally eat, cut down this number by 500-1000 calories per day in order to lose weight.
 In this log, record what you eat and the type and duration of exercise you're doing every day. This is a simple yet very powerful tool to keep yourself accountable. The log will help you track your progress and see whether you are keeping to your healthy diet and exercise regimen.This is a wonderful way to hold yourself accountable and stay on track. There are many apps for smart phones that have capabilities to track food intake, energy expenditure, water intake and more!
Often, we tend to overlook the snacking we do between meals and instead think our diet is not working. Studies have shown that most people underestimate how much they eat by 25 percent.In addition, many of us think we get more exercise and burn more calories than we do.Use the log to identify how many calories your exercise—whether it be a run on the treadmill or a spin on the bike—is burning. If you use cardio machines at a gym, the number of calories is usually digitally calculated and displayed. Make sure to put in your particulars, such as weight and age, to achieve an accurate count. There are also online charts that can help tell you how many calories a half hour or an hour of a given exercise burns.
You might also discover useful information about your daily habits and a reality check about how many calories you actually consume and burn off through exercise. Once you know your habits and patterns better, you can begin to address problem behaviors that are hindering your progress.
 Find a partner—whether that be a spouse, friend, or family member—who wants to join you during outdoor activities, hit the gym with you, or join your healthy eating plan. Having social support will make it easier to lose weight because the other person will also keep you accountable and be a sounding board for any obstacles and struggles you face along the way.


If you cannot find a friend or partner to help you with your weight loss journey, utilizing the services of a personal trainer or registered dietitian will keep you accountable and help you stay active and eat healthy. A trainer can also be a huge support system. Think outside of the box for your support system!

, Always consult your physician before beginning any type of weight loss and/or exercise program. You should also consult your physician throughout your weight loss program and keep him updated of any changes or symptoms you may be experiencing, such as constipation thanks to your new diet plan or lethargy due to not getting enough food.


In addition, you should also talk to your doctor if you are eating well, tracking your calories and watching what you eat, exercising, and are still not losing weight. This could be indicative of a more serious underlying medical condition, such as a thyroid problem.

