 Your slacks will likely be worn more than anything else you buy, so you want to be sure to purchase pairs that are versatile. Black, navy blue, and grey are great color options. They can be worn with a blazer, and look wonderful with neutral or brightly colored blouses.

Be sure that you feel comfortable in the pants and that they fit your body well.
To be sure that the pants are appropriate for business, make sure that they are not too tight and will not show underwear lines.
If there is a lot of extra fabric around the crotch area, or the crotch of the pants hands down between your legs, it is likely that the pants are too big. Try on a smaller size or consider a different pair of pants if the issue persists with any size., Your blazer can be dressed up or down by being paired with dress slacks, a skirt, or with a nice pair of jeans. Be sure that it fits well, as alterations can be expensive. Consider the following when trying on a blazer:

Shoulders: This is the most important part of the fit to get correct because shoulder alterations are expensive and complicated. The shoulder seam of the blazer should line up with the end of your shoulder, just before it slopes down into your arm.
Sleeve length: You want the sleeve to hit your hand just a bit above the top joint of your thumb.
 Your pencil skirt will be able to replace slacks on certain days. Choose a skirt in either black, grey, or navy blue—ideally, the skirt will match your blazer, so you can wear the two together if you wish. However, your pencil skirt can also be matched with a blouse and stockings as its own outfit., You will want to have one blouse for every day of the working week, to avoid having to do laundry during the week. Get a few white shirts for wearing with slacks or your skirt and perhaps your blazer. Apart from the standard whites, consider a black blouse and a grey blouse as well. You can also choose brightly colored blouses to add some pop to your business outfit.

Be sure that if a blouse is see-through, you wear a tank top or undershirt with it.
When choosing blouses, pay attention to how tight and low-cut they are. Depending on your office environment, low-cut and tight blouses may be inappropriate.
 Pantyhose are great for the days when you wear a skirt, and they can also be worn under your dress slacks. Buy two pairs of black ones and two pairs of skin-toned ones. Pantyhose can be found very inexpensively at convenience stores, or you can invest in some more durable ones from a clothing store.

Pantyhose often snag, so it's a good idea to have an extra pair on hand when you wear them with a skirt.
 Shoes are one of the most important investments you’ll make for your business wardrobe, since you will be wearing them all day, most days. Comfort is so important here—look for black leather shoes that are closed-toe. If possible, pumps with a small to mid-height heel are best.

As an alternative to wearing heels, you can buy leather flats.
After purchasing a pair of black shoes, consider buying red or brown heels or flats as well.
 If you don’t have one already, a classy little black dress will be a great addition to your business wardrobe. You can wear it with a blazer, pantyhose, and heels for a lovely business look. Depending on the style of the dress, you can also repurpose it for a night out!

Like with all business attire, be sure that the dress matches the guidelines of your company. Generally, you want to avoid a dress that is too short or too low cut.
 Jewelry will give your business attire a personalized touch. Buy a pair of earrings, a simple necklace, or a statement piece. Statement jewelry is often inexpensive and can add flare to your outfit.

Consider simple gold or silver earrings and a necklace or bracelet to add elegance to your business outfit.
 Now that you have all the components that make up your business attire, you can have fun mixing and matching to assemble many different outfits. This allows you to wear some of the same items multiple times in one week without appearing to be wearing the same outfit.