 The Hearthfire add-on introduces both the ability to adopt and the ability to build houses. It costs $4.99.

On PC, you can buy a Hearthfire download code from Amazon or through the Steam store.
Xbox and PlayStation users can purchase Hearthfire from their respective consoles' marketplaces.
If you're playing Skyrim Special Edition, the Hearthfire DLC is included in the main game;
, Most houses have their own prerequisites that involve a side quest for the Jarl of the city in question, though the Whiterun property becomes available during the main story quest. You can purchase houses in the following cities:Whiterun - You can buy the Breezehome house for 5,000 gold. It's the second building on the right after entering Whiterun.

Windhelm - You can purchase the Hjerim house, which is opposite from the "House of Cruel-Sea" location, for 12,000 gold.

Riften - You can buy the Honeyside house for 8,000 gold. You'll find it at the end of the path to your right when you first enter Riften.

Solitude - You can purchase the Proudspire Manor mansion for 25,000 gold. It's next to the Bards College, which is in the middle-right side of the city.

Markarth - You can buy the Vlindrel Hall property for 8,000 gold. You'll find it up the sets of stairs on the right side of the city's entrance.
You can also build houses in Falkreath, The Pale hold, and Hjaalmarch hold, but due to a bug, Skyrim sometimes doesn't count these as child-friendly houses.
 This typically involves speaking with the Jarl's Steward in your chosen city (e.g., Proventus Avenicci in Whiterun), selecting the "I'd like to decorate my home" option, and purchasing every option--especially the child bedroom upgrade.

If you just installed the Hearthfire DLC, you may have to wait for a courier to bring you a message about the child bedroom upgrade.
 Contrary to her name, Grelod is an abusive orphanage owner located in Riften's "Honorhall Orphanage" location. To perform this task:

Fast-travel to Riften. If you haven't yet visited Riften, you can instead pay a horse-drawn carriage outside of Whiterun or one of the other major cities to take you there.
Walk straight across the bridge, then turn left in front of the "Bee and Bard" location.
Walk until you see a set of stairs, then turn right. You should see Honorhall Orphanage.
Enter Honorhall Orphanage, then wait for the children to disperse.
Kill Grelod while she sleeps. This is the best way to ensure that you aren't caught.
 Doing so should provide the game with enough time to recognize Constance Michel in the Honorhall Orphanage as the new head of the orphanage, at which point you'll receive a note confirming that she now runs the orphanage.

You can also fast-travel back to your house and wait (or continue along quest lines) until you receive the note.
 She wears a yellow dress and is often walking around with the children, though she might be sleeping in her room that's off to the right of the main orphanage hall., Once you finish the conversation, you can select a child for adoption. You'll need to choose the following speech options in response to her questions:

When you initially talk to her, select "Could I adopt one of your children?", then select "What do I need to do?"
Select your name when she asks for it.
When she asks what you do, respond with "I'm the Dragonborn."
When asked where the child will live, respond with "At my house in ."

, The children in the orphanage are all available for adoption., option. It's the second option in the dialogue box, though you can also select first the "Tell me about yourself" option to hear the child's story., The child will express excitement, after which you can head back to the home you chose earlier when speaking to Constance Michel. The child will be there when you arrive.

You can adopt up to two children.
 They will always be there when you return.

You won't have to feed them or worry about them being killed by NPCs, since your children can't die.
 You can find several children roaming the streets throughout Skyrim that can be adopted:Alesan - Dawnstar

Blaise - Solitude

Lucia - Whiterun

Sofie - Windhelm

, Children whose parents are killed by the player or by other NPCs will eventually appear in the Honorhall Orphanage. Adoptable children are as follows: