 This remedy is derived from the brittle metal arsenic, also known as arsenous acid. This may sound dangerous, but don't be alarmed - the homeopathic process of potentization successfully dilutes the poison with milk sugar so that the poison is rendered non-toxic. According to Homeopathy, this potentization process makes the concoction therapeutic.


It might come in great help for profuse watery nasal discharge, excessive sneezing and nasal blockage. These symptoms cause sleeplessness and are worse early in the morning. The nasal discharge causes soreness, smarting, and burning at the nostrils.The correct dosage would be 4 pills of arsenic 1M, 4 to 5 times a day for 3 to 5 days.;
, This medicine is made from a plant called Windflower or the wind anemone, when in flowering condition. It is indicated when the cold is associated with loss of smell and taste.The nasal catarrh cause blockage of the nose, especially at night, and fluid discharge in the mornings. There is a constant tickling in the nose.
Occasionally, a viral cold gets infected with bacteria too and the nasal discharge becomes yellow. This is where pulsatilla benefits immensely.
The dosage is 4 pills of pulsatilla 200C/1M, 4 to 6 times a day for 3 to 5 days.
 This medicine is made from the chemical compound Potassium iodide.


Its main indications are violent sneezing, watering of the eyes, thick mucus in the nostrils, redness of the nose, and irritation to cough. It also helps to relieve the boring pain in the nose extending to the forehead that is caused by congestion.The dosage is 4 pills of kalium iodine 30C/200C, 5 to 6 times a day for 3 to 5 days.
 This medicine is prepared from the root sprouts of an Italian grass. It is indicated in runny, watery nasal discharge with snuffling, sneezing, and an annoying itching of the nostrils and the roof of the mouth.The dosage is 4 pills of 30C/200C, 5 to 6 times a day for 3 to 5 days.
 This medicine is made from the powdered seeds of the plant Cebadilla, indigenous to Eastern Mexico. The hay fever or allergic fever and cold of sabadilla is characterized by violent, incessant sneezing. It also causes watery nasal discharge with watering of the eyes.


The dosage is 4 pills of sabadilla 200C/1M, every 2 hours for 1 or 2 days and then 4 to 5 times a day for 3 to 4 days., This medicine is made from common red onions. It helps to stop the flow of watery nasal discharge and sneezing.


Allium cepa is particularly effective for people who are sensitive to the odor of flowers and the skin of peaches.The dosage is 4 pills of allium cepa 30C/200C, 5 to 6 times a day for 3 to 5 days.
 This medicine is prepared from the white inner layer of oyster shells combined with pure flowers of sulphur. It helps to relieve symptoms of sinusitis, where the nose is stuffed with foul smelling white or yellow discharge.The dosage would be 4 pills of hepar sulphur 200C/1M, 4 to 6 times a day for 7 to 10 days.
 This medicine is prepared from the chemical compound Potassium Bichromate. It is of great benefit in treating stuffy colds, where thick mucus plugs the nose.


This kind of sinusitis also causes frequent sneezing with dryness and obstruction of the nasal passageways, causing excessive pressure on the nasal bones.
The dosage is 4 pills of kali bich 1M/10M, 4 to 5 times a day for 5 to 7 days.
 This medicine is prepared from flint or the inert sand in the form of silicon dioxide. It helps in treating colds that are obstinate and refuse to go away.


It works very well in unblocking stopped-up noses with white or yellow mucus. Silicea is also indicated in epistaxis (nose bleeds) caused by sinusitis.
The dosage is 4 pills of silicea 30C/200C, 4 to 5 times a day for 7 to 10 days.
 This medicine is made from the whole fresh plant of round-leaved sundew. It is indicated in chest congestion caused by excessive yellow phlegm and cough.


The cough is hacking with continuous violent attacks which make breathing difficult. This cough is worsened in the evening and at night when lying down.The dosage is 4 pills of drosera 1M, 4 to 5 times a day for 5 to 7 days.
 This medicine is prepared from the chemical compound potassium carbonate. It is of immense benefit in violent, early morning coughs which lead to vomiting.


With this kind of bronchitis, the voice becomes hoarse and is accompanied by rattling in the chest causing choking and shortness of breath.
The dosage is 4 pills of kali carb 1M/10M, 4 to 5 times a day for 5 to 7 days.
 This medicine is made from the chemical element phosphorus. It helps to treat symptoms such as a productive cough with pressure in the chest. The voice also becomes hoarse and deep.


The dosage is 4 pills of phosphorus 200C/1M, 4 to 6 times for 5 to 7 days.
 This medicine is made from a tartrate of antimony and potash. Just like arsenic, this highly toxic metal is rendered harmless by a process of potentization, where it is diluted with sugar of milk and crushed in a mortar.


The so-called toxic metal becomes a wonderful healing remedy as its hidden therapeutic properties are released by the grinding action. It is indicated in asthmatic breathing due to tough mucus in the chest, which oppresses respiration.
Cough with profuse white phlegm is seen, along with rapid and short breathing which interferes with sleep.
The dosage is 4 pills of Antim tart 200C/1M, 4 pills, 4 to 6 times a day for 5 days.
 This medicine is prepared from the powdered root of the small shrub Cephaelis. It is used to treat an incessant violent cough and labored breathing. It is specifically used in whooping cough accompanied by nausea.The dosage is 4 pills of ipecacuanha 200C/1M, 4 to 6 times a day for 5 days.
 This medicine is prepared from roasted and powdered sea sponge. It is of immense use in treating night-time asthma, where the patient sits up gasping for breath.


The accompanying cough tends to be croupy and dry with the sensation of suffocation. The cough is associated with sensation of mucus in the chest which cannot be expelled.
The dosage is 4 pills of spongia 30C/200C, 5 to 6 times a day for 5 days.
 Homeopathy, an alternative medicine based on the principle of ‘like cures like”, is a 200 year old system of medicine that uses medicines prepared from various natural sources like plants and minerals.


These plants and minerals are carefully collected and put through a specialized process called ‘potentization’ to release the dynamic energies of the substance. Potentization involves repeatedly diluting the ingredients in a water or alcohol solution; it is believed that if a substance causes an ailment, potentizing it would create a remedy for such an ailment.
These medicines act on a dynamic level, with the material substance playing no role in the treatment.
 These remedies are extremely useful when used in the right strength for the correct length of tome. However, it is best to consult a Homeopathic physician if a compete cure is desired.


Some causes of nasal congestion are recurrent and cannot be taken care of with just a few days of homeopathic medicine.


Similarly, some causes of chest congestion may require immediate medical attention and time should not be wasted treating them at home.
 In addition to using the homeopathic medicines to clear congestion, there are some useful household measures can be used for the temporary relief of congestion.


The inhalation of steam coming from boiling water can soothe nasal as well as chest congestion to a great extent. The steam acts as a humidifier and helps loosen the mucus and facilitates its easy expectoration.
Eat ginger and garlic with your meals, as this helps to fight infection. Garlic acts as an anti-microbial and ginger possesses anti-inflammatory properties.Eating spicy food, especially a hot spicy soup, dissolves mucus in the air passages, clearing out the bacteria, virus, and allergens.
Chew on 4-5 holy basil leaves each day, procured right from your garden. They are known to be anti-inflammatory and help to relieve chest congestion.
Gargling twice daily with a teaspoon of salt in a glass of water helps to soothe a sore throat, which is a common accompaniment of nasal/chest congestion.

