 Trim hedges and clear brush to discourage snakes from taking up residence near your home. Just like in the wilderness, snakes use tall grass and brush to hide. By keeping your grass short, you can lessen the possibility that a snake will be hiding in your yard.
 Children must be taught that snakes can be dangerous and that they should be avoided. If you have children in the home, educate them about the different types of snakes that live in your area and the danger that they can pose. Discourage them from ever trying to play with or catch a snake.Keep your children from playing in areas where snakes could be hiding. Discourage them from going to nearby vacant lots where there is high grass and brush.
 Use an implement when gathering firewood from an outdoor stack or when working with brush or lumber. Wear boots and gloves to protect yourself as well. Snakes like to hide in cool and dark areas for shelter, like firewood stacks and near sheds. Before you reach your hands into these areas, use a long stick to prod around. This will alert any snakes hiding inside that you are present, and they will likely try to escape rather than confront you.Use extreme care in the summer during drought conditions. Snakes will seek water around your garden hose, swimming pool, or under your air conditioning unit.
 If you happen to have a pet snake, you will need to be a responsible owner. While it is unlikely that you have a venomous snake as a pet, you still want to avoid being bitten. Use a snake hook to handle your snake rather than using your hands. The majority of bites occur during feeding time, so it is important to be extra cautious during this process.


Choose a docile snake as a pet. Corn snakes and ball pythons have reputations as snakes that are reluctant to bite.
Don't handle your snake after having touched prey, such as mice, while the scent is still on your hands.
 This is also the case if you think the snake is dead. Recently killed snakes still can move reflexively and even bite. Also a snake may look dead, but simply be lying very still as it suns itself. Never try to handle a snake or handle it. Many experts suggest that you avoid trying to kill the snake as well. If you see a snake that you recognize as poisonous on your property, note the location and call an animal control officer. Keep children and pets out of the area until the officer can come and try to remove the snake, if it is still in the area.The majority of snakes will try to flee the area and avoid contact if you ever happen upon them or their habitat. If you ever come into contact with a snake, back away slowly and avoid making sudden movements and loud noises. The snake can perceive these as threats and may be more inclined to bite when it feels threatened.

