 Shaming someone into taking positive action is unhelpful and toxic. They will only want to make a change if they want to make the change. Never think that communicating harsh judgments will inspire change—it won’t. Instead lean towards a position of acceptance. You are more likely to find success this way.


For instance, refrain from telling a friend, “Is that a doughnut I see you eating? You don’t seem committed to change!” Offer acceptance by saying something like, “Changing ingrained eating habits can be hard. The next time you have a craving, call me so we can work through coping techniques, okay?”

, An effective accountability partner is one who knows the power of active listening. Behavior change is hard. Sometimes, people just want to vent their frustrations. Employ active listening strategies to hear their perspective and figure out how you can further encourage them.


Active listening involves making eye contact, reading their body language, prompting with short phrases (e.g. “Oh, really?” or “And…?”) and summarizing what the person said when they’re finished speaking., Empathy is an important tool in the change process. As a source of accountability, you can use empathy to acknowledge and validate the feelings of others. People appreciate you when you seem to understand and relate to them. Doing so can improve your relationship with others and boost performance, too.Empathy is also related to the process of active listening. You can display empathy by tuning into the emotional expression of others and validating those emotions. Do so by saying things like “It sounds like you’re upset.” Or, “This seems to be very challenging for you.”
If the person is struggling or experiences a setback, remind them that this is part of the process. Help them to plan for setbacks and come up with ways to deal with them.
 Be accountable in the change process of others by linking them up with others who are undergoing the same change. A support group of others or just one buddy who is making the same change can be a valuable resource. Change seems less intimidating when they are enduring trials and triumphs together.


Help your acquaintance identify at least one other person to go through the process with them. Or, suggest that they join a support group either locally or online.