 If time, location, or circumstances cut your love short, then you might be able to pick things up where they left off. You want to have a good reason to fall back in love, because there was probably a good reason you fell out of it.


Do not rekindle the romance if you broke up because of manipulation or abuse, if the problems of your last relationship feel unresolved, or you're only reason to get back together is "comfort."

, Falling back in love with someone is great, but only if you're both willing to commit to the relationship. If there are hurdles in the way, such as distance, jobs, or other partners, there is no reason to fight an uphill battle. Don't, in other words, fall back in love without putting it all on the table.

Don't fall back in love if you just want to be with someone comfortable again. Don't treat love like an old friend you can visit once in a while or someone will inevitably get hurt.
 Did you every really fall out of love? If you're hurt or angry, but still want to rekindle things, you probably haven't given yourself enough time to get over them. You don't have the perspective needed to see how things are when you're flying solo. If you want to get back together, but know that you'd live if you didn't, then you should go pursue him or her.

Don't rebuild the relationship just because you feel uncomfortable or awkward alone. Falling back in love will not help you get to know yourself, nor will it help your fix other problems in your life. You should want to fall back in love with them, not need them in order to feel complete.
 Love is not a manufactured emotion. If you've fallen out of love and its not coming back then perhaps it isn't meant to be. People fall in and out of love all the time, and though it can be difficult, there are not always explanations. Sometimes it just happens. By the same logic, however, sometimes your feelings will just spring up naturally, renewing love where you thought there was none. At the end of the day, the best advice is to follow your gut, be honest with yourself and your partner, and hope for the best.