 Alas, the final scenario: You ran around doing errands all day. You had to go to four stores to find the exact DVD player your husband requested you pick up for your mother-in-law's upcoming birthday. You picked up the dry cleaning, got groceries, and as soon as you get the car emptied, you will be able to breathe a big sigh of relief. Ten minutes later, your spouse arrives home and what are the first words out of his mouth? "What is for dinner?" You stand there speechless. Now, what is your reaction!?

You could go with the explosion of "Are you kidding me? You can't even say hello? Do you have any idea what kind of day I have had? It took four stores before I could find the stupid DVD player that you wanted for your mother! And that's just for starters buddy!"
You could say you have not had a chance to get it started yet, but as soon as you get the groceries put away, and the dry cleaning hung up, you will get dinner started. You hear him flop down on the couch as the evening news is coming on TV. Inside you are steaming with anger "why couldn't he offer to make dinner?". You realize that you could have asked him, but why bother, you will end up having to do most of it yourself anyway, so you would rather he just stay out of your way.
You could say "and 'hello' to you too" with a big smile! Both of you will likely chuckle, and after a welcome home kiss, you tell him that you are still emptying the car. It has been a long day. "Why don't you decide if you want Chinese, Italian or Mexican for supper! The take out menus are in the top drawer!" You might even find yourself a really lucky lady, and hubby will help you unload the car!

, Marriage involves a variety of emotions, covering a variety of situations. Naturally there are going to be some events that are more trying than others, but you can prepare for and deal with the emotions involved., This occurs you feel your partner is speaking or acting in a way that is disrespectful. It can quickly affect your marriage bond, making you feel unworthy of respect. The best way to keep the anger from growing out of control (and growing into contempt) is to show your partner some compassion. In the example above, try asking your partner to help you out. You show him some compassion instead of anger., Feeling defensive often results from an unwillingness to take responsibility for our actions. When you feel defensive, it is best to deal with it right away, by admitting to your spouse that you are feeling attacked or misunderstood. This can lead to a reasonable dialog, rather than anger and hurt feelings., Receiving criticism can feel like an attack. If you complain to your spouse about a particular action, you are being specific about what is bothering you. When you criticize, it tends to be more generalized and exaggerated. Instead of saying, "You could have helped me empty the car", it turns into "I have to do everything around here". Sit down and discuss this with your partner rationally and together try to focus on specifics over exaggeration.