 Unless you were already friends or knew him pretty well before you started dating, you probably need to give yourself time to allow your feelings for your boyfriend to grow.


Most people do not fall in love instantly. “Love at first sight” is not true for many couples. Of course, you should not be in a relationship with someone that you do not even like, but do not expect to immediately feel comfortable and in love with him at the start of the relationship.
 If you discovered that you felt uncomfortable because of your boyfriend's behavior, then give him time to change it.


Some people are not interested in changing who they are or their behavior. If you find that this is the case with your boyfriend, then you will have to consider whether you can continue to endure the behavior that makes you feel uncomfortable.
Perhaps he was doing something that he thought you liked or wanted him to do, like showing off in front of others. When he learns that you would rather he not do that, he will want to change that to make you happy.
 Building trust takes time. However, when you consider the “innocent until proven guilty” philosophy, it is helpful to trust your boyfriend until he gives you a reason not to do so.


This will be hard when you are someone who has been badly hurt (emotionally) in previous relationships, especially ones in which your trust was betrayed.However, your new boyfriend did not do those things to you, and he deserves to have your trust, at least until he does something to lose it.
You will find yourself relaxing around him more and feeling more comfortable when you allow yourself to trust him. Additionally, he will feel more comfortable knowing that he has your trust, which helps the relationship., While it is true that some couples have very few issues, no relationship is perfect. It will take some time for the two of you to work out the kinks and learn how to best make each other happy.


Oftentimes, getting comfortable with your boyfriend simply takes time. The more time you spend around him and spend getting to know him, the more comfortable you will be eventually.
Being in a relationship with someone is a fun and exciting experience. When you truly like and care for someone, you should show your investment in the relationship by putting in the effort to make it better. This has the fortunate effect of helping you to feel more comfortable with the relationship.

