 Using rude language with your parents is almost always a guarantee of trouble. Fortunately, it’s very easy to avoid getting into trouble this way. Just use polite language, whatever that might mean in your family.Most parents like to hear “please” and “thank you.” They appreciate compliments. When you use polite language, your parents are less likely to look for your bad behavior.
Using polite language even when you don’t feel like it is an important social skill that will come in handy when you’re an adult.
Even when your parent is saying something that you disagree with or which is upsetting, try to keep your calm.
 A lot of fights between teens and their parents start with disagreements about clothing choices. If you want to avoid getting into an argument, just wear the clothes your parent wants you to, and bring a change of clothes in your backpack.Consider whether your parents’ concern is for your health and safety.
If you really want clothing that your parents can afford, learn to shop for discounts and sales.
Sometimes a compromise is possible. For example, you might choose to wear a short skirt with leggings, rather than bare legs.
 A lot of young people start experimenting with alcohol as teens, which can cause them to get in trouble with their parents. If you’re planning to drink alcohol, make plans to do it safely. Stay with people you know and trust.Never drive a car if you’ve been drinking at all, and never allow a friend who’s been drinking to drive you.
Be aware of the hazards of binge drinking. Binge drinking is considered having more than 4 drinks (for a female) or 5 drinks (for a male) at least once within a 2-week period. Heavy binge drinking is considered 3 or more binge drinking episodes within a 2-week period.
Consider talking to your parents about your desire to experiment.
 If your grades and conduct in school are good, chances are you’ll be more able to avoid getting in trouble with your parents. As long as your school reports are consistent, your parents are likely to overlook any smaller misbehaviors on your part.Spending time developing organizational systems for yourself will be helpful. If you don’t have to rely on your parents to tell you what to do, keep you on top of deadlines, you’ll be less likely to get into arguments with them.
Developing good study skills for yourself will help with your grades, and improve your relationship with your parents.
 If you can build strong relationships with supportive teachers, you’ll be on the track to doing better in school. You may also find that the teacher will have insight for you in how to not get in trouble with your parents.Perhaps you have another relative, such as an aunt or uncle, who can help you when you’re struggling to get along with your parents.
Not every conversation with an adult has to be deep and serious. Talking with an adult like you do with your friends can be a good way to start.
Try to find things that you have in common with the adult.
 When someone offers you criticism, you can usually find something useful in it, as long as you don’t get caught in the trap of defensiveness. If you can communicate your perspective honestly, you might learn something from your parents’ feedback. To keep from taking criticism personally, try this helpful strategy: Write down what they said in one column, then allow yourself to write down what you don't agree with in a second column.
In a third column, allow yourself to think about what part of what they’ve said might be right.
You don't have to talk to your parents about this process. It's just for you to think about.

