 When you're high, the idea of interacting with people who aren't high, especially people like your parents, teachers, and so on, can be scary. Luckily, it's not hard to hide your high! For example, if your eyes are red (a common side effect of marijuana), use soothing eye drops to clear them up. Products like Visine and Clear Eyes work well and are sold at pharmacies for cheap.
 If you've been smoking, the smell of your drugs can stick to your body and clothes. Some drugs, especially marijuana, have smells that can clue people into what you've been doing. If you have time, try changing your clothes, bathing, and even using a little perfume or cologne to cover this smell up.


Don't use tons of scent to hide the smell of your drugs. Strong scents of cologne or perfume can be attention-grabbing and may even be a clue that you've been smoking themselves.
 Don't forget about the smell on your breath! Even though this won't be as strong as the smell that clings to your body and clothes, it can be a problem if you have to get close to someone. Try sucking on a piece of hard candy or chewing scented gum to cover up this smell.


You may want to consider cough drops, especially if you've just smoked marijuana. Not only will they hide the scent of smoke on your breath, but they'll also make your throat feel better if your smoke was harsh.
 If you're not really high, don't worry &dash; you'll probably be able to talk to other people just fine without them telling you're high. However, you may not want to talk to other people unless you need to. Even if you don't sound high at all, you might get nervous from talking. When you're high and nervous, your thoughts can get scattered and panicky, so keeping quiet until you need to is usually a good move.
 Depending on the type of drugs you're using, you may be less coordinated than normal when you're high — you may feel slightly dizzy, slow, or disoriented. If this is true for you, avoid activities like sports and hard exercise. When you do get up and move around, stay relaxed! Getting nervous will only make you self-conscious of your own movements, which can make it even easier to make mistakes.

