 It is highly likely that Joe feels just a little insecure or feels that his life is somewhat dull. Spicing up the conversation with these famous peeps or VIPs or through brushes with top end brand names may just be about giving himself a confidence edge he otherwise lacks and it's also about impressing you (so be a little flattered that he's trying it out on you). Unfortunately, this means he is probably fragile and liable to take offense easily if you insinuate that his Walter Mitty-esque experiences are just a bit too over-the-top for your liking. You do need to tread carefully, without involving yourself in the game of "who has better friends or brands" or falling for the charade.;
, If Joe constantly mentions local celebrities or VIPs he's met, or the incredible brand names he's managed to snaffle for a song, just ignore it. Not appearing impressed or awed is crucial to the massive deflation of this tactic, so look sufficiently unimpressed. If Joe continually presses the issue, comment on how nice it is that he has so many friends or toys without mentioning a single thing about their importance/fame/special status, etc.
 It can sometimes be easiest to change the subject to something completely new. If the VIPs, brand names and self-congratulatory stories keep turning up in the conversation, steer the conversation to something that won't invite the same name dropping. If it does continue even after changing the topic, you can carefully probe as to the relevance of the name dropping. Or, change the subject yet again.


A typical way to change the subject is to focus on something around you. For example, point to the food table and ask: "Have you tried this bean dip?" Of course, there is a risk that Brad and Angelina once handed a recipe for the best bean dip ever to Joe, so be prepared to move onto other topics.
 If you know a few good names yourself, don't be tempted to throw them out there. Joe the name dropper might enter in to some sort of ridiculous contest where he tries to out-do you in famous people known or brands owned.
 Sometimes you're ready to blow your top because you've more than heard enough about how many amazing people he knows or products he adopts before everybody else. In this case, you need a few well-placed lifelines to stop your apoplexy from blooming in full. Here are a few ideas:


Say something along the lines of, "Boy, Joe, you sure do mention so many popular people. But I've never seen any sort of talent in you, and nobody ever mentions you. Could it be that you use the names of these people to make yourself seem more popular with the in crowd?"
You could also say something like "Wow, Joe! That sure is impressive that you are such close, personal friends with all these famous people. You must introduce us to them, next time you see them! By the way, when will that be?"
A response to being such a brand name aficionado could be: "Man, do you own a lot of stuff. Maybe you could lend me some of that some time, I'm feeling pretty cash-strapped at the moment but I'd love a chance to use/wear/play with X."

