 Websites that specialize in Christmas and other holiday products may present you with various gold ornaments to choose from.


Locate holiday retail websites by visiting any Internet search engine and typing keywords into the search field such as "Christmas tree decorations" or "holiday ornaments." You can then search specifically for gold ornaments on every holiday retail website.
Visit the "Core Architect" website provided to you in the Sources section of this article to access a list of major holiday and Christmas online retail stores.;
, This procedure will allow you to locate gold ornaments with the specific features you want.


Go to any Internet search engine, such as Google, and enter specific keywords that align with your preferences for gold ornaments. For example, if you are looking for 18-karat gold ornaments in the shape of a star, enter a keyword phrase similar to "18-karat gold star ornament" and review your search results.
 Occasionally, especially during the holiday season, jewelry stores may sell holiday or Christmas ornaments that are made purely of gold or are gold-plated.


Locate jewelry stores by performing an Internet search using keywords such as "online jewelry store," then search within each jewelry website for gold ornaments.
 EBay may feature gold ornaments that have been custom-made by an individual, or feature specialty ornaments that are no longer being sold by retailers or manufacturers.


Click on the "eBay" website link provided to you in the Sources section of this article to review search results for the phrase "gold ornaments."
Modify the keywords in the search box to improve your search results for the types of gold ornaments you are looking for. For example, if you just want to review search results for ornaments that are gold-plated, modify the keywords to read as "gold-plated ornaments."
Review each eBay seller's feedback ratings and comments to verify the seller is reputable and reliable before purchasing any of their items.

