 Gastritis is a general medical term that can refer to many different diseases, such as dyspepsia (indigestion), peptic ulcer disease caused by H. pylori, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Not everyone has symptoms when they have gastritis. However, you may have gastritis if you suffer from the following symptoms:A burning pain in your stomach. It may improve or worsen when you eat.
An aching feeling in your stomach.
Nausea or vomiting
Abdominal discomfort
Early satiety (feeling full after only a little bit of food)
Bloating;
, Get medical attention if you suffer from gastritis for longer than a week.Go to the doctor immediately if you are vomiting blood, have streaks of fresh red blood in your stool, or black tarry stools.
Go to the doctor immediately if you experience weight loss, painful swallowing, and bloody vomiting. You may need an EGD test.
If you use prescription or over-the-counter painkillers, particularly those with aspirin, be sure to tell your doctor. Some painkillers may cause gastritis.
 This may help your doctor determine whether you are likely to be vulnerable to gastritis. Risk factors include:An infection with "Helicobacter pylori". Not all people who have this bacteria develop gastritis.
Regular use of over-the-counter painkillers including aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, etc.), or naproxen (Aleve, Anaprox). These medications may make your stomach lining vulnerable to being irritated by your stomach acids.
Your age. The stomach lining gets thinner as you get older, which increases your vulnerability.
Alcohol use. Be honest with your doctor about your drinking. Alcohol can irritate your stomach lining, making it more vulnerable to your stomach acids.
Use of tobacco
Obesity (where your BMI is over 30)
Hiatal hernia
Pregnancy
Stress. If you have been under severe stress, such as recovering from surgery, an injury, burns, or a severe infection, this increases your risk for developing gastritis.
An autoimmune disorder. Tell your doctor if you have an autoimmune disorder such as Hashimoto’s disease, type 1 diabetes, or if you know you have a B12 deficiency. These disorders make you more likely to develop autoimmune gastritis. This occurs when your immune system attacks the lining of the stomach.
 Because gastritis can have many different causes, your doctor may need to do additional tests to determine exactly what is causing it for you. Your doctor may suggest:A test for H. pylori. The doctor may test for H. pylori bacteria in several different ways. It can be done through a blood test, a stool test, or a breath test. If your doctor recommends a breath test, you will drink a cup of liquid that has radioactive carbon in it. It is clear and has no taste. If you have H. pylori, they will break down the fluid when it reaches your stomach, so it you will have it on your breath. A stool test is where a stool sample is taken and tested in the lab for H. pylori. It’s considered equally effective to the breath test.
An esophagogastroduodenoscopy, or an EGD. During this procedure, the doctor uses a thin tube with a camera on it to look at your digestive tract. The images will show areas of inflammation. If the doctor finds an area that looks inflamed a small tissue sample may be taken and tested for H. pylori.
An x-ray. During this test you will drink white liquid containing barium. The barium coats your esophagus, stomach, and intestines, making them easier to see on the X-ray. This allows your doctor to look for areas with problems.
If H. pylori is detected by one of these tests and you are treated for it, it is recommended to have a repeat test in 4-6 weeks to confirm eradication.

