 Gently pull apart a large clump of cotton, working it in several directions using your hands. Doing so stretches out the fibers.


The clump of cotton should be roughly the same size as the palm of your hand.
Raw cotton is the most traditional and works very well, but in a pinch, commercially packaged cotton balls will also be sufficient.
 Use a sharp knife to carefully split one end of a long bamboo skewer. The split should be no longer than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).


Center the split in the end of the skewer.
While a variety of wooden shafts would work well for the dart, standard bamboo skewers are the easiest to use. The wood is sturdy enough and the thickness of the skewer is just the right size., Carefully whittle or shave of portions of wood from the opposite end of the skewer to form the end into a point.


The actual point only needs to be 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm ) long.
Note that if you want a smaller dart, you should trim the skewer down to size before sharpening the end to a point.



The string should be roughly the same thickness as floss. Linen string, kite string, and yucca fiber are all good options.
Leave 1 inch (2.5 cm) of string hanging out from one side of the split. The remaining length of string should hang out from the opposite side.
 Grab the split end of the dart with your non-dominant hand and hold the stretched cotton fibers on top of it.


The cotton should extend over the top 2 inches (5 cm) or so of the wooden shaft.
Note that this process will take some balance. You will need to hold the center of the wooden skewer with your dominant hand while holding the long end of the string in between your teeth.
 Spin the wooden skewer away from you using your dominant hand, working slowly. The string should wind itself around the cotton and the skewer.


You will probably need to insert cotton fibers beneath the string as it winds around the skewer. Do this using your non-dominant hand and work with a few fibers at a time.
Continue until there are 2 inches (5 cm) of cotton fletching wrapped around the dart.
The winding process takes time and practice to master, so don't be discouraged if you don't get it right the first time.
 Wrap the string around the bottom of the fletching several times. Tie it into a knot, then tie another knot over it.


If done right, this should secure the cotton fletching in place.
 Apply a dot of super glue or hot glue over the knot to add another layer of security.
 Twirl the cotton fletching in between your fingers to "fluff" it, then use your fingers to smooth it back down.


If necessary, you can trim excess cotton with scissors or a sharp knife.
Once you finish smoothing out cotton, the dart is ready to use.

