 Airlines like American Airlines, United Airlines, and Delta have different policies regarding standby passengers. These policies reflect fees, treatment of checked luggage, and more. As a result, you should take a minute to read your airline's policies.;
, If your initial goal is to fly standby, you should try to buy the cheapest ticket possible to your final destination. Without a ticket, you won’t be able to clear security and won’t have the ability to take advantage of a last-minute standby opportunity.

Buy a ticket from the specific airline you want to travel on or from discount travel websites like Travelocity, Priceline, Expedia, or Kayak.
Having a ticket to the destination you want to go to is important, as many airlines will not allow you to fly standby unless you're already going to that destination.
 Remember that flying standby is not guaranteed. Thus, you need to be smart about the ticket you purchase. If you won't want to use it, you shouldn't buy it. This is because there is a very good chance you won't be able to get a standby ticket., If you or someone you know works for a given airline, you may be to use a “buddy pass.” This pass will allow you to show up to a gate without purchasing a ticket. Generally, buddy passes are the only way you’ll be able to get through security and to a gate without a ticket.Airlines provide a set number of buddy passes to their employees every year.
Buddy passes may enable users to purchase tickets at a steep discount – sometimes between 30% and 60%.
Depending on the airline, buddy passes may allow the user to check two bags.
 If you’re considering traveling standby ahead of time, you should probably call the airline and let them know. In some cases, airlines will be able to put you on a standby list., In most cases, you should plan to arrive at the airport at least two hours before the flight you want to fly standby on. If the airport is particularly busy, or there have been many flight cancellations, you may want to arrive even earlier. This way, you may be able to get on the standby list for more than one flight.

Your chances of getting a standby seat are much higher on earlier flights – so arrive as early in the morning as you possibly can.
 After you’ve cleared security and arrived at the gate of the flight you want to be on, you should approach the airline representatives at the gate desk and introduce yourself. Let them know that you’re booked for a later flight want to fly standby on their flight. If you’re not already on a standby list, they may be able to put you on one.

Be as polite as possible. Remember, the airline representative is not responsible for flight cancellations or any other issues.
 While you may want to give up as boarding is winding down, you should stay at the gate until the airplane’s door is closed and the flight taxis away from the jetway. This is important, as the flight crew might determine new seat availability at the very last minute.
 If you’re selected as a standby flyer, you will likely have to pay a fee for the privilege. Fees vary by airline, and can range from $25 to $100. However, your fee may be waived if you’re a preferred flyer with that specific airline.

You may also have to pay a fee if you check a piece of luggage.
 Depending on the airline and specific circumstances, your chances of getting a standby seat may be higher if you do not need to check baggage. This is because standby seats are often filled at the very last minute, and there may not be time to check your baggage.


In addition, if an airline does check your baggage, it may be checked on a different flight to your destination.
 When it comes to traveling standby, you’ll have to build in a decent amount of flexibility into your travel plans. Without flexibility, you won’t be able to take advantage of the major benefits of flying standby. As a result, expect the unexpected when flying standby.

Inform anyone that might be expecting you at your destination that you could be early or late.
Make sure connecting flights or other transportation options are scheduled appropriately.
Cancel or postpone hotel accommodations if you’ll be delayed overnight., While it is possible to travel standby with a group, it is very hard to do so. This is because there are usually only a couple of standby seats available on a given plane. If you are traveling standby with a group, your group might get broken up and may be put onto two or more different planes., If you plan to travel standby, try to fly at times when fewer people are flying. This is because the more people flying, the less seats will be available on given flights. In addition, more people flying means more competition for the few standby seats that may be available.Don’t plan to fly standby on holiday weekends, major holidays, or during specific events (like the Super Bowl or Olympics).
 Many airlines will give preferential treatment to members of their rewards programs. Such perks include being moved to the front of the list of standby flyers, paying a smaller fee to fly standby, or getting a free upgrade. Thus, consider joining a rewards program if you plan to fly standby in the future.