 Prepare a baking sheet by lining it with parchment paper.If your oven does not reach temperatures as low as 200 degrees Fahrenheit (90 degrees Celsius), simply preheat it to the lowest temperature possible.
 Grate four to six lemons using a standard kitchen grater. You'll need about 3/4 cup (180 ml) of fresh lemon zest.


Start with four lemons, then zest more if they do not produce enough zest. You can also use more or less than 3/4 cup (180 ml) if you'd prefer a stronger or weaker lemon taste.
Before zesting the lemons, rinse them under running water and dry with clean paper towels. Only use clean, unblemished lemons for this recipe.
 Place the peppercorns in a spice grinder and pulse for several seconds. The peppercorns should be lightly and consistently crushed.


Do not fully grind the peppercorns during this step.
If you do not have a spice grinder, use a food processor or clean coffee grinder
For a simple variation, consider combining black peppercorns with green or pink peppercorns in equal parts. You can also use a “peppercorn medley” that contains a premixed amount of all three types.
 Place the lemon zest and crushed peppercorns in a mixing bowl, then stir them together until evenly combined.


While stirring, use the back of a fork to mash the lemon zest and crushed pepper together. Doing so should help hold the mixture together, thereby blending the flavors more effectively.
 Transfer the mixture to your prepared baking sheet, then place it in your preheated oven. Bake it for 60 minutes, or until all of the zest has completely dried.After pouring the mixture onto the center of your parchment-lined baking sheet, use a spatula to spread it into an even layer.
Check the mixture after the first 30 minutes and gently stir it before letting it bake longer. Continue checking every 10 to 15 minutes after that point, stirring as needed to ensure even drying.
 Scoop the dried mixture back into the spice grinder and process it until everything is finely ground.


As before, a food processor or coffee grinder can be used if you do not have a spice grinder.
The finished texture should resemble commercially prepared lemon pepper blends, which is approximately the same texture as fine sand.
 Dump the lemon pepper blend into a mixing bowl and add the salt. Stir well until the ingredients are evenly combined.


If you choose to use large-grain salt, you may wish to place it into the spice grinder with the lemon pepper blend and pulse it into the mixture. This should mix the salt into the seasoning while simultaneously breaking it into finer pieces.
You can technically prepare this mixture without the addition of salt, but it may not taste like most commercially prepared versions if you leave it out.
 Transfer the lemon pepper seasoning to an airtight plastic or glass container. Store it in a cool, dry place for up to six months.

