 Everyone's hair is a little different, and you're never going to train your hair until you stop fighting it and work with its natural pattern. Take a few days where you simply wash and condition your hair like normal, letting your hair air-dry when you're done. Don't comb through it until it has completely dried out. What does your hair do naturally? How does it want to fall? While you can adjust and play with your hair's exact look, you are going to have the best, healthiest hair if you play to it's natural strengths.Hair has different levels of curling and kinking, none of which are more attractive than others.
Training your hair is about working with what you've got, not fighting it into another pattern. While hair has some ability to adapt, your natural hair pattern will follow you for life., Healthy hair needs to be trimmed. Moreover, getting cuts is a great way to get the hairstyle you want without using dangerous and damaging chemicals. The best way to train your hair is with a stylist, who can cut and shape your locks into a look that fits your hair best. Bring in pictures of styles you like, and take the time to talk to your hairstylist about what you want. If you're at a loss, ask for a little advice -- they likely know what styles will suit you best., For optimal hair health, you should pat it dry gently with a clean t-shirt or microfiber towel instead of ruffling it dry with a towel. This creates much less friction, which can cause breakage and frizz as you hair dries. Whenever possible, pat away the excess moisture and the let your hair air dry., Heat will cause your hair follicles to open up, which lets moisture leak out and leads to dry, damaged hair. Whenever possible avoid using heat, opting instead for a natural, lovely look.


Avoid straighteners and curlers whenever possible. If you want to use them, be sure you apply a heat protectant product ahead of time.
Cooler showers or, at least, lukewarm showers, are best for hair health.
If you need to blow dry your hair, let it air-dry as much as possible, then use the blow dryer on "cool" for the healthiest option. Hair doesn't like heat, so avoid blasts of hot air when possible.
 Relaxants and chemical straighteners may temporarily "train" your hair, but it will only get more difficult to deal with over time. These products stress hairs into an unnatural pattern, weakening your hair follicle and forcing you to apply more and more product just to keep the hair healthy.If you're looking for short-term training, then a chemical treatment like a conk, straightening, etc. will give you a few weeks of straighter hair.
 You hair, in many ways, reflects the overall health of your body. Stronger, healthy hair is much easier to manage and train, so you need to be cognizant of your diet for the best hair. Make sure you're drinking plenty of water each day (6-8 glasses) and eating a balanced diet of lean protein (chicken, fish, eggs, beans), fruits, vegetables, and complex carbohydrates (oats, whole wheat, quinoa, etc.) for the best hair. Specific, hair healthy foods include:


Fatty oils, found in fish, avocados, olive oil, and nuts, are great for healthy hair. If you cannot get a lot naturally, consider a fish oil pill.
Vitamins and minerals are essential for good hair. A healthy assortment of fruits and vegetables, especially spinach, citrus, sweet potatoes, and bananas, will promote healthy hair. You should also consider a multi-vitamin., The hair you were born with is the hair you're going to live with, and that is a good thing! You natural hair pattern (the way your hair falls and curls without products) is not likely to change unless you undergo a large hormonal change. That means that your hair may change after puberty, or with pregnancy, but that's about it.You need to learn to love your natural hair pattern. While products, styling gels, and heat treatment may change your hair temporarily, you cannot "train" your hair to be permanently different than it is now. Instead of fighting it, learn to love it. Try out some new styles based on what you have, not what you wish you had, on your head:


Hair styles for curly hair.
Hair styles for straight hair.
Hair styles for frizzy hair.
Hair styles for thin hair.

