 Everyone has a particular skin type: normal, dry, sensitive, oil or combination.Knowing your skin type allows you to find the right skincare products and create an effective treatment while minimizing irritation. If you don't know your skin type, you can ask a dermatologist, a make-up artist or an employee at a skincare/make-up store. They can test your skin and give you recommendations on skincare.


Normal: barely visible pores, no sensitivity, good complexion.
Dry: small pores, patches of red, less elasticity, dull complexion.
Sensitive: you experience redness, itching, burning or dryness when exposed to an irritant.
Oily: larger pores, shiny complexion, presence of blackheads, pimples and other blemishes.
Combination: normal in some areas, dry or oily in others, especially in the T-zone.
 Try to be as gentle as possible on the affected area and use warm, not hot, water. Brands such as Dove, Jergens and Dial make mild soaps that are designed to clear skin without further drying or irritating it. You could also use a facial cleanser with salicylic acid, a compound that helps remove and prevent acne.


Wash with clean fingers and avoid irritants like buff puffs, loofahs, or cloths. Your hands are a perfectly acceptable way of washing your face. Anything else will probably irritate your skin more than it helps it.
 Moisturizing your skin is an important factor in keeping it irritant-free. Moisturizing regularly keeps your skin firm and healthy. For best results, moisturize after each time you wash your face, using a noncomedogenic moisturizer. "Noncomedogenic" simply means that it won't block your pores.









Get a moisturizer or lotion that works for your skin type. For example, if you have oily skin, get a moisturizer that has 'oil-free' on the label. You don't have to use a moisturizer every twenty minutes, but it's good to have on hand if your skin got dry that day. This tends to be more of an issue in the winter because of the cold and the wind.
Know that there are two kinds of basic moisturizers: gel-based and cream-based. Gel-based moisturizers work better for oily or combination skin, while cream-based moisturizers tend to work better on dry or sensitive skin.
 Drinking more water helps your body stay healthy and functioning at a high level. And drinking water means you're probably not drinking sugary drinks, such as juices, sodas, and energy drinks. Because, yes, there is growing evidence of a connection between what you eat and how much acne you get.Keeping your body hydrated in turn keeps your skin hydrated. This gives skin that plump, healthy look and feel.
 Do not get lazy and leave it on. Makeup that is left on can clog pores and lead to more acne. If possible, keep some wipes next to your bed and use them when you feel too lazy to walk all the way to the bathroom to wash your face.
 This will help remove dead skin cells, soften skin and smooth out your skin tone. You can buy a scrub or exfoliant. Just remember that more is not always better. Exfoliating more than once a week can dry skin out and actually irritate it.
 An astringent is a substance that firms and tones skin by tightening pores. While it's probably not great for your skin to use astringents too often, they can be good to remove oil and dirt before you wash your face.









If you want to use a natural astringent, try rubbing lemon slices onto your skin, as mentioned above. Afterward, you rinse your skin and air dry or gently pat with a towel. This has the added benefit of leaving a clean aroma.
If you use a strong astringent, make sure to apply a moisturizer to your skin to prevent over-drying. If you use lemon, be careful around your eyes. If you do get some of the juice in your eyes, stop and flush out your eyes with water for several minutes.
 While getting a little bit of sun is healthy, too much can create redness and irritation on your face. Also, UV rays can cause dark spots on your skin and put you at higher risk for skin cancer. Before you go out, try putting on a moisturizer with an SPF of 30 or 45.


Know that there is little need for products with a higher SPF; SPF 30 and 45 already block more than 90% of harmful rays.
 Teenagers and pimples stereo-typically go hand in hand, but pimples can be caused by several things. Some reasons include the following:


Hormonal changes: this can be from going through puberty, taking certain drugs, being on birth control, etc.
Diet: Dairy and gluten products can cause skin breakouts to occur
Unwashed hair: the oil in your hair could be clogging your pores, especially around the crown of your head.
Cosmetics: if you use make-up, even after washing your face, there could be residue covering up your pores and causing them to become pimples. You’ll want to find a good make-up remover. Also, skin products that are too oily or harsh for your skin type can have the same negative effect.
Excessive sweating and humidity: this might sound odd, but there is yeast on your skin called Malassezia. It can be on your skin without causing problems, but when the yeast is exposed to too much moisture, it can grow rapidly and can cause breakouts.
 While it may be tempting to pop your pimples (especially black- and whiteheads), it's actually counterproductive. Popping pimples spreads the bacteria that causes acne to different parts of your face, increasing the chance of the bacteria spreading. Not to mention that your hands contain dirt, oil, and other grime that doesn't mix well with sensitive skin. Try as much as possible to keep your hands from your face and other acne-prone areas.

