 Earlier versions of Windows do not natively support disk mounting and require third party software to accomplish this task.Search online for terms such as “mount iso” or “virtual disk drive” and read reviews to determine the best software to use. Some software may be available for purchase or offer free versions.


Use caution when looking online for software. Reading reviews can help you obtain trustworthy software that won’t cause harm to your computer.
Some programs provide support for other ISO file types. If the file type is not supported, you can search online for conversion software to convert into a compatible file type.
 Run the setup program of the software you chose and follow the installation prompts to install the software on your computer. Once the program has been installed. Open the program from the Start Menu or from the desktop if there is an icon shortcut available.


The software will create a virtual drive that will appear as a regular drive on your computer. This can be specified as a CD, DVD or Blu-Ray disk. Make sure the drive matches the type of ISO you want to open.
The program may open, but not appear as a regular window. Check the system tray located on the taskbar to see if it is open there. The taskbar typically appears at the bottom of the screen.
 In the disk mounting software, you will see a list of virtual drives that are available to mount an ISO onto. The software may provide a cataloging system that you can add an ISO to. Right-click on the ISO in the program to “Mount” it onto a virtual disk drive. You can also mount the ISO onto the virtual disk drive directly by right clicking the virtual drive and choosing “Mount.”


You will need to browse for the ISO file on your computer. Once you mount the ISO to the drive, it will stay on the drive unless a different ISO is mounted or the ISO is unmounted from the drive.
You may be able to mount an ISO file from Windows Explorer by right-clicking on the ISO file then clicking on “Mount.”

, Your mounted ISO appears as a regular disk drive. Right-click on the disk drive, then click on “Open” to open the drive and double click on “Setup.exe,” “Install.exe” or “Autoexec.exe” to run the installer for the program. If you double-click on the drive, you may run the “autoexec.exe” program, if it is available, that may provide a guided shortcut to install the game.
 If the game requires the disk to be present for the game to run after installation, make sure the ISO is mounted in the virtual drive.

