 If you want to stop vaginal odor in its tracks, you need to figure out what's causing it first. The most common source of vaginal odor is an infection. This can range from yeast infections, to bacterial infections, to STDs/STIs. The best practice to make sure that this is not the case is to go to the doctor and have them check you out. That said, there are a few different ways you can gauge if this is your problem:


If you have a lot of chunky white discharge, you probably have a yeast infection. Medicine for this can be found easily at any drugstore and many grocery stores.
You might contract a bacteria infection if you don't practice proper cleaning procedures after defecation. Do you wipe front to back or back to front? Wiping back to front introduces bacteria into your vagina and can cause infections.
If you think you might have contracted an STD/STI, just go to the doctor to get tested. This is the kind of thing you need to know for sure, for your own safety and that of those around you. There are organizations which do free or cheap STD testing, like Planned Parenthood, and they are very discreet.;
, The vagina is kind of like a rich ecosystem. Everything has to exist in perfect balance, and that balance can be really easily upset. If you use soap, antibacterial products, take baths that are too hot, go in pools frequently, use scented pads, use lotion too close to your vagina, don't change your underwear often enough or wear underwear of the wrong material, or a large number of other things, you can cause your little ecosystem to get totally out of whack. Basically, avoid using those things and just be very careful about washing every day with water (no soap!) and wearing clean clothes.
 Lots of women don't like the way that their vagina smells, but if you ask their boyfriends those guys will say they love it! Don't underestimate your natural odor. You might associate it with being unclean, but...this is not the case with many guys and women who associate that smell with adult 'activities', not poor hygiene. They don't want you to smell like flowers down there, they want you to smell like...er....well...you. If you've figured out that your smell isn't caused by an imbalance or an infection and that it's really just how you smell, you should probably consider coming to terms with it and embracing it.
 Certain sexual practices can also cause vaginal odor, either from his bacteria colonizing your body or just the smell of sex itself...nevermind if you're taking the sexual practices outside of Missionary 101. Consider if this is the reason you smell different and take whatever measures you believe are warranted.


Just going to put it out there: putting it in your butt and then putting it in your vagina is a terrible idea. At least switch condoms between these activities.
 You know, it happens: sometimes you just forget you have a tampon in there. Sometimes the occasional condom (or piece of) gets left behind. These things can cause an odor as your body tries to get rid of the object. Check for objects and get them out!


Leaving tampons and pads on for too long can also cause smells, even after they've finally been changed. Change them frequently to avoid that.

