 Once you have obtained the required amount of practical training, you will need to pass three tests administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).A Designated Mechanic Examiner will test your practical skills.
The Examiner will also administer an oral exam – you'll answer his questions in person, while he takes notes.
There are 43 different technical topics that you'll need to be familiar with in order to pass these tests.
For a single certificate exam (airframe or power plant), expect the test to last about 8 hours.
 You will need to go to your local Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) office and submit proof that you have all the required experience for certification. If the FAA inspector determines that you are eligible to take the written exam, you can schedule your exam at one of the approved computer testing centers. There are testing centers in most large towns and cities in the US.Study very carefully for your written exam. If you fail any part of the test, you'll need to wait at least 30 days before taking it again.
The 30-day wait requirement may be waived if you can show proof that you've gotten additional training in the area you failed.
Every section of the written exam must be passed within 24 months of your first attempt.
 You can get a license in a power plant rating, an airframe rating, or both. you are a US citizen and want to work as an aircraft mechanic in the United States, you must meet certain basic standards. You will need a mechanic's certificate to work as an aircraft mechanic. You must be 18 years of age, or older.
You must be able to speak, write, read, and comprehend English.
You must have 18 months of practical experience with airframes or power plants, or 30 months of practical experience working on both power plants and airframes at the same time.
You must pass the required practical, oral, and written exams.
 If you aren't a US citizen, you can still qualify for a mechanic's certificate if you meet all of the US citizen standards, along with some additional requirements.You'll need to prove that you need a mechanic's certificate to work on US-registered civil aircraft.
You will need to show your non-US passport to the examiner.
Your employer will need to write a letter explaining exactly what aircraft mechanical work you performed for him, and for how long.
You will need a letter from the foreign equivalent of the FAA listing your qualifying work experience, or a letter to this effect from the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
All papers must be dated and signed, and must be the original document – no copies are allowed.
You'll need to pay a fee to have your documents reviewed by FAA officials.
English-language requirements are occasionally waived if you will not be working within the US. In this situation, your license would limit you to work outside the US.
 The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) also issues repairman certificates, which restrict the bearer to specific tasks (such as repairing a specific type of engine or engine component, for a specific type of aircraft). The work is performed for commercial operators, FAA-approved repair stations, or air carriers that have been approved to do this kind of work. The requirements for a repairman certificate are:Your employer will need to recommend you for a repairman certificate before you can apply.
You'll need to be 18 or older.
You must be able to write, read, understand, and speak the English language.
You will need work experience that qualifies you to perform maintenance on aircraft or parts.
You must already be employed on a specific job that requires qualifications by an FAA-certified Repair Station, air carrier, or commercial operator.
You will need 18 months of on-the-job experience in the specific job that you will be doing with your repairman certificate, or you will need to complete a school training course at an FAA-approved facility.

