 Although you cannot prevent hair loss when you are breastfeeding because of hormonal changes, poor hair care may make your hair loss worse.Using good and healthy hair care habits may help minimize how much hair you lose.
 Clean your hair and scalp regularly and in a gentle manner with shampoo and conditioner. This can help prevent damage that may cause further hair loss.Wash your hair every other day or as little as necessary. Frequent washing can damage your strands.Massage shampoo into your scalp and into the length of your hair.Rinse by allowing water to flow from your scalp down the ends of your hair. Don’t rub your hair as it rinses, which may cause further hair loss., After you finish washing and rinsing your hair, apply a conditioner along the length of your hair from ends to scalp. This can help prevent further hair loss through damage, including breaking. It can also make your hair appear fuller.Make sure to use conditioner every time you wash your hair.You can use a rinse-out or leave in conditioner., Drying your hair with towels and hair dryers can cause damage and break off strands of hair. Dry your hair with caution to help prevent breakage and further hair loss.Use a soft towel to rub or pat your strands dry.Avoid the temptation to wrap your hair in a towel, which can damage your hair and cause breakage.Let your hair air dry if possible.If you use a hair dryer, use the lowest heat setting.Reducing the number of times per week that you use a hair dryer can also promote hair growth., If you brush or comb your hair, try and do this as infrequently and gently as possible. Reducing how often you brush or comb and changing the way in which you do it can help you from losing strands and prevent breakage.Only brush your hair to style it. It’s a myth that you should brush your hair 100 strokes a day.Allow your hair to air dry a bit before brushing or combing after washing.Use a wide toothed comb to untangle wet hair. This will may minimize how much hair you lose through brushing.If your hair is tangled, remove tangles gently and use a conditioner to help you if necessary.
 Many women want to style their hair or use styling products such as curling irons, which are often hotter than a dryer. If you style your hair, choose loose styles, avoid heavy products, and use lower heat tools.Pulling hair back tightly in ponytails or styles such as cornrows not only can break or damage hair, but also may cause hair loss. Wear your hair pulled back loosely and try different hairstyles every day to allow your hair and scalp to relax.A loose ponytail or braid can keep strands from falling on to your baby but also may prevent your baby from pulling out your hair when you breastfeed her.
Use covered elastic bands to pull back your hair. Rubber can pull and break hair.If you use styling tools such as curling irons or hot combs, keep them at the lowest setting.If you wear a weave or hair extensions, make sure they are light so that they don’t pull at your hair and scalp and cause further hair loss., This is some mixed evidence that massaging your scalp may stimulate and increase blood flow.

Try massaging your own scalp to help prevent further hair loss and promote hair growth.Increased blood flow results in increased nutrient absorption, which may help prevent hair loss and breakage, and could stimulate your hair to grow more quickly.Massage can help condition the scalp and strengthen the roots of your hair, which in turn may minimize how much hair you lose while breastfeeding., There is some evidence that lavender oil may help hair loss. Massage a small amount into your hair and scalp to minimize hair loss and promote growth.You can get lavender oil at health food stores and some grocery stores.
Rub a small amount into your scalp once a day., If you are breastfeeding, you need to get enough nutrients to produce milk and maintain your health. Increase your intake of nutrients can keep you healthy, help you produce enough milk, and may also help your hair stay strong, which may prevent further hair loss.Not getting sufficient vitamins and nutrients can exacerbate hair loss. Be sure you’re eating properly and staying hydrated.
In addition to your regular calorie intake, you will need to factor in extra calories for nursing. You will need up to 650 extra calories per day to produce sufficient milk.Protein is one of the building blocks of hair. Getting enough lean protein from meat, dairy products, fish, eggs, and nuts can help your hair get strong and grow.
Iron helps prevent hair loss. You can get extra iron from red meat, fish, and chicken, as well as options such as lentils, kale, and broccoli.Vitamin C helps the body absorb iron as well as produce collagen that can strengthen your hair shafts. Try eating blueberries, broccoli, oranges, and strawberries to get sufficient vitamin C.Omega-3 fatty acids help keep the oils on your scalp, which in turn keep your hair hydrated. Get Omega-3s in fish such as salmon and trout, and other sources including avocado and pumpkin seeds.A lack of zinc and/ or selenium can lead to hair loss. Eat fortified whole grains, oysters, beef, and eggs to get enough zinc to prevent hair loss.Biotin helps keep hair strong and flexible. Too little may cause brittle hair or hair loss. You can get biotin from whole grains, liver, eggs, and yeast., Your body will need sufficient additional nutrients to support milk production, but also to keep you and your hair healthy. You may want to consider continuing to take pre-natal vitamins to help you get additional nutrients to help ensure that your hair stays as strong as possible.


During breastfeeding, the body is designed to put your child’s nutritional needs before yours. If you’re not getting enough nutrients to support your health, you may experience exacerbated hair loss.
It’s safe to continue taking pre-natal vitamins if you’re breastfeeding and your doctor may recommend them to you to ensure you’re getting the nutrition you need.Try and get as many nutrients as possible from healthy and whole foods.

