 The active ingredients are simple: just salt and water. You can purchase it over the counter without a prescription. Then, if your nose feels dry, give it a quick spray.If it is just salt and water, it is safe, won't irritate your mucous membranes, and shouldn't cause side effects.This is excellent in winter during flu season. You can bring a small bottle of saline spray with you to use at work and in the car. You can use it three times a day if you need to.Some commercial saline sprays have preservatives in them which may irritate your membranes; however, the preservatives also prevent the growth of bacteria and other contaminants. Check the ingredients on the packaging. If it contains preservatives or ingredient other than salt and water, then be very careful not to use it more often than recommended by your doctor or the manufacturer's instructions.
If you want to use preservative-free saline, find one that uses a no back flow method or has a more acid pH to decrease bacteria.
You can make a homemade saline solution, but it can be difficult to get the proper balance of salt to water, which can lead to dry sinuses. But, if you have no other choice, you can try making your own saline. Add a teaspoon of salt to a quart of water. Then boil it for 20 minutes to sterilize it., While it may be tempting to use an antibiotic ointment like Neosporin, you should avoid overuse of antibiotics. Most colds and flus are cause by viruses, not bacteria, so the antibiotics will have no effect. Instead, spread a thin layer of a saline-based gel to the inside of your nose to keep it moist.Use a clean cotton swab to apply the ointment. Lightly coat the Q-tip with ointment and then apply it to the inside of your nostrils. Do not use so much that it gives you the sensation of a stuffy nose.
 This method is excellent when you have sensitive membranes after a cold. Aloe vera contains vitamins that will help heal and nourish your skin. Use a clean cotton swab to apply it. You can get aloe vera in two ways:


Purchase an over the counter commercial mixture. This can also be applied at work or school.
Cut open the leaf of an aloe plant you may have in your house. If you chose this method, cut the leaf open the long way and use the cotton swab to apply the gooey gel that you find in the leaf.
 If you inhale small amounts of it into your lungs it can cause pneumonia.If you do use a fat-based product, do not do so before bed. Remain upright for several hours afterwards. Do not smear it further in your nose than 1/4 of an inch.Do not apply fat-based products to the nasal membranes of children. They are particularly vulnerable to pneumonia.

