 Lories and lorikeets are social birds who are happiest among other members of their species. Be prepared to devote lots of time talking to and playing with your bird. If you have a demanding schedule that requires you to be away from home a lot, you should consider adopting at least two birds to prevent them from getting lonely.

In captivity, lories and lorikeets can live between 10 and 15 years. This is quite a responsibility if your long-term plans include relocation, marriage, starting a family, or other changes that could be stressful for a companion animal., You can't train a bird to use a litter box. They poop where they please, whether they're in their cage or not. Bird droppings can carry dangerous bacteria and viruses that can be inhaled. Expect to clean inside and around the cage every day with non-toxic disinfectants like animal safe dish soaps. You'll also have to clean the water bowl, food bowl, toys, perch, etc., Lorikeets like to use their water for bathing, as well as drinking. They can get food, feathers, even poop into their water. Check their bowl every few hours. When you see stuff floating in the water, clean the bowl and replace it with fresh water., Unlike other psittacine species, lories and lorikeets thrive on flowers, pollen, and nectar. Make sure their diet is at least 75 to 80 percent nectar. Substitutes from your local pet store require regular mixing to prevent spoilage. You can also feed lories and lorikeets fruits and veggies like pitted apple cherries, dark leafy greens, and boiled potatoes.

You'll also need to learn about foods that you need to avoid at all costs. Avocados and chocolate, for instance, are toxic to exotic bird species. Pale greens, like celery and iceberg lettuce, lack the nutrient density that lories and lorikeets require., Lories and lorikeets live in trees and are used to flying between branches. Look into creating perches that will give them (literally) a bird's eye view of the room. Prepare to give them places to hide as they do in the wild.Lories and lorikeets also need UVA and UVB light to produce their own Vitamin D. If you can't give your bird at least four hours of unfiltered sunlight each day, be prepared to buy a full-spectrum UV lamp from your local pet store., Familiarize yourself with prevention, treatment, and cures. Visit your local library or read veterinary journals for information. Talk to your local veterinarian for a first-hand point of view and for a better idea of which diseases are common in your area.For example, diseases like Psittacine Beak and Feather Disease (PBFD) have no cure and can be devastating for lories, lorikeets, and their parents. Consider whether you're prepared to deal with this possibility.