 There are many types of fashion tapes available on the market. Before purchasing one, read reviews about different brands, and read the label carefully to make sure it will be suitable for the fabric of your dress.


Look for tapes that are bit wider, as they will have more surface area, meaning they will stay stuck longer.
It is reported that some celebrities actually use toupee tape for their red carpet events, instead of fashion tape.;
, The tape will be sticky on both sides, and will typically have a sticker you have to remove from both sides in order to keep it sticking to everything before you’re ready to use it. Carefully apply the tape all the way around the top of the dress, as close the top edge as you can.


Apply another layer below the first for extra protection, if you wish.
Make sure you apply firm pressure to the tape before moving on to the next step.
 Tape cannot stick to a surface that is oily. If you have oily skin, or have just put lotion on, use a cotton pad with rubbing alcohol on it. Gently swipe the pad across the part of the skin where you wish to attach the tape.
 Once you are ready to go, put any undergarments you wish to wear on, and then the dress. Peel the backing of the fashion tape off, and then attach it to the skin


This will require you to apply firm, direct pressure to the area of skin you are attaching the dress to. It may be helpful to have someone help you do this part.
 At this point, you should be good to go; however, if you notice spots that feel a bit insecure, you can carefully attach more tape.
 Before removing the dress, pull the tape slowly and gently away from your skin. If there is extra residue left on your skin, you can use oil (e.g., baby oil, olive oil. vegetable oil, etc.) to gently remove it with a cotton ball.
 Pull the tape away from the fabric before washing according to the label's instructions. If there is any residue left on the fabric, you can either pull it away with your fingers, or you can try rubbing it away with a warm, wet wash cloth.


Be gentle if you use a wash cloth! If you scrub too hard, you might ruin the fabric. If the fabric is very delicate to begin with, you may consider taking it to a professional cleaner, who can clean the delicate fabric properly.

