 Learn the history of the specific Disney company that you are applying to, as well as Disney as a whole. You don't have to memorize every single fact and detail, but absorb enough to demonstrate a more-than-passing familiarity with your potential employer in your cover letter and interviews. Prove yourself to be someone who is passionate about contributing to the company's overall mission, rather than someone who is just seeking a job from the first employer who is willing to hire them.
 Disney companies pride themselves on promoting current employees to fill higher positions, so if you are holding out for one of those, readjust your expectations. Content yourself with an entry-level position at first. From there, aim higher. Excel at your original position. Earn a reputation for reliability, capability, and team spirit, while networking constantly between your peers, supervisors, and other management.If you are deadset on skipping the entry-level positions and landing yourself a high-profile position right away, be sure that you can offer an in-demand skill that they desperately need. Disney companies have a huge workforce to choose from, so set yourself apart from current employees by offering a unique specialization that few other candidates could boast.
 Unless you offer a rare set of skills that few other candidates are likely to possess, anticipate that the company will be more likely to hire someone who is able to respond to an interview request and start work immediately.If you do not already live in the immediate area of the job's location, plan your move as soon as possible. Research the availability of residences and the logistics of moving there before submitting your application. At the same time, set aside a separate budget for travel in order to appear promptly for an in-person interview if required.


If you plan to move to the company's location before applying or being hired, be sure to secure employment with another company until Disney guarantees you a job. Due to its popularity, Disney may receive countless applications for each opening, creating stiff competition for you.
Also be sure to have your own means of transportation, whether it be a car or bike, since many Disney companies are located in cities without reliable bus or train service.
 The more specialized and/or behind-the-scenes your position is, the less you may have to worry about this, but remember that Disney is a family-oriented business. Tailor your appearance accordingly. Style your hair conservatively. Refrain from getting visible or offensive tattoos. Dress professionally for interviews and leave the body jewelry at home.Again, there are many different Disney companies, with each one offering many different positions, so dress codes and professional appearance may be more relaxed in some areas, but err on the side of caution until the job is definitely yours.
Also be sure to keep your record squeaky clean, since Disney retains the right to perform background and criminal checks on its employees at any given time.

