 LH is important, but an absence of this hormone can be treated in other ways than increasing LH. That is, you can treat the effects of low LH rather than trying to increase LH levels., If you are not trying to get pregnant, then the most likely treatment for you will be to take estrogen to replace what's not being produced because you are low on LH. You'll also need to take cyclic progestins to decrease your chances of developing cervical cancer.Generally, you take estrogen and progestins in pill or patch form., In men, the treatment often means taking testosterone. Testosterone can be taken by young men who have a delayed onset of puberty because of low LH. It can also be taken by men who have a low sex drive or who have lost some of the defining male characteristics, such as facial hair.However, some doctors may recommend that men with low LH take gonadotropin even if they are not wanting to increase their chances of producing a baby.Testosterone can be taken in shot, pill, or patch form., Some people develop low LH because of an eating disorder such as anorexia nervosa. You should be within 15 percent of your ideal weight to stave off low LH due to an eating disorder.If you do have an eating disorder, reach out to a medical professional. You'll likely need a team of medical professionals helping you, including your primary doctor, a psychologist or psychiatrist, and a nutritionist. Your primary doctor can help point you in the right direction.
 Many conditions can cause your LH to be low, such as overuse of opioids and steroids, issues with your pituitary gland, high levels of stress, long-term infections, and nutrition issues. Sometimes, treating the underlying condition will help with your LH levels., Some people have luck with taking 3 milligrams of D-aspartic acid per day. This supplement may increase the levels of LH in your body. However, only take supplements under the advice of your doctor, as anything that messes with your LH may affect your other hormones, too., Another supplement that may help increase your LH levels is chasteberry. This supplement may also decrease your FSH levels, though. FSH is a hormone that's important for fertility, so this supplement is likely not a good choice if you're trying to get pregnant. Ask your doctor before taking it.