 Scrapbooking can be very time consuming, so splitting the load and costs may make it easier to complete a full Mother's Day scrapbook.;
, Scan old photos and memorabilia into the computer. This will protect the original photographs and save them for later projects.
 You can do a general book about your mother's life or dedicate it to 1 aspect of her life, such as work, recipes, hobbies or more.
 Each page can be based on a decade, child, hobby, vacation or other important topic in their life.
 Choose 1 with rings and pages that you can easily add and remove.
 Many online outlets, arts and crafts stores and dedicated scrapbooking stores carry materials that are made for projects for mothers.


Buy paper that matches your theme. You may choose a different paper for every page or 1 paper to use throughout the project and others to complement it.






Find titles and stickers for the pages. These and other decorative embellishments are also available at scrapbooking stores or online.






Hunt down Mother's Day poems and quotes. These can be typed into the computer and printed out or handwritten on the pages.






Assign each of your siblings and family members to write a special paragraph about your mother. This will help to make it a sentimental keepsake. They can write about their favorite memories, impressions of your mother or things they love about her.
 Make sure everything is very organized before you start your project. You may want to tackle 1 page at a time.
 If you need inspiration for page layouts, visit scrapbooksetc.com/theme/family/parents/28-mom-theme-scrapbook-pages. Layer your elements and glue them on or use double sided tape.


Buy or make vellum envelopes to hold children's art, recipe cards or important memorabilia. This will help to protect the items.
 Give them plenty of time to dry before placing them in the scrapbook. If the pages start to curl, place them between large heavy books.
 Gather pages from your siblings if you are sharing the project. Add titles and a photo to the outside of the cover.
 Your mother can create pages if she likes to scrapbook, or you can continue to update the scrapbook as you make more memories.

