 If you live in a smaller town, you may not have many options. However, in big cities there typically are multiple krav maga gyms. Make a list of those near you and consider the convenience of the locations as you narrow down your list of possibilities.Think about when you likely will be doing your krav maga workout, and identify gyms that won't be too far out of your way, if at all possible.
Most krav maga gyms have websites. Read through the website to learn more about each gym and get a general understanding of whether you think you would feel comfortable there. The website typically will have enough information to get you acquainted and give you a feel for the place, as well as the experience and style of the instructors.
If you think you may want to continue through the ranks of krav maga as a student, it's a good idea to limit your list to those gyms that teach only, or mainly, krav maga. You may have more options if you're only interested in krav maga for fitness. Many gyms offer krav maga themed exercise classes, particularly those that focus on high-intensity exercise regimens, such as CrossFit.;
, Especially if you're interested in krav maga for self defense, it's worth considering other fighting or defense styles. When choosing a self-defense style, you want to make sure you feel comfortable and confident with the moves.You can research online, or you can go to other gyms and watch a class in progress – preferably a beginner's class – to get an idea of what the instruction is like.
With some older and more well-established martial arts, you may have more of a variety of locations than you do with krav maga.
Keep in mind that krav maga is not a competitive martial art, in the sense that there are not staged competitions among practitioners, as there are in other martial arts disciplines. The only way to get a sense of what krav maga is all about is to observe a class.
 As part of choosing the right gym for you, speak to instructors and find out where they were trained and if they have any credentials or certifications.Avoid choosing an instructor who is vague about their credentials or hasn't been certified by a credible organization, such as Krav Maga Worldwide or the Israeli Krav Maga Association.
Even though krav maga is very intense, and the instructors may be intense people, they also should be warm and welcoming. If you don't feel comfortable around an instructor or they seem uncaring, you may want to steer clear.
 Once you've narrowed down your selections, or possibly found the gym you think you want to join, ask if there's a class you can watch. Ideally, you should observe classes in several different gyms before making your final selection.Sitting in on a class is the best way to find out what goes on in a krav maga class and whether it's an environment in which you feel comfortable and confident.
You also can get a sense of the relative fitness levels of other people taking classes at that particular gym.
You also may want to observe different classes in the same gym that are taught by different instructors. This can help you choose the best instructor for you based on their training style and attitude.

