 Typically, the more money you have to use to play, the higher the payout percentage is. For example, machines that require $1 or more generally pay out 95% to 99%, where 25 and 50 cent machines usually pay out 92% to 95%. Be wary of casinos advertising that their machines payout “up to 99.5%.” To make this claim they only have to have one machine that pays out 99.5%. All of the rest can be standard machines.


Slot machines don’t usually post their payout percentage publically. Look in the machines “help” menu or try to find the information online.
A machines payout percentage doesn’t change throughout the night. This is a common myth. The payout will stay the same over the course of a few weeks, if not years.
 Progressive slot machines slowly accumulate money from players and display the total as a jackpot.When playing on these machines, there’s a possibility that you may win millions of dollars! However, the odds are very, very slim.These machines make the casino money by reeling customers in with promises of a million-dollar jackpot and then fleecing them. Don’t be fooled by these marketing tactics.


If you simply can’t resist playing a progressive jackpot machine, remember to play the maximum amount of money. Otherwise, you may not be eligible for the jackpot.
Some people will avoid progressive jackpot machines unless the jackpot is very, very high. To reach the payout percentage a machine has to pay out money periodically. Therefore, if the jackpot is large, the machine might be ready to pay out.
 These machines display multiple paylines, or the line of numbers or symbols that determine your winnings. These machines typically have many possible winning combinations across the different paylines.This can seem like a tempting offer but don’t be fooled! These machines usually have a lower payout percentage than your standard slot machine.To spot these machines, look for multiple rows and columns of symbols that advertise “many winning combinations.”The most common kind of multiple payline slot has five rows and five columns of symbols.

