 It can be easier to get a piece of jewelry authenticated if you can find a signature of the designer somewhere on the piece. Many designers leave something like their initials engraved in a piece of jewelry, so scour the piece for any markers of the designer.There may also be hallmarks left on the jewelry. These are stamps left by a specific company. For example, Cartier jewelry is stamped with an eagle head.
If you can designer signatures, this is a good start. However, more information is needed. There are forgeries in the jewelry world, so a stamp or signature may not be enough to authenticate a piece.
 Cut, clarity, carat, and carat weight are referred to as the 4 C's of gemstone certification. This information should be included on a certificate of authenticity, as it can help assess how much the piece is worth. Take your item to a local jeweler for appraisal.The cut refers to the shape of the gem, as gems and diamonds are cut into a variety of shapes.
The clarity is the gem's purity. Diamonds, for example, are easier to see through when they're purer.
Diamonds, and some other gems, are graded on color. In general, less color variation means the gem is worth more.
Carat weight refers to the weight of the piece. Heavier jewelry is generally worth more.
 It's vital to work with the American Gem Society (AGS) at some point when authenticating a piece. You should hire an appraiser associated with the AGS to examine your piece.You can find a legitimate authenticator in your area through the websites of the AGS. There is a search tool where you can look for reputable appraisers in your areas.
Not all appraisers will provide you a certificate. However, having an appraisal and confirmation of a piece's legitimacy from an AGS appraiser is important. You may have to hire a private authentication company to issue the certificate, but information from a qualified appraiser should be included. This can help your certificate look professional when you try to sell your jewelry.
 When working with an authentication company, make sure you include all the necessary information. Do not work with companies that hand out certificates lacking certain details.Your certificate should include the 4 C's of your jewelry, and verify the diamonds or gems used are legitimate.
The certificate should also include the origin of your gemstone. For example, it should say whether it was made authentically or found.
It's very important your certificate include all this information. Buyers and dealers do not work with sellers that cannot provide legitimate certificates of authenticity.

