 You won't retain information if you just casually read the material. When you're re-reading for a test, or reading new information, do so actively. This will help you remember the information better when a test arrives.It's easy to read a whole page and realize you took in nothing. If you notice your mind wandering, return it to the text.
Ask yourself questions when you read. For example, ask, "What is the main point of this section?" It can help to underline as you go and write down notes in the margins.;
, You shouldn't study in one big session. You will end up feeling overwhelmed. If you summarize each chapter as you go, you will better retain the information later. When you finish a section of a textbook, close the book for a moment and briefly summarize the information in your head.You can also summarize the information by writing it down, which may help you remember it better.
You can also recite the information to yourself out loud, as this may also help you remember it.
 Many students take notes during class. While this is a great tactic, you should also take notes while you're reading and studying alone. Putting the information into your own words as you go will help you remember it better later on.Try to take notes actively. Do not just, for example, copy down definitions and concepts into a notebook. Try to phrase them in your own words. This will help you better understand, and therefore retain, the information you've learned.
You should also make sure your notes stay organized. Use headings to label the notes by chapter and section. You should also date the notes, especially notes you take in class.
 If you're studying with another student, it can actually help to explain the information. Study groups can be helpful. If someone is struggling with a concept, having you explain it to them may help both of you better understand and retain the material.If you don't know anyone in your class, you can always ask a roommate or friend if you can explain the information out loud to them.

