 They're usually easy to find, and some good ones include Zallard1 and TheNewerGuy. As you watch their videos, study carefully their moves and maneuvers, bomb usage, charge shot gaming in glitch spots, etc. These people use advanced, almost cheating-but-not-quite tactics. Use them to your advantage.;
, Play through it and follow all the directions. Remember to practice all the moves. You can also practice CUS shots if you want (more on that later).
 Pay attention to the screen at all times. If you need a break, pause. Listen to what your teammates have to say. Sometimes they provide useful tips or alert you to danger.


Sometimes, your teammates might not tell you right away if he is being attacked, so be sure to pay close attention to everyone. Then again, stuff your teammates kill won't add to your score. This makes it a good idea to kill enemies and bosses before they do. As you gain experience, your teammates will really only grow to be necessary for medals.
 It is obvious that you won't be able to beat the game the first round because there is no save feature (due to the reason that the game would be extremely easy to complete if there was one). So, learn the courses! Learn where enemies pop up, where you can game shots, and where items appear.
 Loop when enemies are behind you and barrel roll when lasers become a serious threat. Brake and boost as needed (sometimes braking helps to game shots). Use where needed, but don't overuse.
 Learn where items like laser upgrades, rings and bombs spawn. Except on the Zoness boss, you shouldn't use bombs on bosses. Rather, use them on large enemy groups within the main level for extra points.
 "Cus" is short for "charge unlocked shot". It turns out that whenever an object that can be shot down (be it enemy ships, rocks or even your allies) gets hit with the splash of a charge shot, you get a point, no matter if it is destroyed. Same goes for Blue marine torpedoes. So, use them wherever possible and regular charge shots where it is not.
 There are two "high score" routes that go like this:


Corneria, Meteo, Katina, Sector X, Macbeth, Area 6, Venom
Corneria, Sector Y, Aquas, Zoness, Macbeth, Area 6, Venom
On these routes it is very easy to get upwards of 2000 points with practice. You can also try for high scores on individual levels if you like.
 This is important: without the proper conditions you cannot travel to some levels. Fortunately, all you need to know is here:


To get to Sector Y, you must first kill the 3 enemies tailing Falco halfway through the level. After that, you have to fly under all the rock arches on the lake. When you do this, Falco will be impressed with your flying and show you a route to a different boss. Defeat him and move on.
Katina from Meteo: this isn't on the map. When you get to an asteroid field late in the level, there will be some rings that look very much like checkpoints. Pass through all 7 (difficult! It will take some practice) and enter the resulting warp. No boss, just make it to the end.
Solar from Fortuna: Shoot down Star Wolf before the bomb goes off.
Macbeth from Sector X: Defeat Spyborg before Slippy tries to play hero. A good rule of thumb is to shoot it down before Falco finishes his quote. Remember: the weak spot is the head.
Sector Z from Sector X: again, this isn't on the map. When you have to go left or right, go left. Shoot 4 warp gates that appear when notified and pass through them. Then survive the warp. Be careful: it is easy to die here. This is a good route to take if you need the Sector Z medal as Katt won't steal kills from you.
Solar from Katina: Shoot the mother-ship core before 1 minute is up.
Aquas from Sector Y: Kill 100+ enemies.
Sector Z from Zoness: Shoot all the searchlights.
Area 6 from:
-Macbeth: Shoot the 8 switches and then the main switcher. If you came from Zoness Katt will will get 2 and 5 for you. Falco will shoot the last one if he's with you. You also have to have Peppy alive to make it through the main switch and blow up the train.
-Sector Z: destroy all 6 missiles.

