 Instead of waiting around until you feel like taking a shower, talk yourself into making the resolution that you’re going to do it no matter what, and stick to it. Be your own coach. Give yourself encouraging advice and offer affirmation by making inspiring and affirming statements. You’ll start feeling more capable as soon as you shift your attitude from "I don't want to" to "I can do this."Most of the time when people have a hard time making themselves do something, it’s because they dread the effort or they’re “not in the mood.” Understand that there will always be things you don’t feel like doing in life that have to be done nonetheless.
Saying your own name can make you feel more empowered by allowing you to step outside of yourself momentarily and creating a sense of personal accountability., Put your pride on the line and start looking at overcoming your reluctance to shower as a way to prove yourself. If you can’t even bathe yourself, what else won’t you be able to do? It may sound silly, but this is an opportunity for personal growth. Show yourself that you can do what you set your mind to and you’ll feel more in control of other areas of your life as a result.Start making a list of daily goals to accomplish and put showering near the top.You’ll gain a little more willpower and self-control every time you shower when you don’t feel like it.
 Once you manage to make yourself shower, do it again the next day at the same time, then the next day, then the next and so on. Don’t let yourself skip a day or beat around the bush until it’s too late. After a week or so, your inertia will start to disappear and showering will become just another part of your normal routine.Set a regular bathing schedule for yourself based on your own needs and preferences. Some people might have to shower everyday, whereas others can get by with only a few showers a week, or even once a week. Pick days and times that will make it easier for you to stick to your schedule.
When showering becomes a habit, you’ll start to feel like something’s missing if you don’t take one.

