 Sometimes you may accidentally offend their parents or break a rule. Try not to sweat it. Instead, offer a sincere apology to their parents. You can even explain your mistake if you choose.For example, you can say, “I’m so sorry for keeping Jessica out so late. I didn’t realize what time it was. It won’t happen again. I promise.”

, If you are calling your friend’s home, you may sometimes reach their parents or an answering machine instead. Be sure to state your name and who you’re calling for before politely asking if you can talk to your friend.If you reach a parent, you can say, “Hi, it’s John. Can I speak to Justin please?”
If you reach an answering machine, you can leave a message like, “Hello, this is John Pollman. I’m calling Justin about our homework. If he could please call me back, I’d appreciate it. Thanks.”

, If you feel comfortable, give them your phone number, and mention where you live. Be sure to let them know they can call you anytime you are with your friend. This will make you seem trustworthy. It may also give the parent peace of mind when you are out with your friend.


You can say, "I live on Oakwood Street, Mrs. Gillman. Here, would you like my number?"

, You never know who might be watching on social media. Many parents monitor or watch their children’s accounts. Make sure that there is nothing on the page that could embarrass you. Never post embarrassing pictures of you or your friend.Avoid pictures of you and your friend drinking or doing reckless activities.
Ask your friend for permission before tagging them in photographs.
Do not use curse words or other offensive language online where your friend's parent might see it.
 When you’re around their parents, treat your friend nicely and respectfully. Even when the parents aren’t watching, remember that your friend may tell them about you. If their parents know that their child trusts you, they may trust you as well.

You may have inside jokes or nicknames that your friend understands but which may seem offensive to their parents. Avoid using these in front of the parents.
If you treat your friend poorly, your friend may tell their parents about this. This can affect their parent’s opinion of you, even if you make up with your friend.

