 Most people use a combination of the two. That way space use is maximized. Remember that you can create whatever organization works best for you.


Be creative, and consider coming up with your own solutions. You don’t need expensive organizers and can often use items you already have at home to make the solutions yourself.Other than only using the closet and furniture drawers, think about other spaces that can be useful, such as wicker baskets, doors, boxes, and similar.
Even if you don’t have a closet just for the baby’s clothing, or if you live in a small space, there are numerous solutions available. Many of them are affordable and fun to make!;
, Rather than just placing everything on hangers, do consider what would be the best way to use all of the vertical space.


Arrange clothing by type (dresses, jumpers, jackets, pants, etc.) and select what would be best hung. Anything that doesn’t fold easily, or that wrinkles easily, should be placed on hangers.
You should definitely use hangers for delicate items, or for special events outfits.
Place dividers between the sorted outfits that you plan on hanging. You can make the dividers yourself and put your own artistic flair into them! Take as much advantage of the vertical space as possible. One of the best ways to maximize this is to install simple shelves, or to hang canvas shelves off the closet rod.
You can also stack plastic bins, boxes or drawers on the floor of the closet.
 Drawers are excellent for keeping diapers, wipes, lotions, bags, shoes, swaddle blankets, Boppy pillow covers, bedding, and such.


Modular systems such as boxes and collapsible sacks can be used to keep the drawers neat. In them you can store onesies, socks, bibs, beanies, or any other smallish baby items that otherwise could easily get misplaced.
You can use containers that hold an adult’s accessories, although you can make your own dividers very easily as well.,


Sweaters, hooded sweatshirts and snowsuits are best kept in wicker baskets or in deepest drawers.
Items you need when heading outdoor, such as jackets, hats, shoes, burp cloths, hair accessories and bibs need to be easy to grab. Consider hanging over-the-door hooks. Alternatively, you can use a simple hanging chain or rope to clip some of these small items, especially pacifiers, teethers, and small toys.
 Even though it might seem more practical to sort the clothes by type, organizing them by season is a more sensible long-term approach. Keep the outfits for the season handy; the rest can be stored away for now.


For summer, majority of the clothes will consist of either short dresses or tee-shirts and shorts. You will need to keep in mind items such as bathing suits, sandals and similar.
For fall, more of the clothes will start getting warmer such as long sleeve shirts, pants and tights.
When spring starts, layered clothing as well as rain ponchos, or jackets, will be necessary.
 After you’ve arranged the clothes by season, you should group them by what kind of activities they are for. You can put different clothes in different drawers, or drawer sections, based on the activity or event that your baby would wear them for.


Some common events are: indoor play time, bedtime, outdoor clothing, party, and special occasion outfits.
Remember to keep the special or delicate outfits on hangers. This way you will know exactly where each type of clothing is.
 This is an additional and the most common method by which you can organize your baby’s clothing.


For example: all the bottoms go in one drawer; the shirts go in another.
You can expand on this by separating shorts and pants, tee-shirts and shirts, footed pajamas and daytime play outfits.
 Do you want to donate the clothing or keep it for the next child? Whatever you decide, you need to make sure the outgrown items are not cluttering your drawers.


Once a season go through all the clothing and take out the items that have been outgrown.
Keep only those pieces that are still in good usable condition and discard anything that is heavily stained, torn, or used.
If you want to donate the clothing, wash it and place it in large clean bags and donate it to either friends or look for local organizations that collect baby clothing.
 It is also possible that you were given hand-me-downs from cousins or friends that you want to store for later on. It’s very important to get those items ready for when you will need them.


Remove any stains and wash the clothing in mild detergent.Use breathable boxes for storing, like canvas, or plastic, but stay away from using cardboard as moths can easily get in and they also can easily get damaged by water.Divide the clothing according to size and to season and label each box. For example: 12-18 months, Summer and Fall.Aside from writing labels for boxes, you can also tape pictures of garments that are stored in the box.
 You don’t want to just wash and fold them with the rest of the daily clothing.


Clean the special outfits according to washing instructions. If this is a christening outfit for example, and you want to keep as a memory, you might need to dry clean it.
Wrap it in acid-free tissue paper to prevent yellowing.
Once cleaned and wrapped, they can be stored in boxes, separately or not. Just make sure those items don’t get squished!

