 It is non-toxic. The benefits it gives you include the ability to work at any hour of the day, tolerable aroma, and ease of knowing you're not going to cause a disaster. This stuff is so safe you can strip in your own bedroom if you wish. It's a great option because who wants to work outside when you can't be certain what the weather is like? And how many of us have obligations during the day? Tons, so the chances of you working on a special project means you're likely to squeeze it in when you find the time. Plus the texture of being gel like means way better ease of clean and application. It isn't runny so if you have a piece of furniture standing vertical it's going to work.;
, Not the usual latex kind. Just a step above them. Don't forget to invest in a good quality paint scrapper tool. They cost about $6 for a good one, and the bonus is this tool can do like 5 jobs in one. Like cleaning up paint tools, puttying, and so forth. Wanna make sure you do a complete job? Add a paint stripper scrubber. It's super cheap and a great solution for when you come to areas where you need extra elbow grease, as you don't want to damage the material by exerting too much pressure. Don't forget a good paint brush to apply the gel but expect to dispose of it, because without a good drive to clean it quickly and efficiently, like with no odor mineral spirits it's going to be stained orange and the bristles will become stiff. You'll need to keep no odor mineral spirits available to cleanse the piece after it's been stripped. It's the best way to remove any lingering traces of the solution.
 Tsp is great for removing grease and other dirt which can't be seen but is most likely there. You'll be happy you did so. Plus your going to so much of the effort to do it right the first time so adding this extra 5 min isn't worth skipping.
 Then apply in thick long strokes. After the areas you desire to strip have been applied, give it at least 45 min. The product recommends checking after 30 min, but an extra 15 min is well worth it because when stripping layers of paint you really never know how many layers you're taking off. You'll notice the creepy bubbling and skin like texture change indicating great progress.
 Some places you'll get lucky and get right down to the raw material, others you may need to focus into. Any spots not removed take some gel stripper onto the scrubber and rough it up a bit. You'll get it.
