 Find a chance to get to know the teenager you are buying the gift for. Ask them about their interests and look for clues. Ask what they like to do on the weekend, what they are passionate about, or what their favorites are. Also, take note of their style, i.e., what they are wearing, how they talk, and how they carry themselves, to clue you into what kind of person they are.If you are buying a gift for your niece or nephew, then make a trip to your sister or brother-in-law’s house. Ask the teen if you can see their room, or visit with them in their room. Take note of the things that you see in order to get a sense of what kind of person they are. You can also use objects in their room as conversation starters; for example, ask about a movie or music poster they have.;
, Instead, ask open-ended questions. These questions will give you a lot more information, and will enable you to delve deeper into the teen’s interests. Examples of good open-ended questions are:“How do you spend your free time?”
“What is your favorite book or musical band?”
“Can you describe your perfect day?”
“Would you rather watch Star Wars or Star Trek, hike or bike, visit the beach or the mountains, watch a movie or read a book?”
When asking questions, don’t make it a one-way conversation. Reveal things about yourself, as well. You might find that you and the teen have something in common, or that you were interested in similar things as a teenager.
 Their social media account(s) might clue you into their interests, as well. Look into their Facebook and/or Instagram history to see what they like and post about.For example, if the teen you are buying a gift for likes a lot of posts about video games, or posts a lot about video games, then think about buying them a video game.
 Asking their parents might help you pick the right gift. Parents often know what their teenagers hate and love, what they already have, and what their passions are. Call their parents, or send them an email or text. If you already have a few gifts in mind, ask them which gift their teen would prefer.


Additionally, if you know other teenagers who have similar interests, ask them what kind of gifts they would like to receive from someone.
You can also ask the teenager's siblings or friends for some suggestions, as well.
Remember, if you have a great gift in mind, but are not sure if it is appropriate, run the idea by their parents first.

