 Having depression can be a lonely experience. Rather than isolate yourself from others, reach out to those around you. Enlist the support of your teachers so they can help you do well in school. Speak to them one on one about your depression. Ask them for assistance with assignments or class discussions outside of class. Most teachers will work with you to ensure you succeed in their class, even as you deal with the challenges of depression.Your teachers can also refer you to resources at school to help you cope with depression. This could be an afterschool program or the referral to the school counselor.
 Make an appointment with your school counselor to discuss your depression. School counselors know how to listen and help students dealing with depression. If your school counselor is trained in mental health, they can act as a therapist and support you. If they are not trained in mental health, they can still be a good resource for you to get help from a doctor or mental health professional.Your school counselor can give you tips on how to manage depression at school. They can also speak to your teachers for you and help you get accommodations for assignments so you can do well in your classes.
 If you feel more comfortable talking to someone you know, reach out to family and friends. Tell close friends that you are struggling with depression. Speak to a close family member about your struggles. Lean on those closest to you so you feel less alone with your depression.You may confide in a family member or friend that you trust and comfortable being honest and open with. Let them know that you are looking someone to listen to you and support you, not to judge you or make you feel worse than you already do.
Your family and friends may recommend that you speak to a mental health professional at school or through your doctor. Be open to hearing this advice.
 If your depression is getting in the way of your ability to function and do well in school, it may be time to speak to a mental health professional. Talk to your primary care doctor and ask for a referral to a mental health professional. Go to a mental health clinic in your area. Ask friends for a referral to a therapist or a counselor.The mental health professional can help you make a treatment plan. The treatment plan will detail your medication needs, your therapy schedule, and any other details relating to your treatment for depression.
The therapist may recommend time off or a temporary leave from school, depending on your condition and your needs. Discuss this with your therapist in detail so you feel comfortable making it part of your treatment plan.

