 Before you begin the process of filing a lawsuit, you must understand what the federal law requires and what constitutes illegal gender discrimination. The specific requirements of the law can serve as an outline for the allegations you'll need to include in your complaint if you want to allege gender discrimination.Generally, Title IX prohibits gender discrimination in three areas: athletic opportunity, financial aid, and benefits.
Financial aid offered to male and female student-athletes must be equal to the proportion of students involved. In other words, if 48 percent of the school's student-athletes are female, they must receive 48 percent of the school's financial aid dollars allotted to students on the basis of athletic participation.
The tolerance for differences in financial aid offered to male and female student-athletes is less than 1 percent. For example, if 52 percent of the school's student-athletes are male, but the school only offers 50 percent of its financial aid to male student-athletes, that school is presumed to have violated Title IX.
To evaluate athletic opportunity, the proportion of student-athletes of each gender is compared to the proportion of that gender in the student body as a whole. Title IX requires that these proportions be fairly equal.
A school also must offer equal facilities, training, tutoring, and other benefits to both male and female student-athletes. Discrepancies are measured not in dollars spent, but in what those dollars buy and whether benefits and services are of equal quality.;
, Once you have an understanding of the requirements under Title IX, you are better equipped to analyze any discrepancies you may have noticed and determine if they actually constitute a violation of the law.For example, if you believe gender discrimination is occurring in the athletic program because there are fewer athletic opportunities for women than there are for men, you could spend some time on the website of your school's athletic program.
Write down the number of women's teams and the number of men's teams, and the number of players on the roster for each team. Use these raw numbers to calculate a rough percentage of female student-athletes in the program as a whole.
Compare the percentages of student-athletes you calculated to the percentage enrollment of each gender in the student body as a whole. If there is a significant difference between the percentage of female student-athletes and the percentage of women enrolled in your school, this could be evidence of a Title IX violation.
At this stage you may not have access to school documents you need to prove your case, but you do need enough evidence to formulate accurate allegations of a Title IX violation.
If you are a student or student-athlete, you might consider talking to a coach or other member of your school's athletic staff. They may have access to more information than you would.
 Although you aren't required to exhaust administrative remedies before filing a lawsuit, filing a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights (OCR) may save you substantial time, money, and effort.The OCR has both an online complaint form and a fillable PDF version of the form available for download at http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/complaintintro.html.
Generally you must file a complaint within 180 days of the last incident of discrimination. You can request a waiver of this requirement, but you will have to explain why you didn't file it before the deadline elapsed.
You must provide your name, address, and email address as well as the name and address of the person discriminated against (if that person is someone other than you). You also must provide the name and address of your school.
If the OCR determines it will have to disclose your identity to your school to complete an investigation of your complaint, you will be notified and instructed to sign a consent form. This form must be submitted to the OCR within 20 days of the request.
You will be contacted by OCR staff, who will conduct an investigation into your complaint.
 If you've decided you want to file a lawsuit against your school in federal court, your interests will be best protected if you hire an attorney to represent you. The rules in federal court are complex, and if you represent yourself you will be held responsible for knowing them to the same extent an attorney would be.If you're concerned about legal costs, you might consider contacting a nonprofit organization with attorneys who handle Title IX cases. Some of these organizations include Legal Momentum, Public Justice, and the American Civil Liberties Union.
You also can find referrals by visiting the American Bar Association's website. Many state and local bar associations have similar searchable directories and referral programs that can help you find an attorney near you.
Look for organizations or law firms that specialize in Title IX or gender discrimination law. You should interview at least three attorneys before you decide who you want to hire.
 Your complaint tells the defendant and the judge how and why you believe the defendant violated the law, and what you want the judge to do about it.Your complaint includes the names and addresses of both you and the educational institution you are suing.
Your allegations form the bulk of your complaint. Each numbered paragraph relates a single fact. Then you allege that together these facts constitute a violation of Title IX.
The last part of your complaint lists the damages you seek. Typically you won't be asking for monetary damages in compensation. Rather, you'll be asking the court to order your school to do something to remedy the discrimination, or discontinue a discriminatory policy or practice.
However, there have been numerous private Title IX lawsuits in which large monetary amounts were received by plaintiffs, either through settlement or as a court-ordered award.
If you've hired an attorney, he or she typically will go over the complaint with you before it's filed. Make sure you understand everything in the complaint and that the allegations reflect the truth as you know it.
 Once you've completed your complaint and any other required documents, you must take them to the clerk of the court where you want your lawsuit to be heard and have them filed.In addition to the complaint document, you also must include a summons and civil cover sheet.
You will need at least two copies of all of your documents. One will be for your own records, and the other for delivery to the defendant. The clerk will keep the originals for the court's files.
The filing fee for new civil cases in federal court is $400. If you are representing yourself and cannot afford to pay this filing fee, you can file an application to have the fees waived. You must provide details about your income and finances.
When your complaint is filed, the clerk will assign your case to a judge and give it a case number. This case number will be used to reference your case and must be included on any other documents filed with the court.
 After your complaint is filed, you must deliver it to the individual identified by your school as the registered officer to receive legal documents. This service of process must follow specific legal requirements or your case can be dismissed.You have 120 days after the date you filed your complaint to complete service to the defendant.
In federal court, complaints typically are served by having them hand-delivered by a U.S. Marshal.
The Marshal who served the documents will then complete the return of service section on the back of the summons and deliver it to you (or your attorney). This document must be filed with the court.
You also may be allowed to serve your complaint using certified mail with returned receipt requested. When you receive the green certified mail receipt, you must attach it to the service page of the summons and file it with the court.
 When the school receives your complaint, it has 21 days from that date to file an answer or other response to your lawsuit with the court, or you may be eligible to win your lawsuit by default.An answer is a legal document in which the defendant either admits or denies each allegation in your complaint, as well as asserts any defenses it might have to your lawsuit.
When the defendant school files its answer, it will be served on you (or your attorney) just as you served the complaint on the school.
Don't be surprised if most of your allegations are denied in the school's answer. This doesn't necessarily mean the school is saying they aren't true. Rather, it is insisting that you carry your burden of proving those allegations.
The school may file a motion to dismiss or other motion in response to your complaint, either instead of or in addition to the answer. If it does, you probably will be expected to file a written response and may have to appear at a court hearing to defend your lawsuit from dismissal.
 Don't be surprised if the school quickly offers a settlement in response to your lawsuit. Typically this will be a low-ball offer that doesn't come close to meeting everything you asked for in your complaint.Typically a school's first response to a lawsuit is to attempt to make it go away. If the school files a motion to dismiss and doesn't win, its next response typically is to offer you a settlement.
If you've hired an attorney, he or she must present you with any and all settlement offers. Although your attorney may offer you advice on how you should respond to the offer, the ultimate decision is yours and yours alone.
When you're evaluating a settlement offer, you should take into consideration the time and expense of litigating your case, as well as the uncertainty of an award at trial.
 Through written discovery, you have the opportunity to ask written questions of school officials as well as to request them to produce documents related to the athletic department and its treatment of male and female student-athletes.In many cases, you may not actually have much evidence to back up your allegations until you have the opportunity to get official documents from the school.
Interrogatories are written questions delivered to the other party which must be answered in writing and under oath. These answers sometimes can be very extensive.
Another key part of written discovery, particularly in Title IX cases, is the request for production of documents. You will send a written list to the school of official documents you want to see that are related to the case.
For example, if one of your allegations deals with the relative numbers of scholarships or other financial aid offered to female student-athletes, you might request documents from the school related to the school's overall financial aid budget, athletic financial aid budget, and the amount and types of financial aid actually awarded to student-athletes.
 Another method of discovery is the deposition, in which live interviews with parties to the case or key witnesses are interviewed under oath. A court reporter records the questions and answers and produces a transcript for later use.Through depositions, you not only find out what potential witnesses know about the allegations, but your preserve their testimony for trial. This can be useful if your case actually proceeds to trial and a witness you previously deposed says something different on the stand than he or she said in the deposition.
Who you choose to depose typically will depend on the substance of your allegations. For example, if your complaint alleges that the school is providing facilities of unequal quality to male and female student-athletes, you may want to depose coaches and student-athletes regarding the quality of their locker rooms or practice facilities.
In contrast, if your allegations are related to an uneven distribution of scholarship dollars, you would be better suited to depose staff in the financial aid office or athletics administration.
 Through mediation, you have the opportunity to negotiate with your school toward a mutually acceptable compromise in a non-adversarial setting. Not only will mediation save you time and money over going to trial, but you have a lot more control over the outcome.Your school also may prefer the fact that the mediation process and any settlement reached are confidential, since the school risks damage to its public reputation if it must defend itself in a public trial.
A mediator is a neutral third party who is trained to resolve disputes. He or she will facilitate negotiations between you and your school in an attempt to settle your case without having to go to trial.
Typically mediation begins with all parties gathered together – you and your attorney, the mediator, and the school's representatives and attorneys.
After giving brief opening statements, the mediator will move each of you to separate rooms and work individually toward a resolution.
When it seems you're getting close to a settlement, the mediator will bring you all back together to hammer out the details.
 Since participation in mediation is voluntary, no settlement reached through mediation is legally binding unless it is put into a written contract signed by both parties.Read the settlement agreement before you sign it and make sure you understand everything it says and that it reflects what you thought you'd agreed to.
Once you and a representative from the school have signed the agreement, it will be legally binding just as any contract would.
In some situations, you may need outside approval of the settlement, either by the judge assigned to your case or by the OCR – particularly if you have an outstanding complaint with the OCR.
Keep in mind that if you are unable to come to a settlement through mediation, you will have to continue preparing for trial.

