 It's important to have your system set up before you start asking for donations. Otherwise, you will just confuse people and end up turning people off of your organization.If possible, have the donation built into your website, so donors can give right there without having to click somewhere else., Sometimes, organizations get too caught up in flowery language, and it isn't clear to donors exactly what you do. Make sure to lay it out in clear, concise language, so donors will be more willing to support your cause.In addition, make sure your location is prominent. Many people want to give to charities in their community, and if they can't tell where you are or who you support, they may be less likely to give to you.
Just like in person, you need to lay out exactly how donations are used in general terms., Anything too complicated will turn donors away. Also, if you ask for more information than you need, that can also turn donors off, as many people are not willing to give out much information online., You can use social media to build relationships online, but not if you sound like a robot. Try to connect with people online by starting with those you know and asking them to encourage friends to join your page. However, don't be afraid to let loose a little. People want to see that there's a real person on the other side of the computer, not just a robot asking for money.Of course, you still want to be professional, but the definition of professionalism is changing as technology changes. For instance, posting a cat video may not be seen as professional by some in older generations, but it does humanize you and help you connect with younger generations.
 If you have any endorsements from people or organizations outside of yours, it's a good idea to show those prominently on your website. These can include celebrity endorsements, but they can also include endorsements from watchdog organizations., Websites like Kickstarter, Indiegogo, and GoFundMe offer a way to crowdsource funds more easily if you don't already have a way to take payments on your website. People recognize the names of these platforms, and most people trust them already, which encourages them to donate.However, these websites do have different rules. For instance, at Kickstarter, your project must be fully funded before you get any money from the people who donated. GoFundMe, on the other hand, isn't an all-or-nothing platform. Indiegogo is in between, as it lets you choose which way you'd like to go.These platforms are often based on single fundraising campaigns. For instance, they can help get a business or idea off the ground, or they can be used to fund a specific need.

