 Obviously, you don't want to have to run to the dentist during your relaxation day. Move any appointments you have that day. That way, the day is completely free for you to relax.;
, Take the day off from work if it's a week day, and create an "Out of Office" message for your email to let people know you'll be back tomorrow. Tell friends and family you won't be around much that day, unless you want to pamper yourself with some friends around, which can be fun, too.


How you take the day off is up to you. You may want to schedule it a couple of weeks in advance and use one of you paid vacation days. However, you can also take a sick day as a mental health day, if your boss is amenable to that idea., Many smartphones have an option to only let certain calls through (from your close friends and family) or to only let calls through from people who've called multiple times (like people do when it's an emergency). Try putting your phone on one of these settings so people can't get a hold of you unless they really need you.
 At the start of the day, you need to make sure you're in a good head space to relax. That means letting go of your worries. One way to de-stress is to take a moment to do some deep breathing.Try closing your eyes and focusing all your attention on your breathing. Breathe in slowly, counting to four before breathing out. As you breathe out, you should also count to four. Make sure you are breathing deeply, from your diaphragm. Keep your attention on your breathing until you feel your stress melting away.
 Of course, you may want to watch television or a movie on a relaxing day. However, try turning off your other technology, such as your laptop and tablet. When you're on technology, you have access to your email. If you can get on your email, you have the potential to stress yourself out. In addition, you will also be able to view things like the news, which may let stress intrude on your day. Try taking a break from the internet just for today., If possible, turn off or cover all your clocks. Spend your day away from a schedule. Just enjoy the day at leisure, doing what you want when you want.Don't hold yourself to a plan. If you decide ahead of time that you want to work in the garden but you really don't feel like it when the day rolls around, don't worry about it. Just do what your heart desires., It doesn't really matter what it is, as long as it puts you in a good mood. Let it play in the background while you're going about your day., Decide how you want to spend the majority of the day. You can have a spa day and pamper yourself through spa treatments. Alternatively, you can have a veg-out day, where you just watch your favorite movies and eat your favorite snacks. Just pick what you most feel like doing and what will relax you the most.

