 Increasing your water intake is one of the most important things you can do when attempting to cleanse your body naturally. You should aim to drink at least 8 glasses or 2 quarts of water throughout the day. You can increase your intake of water by drinking a glass first thing in the morning and with every snack or meal throughout the day. You can also eat fruit and veg with a high water content, such as watermelon, strawberries, cucumber and tomatoes.Water flushes toxins and impurities out of your system by helping both the kidneys and the bowel to maintain their normal functions - eliminating waste.Water also does a great job of keeping the skin looking healthy and young, preventing wrinkles and clearing the complexion.Water stored in copper vessels or bottles is purified and cleansed because of copper's anti-bacterial properties., Fiber is the number one nutrient for maintaining proper digestive function and, as such, is a fantastic natural cleanser. Eating more fiber helps the body to rid itself of the toxins, preservatives and other harmful waste materials that have built up in the digestive tract over time.Increasing your fiber intake helps to cleanse your body by stimulating regular bowel movements, leaving you feeling light and healthy, rather than bloated and sluggish.The best natural sources of fiber include whole-grain cereals, pasta and rice, fresh fruit and vegetables (especially with the skins left on), beans, lentils and almonds., Caffeine and alcohol are two substances that should be avoided as far as possible during the cleansing process. The toxins contained in both coffee and alcohol can impair liver and kidney function, which may prevent your body from being able to cleanse itself naturally. When your body is unable to cleanse itself, serious health conditions such as diabetes and obesity are a risk.Coffee is often exposed to herbicides and pesticides during the growing process, can contribute to dehydration and has no evident health benefits on the body. If you need a caffeine hit to get going in the morning, green tea is a much better choice, as it provides a small amount of caffeine in addition to healthy antioxidants.Alcohol, particularly dark liquors such as whisky, rum and red wine, contain toxins known as congeners which develop as a by-product of the fermentation process. In addition to these congeners, alcohol also produces a toxic substance known as acetaldehyde when it metabolizes in the body., Simple carbohydrates like white rice, bread and pasta are basically devoid of nutrients, vitamins or any substances that are good for your body. Yes, they will make you feel full initially, but this fullness is accompanied by a spike and then fall of your blood sugar, which is bad for your energy levels and overall health. In addition, simple carbohydrates are often filled with preservatives, which can build up in your system, leading to the development of toxins.To overcome this problem, switch to eating more high-fiber wholegrain foods and complex carbohydrates, such as those found in starchy vegetables like potatoes, wholegrain breads, pastas and cereals, brown rice and legumes.Complex carbohydrates are much more beneficial for the digestive system and will help to clear out the build-up of preservatives and toxins left behind by simple carbohydrates., Although you should restrict your intake of any processed foods during a cleanse, you should try to eat as many superfoods as possible. These are certain foods that have extraordinary health benefits, which include helping your body by speeding up the cleansing process. Four of the most beneficial ones are listed below but others include blueberries, apples, watercress, celery, Brussels sprouts, carrots, papaya and wild rice.Garlic. Garlic has many significant health benefits, perhaps the most important of which is its ability to boost liver function by aiding in the production of enzymes which help the liver to clear toxins from the body. It also contains two substances known as allicin and selenium, which have also been found beneficial in cleansing the liver.Beets. Bright red beets are another superfood just bursting with health boosting goodness. They contain detoxifying, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, due to their high levels of betalain, the pigment which gives beets their vibrant color. Be aware that beets lose the best of their health benefits when cooked, so try to eat them raw as much as possible.Kale. Kale is a super-healthy leafy green vegetable with major cleansing credentials. Kale - along with other greens like cabbage - is a slightly alkaline food, which enables it to neutralize sugars and other toxins, before they are eliminated from the body. In this way, kale helps to ensure that blood maintains its natural, weakly alkaline state.Lemon. Lemons - along with other citrus fruits like grapefruit and lime - are widely accepted as being one of the best natural body cleansers available. This is why lemons are often a vital component in many juice cleanse and body flush recipes. The citric acid in lemons has the ability to dissolve built-up toxins in the body, allowing them to be flushed out through urination. Try squeezing some lemon juice into a glass of water and drinking first thing in the morning, or simply eat a grapefruit for breakfast., Drinking herbal teas is a great way to increase your fluid intake, while also reaping the benefits of the many naturally cleansing herbs and roots provided by Mother Nature. Some of the most beneficial teas you can drink include:



Dandelion tea: Dandelion tea cleanses the body by stimulating the gall bladder, kidneys and liver, thus decreasing water retention and helping your body to quickly flush out impurities. It is also thought to have a stabilizing effect on blood sugar and to help boost the immune system. Dandelion tea can be purchased in most health food stores, or you can make your own by boiling freshly harvested dandelions in water.Licorice tea. Licorice is a substance with extensive health benefits, but in terms of its uses as an internal cleanser, licorice tea helps to support liver function while also acting as a mild laxative, helping to clear the bowels by eliminating built-up waste. Licorice tea can be found in health food stores, or you can boil 1/2 oz of licorice root in a pint of water to make your own. Licorice tea may have a negative effect on people with high blood pressure, however, so you should consult your doctor before proceeding.Burdock tea. Burdock root has been used in natural remedies for centuries. Burdock is believed to be a natural blood purifier which helps to detoxify and cleanse the blood of any built-up impurities. It also may help to flush waste out of the system by cleansing the intestinal tract and stimulating the production of urine. In addition, it may help to protect and repair the liver, which can be useful following heavy consumption of alcohol. Burdock tea can be purchased or a small amount of the root can be boiled in water.
 Aim to buy only organically grown fruits and vegetables, and organically produced meat and dairy products. Although more expensive, organic produce is generally free of synthetic pesticides and fertilizers and uses a only a minimal amount of growth hormones and antibiotics.


By eating only organically produced foods, you are limiting your body's exposure to the harmful chemicals contained in such pesticides and other substances used in the production of non-organic foods.
Note that this will only limit your exposure to some toxins, but not others. There are still toxins in processed organic foods which may be harmful or carcinogenic.

