 Filing federal and state taxes is an annual requirement, so you should not be too far behind. However, if you have let it go for a few years, this may be an indication in itself that you are having financial difficulty. Before doing anything else, you need to catch up on your federal and state income tax filings.


Although everyone seems to focus on the April 15 due date each year, you actually may file tax returns at any time.
Obtain copies of tax return forms from the IRS website, at www.irs.gov. You can find 1040 Forms, or 1040EZ, for the current year or for any prior year under the “Forms and Pubs” tab.You do not need to print the tax form for a specific year. You can use the most current form, but at the top of the page just write in the tax year you are submitting. There is a line that says, “For Jan. 1-Dec. 31, 2015, or other tax year beginning ____ ending ____.”If you need back copies of W-2 or other earning statements, you will need to contact your employers. They should have copies of those documents. Just be clear about what years you need, and expect the response to take some time.;
, You may think you know what debts you owe, but the credit reports have your official history. Even if something in a credit report is incorrect, you will need to resolve the discrepancy. So to help you decide if bankruptcy is necessary, get copies of your three credit reports and review them.


The three nationwide credit reporting companies are TransUnion, Experian, and Equifax. According to the Federal Trade Commission, you can get official copies of all three reports online at www.annualcreditreport.com. You can also call 877-322-8228 to request the reports by telephone. When you make your request, you will need your name, address, social security number and date of birth.Save the copies of the credit reports that you receive. You will need the information contained in them if you decide to file bankruptcy.
 You may feel as though you are behind in payments, and that feeling can become overwhelming, but you need to organize the facts before you can really decide.Make two lists of assets. One list should contain your regular income. This is not money that you have on hand, but should be your income, your spouse’s income, and any other payments that you receive on a regular basis. The second asset list should be a list of valuable property that you own. Stick to the valuable big items--you don’t need to get down to listing every pair of socks. Make a list of your house, car, cash in the bank, and any other significant personal items.
Make two lists of debts. One list should be your recurring obligations, things like mortgage or rent payment and reasonable estimates for food, utilities, clothing, car maintenance, and so on. The second list should be any outstanding debts that you owe, like past due credit card bills, loans to family members or friends, and even unpaid parking tickets.
 The Bankruptcy Code defines insolvency as the state when your debts exceed the fair market value of your assets.So, for this purpose, compare your list of property (excluding your recurring income) with your list of outstanding debts (excluding your recurring bills). If the list of debts is greater than the list of assets, then you fit the legal definition of “insolvent.”


Many people find themselves in the situation in which they are not insolvent, but are having trouble paying bills. For example, if you are near the end of paying off a home mortgage, your house may be worth $300,000, but have a debt of only $50,000 remaining. Therefore, you would have an asset of $250,000, although you don’t really have that cash available. If, in this circumstance, your other monthly bills exceed your ability to pay each month, you may need to reorganize your personal finances or spending habits. Using a second mortgage to pay off some other debts might be better, in this case, than filing bankruptcy.
 If you have these available on file, that’s great. You just need to make copies of them to submit with your eventual bankruptcy filing. If you need to get copies of tax returns that you have filed in the past, you can get these from the IRS. For the purpose of a bankruptcy filing, you can use what is called a “transcript” of your tax return. It is also possible to get an actual photocopy of the return, but that is more costly and takes longer.To get a free, online transcript of your tax return, you can use the IRS online service at https://www.irs.gov/individuals/get-transcript. You will need your social security number, birth date, filing status and mailing address from your most recent return. You will also need a credit card number or account number for some loan or line of credit. Finally, you need a cell phone in your name. You can access the online service and print transcripts of your tax returns in minutes.
To get one or more transcripts by mail, you will need your social security number, date of birth, and address at the time of your last tax filing. Submit the information online at https://www.irs.gov/individuals/get-transcript. Your transcripts will arrive in the mail within five to ten days.
 In order to support your report on your bankruptcy petition, you will need a copy of your latest mortgage statement, which will show the outstanding balance due on your mortgage, along with information about your interest rate and monthly payments. You will use this information to prepare a couple different bankruptcy forms.


If you do not have a recent mortgage statement, you can get a report from the bank or lending agency that owns your loan. Contact them by telephone and request a statement of your mortgage. They should be able to mail you one. You do not need to say anything about bankruptcy filing. You are entitled to a copy of your report without having to give any reason.
 You should try to get the most recent report possible. If the information is one month or so behind, that would be acceptable. When the most current statement arrives in the mail, make sure to save a copy of it., In addition to recent payoff information, you will need copies of the original loan documents for your mortgage, car loan, and any other loans that you owe. Your attorney will want to review the language of the loans to see if you are entitled to any special treatment for those loans.
 To prepare your bankruptcy filing, you will need to be as accurate as you can. That means having the most recent bills or monthly statements. Collect whatever information you can regarding any or all of the following:bank accounts
stocks, bonds, or other investments
lawsuits or garnishments filed against you
proof of your monthly income, including pay stubs, interest statements, rental/property income, business income, disability or social security income
monthly expenses including mortgage/rent, utilities, groceries, health care, taxes, commuting costs and any other necessary expenses

, Before you are eligible to file bankruptcy, you must first consult with a non-profit credit counseling agency. The purpose of this requirement is to help you understand other possible options besides bankruptcy, and to assist you in reviewing your finances to see if you can manage your debts without filing bankruptcy., The United States Trustee is the office that oversees many bankruptcy operations nationwide. Among other things, the U.S. Trustee’s office maintains a list of approved counseling agencies that satisfy this requirement.Visit the U.S. Trustee’s website at http://www.justice.gov/ust/, select “Consumer Information” and then “Credit Counseling & Debtor Education” to see the list.
Many of the approved services are available either online or even by telephone. So while you will begin the selection process by identifying the state where you live, it is not a requirement that the counseling agency be based in your home state.
 A counseling session may occur in person, online or by telephone. A typical counseling session will generally last between one and two hours. During this session, you will learn how to evaluate your finances, plan a budget, and discuss options to filing bankruptcy.The agency is allowed to charge a nominal fee for its service, generally not greater than $50. If you cannot afford to pay, you can ask for a fee waiver at the beginning of the session. If you fit the requirements, the agency must provide the counseling at no cost.
 At the end of your counseling session, you must receive a certificate of completion from the agency. You will need this certificate in order to prove that you are eligible to file bankruptcy. Without it, your bankruptcy petition will not be accepted.The counseling agency is not allowed to charge a separate fee for providing the certificate.
 If you do not know a bankruptcy attorney to contact, a good starting point is to ask acquaintances if they can recommend someone.
 You will want to find someone who identifies his or her practice as specializing in bankruptcy. A bankruptcy filing is unlike many other types of legal practice, so you will want someone with some experience in the field.
 Meeting with a possible attorney for the first time is like a sort of job interview. You want to find out if the attorney is the right fit for you, and the attorney needs to figure out if he or she can help you. Most attorneys will have an initial meeting or consultation with you at no charge. You will need to be organized and make the most efficient use of your time together. Be prepared with a list of questions to ask:Should you file bankruptcy?
Does the attorney recommend Chapter 7, 11 or 13?
What other options might you have?
How many bankruptcy cases similar to yours has the attorney handled?
Does the attorney usually represent debtors or creditors?
What problems does the attorney foresee with your case?
What will the attorney charge to take your case?

, When you go to your initial consultation, take with you the paperwork and copies that you have prepared. Try to have it in an organized fashion, so the attorney will be able to review it quickly and make sense of your overall finances., Eventually, you will need to choose an attorney to represent you. You should base your decision on the strength of recommendations that you have received from other people, as well as on your own opinion from your initial meeting. Make sure that you understand the attorney’s fee and that you can pay it. More expensive attorneys are not always better, so consider what you will get for you money when you make your selection., Filing bankruptcy is a general term that applies to several different formats, called "chapters." Many people are aware of "Chapter 7," but there are others. You may wish to consult with a bankruptcy attorney to review the appropriate one for your circumstances.


Chapter 7 bankruptcy is generally the simplest. This is referred to as "liquidation." In Chapter 7, any non-exempt property that you own is sold, or liquidated, to pay off all or a portion of your debts. Any debts that cannot be paid are discharged, so you are never responsible for them. Most people who choose Chapter 7 have few, if any, non-exempt assets. To file Chapter 7, you must meet an eligibility means test. (See the next step for details.)
Chapter 11 bankruptcy is called "reorganization." This is the type of bankruptcy generally chosen by businesses or corporations. Filing Chapter 11 bankruptcy allows the business to continue operating but reorganize itself to reduce costs.
Chapter 12 bankruptcy is limited specifically to individuals or corporations that derive most of their income from farming.
Chapter 13 bankruptcy is sometimes called the "wage earner" bankruptcy. This is for individuals who have regular income and can use some of that income to make a partial payment over time to creditors.
 Before you can file Chapter 7, you must demonstrate that you pass the "means test." This is a measurement of your income, compared to your family size and your debts. If your income is high enough, you may be required to select Chapter 13, to pay down at least some of the debts that you owe.


Each state sets its own "median income level" test, which is based on family size. If your family income is lower than the state median level, you are automatically eligible to file Chapter 7.
If your family income exceeds the median income level test for your state, you may still be eligible for Chapter 7. You need to complete the means test, which compares your income to your monthly expenses. If your disposable income exceeds certain levels, you may be directed to file Chapter 13.
To conduct the means test, meet with a bankruptcy attorney. Alternatively, you may be able to search online for "bankruptcy means test" and find several examples that have been posted by attorneys or financial advisers.
 Filing bankruptcy is going to have a negative effect on your credit rating. However, you have to realize that all the unpaid debts have had a negative impact as well. Avoiding bankruptcy and paying your debts is, obviously, the best thing you can do for your credit rating. But if that is not possible, understand that a bankruptcy filing will have some immediate positive effects. Upon receiving your discharge, you will have no outstanding debts. You will also not be eligible to file Chapter 7 again for at least seven years, so you will look like a better credit risk.According to FICO, the most widely used credit scoring company in the U.S., there is no difference between choosing Chapter 7 or Chapter 13. However, some companies may look at Chapter 13 as taking on more responsibility for your debts., If you wind up hiring an attorney, then you don’t need this section because the attorney will handle it. But if, after consulting with an attorney, you decide to take care of the bankruptcy filing on your own, you are going to need to get a copy of the Bankruptcy Petition and Schedules. These are the forms that you need to complete that make up your bankruptcy filing.


You can find all the forms by going to the website of uscourts.gov, and selecting the link to “Services and Forms” and then to “Bankruptcy.”, The petition is the first paper that initiates your bankruptcy filing. It is a relatively short form that contains your identification, your selection of bankruptcy chapter, some brief statements designed to verify your insolvency and need for filing, and certifications about your pre-bankruptcy counseling. Complete the form as accurately as you can.
 This is a simple form that identifies your social security number (and your spouse’s, if you are filing jointly), as well as any other taxpayer ID numbers you may have used.
 “Schedules” is the term used for the various forms that you need to complete to go along with your bankruptcy petition. They are assigned letters from A through J. Not every bankruptcy case will require every schedule, but you should complete the ones that apply to you.Schedule A/B, Property. This is the form that gets you to report all the property you own.
Schedule C, Property you claim as exempt. Under both state and federal law, you are entitled to keep certain property for yourself, even though you file bankruptcy. This property that you can keep is known as “exempt.” You may need to do some research or consult with an attorney to determine the exemptions that you are qualified for. The Bankruptcy Code has one list, in Section 522. Each state has its own laws about exemptions. You will need to determine which is more favorable for you.
Schedule D, Creditors with Secured Claims. A secured claim is a claim that has some collateral to guarantee payment, such as home mortgages or car loans.
Schedule E/F, Creditors with Unsecured Claims. An unsecured claim is any other debt that does not have collateral, such as unpaid credit card bills and many personal loans.
Schedule G, Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases. Report any lease, such as an apartment rental or any rent-to-own agreements.
Schedule H, Co-debtors. A co-debtor is anyone who shares an obligation with you. The most common here would be a husband and wife who both signed a mortgage together.
Schedule I, Income. You need to report your regular earnings and any other income to which you are entitled.
Schedule J, Your Expenses. You will be asked to report all regular monthly or other periodic expenses. For such things as food, clothing or entertainment, you should make your best estimate based on a review of your spending habits for the past two or three months.
 This is a sort of organized summary of much of the information you have provided in prior schedules. You need to answer all questions completely and honestly.
 One of the great ironies of life is that you must pay money in order to declare bankruptcy.If you cannot afford to pay the filing fee, you may complete an application to waive the fee or to pay it in installments. These applications are on the same page with all the other bankruptcy forms.


As of January 1, 2016, the fee for filing an individual Chapter 7 bankruptcy case is $335, which consists of a $245 filing fee, $75 administrative fee, and $15 U.S. Trustee’s surcharge fee., You are required to file bankruptcy in the district where you live, work or maintain a residence. You can search online for the nearest bankruptcy court. Call the clerk’s office to determine their hours of operation for taking in new filings. This will often be slightly less than the full day’s hours.


You may be able to file by mail. If you choose to do so, send in an extra copy of everything that you are submitting, together with a postage paid return envelope, and ask to have the copies stamped and returned as proof of your filing.

