 An all-over hair color will completely fill in any white hairs, making it a good option if your hair is more than 40% grey.


You can opt for semi-permanent colors which last for a couple of weeks, or go for permanent colors which will stay until the hair grows out.
If you're trying to match the hair dye to your natural color, it's probably a good idea to get your hair done professionally, as it's difficult to predict how home coloring kits will react with your hair. However, many people use the necessity of dyeing their hair as an opportunity to experiment with a new color.
If you decide to dye your hair at home, avoid home coloring kits that contain ammonia, which can damage and dry out the hair.
Be aware that going don this route will require a lot of maintenance, as you will need to reapply the color (or at least touch-up the roots) every time the hair grows out.
 Highlights are another option for covering up white hairs. Rather than coloring the whole head of hair, select strands are bleached or dyed in order to add texture and life to the hair.


Highlights can be very fine, adding subtle color and shine to to the hair, or they can be big and bold, adding variety and contrast.
Highlights will need to done by a professional hair stylist and can be quite pricey. However, they tend to last a little longer than all-over hair dyes.
 Henna is a form of natural hair dye. It contains no chemicals and will actually condition the hair, leaving it shiny and moisturized.


Henna will produce a rich red color in your hair. The lighter your hair (or the more white hairs you have) the brighter the red color will be.
Henna can be very messy - it comes in the form of a brick which needs to be melted down, or in a powder which needs to be mixed with lemon juice or tea or coffee. It has a mud-like texture and needs to sit in the hair for several hours while the color develops.
One thing to be aware of is that chemical hair dyes cannot be applied to henna-treated hair, so make the decision to use henna on your hair with care, as you will be stuck with it for a while!

, If you're not ready to commit to dyeing your hair just yet, there are other, more temporary solutions to covering up your white hairs.


Use hair mascara. This is exactly what it sounds like - mascara for your hair! It's great for covering up individual grey strands around the temples and hairline. It will last until the next time you shampoo your hair.
Use a root concealer. A root concealer works like a dry shampoo - it comes in aerosol form and can be spritzed on any grey hairs near the roots, where it will adjust to your natural hair color. It will rinse out with your next shampoo.
Use color depositing shampoos and conditioners. Color-depositing shampoos and conditioners help to blend away white hairs by imparting them with a color similar to your natural shade. After one wash with the color-depositing shampoo and conditioner, the color should last through the next three washes., There are many home remedies out there which involve rinsing the hair with a blend of different liquids, which can potentially add color. Whether any of these methods actually work or not is up for debate, but they're worth a try!



Rosemary and Sage: Boil half a cup of rosemary and half a cup of sage in a large pot of water for about 30 minutes. Strain the herbs out, then leave the water to cool. Once cool, pour the water over your hair and scalp and leave your hair to dry naturally, then wash out using natural shampoo. Repeat once a week.Gooseberries: Boil a number of Indian gooseberries (known as amla) in some coconut oil until they turn black. Allow the mixture to cool slightly then apply to the hair and scalp, massaging in with the fingers. Leave for 30 minutes, then rinse out.

Black walnut: Crack open some black walnuts and add the fruit to a pot of water. Boil for 15 minutes, then allow to cool. Remove the walnuts from the water, then rinse your hair with it and allow hair to dry naturally before shampooing. Repeat twice a week.
 Instead of trying to cover up or get rid of your white hairs, consider embracing them! As long as you take good care of it, white hair can look rather chic. It will also save you a lot of time and money.



Maintain a modern cut. Many women (and men) associate white hair with looking old, but this is often because their haircuts are old-fashioned. Try getting a fresh, modern cut from a professional stylist -- something like a sharp bob or blunt bangs. This will help to keep your hair looking young.Keep hair looking sleek. White and grey hair tends to get dried out and frizzy-looking, which can age you. Keep your hair looking sleek and hydrated by using moisturizing shampoos and conditioners, using oil-based hair treatments (such as argan or coconut oil) and by using a flat iron to smooth down any flyaway hairs.

