 Get your nails and hair done. Take a nice warm bubble bath, and pick out a nice outfit. Once you look your best, you will begin to feel your best. You don't need to get a complete makeover if you want to change. You just need to pay extra attention to grooming and hygiene, and the rest will follow.


Spend an extra 10-15 minutes getting ready in the morning, and you'll start to feel better. Maybe you were too busy or stressed out to care about your appearance before.
Get a fun hair cut. Nothing makes you feel like getting a fresh start like a fresh cut.
 If you're so insecure that you spend all of your time thinking about how others perceive you, then you'll never be able to work on yourself enough to catch your former man's eye again. It doesn't matter if people think you're funny, cute, or charming -- it's all about thinking positive things about yourself.


If you don't care what other people think about you, then you'll exude confidence and your former guy will be impressed that you finally know how to do your own thing.
Don't worry about his friends. Maybe his friends didn't think you were right for your former man or just didn't get along with you. You should be nice and get in their good graces, but don't bend over backwards trying to charm them or you'll lose sight of your target.
 If you're busy with schoolwork, friends, and pursuing your interests, you will be able to grow as a person and to continue improving yourself instead of pining after your guy. Plus, if he sees that you're obviously occupied instead of sitting around staring up at the sky, then he'll see that you have a lot to contribute and that you're person with an active and engaging life.


Let your former guy see you doing the things you love, whether it's immersing yourself in your studies or going out for a nice run.
Spend lots of time with your friends. They'll be able to keep you positive and will lend you a fresh perspective.
Don't use a rebound relationship as a means of staying busy. This will only distract and confuse you even more.
 As you continue to pursue your interests and get some space away from the guy, you'll start getting a better sense of yourself as an individual, not just a hurt ex-girlfriend. Take this time to really be your true self and to let the world know who you are.


Dress to impress. Wear clothes that really make you stand out as an individual. You don't have to wear anything garish to get attention -- just be brave and wear a "fun" outfit you were too timid to wear before.
Express your individuality by being creative. Write a story, pick up an acting class, or sign a song at an open mic. Let your former man see you being comfortable with expressing your individuality.

