 There is a never-ending supply of great stuff about periods online. Take the time to read some of this material. Plus, pay attention in health class! Don’t be embarrassed to ask your parents, doctor or teacher questions about how your period works. There are no stupid questions. The more stuff you learn, the better. All this information will help you figure out what’s happening to you, and realize that it’s all perfectly normal.


The Office of Women’s Health in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has created an awesome guide just for teenage girls. You can download a PDF copy of the guide at their website - http://www.girlshealth.gov/about/images/teen_survival_guide.pdf.
The website kidshealth.org has a large section about female puberty and periods - http://kidshealth.org/teen/sexual_health/girls/menstruation.html.
 At the very least, it’s always a good idea to keep a few pads and/or tampons with you at all times. You can carry them in a hidden pocket of your backpack or bag, or even put them in your locker (maybe inside a pencil case). You might also want to keep an extra pair of underwear or pants at school or in your bag for emergencies in case your pad or tampon leaks. It might seem weird to do this, but you’ll be SO grateful if you ever need them., Stay calm and think about what you need to do. If your period started and you don't have a pad, or if your pad or tampon leaked, you can talk to a trusted friend, female teacher, counselor or nurse to ask for supplies. Schools usually have a supply of pads and tampons they can give you. You can also ask to call your parents so you can go home if you'd rather do that.If your period started when you weren’t expecting it to, or you’ve run out of pads or tampons, you can always use toilet paper. It will work for a short time until you can get home.
If your pad or tampon leaks and leaves a spot on your pants, try pulling your shirt down over your bum. Or tie a shirt or jacket around your waist.
Don’t be embarrassed about asking for help. Adults will understand and will not make fun of you. It’s probably even happened to them before! , When you get your period for the first time, you don't need to go to your doctor. However, if any of the following things happen, ask your parents to take you to the doctor. It might not be anything bad, but it’s always a good idea to check, just to be sure.You feel a lot of pain in your stomach or have really, really bad cramps.
The vaginal discharge you get between periods is yellow, grey or green and smells really bad.
Your period lasts longer than 7 days.
You get your periods less than 21 days apart, or more than 45 days apart.
You have any bleeding between your periods.

