 Do not place the diary under your mattress if you think it will be turned over or replaced soon. If you don’t think it will be handled anytime soon, slide it under your mattress. To make it even more hidden, lift your mattress and place it under the center of your mattress.Make sure your bed is made when you leave the house. Your comforter should hide your mattress.;
, Slide the diary into your pillowcase when you are finished using it. Put it in the part of the pillowcase that touches your bed. Placing it in the front of the pillowcase will expose the shape of the diary. Make sure to remove it when it comes close to the time your pillowcases need to be washed.If you sleep with more than one pillowcase, you can put it in the pillowcase that you’re not using while you’re sleeping.
 Closets are typically filled with clothes, shoes, and other miscellaneous items. This makes it a great place to hide your diary. The extra stuff in your closet can act as camouflage for it. Put it in an old bag, like a backpack, inside of a jacket you don’t usually wear, or in between some other things that aren’t used often or not used at all. Don’t put it near things you use often because your parents are more likely to go into your closet to retrieve those things for washing or other reasons., If you have a bookcase filled with at least one row of books, put your diary in between two books. Wedge it between two larger books. This way, you won’t see the spine of your diary. This is ideal if you have a diary that looks similar to a book.


Only put your diary between books if the bookshelf is in your room. It is more likely to be discovered in a shared bookshelf., Your parents will likely look through obvious spots first, like your drawers and closet. A picture frame is a less obvious place to look. Look for a picture frame that is larger than your diary. Ideally, look for a frame that has a stand at the bottom or at the corners. Stand the diary up behind the frame.A picture frame that hangs on a wall may not work unless there is space between the back of the frame and the wall.

