 You may have noticed that your heels suffer when you wear very flat and open-backed shoes, like flip-flops or sandals. When you expose your heels by wearing these shoes or walking barefoot, they are more prone to dryness, cracking, and irritation.


Walking barefoot or in open-backed shoes will cause your skin to callus to create a protective barrier on your feet. By keeping your feet in closed shoes, your skin will not have to generate this callused barrier.When possible, wear socks and closed shoes, like tennis shoes or sneakers. Not only will this protect the skin on your heels, but it will also help your posture and joint health by supporting your arches. , Hydration is important, but in reality, drinking more water won’t have much of an effect on your dry skin. Try incorporating more fatty acids into your diet. These are found in things like nuts, olive oil, and salmon.Studies show that increasing your intake of borage oil or flaxseed oil supplements can help increase the moisture in your skin, and relieve dryness. Try taking at least 2.2 grams (0.08 oz) of these supplements per day., It goes without saying that proper hygiene and cleanliness can maintain various aspects of your bodily health, but making sure you keep your feet clean is especially important. Keeping your feet clean will prevent any kind of bacteria or fungus from growing on your heels, and it can help reduce dryness.You might notice that when you wash your hands often, they dry out. The same can happen with your feet. So, it’s important to keep your feet moisturized in correlation with keeping them clean. After washing or showering, apply moisturizer to your heels and feet.Try applying moisturizer to your heels before bed and putting on a pair of thick socks. The socks will keep the moisture locked in your heels while you sleep. Doing this over time will help reduce the dryness in your heels.Most stores sell special socks for keeping your feet and heels soft. They come infused with lotion, or gel inserts on the heels. You might consider trying a pair of these to wear to bed.
 Staying in a hot bath or shower for too long can dry out your feet and heels. To keep this from happening, try not to turn the water temperature up too high, or stay in the shower for too long.Certain soaps you use in the shower might also be drying to your heels. Make sure you are using a mild soap, and consider trying a soap that has a moisturizer built into it.