 LinkedIn allows you to ask connections for recommendations and post them to your profile. You will see the recommendations and approve the postings. This feature reinforces the information in your headline summary and specialties sections. Prospective employers and clients browsing your profile will see these recommendations, as will the connections of those who have recommended you.


Linkedin recommendations are known for being overly positive and therefore not especially exciting. Focus requests for recommendations on people who can talk best about your skills, such as ex bosses and customers.
 Asking for an introduction to a person from a connection you already know if a fast and friendly way to grow your network. On the free version of LinkedIn, you have 5 free introduction requests.


If you browse the connections of one of your connections, you may invite them to become your connections. Only do this if you know the person professionally. You may also ask your connections to introduce you by sending your profile and a note to someone in their networks.
 You can increase your network and your visibility by starting and contributing to discussions. Local groups will inform you of networking activities and events.
 This is your most visible professional profile. It will usually rank at the top of search engine searches for your name.

All of your information should be current and you should add occasional updates in the space provided.
Members of your LinkedIn network will be notified when you update your profile or add a new contact.
 A good rule of thumb is to only add those connections who you could envision giving you a good recommendation. Think twice before adding connections who aren't too fond of you or any of your companies or businesses.
 Respond to their updates by sending them notes of congratulations on a new position or achievement. The most important connections to nurture are the ones from previous jobs, or other people you haven't spoken to in years.

