 Having less guests does not make your celebration any less meaningful. On the contrary, it gives you more time to spend with people that matter to you and your partner. Having fewer people will make your day less stressful, allowing you to focus on what really matters -- loving and committing to your partner. Other benefits of small weddings include:

Time to talk to guests beyond a simple "hello."
A chance to involve more people in the events.
Less expensive reception and ceremony.
A more intimate, close-knit event.;
, You will not have a small wedding if you don’t establish what “small” is. Sit down with your spouse and wedding planner and decide on a concrete amount that you are willing to spend. You can then keep this number in mind as you begin purchasing things for the wedding.


If you don't have a budget in mind it becomes much easier to spend thousands more than you expected. Choose a number and stick to it.
In the United States the average wedding costs $25,000. That said, the majority of American couples spend $10,000 or less on a wedding.Each guest at a wedding costs, on average, $250 more at a normal sized wedding., Even small weddings are, in essence, parties that you throw for your friends, family, and spouse. As such, there is a variety of problems and concerns that need to address to make sure everyone has a good time. In general, you need to think about:


Venue for the wedding (church, registrar, etc.)
Reception
Entertainment
Flowers
Food, drink, and wedding cake
Photographs
Transport and Lodging
Invitations
Decorations and clothing
Gifts / Party Favors for attendees.
 A small wedding is about trimming excess and getting rid of things you don't really need. Holding your wedding in your hometown instead of at a big destination means most people can come straight from their house. Don't like flowers? Substitute pictures of you and your spouse for the centerpiece. Look at the above list and ask yourself what is really essential. What can you make yourself? What can you limit or cut back?


Once you've started to trim down your wedding, make estimates about the cost of each thing you still want and compare them to your budget.
Remember that a small wedding is often more intimate, giving you time to be with the guests that matter instead of bouncing around to 100 people or more.
 Small and casual weddings allow people to feel much more comfortable and close to one another. Consider ditching elaborate, classy wedding themes like lace or ivy and go for something simple, like a color. Not only do people spend less on clothing, you spend less on decorations that you will only use once. Check out sites like Pinterest, Etsy, or The Knot to browse through thousands of wedding themes on any budget to get craft ideas.


Remember, the theme of your wedding is not important, your marriage is.
Make your location a big part of the "theme." If you are getting married on the beach, for example, the sand and the surf will be much more enjoyable than hundreds of beach decorations.
Use what you have at home or make your own decorations. A few strings of Christmas lights, for example, will create beautiful lighting without breaking the bank. If you already have a lot of green decorations, consider making the color your theme., A tiny arrangement of flowers placed well is often as efficient as having lots of flowers everywhere. Floral arrangements can get very expensive very quickly, so find ways to eliminate or limit them to save money. Some suggestions include:


Use local, seasonal flowers or wildflowers instead of big, exotic bouquets.
Buy 1 big beautiful flower (like a rose or chrysanthemum) and use it instead of a full bouquet for a minimal but striking look.
Opt for pictures, art, paper flowers, or colorful fruit bowls instead of flowers for an off-beat look., This is a good way for the groom to save money. If you already have a nice black suit, consider wearing it instead of a tuxedo. Even if you do not own a black suit, consider buying one for the wedding instead of renting a tuxedo. The cost of a respectable black suit is usually about the same as a one day tuxedo rental and you can use the suit again in the future.
 It might sound like blasphemy, but wedding dresses are incredibly expensive to only wear once. Opt instead to borrow one from a mother, relative, or close friend. This is not only cost effective, it shows someone how much you care and begins a tradition of passing down a dress across generations.


More and more stores are renting out dresses now, allowing you to get your dream dress for a fraction of the cost., The only things that are truly "necessary" for a marriage to happen are two people who want to be together forever, a legal certificate, and a witness or two. Focus on that idea as you plan your small wedding. In CA, for example, a marriage license costs anywhere from $35-100, and that is technically all you need to begin your married life together.


You can always hold a reception later on, or separate from getting your license, in order to save money and cut costs.Some scientists have found a correlation between cheaper weddings and happier couples, so remember to focus on each other, not money.