 Get out one 9-inch (23-cm) unbaked pie shell in a pie plate. You can make your favorite pie crust recipe or buy a refrigerated premade crust. Cover the pie crust with plastic wrap. Put the pie shell in the fridge and chill it for 40 minutes. Then put it in the freezer for 20 minutes.Chilling and freezing the pie shell will keep it crisp as it bakes.;
, Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C) and put a rack in the lower-middle shelf of the oven. Take the chilled pie shell out of the freezer. Remove the plastic wrap and lay a large sheet of parchment paper over the shell. Fill it with pie weights and bake the shell for 20 to 25 minutes.The pie crust won't bake completely. It will finish baking once you've poured the filling in and bake the entire pie. Par-baking ensures a crispy crust.
 Take the pie shell out of the oven and carefully lift out the parchment paper and pie weights. Scatter 3 ounces (90 g) of finely chopped bittersweet chocolate over the crust while it's still hot. Wait 5 minutes and then use a spatula or the back of a spoon to spread the melted chocolate evenly across the crust. Set the pie shell aside while you make the filling.If you don't want to chop your own chocolate, you could use bittersweet chocolate chips.
 Cut one stick (8 tablespoons or 113 g) of butter into 8 pieces. Put the butter into a small saucepan. Turn the heat to medium low and stir the butter constantly until it melts and turns brown. You'll need to heat it for about 5 to 7 minutes. If you want to use bourbon, turn off the heat and slowly stir in 3 tablespoons of it. Let the butter cool for 5 minutes.Don't worry if the butter foams up a lot when you add the bourbon. It will settle down as it rests.
 Get out a mixing bowl and put 3/4 cup (150 g) of granulated sugar, 1/2 cup (100 g) of packed light brown sugar, 2 tablespoons of cornstarch, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt into it. Whisk the dry ingredients together until they're completely combined., Crack two large eggs into the mixing bowl with the dry ingredients. You'll also need to add one yolk. Whisk the eggs until they're combined. Slowly whisk in 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract and the melted butter until the batter is totally smooth.You can discard or save the extra egg white for another recipe.
 Toast and chop 1 1/2 cups (175 g) of walnuts. Once they're cool, add them to the batter and stir until they're incorporated. Scoop the filling into the chocolate-coated pie crust.If you prefer, you could use pecans instead of walnuts.
 Reduce the oven temperature to 325 degrees F (160 C). Put the pie in the oven and bake it for 35 to 40 minutes. The crust should brown and the filling should puff up. Don't worry if the pie jiggles a little in the center. It will set up while it cools., Remove the pie from the oven and set it on a wire rack. Let the pie cool for 4 hours before you slice it. Serve the thoroughbred pie with whipped cream or ice cream.Store any leftover pie in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.

