 To make yourself a more realistic rifle, you'll need a board about three feet (90 cm) long and six inches (15 cm) wide. You should be able to purchase a board for this purpose from your local hardware store or lumber yard.
 In addition to the wood that you will form into the main body of your rubber band rifle, you will also need ammunition and supplies to help you cut your wood into the shape of your gun. For this project you should have:

Pencil/felt tip marker
Woodworking saw (or a common saw)
Jig saw (optional)
Duct tape (or thin leather strip)
Knife
Rubber bands

, Using a pencil or felt tip marker, draw a general outline of a rifle. Feel free to do this freehand, though you may want to use an image from online to model your outline. Generally, your rifle should have:

A long, thin barrel
A rectangular sight atop the beginning of the barrel.
A stock.
A trigger.
 Use a woodworking saw for greater precision, or a common saw if that is unavailable, and cut along the outside of the outline you drew on your board. Do this until the outline is completely cut free.
 The notch should form a wedge pointing inward on the barrel and should be thick enough to accommodate a rubber band.


In the event you don't have a jig saw, a normal saw or knife should be able to sufficiently notch the front of your barrel.
 Take a piece of duct tape or a thin strip of leather folded in half and nail or staple it onto the center of the top of where the stock meets the barrel. You will use this strip like a "trigger," where by pulling the strip free you can fire your rubber band.
 Using a saw or knife, cut a notch into the top of your barrel beneath where you have attached your trigger strip. Your notch should be deep and thick enough to serve as a catch for your rubber band.
 Tuck your duct tape or leather strip into the notch you have made on the top of your barrel. Now your gun is ready to be armed with a rubber band. Place one end of your rubber band in the notch you have made at the end of your barrel and the other end over your strip and into the notch atop your barrel.
 Pull backwards on your strip of duct to release your rubber band, causing it to fire down the length of your barrel. Take aim by:


Look gown the barrel of your gun with your dominant (most likely your right) eye.
Align the top of your barrel where the notch is with the tip of your barrel as closely as you are able.
Adjust your gun until you see your target directly above both your notch and tip of the barrel.
Release your rubber band.

