 You might not know which chapter to file, or you could have other legal questions. Only a qualified bankruptcy lawyer can properly advise you. Find a local lawyer and call to schedule a consultation.


You can get a referral by contacting your state or local bar association. Check here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx.
Call up the lawyer and ask how much it costs for a consultation. Generally, lawyers will give you a half-hour of advice for a flat fee.
Also think seriously about hiring the lawyer to file the bankruptcy for you. In some courts, you must have a lawyer if you file a business bankruptcy as a corporation, partnership, or LLC. Check with your court clerk.
 Legal aid organizations provide free legal help to low-income individuals. You can find the nearest legal aid organization by looking in your phone book. You can also visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website at http://www.lsc.gov. Enter your zip code.
 Some bankruptcy courts might have self-help centers or offer free legal clinics to help you file a bankruptcy on your own.You should visit the court’s website or stop into the court and ask.


You can find your nearest court by using the court locator feature here: http://www.uscourts.gov/court-locator. Select “bankruptcy” under Court Type and then enter your zip code.
Avoid asking the court clerk for legal advice. They can give you forms but they can’t advise you about which bankruptcy chapter to file.
 You have other options than bankruptcy and you should discuss them with a legal professional. Keep the following in mind:


Not all debts can be discharged in bankruptcy. For example, you won’t be able to get rid of child support payments, alimony payments, student loans, or most taxes.You might be “judgment proof.” This means you have very few assets. If your lenders sue you, then they can’t really get any money out of you because you have nothing to give.
Instead of filing for bankruptcy, you could try credit counseling or negotiate with your creditors. You might also try debt settlement. Discuss these options with a lawyer.

