 Ideally, you should start searching for a preschool for your child nine to 12 months before you expect her to start. This will ensure that you have time to make the right selection and that there will be an opening at the school by the time your child is ready to start.Be prepared to be put on a wait list. This is very common with preschools.
If you live in an area where preschool admission is highly competitive, like New York City or Los Angeles, you will have to start searching even earlier.
If you didn't start searching early and you need a preschool at the last minute, you may still have some options. Call around to see if any of the preschools in your area have openings, but don't neglect to vet them properly just because you're in a hurry.;
, There are lots of different public and private preschool options out there, so the right choice for you will largely depend on what is available in your area and your own personal preferences. Don't rule either option out without doing some research first, as both options have their advantages and both can provide your child with a quality education.Private preschools may offer smaller class sizes and more individualized attention, but this is not always the case. They may also have more flexibility when it comes to curriculum and teaching methods.
Public preschools may be much more affordable, but this is not guaranteed. They are often attached to or affiliated with the local elementary school, which means their teaching philosophy is likely to be similar to that of the entire public school district.
 While you may be focusing all of your attention on things like curriculum and policies, it's important to think about practical considerations as well. In order for a preschool to be the right choice for you and your child, it needs to be convenient and affordable.Make sure to choose a preschool that is in a convenient location for you. Some parents prefer to choose a location that is very close to home or work, while others don't mind driving a little further.
Make sure the schedule will work for you as well. It is important to know that you will be able to pick up and drop off your child at times that are convenient. Depending on your schedule, you may also need a preschool that offers some flexibility.
Before you choose a preschool, you need to make sure that your family can reasonably afford it. Costs for preschools vary dramatically depending on where you live, what type of program you are looking at, and whether your child will attend full-time or part-time., Talk to some of your friends or neighbors with children. These are going to be trusted people who can tell you about their experiences with schools in your area, which can help you make a more informed decision.Look for online reviews as well. Other parents may have written about their experience with the preschool/teacher. If many of the reviews are favorable, it is a good indicator that you have found a good school.
Don't rule out a preschool just because of one somewhat negative review. It is possible that the parent who wrote it had a personal issue with a member of the staff or made unreasonable requests.
 Preschools must be licensed by the state they operate in, so check your state's or county's department of social services website to confirm that the facility is properly licensed. A school that is not properly licensed may not adhere to basic health and safety requirements.To make sure that a preschool meets more than just the bare minimum standards, check for accreditation by The National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). Schools that are approved by this organization meet strict standards regarding curriculum, classroom environment, and teaching qualifications.
The NAEYC is also a great resource to use if you have no idea what's available in your area. You can find a complete list of accredited preschool programs on their website.Once you have narrowed down your search, you can contact the preschool's licensing agency to find out if there have been any complaints against them., Every child is different, so it's extremely important to think about what your child enjoys and what she needs to learn in order to be prepared for kindergarten. For example, some children may need help learning basic literacy skills, while others may need to practice socialization.If your child has shown an interest in a specific activity, whether it is art or sports, look for a program that will allow her to explore that area more fully.
Also consider whether your child enjoys being around large groups or whether she does better with smaller groups.
 There are many different preschool teaching philosophies out there, and the right one for you is entirely a matter of preference. In order to choose the best fit for your child, it's important to have a basic understanding of some of the most common schools of thought.Montessori programs believe in allowing children to learn individually at their own pace. These programs typically focus on hands-on learning experiences, practical life skills, and learning about cultural diversity.
Waldorf programs focus of group activities that foster creativity and curiosity about the world. These programs aim to enrich the spirit, soul, and body of each child.
High Scope programs believe in providing active involvement to children in a variety of development areas. These programs typically have more structured curricula than other programs, but children are encouraged to make their own decisions about how they want to learn.
Bank Street programs embrace children's individual learning styles and paces. These programs typically encourage children to work in groups, but allow them to choose their own activities.
 No matter which teaching philosophy you prefer, it is important to find out how the facility implements that philosophy. They should be able to clearly articulate the philosophy and explain how various activities fit within the goals of that philosophy.The most important thing to consider is whether your child will be exposed to a variety of age-appropriate educational activities. The curriculum should not be too rigorous for your child's age, but it should encourage growth and exploration.Find out if the curriculum is adapted for children who learn faster or slower than average.Worksheets should be used rarely if at all, as these are typically too rigorous for preschool-age children., You will not be able to completely assess a preschool curriculum without reviewing a daily schedule. This should give you an idea of whether or not the facility will offer your child a wide variety of activities that will keep her engaged and encourage different kinds of development.The schedule should include both indoor and outdoor play.
The schedule should include a combination of organized activity and free play.
The schedule should include a combination of individual, group, and one-on-one activities.
Kids should have the opportunity to develop their gross and fine motor skills, so look for activities that will engage these skills.Opportunities to play pretend should be incorporated into the schedule, as these are very important in helping children with language development., Once you decide that a preschool is of interest to you, it is very important to find out more about their staff. These people will be working with your child every day, so it's important to know who they are.Find out what kind of educational background the teachers have. A Child Development Associate (CDA) credential is a minimum requirement for teachers, but a bachelor's degree in Early Childhood Development is preferable.Find out how high the turnover rate is. Constant change is not good for kids and is probably a sign that the facility is not run well.
Don't be afraid to ask for references. A good preschool will provide you with quality references for its teachers., Ask the preschool what they do to encourage parental involvement. A good preschool should allow you to stop by and participate in your child's learning from time to time.It's also important that you stay informed. Ask the school how they notify parents about things like changes in staffing or curriculum.
 While a preschool should not be administering tests to your child, the staff should be paying close attention to her ability to perform activities and provide you with feedback on her progress.Ask the preschool what their policy is for assessments, how often they share this information with parents, and what format it is in.
You may also want to ask if there will be opportunities for you to sit down with your child's teacher to get more feedback about her progress.
 It's important to understand how much one-on-one attention your child will be getting at preschool, so be sure to ask how many adults will be with each class and what each person's background is. Your state may have guidelines for student to teacher ratios, but your child may benefit from an even smaller group size, depending on her needs and preferences.If your child is three, look for preschools that have groups of no more than 14 students, with at least two adults.
If your child is four or five, look for preschools that have groups of no more than 16 students, with at least two adults.
 When searching for a preschool, don't be afraid to ask lots of specific questions. A good preschool should have clearly defined policies in place. If you are not comfortable with any of the policies, the preschool may not be the right fit for you.Find out what the disciplinary procedure is and make sure you are comfortable with it. It is extremely important that the preschool's philosophy on discipline is at least similar to your own.
Potty-training is required by some facilities, so be sure to ask what the rules are.
Find out about details like pick-up and drop-off policies, food policies, and sick policies. These are practical considerations that you will need to keep in mind when deciding whether or not the preschool is a good fit., Once you have chosen a few different schools that you are interested in, contact them to arrange for a visit. While you are there, meet with as many members of the staff as possible, including the director, the teachers, and the assistant teachers.This is your chance to interview the facility and get a good impression of the program, so don't skip this step.
 In addition to knowing about the staff's training and certifications, it's important to actually observe the way that they interact with the children at the preschool. They should be friendly and engaging and the children should seem to enjoy interacting with them.Make sure they appear to enjoy their jobs. Dissatisfied or overly stressed teachers are not likely to be effective.
Teachers should be down at the kids' level frequently. This fosters better relationship development.Be aware of how teachers discipline children and make note of whether or not your observations are in line with the school's policy.
 When you visit a preschool, make note of how the place makes you feel. If you have a bad impression of it for any reason, your child may feel the same way.The space should feel warm, friendly, and inviting.
There should be plenty of space for running around and playing.
There should be lots of engaging, age-appropriate toys.
Original art on the walls is a good sign that the school encourages creative activities. If all of the artwork is unique, this indicates that children are given the opportunity to choose their own projects based on their interests.Kids should be free to play with toys as they choose and should not have to ask an adult., A preschool should be a safe environment for children, so be extra aware of anything that looks less than safe. Look out for any potential safety hazards, including:Sharp edges on furniture
Broken furniture or toys
Exposed electrical outlets
Hazardous materials like cleaning chemicals within the reach of children

, Your child is the one who will be spending a lot of her time at the preschool, so it is important that she feel comfortable there. Once you have decided that you approve of a specific preschool, contact the school about arranging a time when your child can visit.A good preschool should allow your visiting child the opportunity to engage in activities and interact with the other children.
Pay attention to your child's reaction to the preschool. If she doesn't seem happy, ask her to tell you what she didn't like.
Make sure the preschool meets all of your criteria before you bring your child to see it. It would be very disappointing for her if she loved the place but couldn't go there because it was over budget.

