 Depression is a psychological disorder that causes you to lose interest in your daily activities and generally persistent sadness. Depression always requires some kind of treatment, some of which can be long-term. You may experience depression only once; however, you may experience multiple episodes. The first step in dealing with depression is to get a professional diagnosis by your doctor or licensed psychologist. The most common symptoms of depression are:Overall feelings of hopelessness, sadness, or emptiness
Irritable or frustrated outbursts, often over little things
Anger
Loss of interest in many or all general activities and meaningful relationships
Loss of sleep due to insomnia and hypersomnia
A general loss of energy and overall fatigue, even when not exerting yourself
Changes in eating patterns
Feelings of worry, anxiety, or agitation, often for no reason
Feeling guilty about nothing or altogether worthless
Constant fixation on past failures, where you blame yourself for things that you shouldn't
Difficulty concentrating, making decisions, and remembering
Physical problems that have no cause, such as headaches;
, There are many possible factors for depression. To help your doctor come up with a personal care and treatment plan, try to identify the cause of your depression. Medical conditions may be the cause, or trigger, for your depression and anxiety. Visit your healthcare provider as soon as you can if you experience any depression symptoms to work on a personal treatment plan and to figure out any possible medical causes.


Short-term depression may be caused by changes in your hormones, the changing seasons, stress over long periods of time, unhealthy relationships, taking some medications, or abundant consumption of alcohol.
Long-term or recurrent depression can be severe. It may interfere with your everyday routine and activities. The factors that can contribute to long-term depression are a chemical imbalance in the brain, genetic history of depression, life-changing situations, or traumatic events., Depression is a serious disorder that should not be taken lightly. If you don't seek help for it, it can cause emotional, health, and behavioral problems that impact all areas of your life. If you experience any of severe symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider as soon as you can. Severe symptoms include:Physical illness or pain such as headaches, back pain, or muscle aches
Panic attacks, social anxiety, or extreme uneasy feelings
Relationship problems, family issues, work difficulties, or problems at school
Purposeful social isolation
Alcohol or substance abuse
Self-mutilation, such as cutting
Suicidal feelings — Call 911 or seek emergency care if you have any thoughts of suicide

