 If you want the groom to look vintage, opt for an old-fashioned suit. A cutaway coat tuxedo with a butterfly collar has an old-fashioned feel. You can also try a simple tuxedo just a waist coat with a bow tie.To accessorize, add a wristwatch. Watches were a fashion staple in the past and can really give a groom's outfit a vintage look.;
, More old fashioned wedding dressed tended to have longer sleeves, so look for longer or three-quarter sleeved dresses. Lace was also a very popular fabric of older weddings, so opt for a dress that includes a lot of lace.You can also look for old fashioned veils. The Juliet hair dress, for example, was a popular veil in the '20's.
 In addition to old fashioned dresses and tuxedos, keep your footwear in mind. You should opt for classic shoe styles that would have been popular in previous decades.Vintage shoes tend to have embellishments like laces and bows, so choose a lace-y, decorative pair of shoes to go with your bridal dress. Keep in mind you'll be doing a lot of walking on your wedding day, so pick a pair of shoes that are comfortable for you.
For the grooms and groomsmen, try a pair of brogues. These were originally walking shoes in the earlier twentieth century and many people associate them with a vintage, old-fashioned look., For a vintage wedding, you want to keep the colors appropriate for the time. Bright, gaudy colors were not typical in older weddings. Instead, opt for nude or light shades for a vintage feel.Go for nude shades, like creams, browns, and beiges. You can also try light shades, like light blues, pinks, or greens.
When it comes to the actual outfits from groomsmen and bridesmaids, choose simple suits and dresses in your chosen colors. For most older weddings, the attire was fairly simplistic.
 For men, vintage hairstyles were fairly simple, so you do not need to do anything too fancy. Stick to a gelled hair that's parted on one side. Women generally have more options.A '20's-style bob or a wavy '40's style updo are great options for the bride.
Floral embellishments were also common in older weddings, so try adding some flowers or floral arrangements to your hair. Bridesmaids can also wear flowers in their hair.
 Cover the chairs and sofas in your reception area with vintage throw pillows. Throw pillows give the feel of an old-fashioned parlor room and can be a great means to give your wedding decor a vintage style.You can stop by a local antique shop to find vintage throw pillows. You can also talk to older friends and relatives to see if they have any throw pillows they'd be willing to donate.
Keep your color scheme in mind when selecting throw pillows. Choose pillows that match your wedding colors.
 Drapes and curtains, usually of the satin variety, were popular in older houses. Try embellishing windows with satin curtains or drapes. If you're using a wedding arch, try hanging some satin drapes or curtains around the arch to emphasize the vintage feel., Any bouquets used in your wedding should have a vintage look. You want to stick to classic flowers, like roses and peonies, but you should also attach vintage embellishments to any bouquets.Have pearls and brooches embedded within the flowers. You can also have a brooch attached to whatever is binding the bouquet, such as cloth or ribbon.
Heirloom jewelry is a popular vintage accessory. This can easily be attached to a bouquet's binding.
 The runner will be a major decorative piece on your wedding day. Choose a vintage runner to emphasize your theme. Opt for a long, burlap runner with flower petals covering it., At your reception, you can expect there will be centerpieces at each table. You want your centerpieces to have a vintage feel. Try to pick centerpieces that reflect old-fashioned tastes.Things like birdcages, oil lamps. and silver trophies work great.
If you want something more creative, opt for vintage vases or mason jars filled with flower arrangements.
 Make sure tables at your reception are decorated with a vintage feel. Pattern and embellishments are important here. Each table should have a tablecloth with a pattern that reflects the wedding colors. For example, if you have ice blue as one of your wedding colors, opt for ice blue tablecloths.You should also keep the vintage feel consistent with other furniture choices. For example, a vintage-style cake stand is important.
 Hit up antique stores, garage sales, and junk sales to find vintage glasses. Old fashioned glasses are a must for a vintage themed wedding.Vintage glasses are rarely plain. Look for glasses made from crystal or similar materials that have an elaborate design. No two glasses should be quite the same at your reception.
 If you have an antique dresser lying around somewhere, or know someone who does, use this to serve drinks. An old-fashioned dresser can resemble a classic liquor cabinet people would have kept in their's homes in the '20's.You can also use an old cart for a liquor cabinet.
 Floral arrangements and decorations were popular for older weddings, so do not forget to include flowers. However, it's easy to go overboard with flowers, so make sure to only place flowers where they're needed.A little goes a long way when it comes to flowers, so stick to a few big arrangements. For example, have a large centerpiece at the table where the wedding party sits and a few smaller flower arrangements for the tables.

