 To start your first leaf, make a chain of 13 stitches. This chain will be the center and base of your leaf.To chain, yarn over your hook twice, and then pull the first loop through the second loop. Then, yarn over your hook again and pull through the loop. Repeat this process until your chain is the length you want it to be.;
, Skip the first two links in your chain and then single crochet twice into the next two links of the chain.To single crochet, insert the crochet hook into the chain and then loop your yarn over the hook. Pull the yarn through the chain to create a new loop. Then, yarn over again and pull the yarn through both of the loops., Follow the single crochet stitches with two half double crochet stitches into the next two chains.To half double crochet, yarn over and insert the hook into the chain. Then, yarn over and pull the yarn through the first loop on the hook. Then, yarn over again and pull through all three loops on the hook., Next, double crochet into each of the next two chains.To double crochet, yarn over the hook, and insert the hook through the chain. Yarn over again. Pull through the first stitch, and yarn over again. Next, pull through the next two stitches on the hook, and yarn over again. Pull through the last two stitches on the hook., As you near the end of your leaf, triple crochet into each of the next four chains in the row.To triple crochet, yarn over the hook twice and insert the hook into the chain and yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the chain, and yarn over again. Pull through the first two loops on the hook. Then, yarn over and pull through two more. Yarn over again and pull through the last two stitches on the hook., To work around to the other side of the leaf, work six triple crochet stitches into the last stitch in your chain. This will cause the end of the leaf to have a rounded, fanned out effect and then you will be able to start crocheting into the other side of the chain., As you begin working in the opposite side of the chain, keep in mind that you are simply mirroring the stitches you did on the other side of the chain. Start with four triple crochet stitches into the next four chains., Follow up the triple crochet stitches with two double crochet stitches into the next two chains., Next, do two half double crochet stitches into each of the next two stitches in your chain., Follow the half double crochet stitches with two single crochet stitches in the last two stitches of the chain., Now, you should be back at the beginning of the leaf and you will just need to slipstitch into the end of the leaf to finish it.To slipstitch, insert the hook into the stitch, then yarn over and pull through both loops on the hook.

