 The Atkins diet focuses heavily on consuming proteins. Unfortunately, many meat-based proteins can exacerbate gout, so striking a healthy balance between both diets will help to live the lifestyle you have chosen. In order to do this, stick to proteins that are plant-based. These foods will give you the protein that the Atkins diet demands, while limiting your consumption of uric acid to cater to your gout because plant-based proteins have low levels of purines. These proteins include:


Legumes like soybeans, lentils and garbanzo beans.
Nuts and seeds like cashews, sesame seeds, and walnuts.
Grains like quinoa and oatmeal.
Vegetables like broccoli and spinach.;
, While the Atkins diet says to limit your carbohydrate intake, having gout means that you should be eating complex carbohydrates. However, in this case you can try to stick to the Atkins diet. However, you should not cut all your carbs out immediately. Instead, reduce the amount of carbs you eat very slowly.Rather than going from eating one cup of rice to no rice at all, cut back your carbs by eating half a cup of rice, rather than a full cup. Slowly reducing your carbs will allow your kidneys to adjust to the changes you are making to your diet while still being able to excrete purines.
Slowly decreasing the amount of carbs you eat may also help you to decrease your weight. This will be discussed further in the next section of this article.
 Both having gout and the Atkins diet require that you limit the number of sugary treats and sodas that you consume. The Atkins diet says to do this because those foods get stored in your body as fat, causing you to can weight. Having gout requires you to cut back on these foods because many of them contain uric acid.These foods include:


Candies and sweets.
Sodas, juices from concentrate, and other soft drinks.
Instead, drink natural fruit juices that do not have additives because they stimulate the production of less uric acid.
 Dairy products are thought to decrease the amount of uric acid contained in your blood, which is good for living a gout-friendly lifestyle. At the same time, most dairy products contain protein, which works in favor of the Atkins diet.Drink one to two glasses of milk regularly.
You can also eat foods like yogurt and cheese.

