 Inadequate water intake prevents cell growth and reproduction—your hair won’t grow without H20! Proper hydration is not only essential for the growth of your hair, but it will also ensure that your body functions properly. Aim to drink six to eight cups of water per day.


Replace one to two caffeinated beverages with water every day.
Set an alarm to remind you when it is time for your next glass of water.;
, Proteins, specifically keratin, are the building blocks of hair. To encourage hair growth, eat a diet rich in nuts, lentils, and lean meats. To improve your scalp’s health, consume foods that are naturally rich in vitamin A (dark leafy greens and sweet potatoes), vitamin C (citrus fruits), iron (lean red meats), and omega-3 fatty acids (avocados).Avoid risky fad diets. Your hair won't grow if it thinks you body is in trouble. The nutrients and vitamins you need to produce luscious locks will be diverted from your hair follicles and used to maintain necessary functions. In some extreme cases, your hair may even fall out.
Eggs, bananas, raisins, and olive oil are also rich in the vitamins and nutrients you need to grow strong hair and maintain a healthy scalp.
Consuming too much salt, carbonated beverages, sugar, alcohol, and white flour may inhibit hair growth.
 Getting plenty of sleep is essential to leading a healthy, balanced life. Anxiety and stress can decrease your stomach acids, inhibiting the proper digestion and assimilation of the proteins, vitamins, and nutrients that encourage hair growth. Occasionally, too much stress can alter your hormone levels, disrupt your hair’s growth cycle, and ultimately cause your hair to fall out. Sleeping reduces stress and promotes cell growth, as well as cell repair.Leave your phone, tablet or computer on the bedside table when it is time to sleep.
 Read the labels of all of your hair products carefully. Look for shampoos and conditioners that contain vitamins A, B, C, and or E. These vitamins will nourish and hydrate your hair. Avoid products that contain two or more detergents, such as sodium lauryl sulfate and ammonium lauryl sulfate. This product will strip your hair of its natural oils and cause more damage.Don’t over wash your hair. Try switching to a regiment of shampooing your hair one day and using conditioner the following day.When shampooing your hair, apply the product directly to your scalp. Lather it in and let it run down your hair.
If you have an oily scalp, only apply conditioner to the ends of your hair., Applying a deep conditioner to your hair once a week can repair, replenish, and rehydrate damaged hair from the root all the way down to the ends of your tresses. You can either purchase a deep conditioner from your favorite beauty store or use natural ingredients to make your own deep conditioner at home., Brushing your hair with a boar hair bristle brush will result in a healthy, shinny mane. These brushes stimulate your scalp and naturally condition your hair, while reducing frizz and improving the texture of your hair. After using a boar hair bristle brush, your need for styling products will decrease and you will have to wash your hair less frequently.When brushing your hair, concentrate on spreading your hair’s natural oils. A boar hair bristle brush works great for this.
Avoid using brushes with metal or plastic bristles.
When detangling wet hair, use a wide-toothed comb to get the snarls out!, Trimming your hair on a regular basis—about every 6 to 8 weeks—will keep your hair looking and feeling healthy. It won’t prevent hair growth. Growth happens at the roots, not the ends., Certain hairstyles pull on your roots and can actually slow hair growth. Hairstyles that pull on your scalp, like cornrows, braids, and high ponytails, can also cause hair breakage. Teasing also pulls on your roots and wreaks havoc on your ends.
 Instead of wearing a tight up-do that can damage your hair and roots, wear your hair down and natural. When pulling your hair back, style it in a loose braid. Going for a run? Pull your mane back in a low, loose ponytail.


Just need your hair out of your eyes? Try a cute headband or a rolled up bandana.
 When you blow-dry your locks, straighten your mane, or curl your hair, prevent further damage with a heat protectant. Apply the heat protectant, which you can purchase at any drug store, prior to styling your hair.
 Applying unnecessary heat to already damaged hair will only lead to further breakage. Instead of blow-drying your hair, let it air-dry.


Always use a heat protectant when blow-drying your hair!If you have a diffuser, use it! This tool that attaches to the tip of your blow-dryer helps spread the heat evenly throughout your hair.
 Like blow-drying, curling or straightening already damaged hair will only result in additional damage. If you do curl or straighten your hair, don’t blow-dry your hair before styling it. Let it air-dry instead.


When curling or straightening your hair, always use a heat protectant!
Use a curling iron or flat iron that shows you the temperature of the barrel or plates. Turn the tools to the lowest heat possible.
 When massaging your scalp, you can use a variety of oils. Pick from jojoba, coconut, olive, castor or egg oil. You could also try a variety of essential oils, including almond, lavender, or cedar wood oils.
 Pour or scoop about one tablespoon of the oil of your choice into small dish. Dip your fingertips in the oil. Shake of any excess oil over the dish.
 Using your fingertips, massage your scalp to stimulate the roots. Rub your scalp for approximately ten minutes. Dip your fingertips into the dish of oil as needed.









If you have an oily scalp, don’t overdo the oil. Use it sparingly.
 Brush your hair from root to tip with a boar hair bristle brush. This will spread the oil and your natural hair oil through your hair. Don’t use a brush with metal or plastic bristles.
 If you have oily or normal hair, let the oil soak into your hair for a few hours. If you have dry hair, let the oil soak into your damaged locks overnight. Wrap your hair in a soft towel or place a shower cap over your hair to prevent frizz (and stains on your pillowcase if you are going to bed).
 After completing the hair treatment, rinse out your hair with shampoo and water. You may need to wash a couple times to remove the oil.


Don’t use conditioner after this treatment.
 Towel your hair. Brush out the snarls with a boar hair bristle brush. Let your hair air-dry. If you choose to blow-dry your hair, use a heat protectant. Leave your hair down, plait it into a loose braid, or pull it back in a loose pony tail.