 You only need a bit, enough to keep the chicken from sticking. A pat of butter or non-stick cooking spray could also work, though the Italian flavor of olive oil makes it popular.
 In order to ensure it is all cooked well, most cooks aim for pieces around 1







, Imagine you're prepping scrambled eggs and turn the egg(s) into one consistent, yellow liquid.
 The chicken needs to be coated in all three ingredients -- egg, flour, and breadcrumbs. These shallow dishes make it easy to flip the chicken into each dish, getting everything well-coated without a ton of mess.


If you want a special seasoning (adding spice, a touch of oregano, etc,) add it to the flour and stir it in evenly. You could also use flavored breadcrumbs.
Keep an extra egg, flour, and breadcrumbs nearby if you run out-- all you have to do is add a little more., You don't want the chicken to be soaking wet, just a coated. This mixture will hold the flour down and "cook" it into a delicious breaded coating.
 It can help to keep using the tongs, but don't leave big clumps of flour on the chicken. You simply want it to be dusted with flour in a nice, even coating., This sometimes takes lightly pressing the breast down into the crumbs, though this isn't strictly necessary if it sticks on its own. Set aside and repeat this whole process with rest of the breasts, coating in egg, flour, and then crumbs.









Remember to mix the Parmesan and breadcrumbs beforehand to ensure they are well-mixed.
While any breadcrumbs will work, many chefs love the extra crunchy "panko" style., Heat to medium-high heat, just as the oil starts smoking, You want to cook the outsides of the chicken quickly, browning them, while allowing the rest of the dish to finish in the oven.
 Wait 1-2 minutes, and flip them. They should be a nice golden-brown. Remember that they will finish cooking in the oven -- if the outside looks delicious and appetizing, it is good to go!









This chicken is not yet fully cooked! Do not eat it until it has been finished.