;
,


Pick eggplant that is at its peak freshness. Pickling will preserve the vegetable at its prime crispness. A fresh eggplant is a shiny, deep purple. The stem should be bright and the surface of the eggplant should have no bruises. Squeeze the eggplant gently to determine its sponginess. It should be firm. Purchase enough eggplant for the size of your pickling jar.
Run the vegetable under cold water, rinsing the skin lightly with your fingers.
Slice the eggplant into eighths. Cut each slice lengthwise into thin strips.
Place the strips into a colander and sprinkle kosher salt over them.
Lay the colander in the sink with a heavy skillet over it for 1 hour.
Squeeze the eggplant between your hands into the sink. Add water to the eggplant and continue to squeeze until little juice remains.



Fill a saucepan or large pot with your sliced eggplant.
Cover the eggplant with 2 cups (0.473 L) of water and 1 cup (0.237 L) of vinegar. If the eggplant is not covered, add another 2 cups (0.473 L) of water and 1 cup (0.237 L) of vinegar. Repeat until completely covered.
Turn the burner on medium high heat until the mixture boils. Shut it off and let the eggplant sit for 10 to 20 minutes.



Chop herbs and peppers, slice garlic and place it all in a large mixing bowl.
Remove the eggplant from the stove and squeeze excess water out over the sink.
Place the eggplant into the herb and vegetable mixture and pour 1 cup (0.237 L) of extra virgin olive oil and 1/2 cup (0.118 L) of vinegar over it.
Stir the mixture, making sure the eggplant is coated with the other ingredients.



Scoop the mixture into an aptly sized canning jar about 1 inch (2.54 cm) from the top.
Boil the vinegar on the stove and pour some into the jar, leaving 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) of space from the top.
Boil the top of the can in water for 1 minute and twist it onto the jar so it tightens when it cools. Also tighten the canning ring of the lid.
Place the sealed can into the pot of boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes.
