 The board should leave a small gap at the wall for expansion (check manufacturer’s recommendation) and be placed in line with the room (so consider measuring guidelines). Place spacers in the gap.


Guidelines can be placed by finding the center point of each wall and marking a line between them, creating a cross at the center of the room. Where one of these lines meets with the wall, mark the manufacturer’s recommended expansion distance and then draw a line at that point which is perpendicular to the center line.
 Use the drill to make guide holes and then, using a hammer, nail the board into the subfloor with nails placed 1-3” from the end of the plank, ½” from the groove side, and every six inches down the board. Use a nail set to finish.
 When the first row is done, place the next board so that the tongue of the first fits into the groove. You will want to place the boards so that they are offset, beginning six inches or so from the ending of the previous board. Use a mallet and tapping block to tap the boards together and create a tight seam.
 You will nail the first three rows just as described in Step 2.
 Since you are staggering boards, you will likely need to cut boards in order to fit in the gaps at the end. Measure the distance that it needs to be, keeping the expansion gap in mind, and then (with the board face-down) cut it using a saw.
 Once you have enough space, you should begin using the flooring nailer (though you could technically do the entire floor with the hammer and nails). Simply align it with the board to be nailed and then hit it.
 You will eventually run out of room to use the flooring nailer. Hammer the last few rows the same way you did the first ones.
 If it does not fit properly, you will need to cut the final board so that it is narrow enough to fit. Measure carefully and use a circular or miter saw to cut the boards to size.
 Since you will not have enough space to tap them with the mallet, use a crowbar instead to wedge them into place. You are now ready to finish your floor.

