 Before you spend hours practicing, you'll need to choose an instrument. Some instruments, like the microphone, require less skill to master. Other instruments, however, can only be mastered if you have good timing tapped deep into your soul. Although they are harder, they're usually more fun. Choose either the microphone, the drums, the guitar or the bass before continuing.;
, It may sound strange, but you have to walk before you can run and you have to crawl before you can walk. To start crawling, beat the game on easy. Try to get at least 95% on each song. Make sure that you don't slack though, the next difficulty will be too hard if you do. Just play through each song on your chosen instrument until you've got it. If it helps, go into practice mode.
 Now that you can crawl, you have to learn how to walk. To get walking, beat the game on medium. The same rule applies, aim to get 95% or more on every song. This may take a little bit longer than the last step but every minute you play will ready you for the higher difficulties. Practice mode can be a huge help here as you can slow down the song to play it at a comfortable speed. You probably won't need to practice if you're just singing though.
 Yes, you guessed it. After walking, comes running. To get yourself on track, beat the game on hard. Because you're still trying to get 95% or more on each song, this step may take quite some time. It's best to try a song until you get 95% or more rather than completing the game and coming back to it later. If you correctly followed the last two steps, you should be pretty comfortable playing through the songs. Don't worry if you're not, just go into practice mode to help you out.
 Now that you've learnt to crawl, walk and run, you should be sprinting in no time. Even though you've already reached your goal of getting to expert mode; you should still be trying to get 95% or more on each song. You've come this far, don't start slacking now. If you mastered the other three difficulties, you should know what to expect. You should also be taking it quite well. You may have noticed that you can complete songs that you couldn't complete before. This is because you practiced skills like speed, precision, patience and timing. Without these skills, expert mode is going to hurt. If you're still not taking it well, head into practice mode and try there.

