 Trim the end pieces so they are approximately 1" (2.5cm) on each side. The end pieces will become the wicks of the candle that will propel your sky lantern much as a flame propels a hot air balloon.;
, The two pieces should be perpendicular to each other with their midpoints overlapping on top of the knot.
 The four wire ends should be approximately 9" to 10" (23 to 25cm) long on each side so that they are long enough to reach the lantern's bamboo frame. Set the wire-wrapped knot aside.
 You should also place a plate or a tray beneath the candle to catch the wax as it melts.
, As it cools, the wax will harden.
 Twist the ends of the foil strip around the metal wire so that they cover the wire completely.
 Run the split bamboo through the flame of a candle while subtly bending it; this will make the bending job easier and you should be able to form a a full circle in less than five minutes., The bottom end of one skewer should overlap with the top end of another skewer to create a 1" (2.5cm) overlapping connection point.



Bring the right and left tips of the long strip together. Again, create a 1" (2.5cm) overlap with the tips.
Secure the tips together with tape to make a circle.



The wires should cross the exact center of the circle so that the circle is divided into four equal quarters. The candle should be centered in the middle of the circle and supported by the wires that are attached to the bamboo frame.
Twist the wires around the frame. Wrap the wire connections with tape to make them more secure.
,,


Avoid spraying the points where the clothespins are holding the paper. Otherwise, the paper will tear.
Allow the pieces to dry before you continue working with them.
 Use a tape measure or a ruler to measure your line precisely.
 The line should be perpendicular to the vertical line, and the base of the vertical line should touch the midpoint of the horizontal line so that you have 6" (15cm) on either side of the vertical line.
 The second horizontal line should be parallel to the first, and the vertical line should also cross through the midpoint of the horizontal line so that you have 11" (28cm) on either side of the vertical line.
 The line should extend from the right end of the bottom horizontal line, curve inward and then stretch out to meet the right end of the second horizontal line.
, This will finish the shape of your pattern, which should look like the pointed blade of a tropical ceiling fan.
 This shape will serve as the pattern for creating your balloon.



Set out two rows consisting of 16-20 pieces of kitchen paper towel (or 8-10 pieces of tissue paper).






The top, shorter width of one row of papers should touch the bottom, shorter width of the other piece of row papers.






Overlap the connected ends of the papers by about 1" (2.5cm) so that you can glue them together.
 Allow the overlapped seams to dry while they lay on the flat surface. When gluing the paper, gently spread it out––do not blot––this way, you can avoid glue marks in the paper (and blotting can cause weakening in the balloon body's adhesion).
 Center the pattern piece beneath the paper towel/tissue paper and cut the paper towel/tissue paper with scissors so that it matches the exact size and shape of the pattern that you've placed beneath it.
, Glue the tips together so that they are secure, leaving the base open to create a large bag.
 Tuck the frame about 1" (2.5cm) inside the opening of the bag.



Glue the folded end to the inside of the balloon to secure the frame to the balloon.
Allow the glue to dry completely before attempting to launch the lantern.
 Light the wicks, which are the ends that protrude from the wax-dipped knot, and hold the lantern for a few seconds until the wicks catch fire completely.


Make your wish. Then, let go of the lantern.

