 You need to season a new (or newly woodburned) cheese board before using it to cut and serve cheese. This will prevent the board from absorbing odor or bacteria and protect against germ and mold growth. Seasoning requires an initial application of oil, as well as periodic reapplication of oil to keep wood pores filled.Default to USP-grade mineral oil, especially for the board’s initial treatment. Not only is mineral oil cheap, it is safe, and it will not degrade. (Do not confuse mineral oil for mineral spirits.)
Mineral oil is also sometimes called paraffin oil, and can be found in apothecary stores, online, or your local hardware store. A cup of oil should be plenty to season your board.
Avoid using most vegetable or cooking oils, such as olive or canola oil, as these will spoil and go rancid.
Walnut, almond, or coconut oil will go rancid more slowly, but they will go rancid at some point. As such, these oils are best for re-seasoning a cheese board.
 Warm the oil you’re using to season your board before applying. Microwave about a cup of oil on high for 30 seconds. Dip a clean cloth in the oil, and apply it to the board in strokes that follow the direction of the wood’s grain. Allow the oil to soak into the wood between coats for about six hours, and wipe away any oil that remains on the surface of the wood.Repeat the process four or five times, until the wood seems fully saturated.
Re-season the board monthly with a fresh coat of oil. Don’t worry about using too much oil, simply wipe away the oil that doesn’t soak into the wood after six hours or so.
 Beeswax can either be added to the oil you use to season your board, or applied after seasoning to form a top coat. Either way, beeswax will help the wood resist water, as well as protect it from regular wear and tear.If blending beeswax into mineral oil, shave about a ½ teaspoon into a cup of mineral oil and microwave on high for 45 seconds. Always apply while the mixture is still warm.
To apply a topcoat, wipe a clean cloth onto a block of beeswax until the surface of the cloth contains beeswax with a consistency similar to shoe polish. Rub the cloth onto the cheese board, and buff until flat. Allow the beeswax to dry before buffing the board to an aromatic, durable shine.

