 You should do this as soon after the interview as possible, from your smartphone on the way out of the building, as soon as you get home, or at least the same evening as the interview. This shows the interviewer that you are both enthusiastic and organized and ensures that they will not forget you as a candidate.


Include your full name, phone number, mailing address and email address on the note. Also, make sure this email doesn’t go to a spam folder by writing “Job interview follow up for (your name)” in the subject line.
If you leave it too long before writing your thank you note, you risk looking uninterested in the job while also giving another candidate the opportunity to get there before you.
If there was a particular person who helped you to set up the job interview, you should remember to send them a note also.
Some people advise writing a thank you note by hand. While some interviewers will appreciate this, it is somewhat outdated and other interviewers may regard it as being unprofessional. As a result, an email or typed note is your safest option in this scenario., These notes will be useful during a second interview to help you recall topics of conversation and any qualifications or personality traits that your interviewer emphasized as being important for this position.


They will help you to tailor your responses should you be called to a second interview, or may give you some indication of where you went wrong if you are not.
The notes will also help you to refer to more specific points in your follow-up thank you letter and give an indication that you really took on board everything that the interviewer said.
 Asking your interviewer to connect on LinkedIn is a completely appropriate move, if executed correctly. You don't want it to look like your motives are purely selfish or that you're over-confident about getting the job. Instead, send a simple message which states exactly who you are and refers to some topic or point that was raised during the interview, before asking if they would like to connect.If you are applying for a job in the fashion industry, for example, and the topic of Paris Fashion Week came up during the interview, mention an interesting article about a particular designer or fashion trend that you found online and ask if you can share it with them.
Alternatively, if you had a casual conversation with the interviewer before or after the interview and something came up about a particular restaurant or upcoming music event, request to share a link providing additional details.
The bottom line is that you need to request to connect on LinkedIn by making it interesting or worthwhile for them - it shouldn't look like a purely self-serving move.

