 For both heating pads and beds, you want to make sure the bed is designed to be chew-safe. For instance, electrical cords should be thick and chew-safe to prevent your cat from electrocuting itself. Heating pads should be resistant to gnawing., Heating pads are more portable than beds, so they are a great choice if you move around a lot or like to take your cat to the cottage or cabin. You can get plug-in electrical heating pads, which are similar to heating pads for human beds but run on a lower wattage. You can leave them plugged in for a reliable heat source for your cat. Alternately, you could get a microwavable heating pad, which typically retains heat for approximately twelve-hours.A heating pad will cost you in the neighborhood of $30.
You can find a heating pad online or at your local pet store.
 If your cat loves to sleep in small places or curl up into a tiny ball, look for small, circular designs. You can find small heated cat beds with a circular shape, short walls and an open top. Your cat may enjoy this type of bed if they love to snuggle., For outdoor locations and for cats who like the feeling of complete enclosure, you should consider heated cat beds with a roof. Some of these beds are conical shaped like a mini apartment building, whereas others look like small houses or barns.Check to see if you can remove the heating element in order to clean these types of beds.
A fully enclosed bed will cost in the range of $35 to $60 dollars.
You can find fully enclosed beds online or at your local pet store.
 If you are looking for flexibility, some cat beds have a hood that can be opened or closed. Like a convertible, these cat beds are ideal for cats that sometimes prefer enclosure and sometimes want a more open feel.Heated cat beds with hoods cost in the range of $30 to $40.
 If the design of the cat bed includes frills or hanging elements, your cat could gnaw at these loose parts and ingest them. So, you should find a bed without excessive use of strings or loose materials.