 As with vegetarians, it is recommended that vegans using Atkins 20 (the traditional plan) start with Phase 2. This “balancing” phase permits more carbs, but also requires some additional adjustments for vegans.Vegans are recommended to start with 50 g. Net Carbs per day, as opposed to the 25 g. for standard Phase 2 or 30 g. for vegetarians who consume eggs and dairy. Vegans will still follow the guide of adding 5 g. per day in increments made weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly (based on preference), up to 80 g. Net Carbs.
Vegans are also advised to make allowances for seeds, nuts, and legumes from the start, instead of introducing them over time.
Basically, even Atkins itself is admitting that vegans, due to the limited protein sources available to them to begin with, cannot consume enough calories per day on Atkins without making some changes. But with adaptation, it is possible to succeed.
 Since vegans have to make some alterations to important elements of the Atkins 20 plan, it becomes even more imperative for them to adhere closely to the remaining parts of it.Eat frequently, with no more than 3-4 hours between meals or snacks. Feeling hungry all the time is more likely to trigger carb cravings.
Make sure you are spreading out your Net Carbs during these frequent meals. Using 40 of your 50 allotted Net Carbs at one meal — for instance, pairing ½ cup of chickpeas (22 Net Carbs) with a cup of soy milk (17 Net Carbs) will leave vegans in particular with very few dining options for the rest of the day.Also, consuming too many carbs at one time can cause a spike in insulin, which helps convert carbohydrates into fat, and which the Atkins diet is constructed to avoid.Drink eight glasses of water daily, as is recommended for all Atkins dieters. Hydration is important for everyone, and water can be surprisingly effective at curbing hunger temporarily.
Choose lower-carb whole grains as needed, such as long grain brown rice and whole grain pasta (of which Atkins sells branded versions, if you’re interested).
Vegans won’t have a problem with getting their daily vegetables in, but stick primarily to the Foundation Vegetables with lower Net Carbs., Soybeans are important for vegetarians on Atkins, but are critical for vegans as a protein source.


In the form of edamame (6.2 g. Net Carbs, 11.1 g. protein), silken tofu (3.1 g. Net Carbs, 5.4 g. protein), and tempeh (3.3 g. Net Carbs, 15.4 g. protein), or in foods ranging from (miso) soup to (soy) nuts, soybeans need to play a central role in the diet of any vegan on Atkins.This wikiHow article offers some ideas on vegan cooking with soy and other proteins and is a gateway to various wikiHow vegan recipes. Remember, though, that recipes need to be vegan and low-carb to suit Atkins.
 As mentioned in the vegetarian section, Atkins 40 is a newer plan with a little more flexibility and allowance for carbs. The starting point for everyone on the plan is 40 g. Net Carbs daily, adding 10 g. per week once within 10 pounds of your weight goal.You could also consider starting at 50 g. Net Carbs, as with Atkins 20 for vegans.
With less focus on restrictions of food types, especially in the beginning, vegans can consume “sufficient protein from seeds, nuts, soy products, soy and rice cheeses, seitan, legumes and high protein grains like quinoa.”