 To start, spend a day tracking your computer time. Many people convince themselves they need to be online as much as they are due to work, school, and social obligations. However, this may not be true. If you keep a log of what you do online and how long you do it, you'll be surprised how much of your screen time is unnecessary.


For a day, carry around a small notebook. Each time you use your computer, write down what you're doing, how long you're doing it for, and whether or not this is a necessary task. You may spend 20 minutes replying to e-mails for work, a task which is vital to your professional career. Before and after this, however, you may spend 30 minutes total browsing Facebook.Be honest. You do not have to show your journal to anyone else. The goal here is for you to assess where your time is going and how to alter that time. For example, you may be shocked to realize you spend 2 hours a day total on social media sites. If you feel that's too much, from here you can set a goal to cut that back to an hour. See if you can reach that goal the following day.;
, Staring at a screen for too long is unhealthy and can easily lead to eyestrain and headaches. Therefore, schedule breaks from computer usage. This can help you consciously make an effort to spend time away from your computer.


If you have downtime at work, do not immediately get on Twitter or Facebook. Instead, spend some time away from your computer. Go for a short walk. Read a book for 10 minutes. Call a friend to chat.When you're home alone, try to consciously schedule breaks when you're working on the computer. For example, after 2 hours of computer usage promise yourself you'll take a 20 minute walk with the dog. This will pull you away from the screen and give you a break. You can even set a timer to help yourself stay on track., If you're spending too much time on the computer, you should actively work on being more conscious of how you spend your time. Try to schedule time each day when you power down your laptop. A 2 or 3 hour technology-free block in your day will greatly help you use your time more wisely.


Pick a specific timeframe where you will not use your computer. It can be helpful to choose the same timeframe each day. For example, every day after work from 5 o'clock to 7 o'clock you'll be off your computer.It might be hard at first. Many people learn to use technology as their single source of downtime. Engaging in activities you enjoy can help. Cook or bake something. Go for a long walk. Read a book. Do a puzzle. Call a friend you haven't talked to in awhile.
 Just as you plan time away from your computer, scheduling your internet usage can also help. The internet is often designed to entice you to stay as long as possible. Many websites encourage mindless clicking and browsing. Planning how long you'll use the internet each day can help you from getting sucked in.


Know exactly what you want to do online before getting on the computer. If you want to update your Facebook status, plan to update your status and then move on. If you want to buy a Valentine's Day present for your boyfriend, know what you're looking for and where to look before opening your computer. If you want to catch up on the news, bookmark a few news websites you enjoy reading and check those as soon as you get online.If you occasionally enjoy simply browsing the internet, you can still do so. However, set time limits for yourself. For example, you can allow yourself 90 minutes a day to simply go online. Set a timer for yourself and get offline when the timer goes off. At first, this might take some discipline but you'll come to enjoy your newfound self control.
 When you tracked your daily internet use, what sites took up the most time unnecessarily? Did you waste time on Facebook? Did you spend too much time browsing humorous sites, like Cracked? Most browsers have ad-ons or applications you can download that can temporarily block your access to time wasting sites. Firefox has a technology called LeechBlock, for example, that block websites for set periods of time. Consider installing some of these ad-ons and blocking troublesome sites for a few hours each day. That way, if you need to be on the computer you can make sure you use your time wisely., There are other ad-ons and applications that can help you manage your internet time. Consider investing in some of them if the internet is a major culprit in you spending too much time on your computer.


If you depend on the computer for your job, try RescueTime. This is an analytics application that can break down what you're doing on your computer each day and for how long. This can be quicker and simpler than tracking your computer time yourself each day. You can use RescueTime to see how you're improving as you strive to spend less time online.SelfControl is an application for Macs that blocks troublesome websites. It's similar to other ad-ons in that you block a site for a set number of hours. However, it's much harder to disable. You cannot get rid of SelfControl by deactivating the timer or restarting your computer You simply have to wait for the allotted time to pass. If you frequently disable or delete similar browser ad-ons, SelfControl may work for you., If you need to e-mail a colleague or complete another task online, you may procrastinate. This can lead to you wasting time browsing the internet or playing games after opening your laptop to complete a task. Simply changing the way you prioritize can lead to less time online.


When you have to work to do on the computer, make that the priority when you get online. Promise yourself you won't open Facebook until you've sent out that work-related e-mail. Avoid playing a game of The Sims if you haven't uploaded the new design to your company's website.It can be awkward to avoid procrastination at first. Many people are chronic procrastinators and the instant gratification of something like a game or social media is more enticing than work. It may take you a few days to get in the hang of prioritizing properly. If you fail to do so at first, keep trying. Eventually, this small change can add up to less hours a day on the computer.

