 One of the go-to exercises to make this happen is by stretching your mouth. Done repeatedly over time, this will make your mouth more limber and ready for expression.


First off, stretch the corners of your mouth to the sides. Keep your lips together while you do this, and hold for 10 seconds per rep.
After your 10 second hold, open your mouth to expose the fronts of your teeth. Hold for another 10 seconds.
Open your mouth further to the point where about half of your teeth are showing. Hold for another 10 seconds.
You can repeat the steps in reverse to close the smile back down gradually. A full rep of this exercise will take about a minute, and can be repeated as many times as you like.
 Smile lines are a natural result of age. Luckily, they can be reduced with this simple exercise. Pucker up your lips as though you were about to kiss someone. Next, holding that position, try to smile as much as you can. Hold it until you can feel an ache around your mouth. This will mean that the muscles are responding to your exercise.


It's recommended you only do this exercise once per day, in order to prevent straining the muscles of your face., Cheeks influence the control you have over your smile. To start, smile as widely as you can while keeping your lips closed. Holding this close-lipped, ear-to-ear grin, try to wiggle your nose around for at least 5 seconds. Repeat this easy exercise 10 times in a row. All told, it shouldn't take more than a minute to do all of it.
 Because these mouth exercises are fairly easy to do, there's no reason why you shouldn't be able to work them into a morning routine. Given that the faces you'll make will be fairly silly, it's probably something you'll want to do while you're still in bed or in the shower. Nonetheless, for the best effects, you should try to remember to follow through with these exercises at least once per day.


Remember to look at your smile regularly as well. You won't be able to see any difference if you're not taking some time to look at the very thing you're trying to improve upon.
 If you mean to train your body to do something, it stands to reason you should do a lot of it. Making a frequent habit of smiling will help improve your smile in a lot of ways. For starters, the muscles you use to smile will be put to use. More importantly however, if you make a regular habit of smiling, it will come more naturally to you. Even if you have to fake it until you make it at the start, you'll eventually find yourself smiling a lot more than you first thought possible.


If you're just smiling by yourself, try giving yourself the widest smile possible to maximize the effects of the exercise.