 Some studies have shown that ice massage may penetrate muscle fiber more quickly and may help you heal more effectively than an ice pack. You can either make or buy an ice massager to help relieve your discomfort.Make your own ice massager by filling a paper or Styrofoam cup about three-quarters full of cool water. Place this cup on a flat surface in your freezer until it is a solid block of ice.Make several ice massagers at one time so that you don’t have to wait for water to freeze each time you want to ice your back.
You can also use ice cubes as ice massagers.Some companies are making commercial ice massagers, which you can purchase at some pharmacies and sports stores., Although you may be able to reach the area of your back causing you pain, it may be easier to have a friend or family member help you. This can help you to relax and get the most benefit from an ice massage.
 Either sit or lie in a relaxed and comfortable position while you use ice massage. This can help you more effectively receive the ice treatment and may help relieve your pain faster.


If you are at home, it may be easier to lie down to do the ice massage.
If you are at work, you may want to sit on the floor of your office space or cubicle, or at the front of your chair if that is comfortable.
 Peel away part of the frozen cup so that approximately two inches (five cm) of ice showing. This can expose enough ice to massage your sore back while keeping a barrier between your hand so that it doesn’t get cold or frostbite.


As the ice melts during your massage, keep peeling away the cup.
 Once you’ve exposed the frozen ice in the cup, begin gently massaging it over the area of your back causing you pain. This can help to penetrate deep into your muscle tissue and start to relieve pain quickly.


Rub the ice massager in a gentle, circular pattern across your back.Massage the affected region for eight to 10 minutes per session.You can use ice massage up to five times per day.
If your skin gets too cold or becomes numb, discontinue your ice massage until your skin warms up.
 Continue to give yourself ice massages for a few days. This can help ensure that the treatments are effective and may help relieve your pain and any inflammation.Ice is most effective when used over the course of a few days., Consider taking over-the-counter pain relievers to help bolster the pain relief and anti-inflammatory effects of ice massage. This may help you get relief faster and heal faster as well.


You can use any number of pain relievers including aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and naproxen sodium.NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, aspirin, and naproxen sodium can minimize swelling and inflammation that exacerbates pain., If your back pain continues following a few days of icing treatments, make an appointment to see your doctor. She may be able to identify underlying conditions or give you stronger treatments to alleviate the pain.

