 Make as much room as you can in your refrigerator freezer for the food you will remove from the deep freezer. One way to make room is to throw away all items that are outdated or unrecognizable in your deep freezer and your refrigerator's freezer., If there isn’t enough room in your refrigerator freezer, you will need to find another cold place to keep the food from the deep freezer. Set aside several large coolers and put a layer of ice in the bottom of each cooler.
 Take the food from the deep freezer and put it in your refrigerator freezer. Place the remaining food in the coolers and then put a layer of ice on top of the food. If you still need more space for the food, you can store it in the refrigerator itself.If you are cleaning on a day with freezing temperatures, you can try sitting the food outside while you clean the deep freezer.
 Every freezer is different. Take a moment to read through the owners’ manual to figure out exactly how you should go about defrosting your freezer. If you don’t have a physical copy of the manual, try visiting the manufacturer’s website to locate a digital copy., You will need to make sure your deep freezer is turned off and disconnected from its power source. This will ensure that all of the ice inside the deep freezer melts., You will need to leave the doors of your deep freezer open while it defrosts. This will help the freezer completely defrost more efficiently.
 The ice in your deep freeze will melt into water and could potentially make a huge mess. Try placing large towels on each of the shelves in the freezer as well as on the floor surrounding the freezer. You can also catch melting water by placing large pans on the freezer shelves., To prevent an unwanted mess, you will want to monitor the progress. Check in every 20 minutes and replace wet towels or empty pans that have filled with water., The size and model of your deep freezer will determine how long it will take for the appliance to defrost. For smaller models, this could take less than an hour. Larger deep freezers may take several hours.
 Check your freezer manual to see if the manufacturer recommends or cautions against speeding up the defrosting process. Try using a hair dryer, fan, or space heater to speed up the melting process. You could also try using a putty knife to chip around the edges of larger chunks of ice., Once all the ice in the deep freezer melts, remove any towels or pans from inside the freezer. Then take a clean towel and wipe out all the excess moisture and water from the interior of the deep freezer., If your deep freezer has removable shelves, take them out. Then clean the shelves with warm, soapy water and allow them to dry before placing them back inside the deep freezer.
 Wash down the inside of the deep freezer with warm soapy water. You can also mix one cup (240 mL) of water, one teaspoon white vinegar, and one teaspoon dish soap in a spray bottle. Spray the solution on the freezer walls and floor and then wipe down with a wet cloth., After cleaning the interior of the deep freezer, you will want to wipe down the exterior. Use a cleaning spray or warm, soapy water to wipe down the front, back, and sides of the deep freezer.
 After cleaning the interior and exterior of the deep freezer, dry it with a clean towel. Make sure you remove all the moisture from the interior of the freezer. This will prevent new ice from forming., Once the freezer is completely dry, close the doors and turn the freezer back on. Most manufacturers advise that you leave the deep freezer on for six to eight hours before you place frozen items inside. This time varies between models, so consult your owner's manual or the manufacturer.