;
, There you'll find the direct link for the RTM robot that will help you connect your account so you can complete your tasks efficiently. However, to be able to see this link, you'll have to log in to your Remember the Milk account.
, Remember this username for future reference.
 It should only take a minute or two. You'll also receive a code.
, Refresh the set up page on Remember the Milk service setup page.
 It can help you:


Add a task through Twitter(with or without a due date)
Mark a task as complete
Postpone a task
Get a list of tasks due within a certain time period (such as today, tomorrow or some other custom date in the future)
Set up a Twitter direct-message reminder for projects due
Sending a task to another Remember the Milk user

,


Type the task name into the message box. Insert no other text to the left of the item.



Type the task in the message box. Insert no other text to the left of the item.
Type a Space.
Type the word "due" or "at" or "in".
Type another space.
Type the due date or time or time-frame at which it is due, to complete one of the various forms accepted by Remember the Milk.



Type "!complete"
Type a space.
Type the task's name, as it appears directly on your Remember the Milk website/account at the current time. Don't add the due date to the message.



Type "!postpone".
Type a space.
Type the task's name, as it appears directly on the Remember the Milk website. Don't add the due date to the message.
Repeat for subsequent days, or, until an additional day upcoming, type "postpone for (x time)" where x is the numeric amount of time and time represents the unit of time measured for task to be postponed for.



Learn how to get a list of tasks due on today. Type "!today" into the box.
Learn how to get tasks due the following day. Type "!tommorrow" (bug in Remember The Milk system requires people to mistype this word) into the box.
Learn how to get tasks due on other days. Type "!getdue", followed by a space, followed by the day of the week or exact day in one of the many styles Remember The Milk will accept.



Type "!on" to enable the daily reminders.
Type "!off" to disable the daily reminders.



Ensure yourself that the Twitter username has an Remember The Milk account. Ask them.
Type the Twitter Username of the user into the box.
Type the name of the task you'd like to send the person, as it appears on your account.
