 If you want to keep your celebration quiet and simple, plan an evening out at your girlfriend’s favorite restaurant. To make the occasion special, though, don’t choose a place that you go to often. Opt for a fancier restaurant that the two of your don’t get to go to as often as you’d like.Depending on the restaurant, you may need reservations, so it’s important to plan the celebration with enough advance notice.
When you call for reservations, you might arrange to have the table set up in certain way. For example, you might have flowers sent over so they can be waiting for your girlfriend when you arrive.
 If your girlfriend wants a celebration that’s a little bigger but still low-key, arrange to meet some of her friends at a local bar or club. You can choose a locale that has special activities, such as karaoke or trivia contests, that she enjoys, or go with a spot where she can dance the night away if that’s what she prefers.Make the evening more special by planning a “pub crawl.” Pick three or four of your girlfriend’s favorite bars, and map a plan to hit all of them in one night with your friends. Give a copy to everyone in case someone gets lost along the way.
 Plan an evening at a bowling alley, or laser tag or paintball facility. You can leave it just the two of you, but it may be more fun to organize some friends and family to come along and play.If there’s a particular sport that your girlfriend enjoys, such as softball or volleyball, arrange a birthday “tournament” at a local field with friends and family.
Keep things simple by taking a trip to the local batting cage or putting green.
 A special event is an ideal way to celebrate your girlfriend’s birthday. Buy tickets to a concert for a musician that she’s been dying to see, or take her to see the play or musical that she’s been interested in. If she is a sports fan, get tickets to her favorite team’s game.It’s usually more fun to keep the event that you’re going to a surprise until the night that you’re celebrating.
At some venues, such as a sporting event, you may be able to get a message on the video board wishing your girlfriend a happy birthday to make the night even more special. Check the stadium’s website to learn how to request a message.
 If your girlfriend is someone who loves the outdoors, plan a day where she gets to spend plenty of time out in nature. Plan a hike along a trail that offers spectacular views, or take her to the beach so you can enjoy the sand and surf. If you both enjoy cycling, map out a long bike ride that allows you to see some spots that you don’t visit often. Depending on the season, you might go apple picking or spend the day skiing. Even a picnic in the park can be fun.You don’t just have to stick to an outdoor celebration during the day. Take her out in the evening for some star gazing.
Make a weekend out of it by planning a camping trip to her favorite local spot.

