 Balinese cats do well with high protein food, as they have natural hunting instincts and need protein to maintain their energy. Dry cat food is a good option as it is hard and crunchy, which is good for your cat’s dental health. But Balinese cats can be at risk for dehydration if they are just on dry food. You may want to include some wet food in its diet so it gets enough fluids.Look for cat food that is organic and contains mostly protein, such as chicken, beef, or pork. Make sure there are no additives or preservatives in the food.
Your cat may have a preference for a certain type of food and a certain brand. Give it options to see what it likes best.
In addition to wet food, you may encourage your cat to stay hydrated by having water bowls in different areas around the house.
 Stick to a regular feeding schedule, where you feed the cat two times a day. Put out its food at the same time in the morning and at night so it gets into a routine. Try giving the cat one dry food meal in the morning and one wet food meal at night, as this can help make it easier for the cat to digest its food.Give the cat controlled portions at each meal. Speak to your vet about the right food portions for your Balinese based on its age and size.
Like many cat breeds, Balinese cats are at risk of obesity if they are overfeed. Sticking to a regular feeding schedule can help to prevent obesity in your cat and ensure it maintains a healthy weight.
 Catnip is a great, healthy treat for cats. You can buy dried or fresh catnip at your local pet store. You can also grow your own catnip at home that you can then snip off and give to your cat as a treat.


Healthy dried treats made with protein like chicken or beef are also good for cats. You can find dried cat treats at your local pet store or online. Only give the cat one to two treats a day. Give it a small amount at a time so it is not at risk of obesity.Do not give cats people food as a treat, as many people foods are unsafe for cats to eat. Instead, trying growing pet grass, a type of wheat grass. Your cat may find it fun to play with and chew on.

