 Fortunately, there is a tool in Windows Vista and Windows 7 which automatically performs this operation for you and ranks the computer based on the results.

Click Start | Control Panel.



 


Type "Control Panel\All Control Panel Items\Performance Information and Tools" in your Address Bar and press ENTER.






Click the button "Rate this Computer or Re-run the assessment".






The process may take several minutes to complete. Please be patience during this operation.






After it is successfully finished, results may occur, where you will get information about the hardware components which you need to upgrade.





;
, In simple words, a file is stored in non-continuous manner which slows down the operations on your computer. Defragmenting your hard disk once a week would help making your computer faster. There is a tool called Disk Defragmenter to perform this operation.

Click Start | All Programs | Accessories | System Tools | Disk Defragmenter.






Select all the drives to defrag.






Click "Defragment Disks" button to begin.
 Registry is accessed by almost all the programs on your computer; including your operating system. This continuous access often fragments the registry which slows down your computer. As there is no built-in Registry Defragmenter tool in Microsoft Windows, you have to choose a good third party product.

Connect to the internet and download RegInOut Registry Defrag.






Log-in from the administrator user account and install the software. Run it when the process finishes.






Close all other running programs and tasks.






Start analyzing the state of your registry and then click the "Defragment" button to begin the process. A system reboot is required.
 The bigger these list; the slower the computer. That is why; control these programs and services and disable all the third party tools which you really don't need.

Click Start | Run. Or otherwise, press Windows Key + R.






Type "MsConfig" and press ENTER.






Under "Startup" tab, disable unnecessary applications. Click Apply.






Under "Services" tab, mark the box "Hide all Microsoft Services" as checked, and do disable the non-required services. Click Apply.






Click OK and reboot the computer when prompted.
 By choosing the latter, the system is set by applying those settings which help making it faster. Let's see how it is:

Right click the "My Computer" icon on your Desktop.






Select "Properties" option.






In the new page, click "Advanced System Settings" at the left hand side.






Under "Advanced" tab, click "Settings" under "Performance" frame.






Select the option "Adjust for Best Performance" from the "Visual Effects" tab.






Click OK | OK.







