 A promoter needs to know their target market. Plan your event around the type of people you want to show up, and keep them in mind throughout the whole process. It might sound obvious but many inexperienced promoters try to appeal to all ages and demographics, the trick is to be as selective as possible. There are many great books available on Amazon or iTunes that explain these concepts even further so you don't make rookie mistakes. Promoting bars and clubs is a much more intricate concept than it first seems, but it is also quite interesting so this should ultimately be your first step. This article can only provide a brief overview, but if you think this is something you will actually pursue, make sure you educate yourself adequately.;
, Call up bars, nightclubs, lounges, or even art galleries to ask if they would be interested in hosting your event. If you're a new promoter, you are really going to have to sell your ability to get people through the doors. However, you would be wise not to choose just any venue, most venues already have an established reputation, you would be wise to conform to these existing perceptions because once the mind is made up, there is no changing it.
 Do some research to make sure there won't be too many competing parties the same night as yours. Picking a bad date for your event can ruin the best laid plans of any promoter. The more time you give yourself and the more notice you provide your guests, the higher your chances of a successful launch.
 This can be nightclub DJs, a band, etc. Make sure to choose entertainment that fits with your target market.
 Some key people you may want to hire for the party include a door person to collect money & email addresses, and a photographer to capture the event.
 This is where the majority of a promoter's work comes in. You'll need to have professional flyers made up, send out emails, call everyone you know, and send out press releases to local media like newspapers, nightlife magazines, forums, and internet blogs.
 Club usually get paid per person they get to the party. This amount is worked out between you and the venue, sometimes it is a percentage of the door cover charge, sometimes it's the whole thing. You can make a large amount of money in a short time as a promoter, if your parties are successful.

