 Smoke, dust, chemical fumes, and other irritants can affect your breathing. If you are often exposed to these irritants, then this may be affecting your breathing. Some things you can do to reduce the irritants in your home include:Minimizing your time outdoors when air quality is poor. Air pollution will be worse outside than inside.

Quitting smoking if you are a smoker.
Ensuring that your home is well-ventilated when you clean with chemicals, such as by opening a window and running a fan.
Using an air purifier to remove airborne irritants in your home, such as dust and mold.
 Allergens can also make it harder for you to breathe. Stay indoors on dry, sunny days that tend to be higher in allergens, and more time outside just after the rain. Avoid chores outside that provoke allergies, like mowing the grass or pulling weeds. Dry your clothes in a dryer rather than hanging them on the line, where they can get filled with pollen.When pollen counts are high, keep your doors and windows closed. Use air conditioning, and a dehumidifier.
Avoid outdoor activity in the hours of the early morning, as pollen counts are generally highest at this time.
Seasonal or chronic allergies may require help from an allergy specialist.
If you're allergic to pets, avoid spending time in areas where pets are or have been. Use a vacuum with a HEPA filter to clean pet areas. This may help you avoid difficulty breathing as a result of exposure to pet dander.
 Getting regular exercise can help to improve your lung capacity and make breathing easier in general; however, this can be hard to start if you find it difficult to breathe. Talk with your doctor about some safe exercise options for your current fitness level.You might just start with short walks around your home or neighborhood.


Make sure that you breathe correctly during exercise. It's important to maintain controlled breathing while exercising so that your muscles remain fully oxygenated. Avoid holding your breath at any time during exercise.
If you start to feel fatigued when exercising, check your breathing. If you're not breathing properly, you'll become tired more quickly.
 It can be hard to breathe properly if you have a stuffy nose or phlegm in your throat. Try to keep your airways as clear as possible to improve your breathing.Blow your nose or spit to remove minor congestion.
If you have a cold, then try using a mentholated chest rub to help open up your airways, such as Vicks VapoRub.
You can also take a decongestant for severe congestion due to a cold.
Talk to your doctor if having blocked airways is a regular problem for you. You may require prescription medicine to treat the problem.
 Being overweight can also make it harder to breathe.If you are overweight, then losing some weight may help to ease your breathing. To lose weight, you will need to reduce your caloric intake and increase your activity level.


Excess fat across the abdominal area can cause breathing difficulties by pushing on the diaphragm and chest wall, making it harder for the lungs to fill with air.
Being overweight can also result in greater difficulty breathing when exercising.
Talk to your doctor for help constructing a weight loss program to suit your needs.
 Allowing yourself to feel tired or "run down" without attending to the underlying issues can weaken and damage your immune system. Maintaining a healthy weight, getting plenty of sleep, and staying hydrated are all ways that you can help take care of your immune system.Don't smoke. If you are a smoker, talk to your doctor about how to quit. Stay away from passive (second-hand) smoking.
Eat a diet high in fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Avoid eating too much saturated fat, sugar or sodium.
Drink alcohol only in moderation, or abstain altogether.
 If you find yourself in locations higher than 5,000 feet (1,524 meters), you'll notice that you may have difficulty breathing. This is because there's less oxygen found in higher altitudes, and your body must work twice as hard to get the same amount. This leads to breathlessness, dizziness and fatigue associated with altitude sickness.Your body should be able to adjust to the higher elevations within a few days. Drink plenty of water, and avoid exercise until you've adapted.
If you're traveling to a high-altitude location, your doctor may prescribe a medication to help you avoid altitude sickness.
 If you are having trouble breathing and you do not know why, then see your doctor as soon as possible.Difficulty breathing may indicate that you have a serious condition, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. Your doctor can provide you with a diagnosis and treatment options.

