 While natural remedies for moles are mostly harmless, attempting to cut a mole off yourself can leave a permanent scar or cause a dangerous infection. If the mole contains cancer, some of the cancer cells may stay in the skin and spread.You should also see a doctor before you try any natural remedies for your mole to ensure that it is not cancerous.
 It is always best to see a dermatologist if you wish to remove a mole for cosmetic reasons. The treatments listed below have been used for decades, but they are not scientifically proven. Some may irritate your skin, or even lead to scarring.


If you experience irritation, stop the treatment immediately and call your doctor.
 There are a number of fruits and extracts that have been shown to whiten skin. Though each of these treatments will take several weeks to show an effect, they can be an effective, scar-free way to reduce the appearance of moles, particularly non-raised ones.


Lemon Juice - Citrus fruits contain vitamin C, which promotes collagen production (necessary for the creation of new skin cells), is a powerful antioxidant and has been shown to inhibit skin darkening due to UV exposure.Combine lemon juice with honey and apply to the mole for 15 to 20 minutes, once a day. Wash off with water.

Warning: Do not expose the mole to sunlight while treating it. The juice in citrus fruits can react with UV light to cause photodermatitis, a painful condition resulting in a rash, blisters or scaly skin.Asian Pears - Pears contain arbutin – a naturally occurring form of hydroquinone, which has been proven to be an effective tyrosinase inhibitor. Tyrosinase is an enzyme that helps to produce melanin, the pigment that darkens skin, so inhibiting will produce a skin-whitening effect.The best pear varieties to use are Yaquang, Hongpi, Quingpi, or Guifei.Blend the peel and fruit together along with honey as a binding agent and apply for 15-20 minutes a day, washing off with warm water. Stop if you develop skin irritation.
Pineapple - Pineapple fruit contains compounds that act as tyrosinase inhibitors, thereby whitening skin.Blend four slice of pineapple in a food processor along with a half a tablespoon of honey. Apply for 15-20 minutes a day and wash off with warm water.
Gooseberry oil, bearberry extract or grapefruit seed extract. These all contain tyrosinase inhibitors that help to whiten skin,but you should be careful when using, as too much may cause an allergic reaction. Mix a few drops of the oil or extract with honey and apply to the mole for 15-20 minutes a day.
 Garlic contains sulphur-rich juices and enzymes that break down pigment-producing cells and lighten pigmentation. Garlic may help lighten a mole. Cut a clove of garlic in half, place the cut side in contact with the mole, and secure it overnight with a bandage. The mole should begin to disappear within 5 days.


Warning: Garlic can irritate and redden your skin.
Apply petroleum jelly to the area around the mole to protect it from the garlic juice.
 Clean the mole with warm water, then soak a cotton ball in apple cider vinegar and place it on the mole. You can secure it with a bandage overnight, but if you wish to irritate your skin less, consider placing it on the mole for only 10-15 minutes, four times a day. The mole may fall off after 10 days or so.


Warning: Apple cider vinegar can make the mole worse at first.
Using apple cider vinegar may leave scars once the mole is removed.
Apply petroleum jelly to protect the skin around the mole.
 Though evidence regarding their effectiveness is inconclusive, both of these oils have long been used to soften and dissolve moles. They may be particularly helpful with raised moles.


Castor Oil -- Mix just a pinch of baking soda and a few drops of castor oil and apply to the mole twice a day. This method is unlikely to leave scars, but it may take a month or more before your mole starts to fade.
Flaxseed Oil – Mix finely ground flax seeds and honey to make a paste. Apply it to the mole for one hour, three times a day. It may take several weeks for the mole to fade.
 Use a cotton bandage to apply aloe vera to your mole and wait until it is completely absorbed, then apply more. After several weeks, your mole may fade.

