 If you want to start off on the right foot, then you and your date have to put your arms in the right place first. For the prom slow dance, the arm movements are much simpler than for the traditional slow dance. The guy just has to put his arms on either side of the girl's waist, and the girl has to wrap her arms around the guy's waist.


Depending on how intimate you want the dance move to be, you should dance about one foot to half a foot (30 - 15 cm) away from your partner.
Girls should plan their shoe height in advance. They should wear shoes that wouldn't make them taller than or at eye-level with their date, or they may feel a little awkward during the slow dance.
 Face your partner with at least one to two feet between your heads. Don't stand with your toes touching or you'll bump into each other; instead, stand either with your feet alternating or with the girl's feet inside of the guy's. Keep your feet at last 1 to 1.5 feet (0.3 to 0.5 m) apart (30 cm-45 cm) so you can move from side to side without any problems.
 Slow dancing is about as easy as it gets. Just keep your arms positioned correctly, maintain a respectable distance from your partner, and sway back and forth, transferring your weight from one foot to the other without lifting your feet. If you want to rotate or move a bit, just move your feet in rhythm with your partner's.


If you're comfortable with this simple dance, you can go for the "step touch," which means to just step to the right with your right foot, and then to follow this foot with your left, tap the ground, and then reverse the motion by stepping to the left with your left foot, letting the right foot follow it, and so on. Just make sure you keep your feet in sync with your partner's.
 In "real" slow dancing, the guy takes the lead while the girl follows. In this version, the guy holds one of the girl's hands and leads her into the direction he wants to go; the girl has to follow so they stay on course. But when you're talking about the good old prom slow dance, that's really not necessary. You'll just be moving from side to side.


If the guy wants to lead, just follow his cue and move in the direction he moves; but for the most part, you won't be moving around too much.
Just remember to dance to the beat of the music. Not all slow dance songs have the exact same rhythm, so you will have to move a bit faster or slower depending on the beat.
 If you and your partner are totally in love, then sure, you can just sway there and look longingly into each other's eyes. But for most of you, slow dancing in silence could get a little boring or awkward, so don't be afraid to talk to your partner, crack a joke, or just make small talk a little bit. You can say you love or hate the song that's playing, compliment your partner on his or her looks or dancing skills, or talk about the couples around you. Do whatever you gotta do to have fun and feel comfortable.

