 The half-pigeon is a relatively intense hip opener, but if your hips are fairly loose it also can be a relaxing pose. Take it slowly and focus on your breath. If you feel any pain or discomfort, pull out of the pose immediately.Start on all fours. Move one foot forward so that it is between your hands, then bend at the knee so that your shin and knee can rest on the floor. Extend your other leg straight back behind you.
Slowly lower into the pose until you are all the way on the floor. Keep your torso erect. Only go as deeply as you can without pain or discomfort.
Stay in the pose for three to five breath cycles, then raise back onto all fours and repeat the pose on the other side.
 From the half-pigeon leg position, you can get a deeper stretch in your hips, glutes, and thighs by folding your torso over across your front leg. Fold from the hips and keep your back straight and flat.Make sure your shoulders are rolled back and your shoulder blades are tucked down alongside your spine. Avoid crunching your shoulders or hunching them up around your ears as you fold forward.
At first, try lowering to your elbows. As your hips get looser, you can recline all the way down to the floor, extending your arms out overhead and resting your forehead on the floor.
Hold the pose for three to five breath cycles, then release and repeat on the other side.
 The seated figure four is intended to stretch your outer hips. The cow face pose goes a little further to provide a more intense stretch. You may want to use a folded blanket or yoga block as a prop.Start this pose on all fours. Cross one knee over the other, and then press your hips back until you are sitting on the floor. If going all the way to the floor is too much of a stretch, a folded blanket or yoga block will give you a little elevation so you don't have to stretch as far.
Place your hands on your feet or ankles. Hold the pose for five to ten deep breath cycles, then release. Extend your legs in front of you and shake them out a little before standing.
 Happy baby pose stretches your inner thighs, and can be used as something of a counter-stretch from pigeon or figure four stretches. It also is a good pose to relax in at the end of your practice.Lie on your back and raise your legs, bending your knees. Grasp the arches of your feet with your hands and pull your thighs down alongside your torso. Make sure your entire spine is flat against the floor.
In this pose, you can rock back and forth or up and down to gently massage your spine, or you can remain still. Hold the pose as long as you want, breathing deeply and feeling the stretch in your thighs and hips.

