, A rangefinder is useful, but not essential; longer distances are quite easy to guess (and are more forgiving of errors); at shorter distances, use a tape measure. Turn the distance ring so that the red triangle immediately behind the ring matches up with the guessed or measured distance.
 If you have a light meter, use it; if not, experiment. A full explanation of these functions is beyond the scope of this article, but some brief reminders can be given here:
A larger aperture (smaller number) means less depth of field (i.e. less of your scene in focus), and more light being let onto the film. A smaller aperture will let less light onto the film, and give more depth of field. To demonstrate, turn the distance ring to 8 feet (2.4 m) and look at the red markers. At an aperture of f/5.6, the portion of your scene from about 6.5 to 11 feet (2.0 to 3.4 m) will be in focus. At an aperture of f/16, the portion from about 4.5 to 60 feet (1.4 to 18.3 m) will be in focus.

A faster shutter speed (a larger number on the shutter speed ring; the "100", for example means 1/100th of a second) will let less light onto the film. A slower one will do the opposite. If you have a cable release and a tripod, you can use the "B" setting, which will hold the shutter open for as long as you need it to.

Therefore, you can compensate for a smaller aperture by using a faster shutter speed, or a larger aperture by using a slower shutter speed. Compensating for lack of light with a slower shutter speed can result in motion blur (or blur from unsteady hands); compensating for it with the aperture will result in less depth of field. Which you will do, will depend from scene to scene.
 Remember, you're not looking through the lens, as you would be on an SLR; you're looking through what is not much more sophisticated than a hole in the top of your camera. At shorter distances, the view through the viewfinder will be grossly inaccurate; at longer distances, it doesn't matter so much. Deal with the fact that your viewfinder is, much of the time, full of lies.
 Observe the film counter; once this goes "blank" you have no exposures left.