 To make this rustic American-style doll, you'll need corn husks with the silk still on them. Around a dozen corn husks (one or two ears of corn at most) should be enough to make one doll. You'll also need a large bowl of water, scissors to cut the husks, and pins and twine to bind them into shape.
 Corn husk dolls are made with dried husks. Use a food drier, or set the husks out in the sun for a few days until they become dry and are no longer green. Sun drying the husks is the preferred method because it's more traditional (and corn husk dolls are steeped in both American Indian and colonial tradition), but as long as they're well-dried, the result will be more or less the same.
 Before the next step, pull the dried silk off of the husks and set it aside. You'll be using it soon, but it needs to stay dry while you soak the husks to keep it from getting soggy. Lay all the silk in generally the same direction rather than heaping or tangling it.
 When you're ready to make your doll, soak the dried husks in a bowl of water for about 10 minutes. Though it sounds counterintuitive, this won't actually rehydrate the husks you so carefully dried; rather, it will make them temporarily more flexible, so that you can bend them into shape without breaking them. Once the husks have soaked, blot them dry with paper towels and set them aside.


If the husks are significantly different in size from one another, now is a good time to tear or clip the largest ones so that they're all roughly the same size. This will help prevent a lopsided doll.
 Take a corn husk and lay it in front of you with the pointed end out, then lay a bunch of corn silk along its length. Next, lay two husks on top of the first husk and silk, also with their points away from you, and add more silk. Repeat everything one more time (for a total of six husks and hour sections of silk), and then tie the whole stack together about 1 ½ inches from the flat ends of the husks. Use scissors to round the flat ends of the husks.
 Pick up the husk and silk bundle and hold it firmly by the twined end, so that the pointed ends of the husks are pointing up. Peel back each husk in turn, pulling it in a different direction from the others so that each husk comes down on a different side. Once all the husks have been peeled, you'll have a shock of silk “hair” coming up from the center of a rounded shape. Tie twine snugly around the husks again to create a “head” roughly an inch high.
 There are two basic styles you can choose: braided or tube. To make tube arms, cut a 6 inch (15.2 cm) piece of husk and roll it lengthwise into a tube, then tie it off with twine near both ends. To make braided arms, cut 6 inches (15.2 cm) of husk into 3 strips (lengthwise) instead, and braid them together before tying them off. Make just one tube or braid, and then insert it through the husks below the head so that an equal length of arm sticks out either side.
 Using twine, wrap around the husks below the arms and cinch them in to create a waist. Double check to ensure that the arms are positioned at an appropriate height before you finish tying, so you can readjust them if necessary; the arms should typically be around 1 to 1 ½ inches from the waist. Once you're satisfied, Wrap a slender piece of husk over the twine on the doll's waist to create a belt or sash and hide the twine. Tie it in the back with a bow.

