 So why is it that I can’t find it in my OS?”
, As in Windows, there are two things which can be obviously seen. One is the Windows Firewall, the other is Windows Defender. Both took a giant leap from XP to Vista. But there is a silent warrior performing security measures in Windows apart from the above two. Anyway, I am talking about the Data Execution Prevention(DEP for short) module in Windows systems. By default, it is started up both in XP and Vista when the system boots up, their capabilities are widespread, but in a nutshell what they do, is they monitor every file in your OS, when they are MODIFIED, even in the most slightest way. Although DEP is a really great thing, it does the most to slow down your system. Initially in a freshly installed OS, you won’t even notice DEP’s influence, but as you install and add more files for your OS to monitor, that's when all hell breaks loose. Consider copying a file about the size of 500MB or more, when the OS is fresh, this should be nearly a piece of cake, but when your hard drive is filled up, you can take two cups of coffee before the process gets done, Phew! that's what happened when I had DEP enabled in Vista sometime ago. You can’t really blame DEP, it's doing good to you at the cost of speed, so I think I gave you enough info on this, let's get to the point of disabling them, oh and don't PANIC!! It's no big deal. Here is what you need to do.,,,, This is your system’s bootloader settings, don’t touch anything in their which you don’t know about.
 Bingo!! You found the roots of DEP, all you have to do is change the value “OptIn” to ” AlwaysOff ” (without quotes, ‘A’ and ‘O’ should be in capitals).
,,,,,,, Now restart the system.
 Personally I felt a great speed boost in Vista SP1 compared to the normal Vista installation. I would recommend you to disable DEP after you install Vista SP1 if you really have the need for speed .
 I wrote this post, because, DEP is somewhat old school to hackers and viruses. They learned to get past them, so DEP is just slowing things down for you, if you think keeping them enabled will save you from malicious codes. As for antivirus softies unlike DEP, they are not embedded to your OS, you can always turn them off with a simple click later, so they don’t pick on your operating system’s speed while your working.

