 Crack open an egg and hold it over a cup. Pass the yolk back and forth between the two shells. Catch the whites in the cup.










You can make two eggs if you are really hungry!
Ask an adult to help you with this step.;
, Leave the yolk in its shell or hold it gently in your hand. You can also put it into a small dish. Add 1 drop of green food coloring to the yolk. Gently spread it across the entire yolk. Don't press too hard, or you will break the yolk.

If you are having trouble with this, stir 1 drop of green food coloring into the whites instead. You'll have reverse green eggs and ham., Set the yolk aside when you are done. If you don't do this, some of the green may get into the whites and ruin the effect. In the book, only the yolks were green. The whites were still white.

Skip this step if you added the food coloring to the whites.
 Place a pan on the stove. Add 1 teaspoon of cooking oil or butter. Turn the heat up to medium-low and wait for it to get hot. Tilt the pan around so that the entire surface is coated with melted butter or oil.

You are ready for the next step when the butter melts or the oil starts to sizzle.
Ask an adult to help you for this.
 Pour the whites into the pain. Cook them until they start to turn white., Once the egg whites turn white, gently place the yolk on top. Wait a few minutes, then cover the pan with a lid. Let the egg cook for 1 to 2 more minutes before checking on it. You want the whites to be set. The yolk can be as soft or as had as you want it to be., Once the egg is done, slide a spatula under it. Lift the spatula up and transfer the egg to a plate.

Covering the pan with a lid will help the egg cook faster.
 Place a drop of food coloring on a slice of ham. Spread it around with your finger or a basting brush. Flip it over, and coat the back too. Pat any excess dye off with a paper towel.

If you want to cook the ham, use Canadian bacon.
 You can eat the ham cold, but it will taste much better if it is warm! Place it onto the pan and let it cook until the edges start to turn crispy., Place the green egg and ham onto a plate. Add some salt and pepper, then dig in!