 There are a variety of ways to make money doing what you love. You could offer arts and crafts you’ve made online at sites like Etsy. You should also consider having a physical presence. If you’re not ready or unwilling to open an actual store, you should at least look for festivals, conventions, or expos where you could sell your services.For instance, if your hobby is photography, you might be able to set up at photography conventions and offer on-the-spot framing services.
If you want to make your rock band a career, you might be able to enter a battle of the bands contest in your area. Alternately, you might be able to set up a generator at large music festivals and play for anyone interested in hearing you.
 Be willing to negotiate, but be honest about how much you will or will not accept for your product or service. Talk to others in your field to get some idea as to how much you think you should charge for the services in your new career.Ask others who have turned your hobby into a career how much they charged when they first began, and how much you should charge when you’re beginning.
For instance, if you want to change your love of nature from a hobby into a career by offering guided nature walks, you could contact others who offer a similar service. Ask the former hobbyist, “How much did you charge for your services when you first made the jump from doing nature walks as a hobby to guiding others on nature walks as a career? How much do you think I should charge for my own service?”

, There are always a few hiccups whenever you start a new career, but you should have some idea after a week or so as to whether or not you’d be able to maintain the level of work necessary to make it in the modern economy. Use this time to see if you are able to stick to your schedule, remain self-directed and focused, and work with enough efficiency to make your new career worth it.Making a career of your hobby means producing goods or services at a higher rate than you did when it was just something you did for fun. For instance, just because you enjoy making jewelry for friends doesn’t mean you’ll be able to produce jewelry in a timely manner for multiple clients all over the country.
Use the time you take off work to determine if you’ll be able to sustain yourself in new career.
 A business plan is a roadmap for your success. Your business plan should include lots of research pertaining to how the current market for your future career looks. Your business plan should include a mission statement describing what your business does on a day-to-day basis, as well as a larger, more overarching vision statement that outlines your long-term goals and objectives. A comprehensive business plan will answer the following questions, among others:Is there stiff competition in the field you intend to enter?
Does your business offer consumers something different or new that can’t be obtained from other similar businesses in the field?
How will you fund your business?
What are the milestones for your business? How much do you expect to earn in your first quarter? First year? Second, third, or fourth years?

, After you’ve taken a week or so to get your feet wet in your potential new career, try to do it part-time for a longer period while still working your regular gig. This will give you time to perfect your wares (or services) and build a client base. You’ll also be able to iron out any kinks that might emerge in the course of developing your new career talents.After you’ve settled into a pattern, continue to increase commitment to your new career while decreasing your work-hours at your present career.
 Tell family and friends to support your business, and promote your work among others who might be interested. Promote yourself on social media and contract with a web developer to help you build a great website. If you have the budget for it, think about taking some ads out in the local paper or printing some fliers and hanging them around town in high-visibility locations.Depending on the career path you’ve chosen, you might want to invest more money into advertising as you grow your career.
If you want to share information about your new carpentry business with family and friends, say, “I am trying to get my new business off the ground. Do you know anyone interested in my wooden products or my woodcarving services?”

