 Hay, wheelbarrows and water buckets are heavy, and only get heavier throughout the day. There is a lot of pasture to walk, horses to ride, and a long aisle way to sweep. Grooming and tacking up fifty horses can make your arms fall off. Get yourself in shape. Now.;
, If they say that you must wear black boots while working, then you’d better be wearing your black boots. It doesn’t feel good at all to be fired over things you didn’t know about.
 Did you think you just had to brush this horse and muck that horse’s stall? Well, turns out, you also were supposed to sweep the aisle, turn the filly out, feed the cats, brush the two horses out back, and rake the arena. To avoid that kind of confusion, ask your boss to give you a written list of everything you are supposed to do and when you are supposed to do it. Take it home, type it up, laminate it, and keep it with you. And get to know about the horses there. Its important to know the actions and attitude of each horse so that you know how to react or what not to do. And read up a lot about horses. ex. how to groom horses, how to muck out stalls...etc. that is also very important!

, This way, you can see how every thing's done, like where the manure is dumped, how often the stalls are picked out, which horses go where, and how the gates work. It’s an opportune time to ask questions, so don’t act like you know everything. Pretend you’re starting (almost) from square one. This way, you won’t miss any important bits of information (like, at this barn, you change the bedding every day, or wipe down the tack after it’s used, or pick out the horse’s feet before bed, or other things they might just assume you know).
 Late grooms can never be counted on, and are, consequently, fired. Heavy sleeper? Get an alarm clock.
 That means working jeans or breeches, comfortable, waterproof, horse-safe boots, a plain shirt (a polo works nicely) and appropriate gloves. Add a baseball cap, if it’s appropriate for the barn and season, and a belt, if you need it. No jewelry, except for a watch, and wear your hair out of the way, in something sensible (ponytail). No designer anything, even for you fashion-conscious city slickers. Even if a few other grooms are wearing wacky clothes, you’d better avoid them. When someone has to get fired, it’ll be them, not you. Professionalism impresses.
 Don’t drink, smoke, chew tobacco, get tattoos, pierce yourself (exception, ears), dye your hair like a chameleon or do anything else that may cause them to pass you off as a nut case.
 No one likes a depressed person hanging around their barn.
 Horse dust, dirt, manure and shavings get stuck in the most unattractive places, and a day at the barn (plus a little sweat) doesn’t exactly make you smell delicious. Your dog will think otherwise.
 When they ask you to sweep the aisle, sweep it very well. Picking out a stall means get it really clean. Don’t go overboard, but if you exceed their expectations (and keep doing it), they’ll love you all the more (think promotions).
 Don’t take too long on a particular task. Do it well, of course, but learn how to do it quickly.
 Don’t know how to clean a stud’s sheath? Don’t pretend, tell the boss. They’ll be happier if you’re frank with them, rather than pretending you know everything until something goes wrong. That’s a sure-fire way to get kicked out.
 Not only does it make your job easier and less stressful, but when people start asking you questions (and they will), you’ll feel a lot more confident about answering them. For instance, the little kid that wonders just how much grain her pony really needs. And the amateur that doesn’t know how to put that blanket on her horse. Etcetera.
 Offer to help if someone needs it. Help carry their tack to the trailer. Say hello, learn their names, and say something nice every time you pass them. Bake them something for their birthday (and Christmas, New Year’s, etc. ). Compliment their horse. If everyone loves you, they’ll want you to stay longer. And the boss won’t fire you if everyone always tells him that the new groom is so nice.
 If you try your heart out, good things always happen.

