 You effectively double your chances of finding your dream job by proving to an employer that you’re already committed to earning a wage, rather than hanging around, hoping for a dream job that might not come. Also, having a current job means having a current, relevant reference for your prospective employer to call. If you work well, you may get a raise and will be able to put that on your resumé.;
, Sometimes you find yourself right where you started. Grit your teeth, keep possible rage to yourself, take your money and wait for the end of your shift.
 Even when you’re in a job you feel comfortable in, there’s always someone looking out for a person like you, and there’s always a way for you to cash in those experience chips you’ve been earning to get something better.
, If you find yourself on the dole twice in one year, just forget about it and look to the next opportunity. At least you’ve got more experience to fill your resumé., What would make it look better and fuller? What could go on there that your dream employer would think was really useful to their business? It could be worth putting in some hours working for no pay if it gets you a job in the end. Sound weird? It probably makes no sense whatsoever to your head.

Sometimes you have to do whatever it takes to get paid work in the end. Beware that job-seekers and benefits look suspiciously on people who claim to be doing unpaid work while getting allowance. It’s probably better in the long run to tell them first before you do any volunteer work, in case they want to check it out. If you don’t say anything, there’s a risk you might lose some benefits or job-seekers allowance.
 Smile and nod, keep your head down and your mouth shut. Take the initiative when it presents itself and keep your mind fixed on a better result after this job. Professionalism and perseverance are the keys. Sulking, grumbling, whining and doing sloppy work will probably keep you in the job you hate for years.
 Study books at your local library about your dream job. Always be looking for something better. Remember that no one owes you anything, especially not a living. It all has to come from you.

