 Squat jumps primarily work your quads, which are your thigh muscles. They work the rest of your leg muscles, too. The exercise also includes cardio and increases your intensity.Stand straight with your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width. Lower yourself into a squat position by pushing your hips back. Make sure to keep your chest up and your spine neutral.Watch your knees to ensure that they don’t extend beyond your toes. Your knees should stay in line with your toes.
As you begin to straighten, jump up with as much strength and power as you can. Land on your feet in a controlled motion, then lower back into another squat.
 Lunges are a fantastic way to work on your legs. They also help strengthen the glutes and add some cardio to your strength training. You can perform these exercises with or without hand weights.To perform a traditional lunge, step forward. Lower your body until both knees are at 90 degree angles. Make sure your knee is directly over your foot. Your knee should not extend beyond your foot. Push off with your front foot to step back to your original standing position. Do the same with the other leg.
You can try different types of lunges. A reverse lunge is the same as a traditional lunge, but you step back instead of forward. A walking lunge is great for lower body toning. To complete a walking lunge, do the same traditional lunge, but instead of returning to start, you use your back foot to take a step forward, then lower that leg into a lunge.
A side lunge is another variation. Step to the side instead of forward. Bend the leg you stepped out with into a 90 degree angle. Your other leg should be straight out beside you.
 Deadlifts work on your glutes and hamstrings. In other words, this exercise will work the back of your legs. You can perform this exercise with hand weights. Try 10 to 15 pounds.Stand straight with your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width and knees slightly bent. The hand weights should be in front of you, palms facing your legs.
Bend from the hips, keeping your spine neutral. Make sure to keep your back straight and don’t curl it forward. Bend down from the hips until your back is parallel to the floor, your dumbbells almost touching the floor.
Use your glutes to straighten back up about halfway.
You should feel this exercise in the back of your legs and through your glutes.
Do three sets of 20 reps.
 A bridge is an exercise move where you lift your hips off the ground. This exercise works your entire lower body, along with the bonus of your core and arms. You can add chest presses to this with hand weights for an added challenge.Lie on your back with your knees bent. Lift your hips as you push into a bridge, making sure to squeeze your glutes. When you are in the bridge, your shoulders should be on the ground, but your shoulder blades up off the floor. You should be lifted from your shoulders to your knees, your feet planted firmly on the floor.
Extend one of your legs, keeping your thighs parallel to one another. Hold your leg, then lower. Repeat with the other leg.
If you want to add chest presses, you can do two chest presses while you extend your leg.
Do three sets of 10 reps on each side.

