 No matter how patient you are, sometimes you will have to try and work your way out of a boring conversation. This can be difficult and a bit awkward, but it’s always important to try to be polite and not hurt the other person’s feelings. You can politely excuse yourself by saying that you have another commitment, or that you had lost track of time. Depending on how you say it, and your body language, these excuses can seem genuine or forced. Examples of way to politely excuse yourself could include:


“Oh, I’m sorry. I completely lost track of time, I really have get going. It was great talking to you, though.”
“I’d love to keep chatting, but I have to go and meet my husband.”
“I’m really sorry, but I’m running late and have to go.”, If you find yourself stuck in a conversation about something you don't know about and aren't interested in, you could try to politely change the topic. You can make this clear to someone without sounding rude or impatient. Just point out that you don't really know much about the topic of conversation, and offer an alternative topic to discuss.


You might say "I'm not really an expert in this and it's kind of hard to for me to follow."
Perhaps you could say "Wow, you sound like a real expert on X! I don't really know a lot about X but I am really into Y. Do you like Y?"
You might find that the person talking to you isn't so interested in talking about this other topic and the conversation may come to a swifter end.
 You can politely make it clear that you are only free to talk for a limited time, by referring to something you are doing which you will be finished with shortly. For example, if you are in the break room at work and a colleague starts talking to you, you can say that you are just making a quick cup of coffee. When the coffee is made you can excuse yourself without seeming rude.
 You can try to sugar the pill a little by ending with a positive note. You could show that you have been listening and plan to follow up on what you have been talking about, or say that you will pass on the information to someone you know. For example, if someone has been telling you about a film they really like, you might say “I’ll definitely watch it, thanks.”


Alternatively, you might say something like, “My girlfriend really loves horror movies, I’ll tell her about it. It sounds like she’ll love it.”
You can point out that you have learned something from the conversation, and thank the person you were talking to.
You might say, “I’d never really thought about it like that, thanks.”, However boring the conversation might have been, it’s polite to say a warm and friendly goodbye. Walking off without saying goodbye is rude and unnecessary in any situation, after all the person you were talking to didn’t bore you on purpose. Saying goodbye with a positive and upbeat tone will help both you of leave the conversation without feeling awkward or uncomfortable

A simple and positive goodbye could just be “nice talking to you, take care.”
A friendly and casual goodbye could be “I’ve got to run, take it easy.”