 If you typically make a salad for lunch, make sure you're including plant-based sources of protein to give you the energy you need to make it through the rest of the workday.Tofu crumbles or other soy products are a good way to do this. Adding a handful of crushed almonds or ½ cup of cooked beans to your salad is another way to add a burst of protein.
You also want to make sure your salad has a good dose of healthy fats, which also provide energy. In addition to nuts, you might consider adding a few slices of avocado or a few olives.
Orange and apple slices also work well in salads and can provide healthy fats as well as a vitamin boost.;
, Regardless of whether you are able to refrigerate your food, mixing the sauce together with the food means it will be soggy by lunchtime. If the sauce is separate, you can add it when you're ready to eat.If there's a type of sauce or dressing that you use often, and that doesn't have to be refrigerated, you might consider taking an extra bottle of it to work so you always have it.
Make sure any sauces you bring with you are in water-tight containers, or cover the top with cellophane before sealing the lid to keep the sauce secure.
 You can buy bulk nuts and dried fruits and mix them together yourself in a bag or small container. This will give you something more for lunch, or a snack if you get hungry later in the day.Dried fruit is especially helpful to get in your daily fruit servings, if you're worried about the ability to keep fresh fruit without damaging or spoiling it.
Include nuts with protein, such as almonds, if you need a quick energy boost.
 Citrus wedges not only add flavor, but help keep raw vegetables crisp. Limes are especially effective if you need to keep your salad at room temperature for several hours before lunch.Lime and lemon wedges also double as a convenient way to dress a salad. Once you're ready to eat, you can squeeze the wedges for a drizzle of lime or lemon juice to add a dash of flavor. This is easier to transport than bringing a separate container of dressing, and you don't have to worry about leaking.

