 Your tween probably has several passions, and they would love it if someone cared about them. Ask some questions and get to know what's on their mind.


Let them teach you new information. People love to feel like experts.
Ask follow-up questions. "So are they your new favorite band now?" "And what did you do after that?"
Pay attention to their outfits, books, music, and friendship activities for conversation idea starters.;
, This lets them know that you care what they have to say, and that you're willing to get feedback. It will encourage open communication. Ask what they think about the little things, and watch them open up.


"Melanie really wants to go to a football game this season, so I'm thinking of buying some tickets. Would you be interested in coming along?"
"I don't know what vegetable to make for supper. Do you want corn, broccoli, or carrots?"
"I know you think I dress like a funky old man, so before we're seen together, how about you help me pick out a shirt? I can't decide."

, Friendships are important to many tweens, so they may be interested in talking about their social groups. Keep the questions open-ended.


"I heard that Lauren was having a pool party soon. Are you going to go?"
"Last week, you told me that Shawn had broken his arm. Is he doing okay?"

, You may talk one-on-one with no distractions, or while doing a task that doesn't take too much of your attention. Here are some examples of things to do while talking:


Driving
Cooking and housework
Arts and crafts (drawing, knitting, etc.)
Going for a walk
One of their hobbies

, Tell them about what you did today, and what you've been thinking about. This lets them know that you want them to be involved in your life. It may also encourage them to start telling you about their day.


"Work was rough today. My boss kept telling me my project wasn't good enough, and it seemed like nothing would please her. I'm so glad to be done today. What about you?"
"I did a ton of housework today—vacuuming, dusting, laundry, all the works. I noticed that your bedsheets are starting to get ripped, and I think it's time to get you new ones. Do you want to go to the store with me this week to pick some out?"

, If your son loves to draw, take out some colored pencils and sketch with him. If your daughter is into astronomy, look at stars together, and let her teach you about how black holes form.
 It's hard for children to feel heard if you're constantly interrupted by people or chores. Put away your phone, tell your other kids to ask Mommy instead if they need a parent, and let your child feel that they have your full attention.
 Letting them do most of the talking and steering the conversation will help them feel heard. Many psychologists recommend listening for 70% of a conversation and talking for 30% of it (the 70-30 rule).
 They no longer need you to pick their clothes or brush their hair, but that doesn't mean they don't need or want you. Reach out, and make yourself part of the fun parts of their lives.


Attend events they're a part of (band concerts, dances/plays, sports, math competition)
Drive them and their friends around
Take them to events: concerts, sports games, etc.
Drive them to lessons (piano, martial arts, whatever) and use the driving time to chat

, Bring them up when you find something related to it. (For example, have "the talk" when they stumble upon a sexualized advertisement.)

, This is okay—wanting space sometimes is part of growing up, no matter how close the parent/child relationship is. Give them their freedom and trust that they will come back to you when they are ready.


If you try introducing 1 or 2 topics and it falls flat, then they probably want to be left alone right now.
If they don't want to discuss a subject, try saying "You don't have to tell me if you don't want to, but I'm here for you if you ever do." This works wonders.
 Your tween needs to know that you want to understand, and that they can come to you without immediately feeling judged. Get the full story, keeping a calm and even tone of voice to let them know that you are not angry with them.


Get clarification. "So she just assigned this mountain of homework with no notice."
Ask how they felt. "So you were mad at him when you found out he was talking behind your back?"
Ask what happened next. "What did you do after she ran out of the classroom?"
Ask how they intend to handle it. "What do you think you're going to do when you go back to school tomorrow?" (At this point, they may ask for advice.)

, You can worry about punishments or what to do next later. Right now, the most important thing is that they know you understand and care.
 Let them know that it is okay to feel the way they feel, and it is not wrong or silly (even if it feels trivial to you). This helps develop their self-esteem and trust in you.


"That sounds rough."
"I'm not surprised you were mad at him. You had every right to be, after what he said about you."
"I'm so sorry to hear that."

, While it's natural to want to help out your child, sometimes the only thing you can do is be quiet and let them figure it out on their own. Talking over them can stifle them and make them feel unwilling to talk to you, so check first to make sure that they want advice before you give it.


"Are you looking for advice, or do you just want to vent?"
"Is there any way I could help?"
"I'm sorry. I'm talking over you, aren't I? Please continue."

, Encourage them to think for themselves about how to fix the problem, acting as a guide and sounding board rather than a lecturer. This encourages strong problem-solving skills and self-confidence. Here are some useful phrases.


"What do you think you could do?"
"What would the consequences of that action be?" "What might happen if you did that?"
"Do you think that would work well?"
"Would _____ make your idea even more effective?"
This strategy only works well when they have the energy to brainstorm. If not, ask if they are getting worn out and if they would like to talk about it later. If so, then switch to something fun.
 Letting them know that you care about them no matter what will keep your relationship strong.

