 The direct link is www.ebenefits.va.gov. Once at the website, you should click on the “Disability Compensation” link to the left.
 You need log-on credentials in order to apply for benefits online. To create an account, click on “Register” on the homepage. You will then be asked a series of questions in order to create an account.


If you have questions, then click on the “Help Center” icon. You will be directed to a page which can answer many common questions.
 Online applications are accepted only from those who have a “premium” account.You can upgrade your account by clicking on the “Upgrade using the DS Logon registration wizard” link.
 Once you have logged on, you will read information about the Privacy Act and then be asked to confirm that your contact and payment information is correct. If so, then click “Save & Continue.”, The next screen will show you important dates. Remember that once you start a claim you have 365 days to gather and submit all required documents., You should look over the dates listed and add a period of service if one is missing.If a period is marked “Verified” then you can’t edit it.
Always click “Save & Continue” once you enter all of the information on a screen.
 On the “Your Disabilities” screen, you should claim a new disability by clicking on “Claim a New Disability.” You must enter the new disability information by typing the first few letters of the condition and then selecting it from a list., You will be asked if you have received any medical treatment at a VA Medical Center.Answer all questions.
 You need to scan copies of any supporting evidence so that you can upload the digital copies to the eBenefits website. After the documents are scanned, you can upload them at the “Documents to Upload” page., The system should tell you if any information is missing. If so, navigate back to the correct page and supply the information. Double check everything.
 Once you have uploaded all forms and provided all of the information, then you must certify the claim. You can choose between “Fully Developed Claim” or a “Standard Claim.”Do not certify until you have provided all necessary information.


Then complete the Claimant Certification page. Answer all questions.
To make the online application easier, you have the option of appointing a representative to help you.
 Once you have completed the claim, you will be provided with a confirmation number. Write this down and keep it in a safe place. You might need it if you have to contact the VA about your application for benefits.

