 Whether your earnings decrease with retirement or not, you remain responsible for making your payments on time. The credit agencies, which include both the credit card companies and the credit score reporting agencies, are less concerned with your income than with your ability to make your payments. Making your payments on time is the key, regardless of your income level., With decreased income in retirement, you may be tempted to use credit cards more. This is fine if you make your full payments each month. However, if you let the credit balance creep up, you will reduce your overall credit score. Carrying a minimal balance will not hurt you much. Credit agencies measure the ratio of your outstanding credit debt as compared to the amount of credit that you have available to you. Carrying a debt of $2,000 is less damaging if your total credit line is $25,000, for example, than if your credit line is only $5,000. Watch the balance and keep your ratio down as much as possible.You should try to keep the ratio to 25% or less. Thus, a $2,000 debt with $25,000 available credit is only 8%, which is strong, but $2,000 debt with only a $5,000 limit is a ratio of 40%, which is going to hurt your credit score.
 You may find that you need less credit as you enter retirement because you are buying less and your monthly expenses are lower. This may tempt you to close one or more credit card accounts that you might not be using. Don’t. Keeping established credit card accounts open serves two good purposes that will help your overall credit score.First, your credit score is positively affected by the age on your accounts. An older account that you have had continuously for many years carries good, positive weight and helps boost your credit score.
Second, keeping accounts open increases the amount of available credit that you have. As a result, the ratio of borrowing to credit is lower, and this helps increase your credit score. For example, if you owe $2,000 with total available credit of $20,000, the ratio is one-tenth. However, if you shut down an account, you may still owe the same $2,000 but only have available credit of $10,000. This ratio is one-fifth, and scores less for your credit report.
 Your credit score is affected not only by the credit that you have but also by your ongoing good use of credit. You should make a habit of using your credit cards at least for modest expenses each month. Then pay those bills on time and in full at the end of the month. This kind of practice will show that you can handle the credit cards and that you continue to be a good credit risk. The amount of your purchases is not as important as the fact that you continue using and paying off the credit cards., Periodically, you should ask your lender if you qualify for an increase in your credit limit. Especially if you have built up a good credit history by making payments on time, this request should be granted. You should continue to request this every few years, even as you enter retirement, if you believe you would qualify. The credit limit increase will help you keep a low debt to credit ratio and keep your credit score high.

