 This is the change of pitch using just your mouth position and changes in airspeed without tonguing. Practicing some basic lip slurs is a great way to hit high notes using just the speed of air flow rather than relying on mouthpiece pressure or tensing up to hit the notes. Instead, slurring up to higher and higher notes allows you to more naturally extend your range.Something as simple as slurring a chromatic scale will work just fine, but there are also a number of lip slur exercises available specifically for extending range.
You can use these popular Maurice Andre lip slur exercises to get started, and these are available free of charge online..;
, Whether you’re using them to practice your lip slurs or as a warm up, it’s important to play chromatic scales on a regular basis. Chromatic scales help you learn a number of important trumpet skills including tuning. They are also an excellent tool for you to learn to play higher notes in tune. Moving up by half steps, you can feel where you begin to strain to reach the notes, and hear when you start to play sharp or flat. Over the course of several weeks, you’ll be able to significantly improve your range just by practicing your chromatic scales.


Play the chromatic scale up to the first note that causes you to strain. Repeat this scale until you can play it easily. Then, move on to the next. This could take a few days or weeks of practicing.
Play the scale a few times at the beginning and end of your practice session to determine whether you can reach the notes when you’re tired. If you can’t, you’re likely relying on pressure to reach the notes instead of air speed.
This method will work to help you play lower notes as well., Playing the chromatic scale allows players to hear each note and how they build to higher notes. Jumping up and down octaves allows you to build muscle memory in your lips and learn how it feels to play specific notes. This can help you play higher notes in tune, since you’ll have just played the same note in a range you’re more comfortable with. Octave jumps are essential to a really impressive trumpet screech. The comparison to the lower note makes the high note sound even higher. Practice jumps of an octave or more to make your high notes scream., This technique gives the screech its raw, jazzy feeling. Lip vibrato is not just moving the trumpet. Instead, this is a more subtle, slight vibration of the lips that should produce a result similar to using a whammy bar while playing guitar. Once you hit the note you want to hold, simply loosen your lips slightly, and allow the fast burst of air to make them vibrate.
 To really scream you need to jump from a low note to a high note. Then, while holding your high note, perform a lip vibrato to create the unique screeching or howling quality. Some of the greatest trumpet players are famous for their ability to do this well, but it does take practice. You’ll likely sound a little strange at first, so choose a practice location where you won’t be disturbing anyone.

