 You do not need a fancy notebook to bullet journal. Simply select a notebook with lined pages that you can easily transport from place-to-place. Moleskin notebooks work well. A decorative notebook, or one with existing sections, is not necessary for bullet journaling as you'll be organizing the notebook yourself.You can personalize the notebook a bit, however. For example, if you love the color blue, invest in a blue notebook.;
, You will be writing numbers on each page of your journal. Your index will help you track which sections fall on which pages. The first blank spread, meaning the first two blank pages that fall side by side, will be your index. To start, all you have to do is write "Index" on the top of both pages.You can write in pen or pencil, and in your chosen color. Pen may show up better, however, and darker colors are generally easier to read.
 Flip to the next blank spread in your journal. This will be your future log. Your future log is a way of getting a bird's eye view of tasks you need to complete within the next six months. It will include a month-by-month breakdown of events, tasks, and goals. To start, count the number of lines and divide that by three. For example, if each page has 24 lines make three sections on each page of eight lines each.Use a ruler to draw three straight lines across the spread, diving it into three equal sections on each page.
 For example, if you're starting your bullet journal for the new year, you would write, "January" in the first box, then "February," and so on.


Write page numbers on the corners of each page. As your future log is your first section, the page numbers should be one and two. Flip back to your index and write something like, "Future Log . . . 1-2."

, Flip to the next blank spread in your journal. This will be your monthly log. It gives you an overview of a given month. Start with the current month and write the name of this month on the top of both pages.On the left page, write down every date of the month. After you finish, write down the abbreviation of the day of the week next to the number. For example, you would write "January 1st, Sun."
On the right page, jot down your task list for the month. Using bullet points, make a list of all the goals you hope to complete, any bills you have to pay, and any deadlines you need to meet. For example, you would write things like "Pay the cable bill," and "Complete draft of term paper."

, When you're done, write page numbers on the corner of each page. Flip back to your index and add your monthly log to your index. For example, "January Monthly Log... 3-4."

, Flip to the next blank spread and write today's date on the top of the page. Use small bullet points to write down things you need to do that day, tasks you completed, and anything else of interest that occurred that day. Use as many lines as you need to log your daily activities. When the day ends, make a new entry the line below for the next day.A bullet journal is meant to be brief, so use short, simple sentences. For example, do not say, "Today, I called the vet to discuss the cat's vaccinations, including the rabies vaccines that is due." Instead, simply write, "Called vet to ask about cat's vaccinations. Rabies due."

, Signifiers are the types of bullet points you use in your journal. There are not set rules about establishing signifiers, and it heavily depends on the types of events you choose to journal. You can break down events into categories, such as work, school, bills, personal, creative projects, etc. Every type of event should have a different bullet point signifying its type. It's best to use as few categories as possible to keep things from getting confusing.For example, creative goals could be signified with a star. Work could be signified by a simple bullet point. Hobbies could be signified by an arrow. Bills could be signified by a small dollar sign, and personal could be signified by a heart.
As you track your goals on your daily calendar, use your signifiers. For example, an entry may look something like, "$ Paid Cable Bill today."

, It can also help to categorize monthly goals in your monthly log. Instead of having a random list of bullet points lumping everything you need to do together, organize further. Separate your tasks by type.For example, you could write headings like "Weight and Fitness Goals," "Deadlines and Due Dates," "Work Goals," and "Creative Goals."
From there, write down tasks under their corresponding categories. Under "Weight and Fitness Goals," for example, you could write something like, "Visit the gym 12 times this month."

, Collections are broad to-do lists that you want to accomplish over the course of a year. It basically includes anything that is not a log. For example, collections can include books you want to read, movies and TV shows you want to watch, recipes you want to try, and so on. It's good to fill out your collections page as ideas strike you, and you can refer to it later on when you need inspiration.For example, if a coworker suggests a book, write that down in the "Books to Read" section of your collections page. When you're choosing a new book, flip back to this section to remember the recommendation.
 As you track your day log, fill out events according to your preference. This depends heavily on why you're keeping the bullet journal. If it's primarily to organize work goals, for example, you can track what occurred at work each day. However, the journal does not have to be entirely professional. You can also record personal moments that made you smile. For example, "Boyfriend brought me coffee during my lunch break."Remember to make use of your personal signifiers as you fill out your journal.
 Each time you complete a task, flip back to your monthly log. Cross off the task on your broad to-do lists. This can help you track what you have accomplished and what you still need to accomplish for a given month., At the end of each month, review your monthly log and daily log. See which tasks you have completed and which still need to be done. Set up a new monthly and daily log, the same way you did before. Transfer the uncompleted tasks to the next log.However, you do not need to transfer all your tasks to the next month. If you see a task that's no longer worth your time, or that is too late to complete, cross it out. This will help you stay organized by trimming down unnecessary information.
 You want to continue building on your future log over time. As you glance through your daily and monthly logs for the past month, see what longterm tasks are included. For example, if you're working on a graduate thesis, it will likely pop up in your logs over time. Add things to your future log as necessary.For example, break down your thesis into small goals and jot them down in your future log. In February, you would write "Complete draft" and in March write "Revise draft."

, It can help to eventually make a project log or list in the back of your bullet journal. This can help you track long term projects. You can make a list that says something like "Yearly Projects." When reviewing each monthly log, flip back to this list. This will remind you of any short term goals regarding longstanding projects you should add to each month.For example, if a longterm goal is to be able to run 30 minutes without stopping, for one month you may write, "Increase running time to 15 minutes."

