 Before beginning any fitness training program, it is important to get examined by a health professional. A doctor or nurse can identify health conditions, joint weaknesses, or contraindications for certain types of exercise and may even be able to recommend specific types of exercise programs that are safe for whatever conditions you may have.;
, Be realistic about the amount of time you can commit to your fitness regimen. Most adults should aim for about 150 minutes total of physical activity per week, ideally in at least 3 separate sessions. This will vary depending on your fitness goals and current level of physical fitness.


Plan the number and duration of fitness training sessions you can reasonably expect to complete in any given week. Consider 5 sessions of 30 minutes with 2 days of rest each week or 3 sessions of 50 minutes each week.
Plan the time of day you will work out. Some individuals prefer morning workouts while others prefer evening or weekend sessions. The time of day you will be exercising may dictate where or how you will exercise (indoors versus outdoors, at home versus at the gym, etc.).
 To build an effective fitness training program, it is essential that you enjoy or have a high level of commitment to the activities you will include in your plan.


Consider a variety of both cardio and strength training activities, as both will be essential to an effective fitness training program.
 Having specific goals will also dictate what types of exercise you should build into your plan, the amount of time you will need to exercise, and whether your fitness plan will need to include significant dietary changes.


If your goals include weight loss, you will need to consider dietary changes as well as significant cardio activity. Strength training is also essential to boosting metabolism rates and burning more calories.
If your fitness goals are targeted at a contest or event, such as a triathlon or marathon, your program will include interval training, targeted activities, and a significant time commitment.

