 Soak a clean washcloth with very warm water and it place over the infected area. Leave it on for three to five minutes, or until the washcloth cools down. Repeat this process at least three to four times twice a day. The heat may cause the infection to “come to a head” and drain.


An advantage to this approach is that it minimizes the chances of scarring.
Use a clean, fresh washcloth every time and make certain you wash your hands before and after applying. Doing this can prevent any further bacteria entering the skin at that site.
 Before you apply an antibiotic wash and dry the area thoroughly. Topical antibiotics usually contain three different antibiotics and they can come in a gel, cream, or lotion form. The specific antibiotics can vary, but usually include Bacitracin, Neomycin and Polymixin.


Use as directed and make certain you wash your hands before and after applying.
You may wish to do a spot-test first, as some people react unfavorably to topical antibiotics. Apply the antibiotic to a small area of skin (the skin on your wrist is good if you plan to apply the ointment somewhere with delicate skin, such as your pubic area) and check to make sure you don't develop a rash or other adverse reaction.
 If you don’t see any improvement within five to seven days or if the infection seems to be getting worse or spreading, contact your physician or dermatologist for an appointment. Your doctor may need to open up the skin in order to release the infection.Don't try to open up the infection yourself at home. A doctor knows how to make incisions correctly, will use sterile equipment, such as a clean scalpel, and will do it in a sterile environment.
 Your doctor may tell you to let the infection heal naturally or will prescribe you medicine. He or she may prescribe a prescription oral antibiotic, a retinoid to remove dead skin and discoloration around the ingrown hair, or a steroid medicine to apply directly to the infected area. Follow the directions on the medicine closely. You should always continue using medicine for as long as you are told to, even if the problem goes away before you are done with the prescription.
Your doctor may also give you suggestions for preventing future ingrown hairs.

