 Studies have shown that people who follow a Mediterranean style diet were 60% less likely to develop dementia later in life.Protect your brain by following this type of eating pattern.


The Mediterranean diet focuses on the following types of foods: fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts and seeds, beans, olive oil, fish and seafood plus many herbs and spices.It specifically limits foods like: red meat, poultry, dairy foods and sweets. These foods are eaten, but very much in moderation., In addition to a Mediterranean style diet, eating a lot of dark greens has been shown to be beneficial for your overall brain health.Studies have shown that those people who eat at least 3 servings of dark greens each day slow mental decline due to aging by 40%.It's believed that the antioxidants and flavonoids present in dark greens are responsible for the health promoting effects.
Leafy greens you can try include: spinach, kale, collard greens, swiss chard or mustard greens.Make sure to note that a serving is 2 cups., Another important group of foods that can help prevent mental decline and improve your brain health are healthy fats. Found in higher quantities in the Mediterranean diet, these fats should be added to your eating pattern to help improve your brain health.


Healthy fats, especially DHA (or docosahexaenoic acid) have been shown to help improve memory and help your brain operate more efficiently.It's no surprise as DHA is the most prevalent type of fatty acid in your brain.
Foods highest in DHA include: walnuts, algae and fatty fish like tuna, salmon, mackerel and sardines. Swap out a serving or two of other proteins for fatty fish.If you're not a fan of seafood or have an allergy, discuss taking a DHA supplement with your physician as an alternative to these DHA-rich foods.
 Like spinach and other dark greens, berries and cherries are antioxidant rich and have been linked to improved brain health.Specifically, both berries (like raspberries, blueberries or blackberries) and cherries contain the antioxidant groups anthocyanins and flavonoids. These groups have been shown to help boost memory.Enjoy a serving or two of these brain foods as many times as you can during the week. You can choose either fresh or frozen for the same benefits. Also, make sure to measure out the appropriate serving. It's about a 1/2 cup of fruit per serving., Although there are many foods that can promote a healthier brain, there are foods that you should avoid or limit as they can be harmful to your brain.


Saturated fats are found in animal products - mainly fatty cuts of meat and full fat dairy. These fats should be limited to less than 10% of your total calorie intake. Studies have shown that higher consumption of this type of fat can lead to decreased blood flow to the brain.Trans fats are generally man-made and should be avoided at all costs. They're typically found in fried foods, pastries, margarine and snack foods. Consumption of trans fats may lead to decreased memory and increased risk for depression.Another larger group of foods to limit are added sugars and refined grains. Limit sweetened beverages, white bread, pastries, white rice, candy, cookies, cakes and pies. These foods have been linked with increased risk of depression.