 One factor is whether there was cancer in the lymph nodes at the time of the initial diagnosis. Cancers that spread to the lymph nodes around the pelvic region increase the risk for a recurrence of prostate cancer later on.;
, As a general rule, the larger the initial tumor, the greater the risk of a recurrence. Although tumor size isn't the only way to learn how to determine prostate cancer recurrence, larger tumors may mean the patient should have more frequent diagnostic tests to catch a recurrence of prostate cancer early on.
 When it comes to predicting the recurrence of prostate cancer, the staging of the initial cancer may be one of the best indicators. More advanced cancers often have a higher rate of recurrence. The staging also impacts the treatment protocol and the future outlook for the patient.
 This method for grading prostate cancer offers insight into the advancement of the disease as well as the risk factors for prostate cancer recurrence. At grade 1, cancer cells look very much like normal prostate cells. In grades 2 through 4, the patterns of the prostate cells begin to vary. By grade 5, cells no longer resemble normal prostate cells and are scattered haphazardly throughout the area. Higher Gleason scores usually mean more aggressive cancer and a higher risk for recurrence.
 These tables, developed urologists Misop Han, M.D., Alan W. Partin, M.D., Ph.D., and Patrick C. Walsh, M.D., are based on data collected from numerous cancer patients to help predict the risk factors for prostate cancer recurrence, both before and after surgical treatment.
 The prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test continues to be one of the most administered tests to determine a recurrence of prostate cancer. The simple blood test measures PSA levels in the blood, which can detect the presence of disease in the body. A similar, but newer, test, known as the AccuPSA is specifically used for early detection of a recurrence of prostate cancer after a radical prostatectomy.
 By knowing your risk factors, possible signs of prostate cancer and the various diagnostic tests available to you, you can effectively lower your risk factors for a prostate cancer recurrence in the future.

