 You should wash your hair at least once a day if your hair is oily. You may need to wash more often if it stays oily. Washing more often will help cut down on the oil.Some people claim this step is the opposite of what you should do. The argument is that the more you wash your hair, the more oil your scalp produces to make up for what the shampoo takes away.
If you're not having luck with washing more often, you may try washing less, such as every 3 days.;
, Lather up by rubbing shampoo into your hair, but also spend time rubbing it into your scalp. In addition, let it sit for 5 minutes, so the shampoo has a chance to work your hair, breaking down the oil.Once 5 minutes is up, rinse out your shampoo.
If you noticed your hair is oilier than normal, you can shampoo again right away, repeating the same process.
 In some cases, you may just want to skip conditioning altogether. When you do apply it, don't put it on your scalp. Instead, stick to the tips, where your hair may be drier.Put some conditioner in your hand. Use your fingers to gently apply the conditioner just to the tips. Rinse it out when you're done.
 Brushing can transfer the oil from your scalp down into your hair. Of course, you must brush your hair sometimes. Make sure to stay away from your scalp as much as possible while you brush., Buildup of hair products, such as conditioners, gels, and hairspray, can lead to oilier hair. You may have a buildup of products on you hair and not even know it, but you can work to combat it.Always rinse your hair twice to help combat buildup.
You can also use baking soda. Simply pour a spoonful or two into you hand. Add a little water so you have something you can spread over your hair. Massage it into your hair and scalp, and then rinse it out after 15 minutes. Shampoo after you use baking soda.Try a clarifying shampoo a couple of times a month, which is another way to reduce buildup., Touching your hair all the time just makes it greasier. You transfer oils from your hands to your hair, increasing the problem. If you can't keep your hands off of it when it's down, consider wearing an up-do more often.