 If you rent or own off-campus, you can free up a large chunk of cash by cutting down on your share of rent and utility expenses by finding a roommate. Carefully screen applicants—it may be a good idea to begin searching for a roommate among your friends and classmates. Be sure to draw up an agreement between the two of you outlining how bills will be handled, and make sure you aren't violating your current lease if you bring in an additional person to your home.
 Books are a large expense for any college student, but it's not a good idea to forego purchasing them at all. There are, however, various ways to potentially save hundreds on your book costs over the course of the school year.Once your reading list is available, begin by checking the prices in the campus bookstore, but them look elsewhere for better deals.
 You can usually find cheaper options (both new and used) online or by going to local used bookstores, who often buy books from students at the end of the term.


Given that professors often use the same texts from term to term, you may be able to score much cheaper versions of the book. You may even be able to check the text out for free from the campus or local library.
 If your professor has assigned a newer edition of a text, you may be able to get buy with an older (cheaper) edition of the text. Publishers often make very few changes from edition to edition, and the only thing that may vary is the page numbers or the occasional addition of a new reading.


Double-check with your professor to see if an older edition will work for you before you commit to buying.
 You may also be able to rent your textbooks for a much reduced cost, or you can split the cost of a pricey book with a classmate or roommate who is enrolled in the same course.


If you do this, make sure that you have a clear schedule for when each of you will access to the book.
 You may be able to spend less by limiting yourself to only paying for items with cash. Put your debit and credit cards away, or tuck them in corner of your wallet to only be brought out for emergencies.


When you cash your check or make a withdrawal, take out enough to last you for the month, if possible. This way, you can avoid having to make repeat trips to the ATM. At an average fee of $3 per withdrawal, the fees can really add up.Avoid carrying all of your cash when you go out, though. Take just what you think you'll need.
 If you live on campus, you may be required to purchase a dining plan. If so, select the most economical plan (be honest about how often you'll be willing or able to go to the cafeteria).


Then, whatever plan you have, take full advantage of it: avoid skipping meals so that you won't need to purchase food later; and if you're allowed, take fruit or leftovers so that you'll have snacks available throughout the day.
Also, scope out events on campus which offer free food.
If you have a work study with the dining hall or catering services, you may be able to take home free food., If you are able to, you may be able to save more money by opting out of a dining plan and buying your groceries yourself.


Shop at discount grocery stores or buy in bulk from stores like Costco. While you get more bang for your buck when you buy in bulk, your tab can be pretty high. You can work around this problem by having a friend or roommate go in with you on purchases.
 Sure you want to look good, but you don't have to spend a lot to stay on trend. Consider simplifying your wardrobe: build a solid base of classics that you can easily mix and match.


Buy all of your clothes second-hand or commit to only buying items on sale. You can also swap clothes with your friends to keep things fresh.
 Do you spend more than you'd like getting your hair and nails done each month? Do you have a friend who can't resist the pastries at the coffee shop or who pays for a personal trainer? Think about what both you and your friends spend money on, and then see if there's a way for you to barter and trade services with each other in order to save money.


For example, in exchange for doing your hair before a big date, you can offer to supply your friend with some fresh-baked goodies.
 The costs associated with commuting to and from school (or across town as you run errands) can be quite high. In an effort to save money on gas, insurance, and parking, try to take public transportation as much as possible.


Your school may have discounted bus passes available for students, or you may be able to arrange to carpool with your fellow students to classes or for supply runs.
 You may think that you can't live without your cable or Starbucks, but be honest with yourself. It's probably just the caffeine you need, and not the $4 latte.


Make your coffee at home, consider cutting out the cable and switching to free or cheaper tv options (such as NetFlix or Hulu), and hold off on upgrading to the newest, shiniest electronic gadgets.By going without luxuries, you'll of course free up money, but you'll also come to enjoy and appreciate them more once you can truly be able to afford them again.
 Before you head out to a local restaurant or museum, do some quick research to see if they offer discounts for students. As a student, you can often get free admission or great deals with your student identification.
 How much money do you currently spend going out to movies, bars, or clubs? While it's important that you have a social life and find ways to relax when you aren't hitting the books, you don't have to spend a lot of cash (or any!) to have a good time in your free time.


Actually read the fliers and posters around campus, which advertise free, fun, and/or interesting activities and lectures. You may be able to see plays and concerts on campus, attend lectures from important thinkers, or go to university-sponsored parties all for free with your student ID.
 Besides being able to meet new and interesting people, some of them have regular activities (like movie nights) or even take service trips over school breaks.


These are usually funded in part or sometimes completely through donations or through fund-raising efforts.