 You can take one of two approaches––cooking the bacon on a stovetop or in the oven. Both methods produce crisp bacon, although the stovetop method is a little faster.


Heat an ungreased skillet on low and then place the raw bacon slices in the skillet. Line bacon in a uniform fashion so that it cooks evenly.
Brown each side of bacon for approximately five to six minutes. The browning process will vary based on the bacon thickness, type of skillet you use and the stovetop heat.;
,, You want to avoid having residual grease leak into your waffle batter; this will compromise the integrity of the batter and make the waffles taste greasy.
, Combine flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a large mixing bowl. Instead of using a mixer, consider hand-mixing using a large wooden spoon or rubber spatula so you avoid over-mixing.
 Using a different bowl, whisk buttermilk with the eggs and only 2 tablespoons of the canola oil.
 Fold the buttermilk mixture to the flour mixture and stir well using a large spoon or rubber spatula.
 Try to distribute bacon evenly throughout the mixture so that each waffle will contain an even amount of bacon.
 Brush each side with a small amount of canola oil; the remaining 2 tablespoons of canola oil will be used to coat the waffle iron in to avoid the waffles from sticking.
 Pour approximately ½ cup of the batter into the waffle iron. Amounts may vary based on the waffle iron size. Using ½ cup should accommodate a standard 7-inch (17.5cm) iron.
 Cook for 6 to 8 minutes depending on the heat and your individual waffle iron. The idea is to cook the waffle until it is lightly browned; however, like ovens and stovetops, heat settings and irons will vary.
 No bacon infused waffle is complete without special toppings. Use your imagination, but some mouthwatering ideas include:


Candied brown sugar syrup. Combine ½ cup of brown sugar, ⅓ cup of crushed candied walnuts and 2 tablespoons of maple syrup. Sprinkle mixture over each waffle.

Homemade whipped cream. Skip the grocery bought whipped cream and make your own. Combine 1 cup of heavy cream, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract and 1 tablespoon of confectioner’s sugar in a mixer. Pour heavy cream in the mixer and beat until small white peaks form. Beat in vanilla and sugar until well combined and top it on the waffle.
Old fashioned maple syrup and crushed bacon. Sometimes a traditional topping is the best. Consider warming good maple syrup in a small pan before pouring over waffle. Then top with extra pieces of crushed leftover crisp bacon to accentuate the waffle.
