 There are two different types of lovebird pox and they cause two different types of pox. Dry lovebird pox affect the exterior of the bird's body and wet lovebird pox affects the inside of the lovebird's body.


Dry avian pox causes wart-like scaly growths on the featherless areas of the surface of a bird's body. They can show up around the eyes, the beak, or on the legs and feet.Avian pox that appear on the eyes can be mistaken for conjunctivitis. "Growths" on the actual eyes are usually avian pox.
Wet avian pox causes lesions in the mucus membranes of the bird, specifically in the oral and nasal cavities of the lovebird. These lesions are harder to spot than the dry version but they can be even more serious, as they can interfere with the breathing and eating of the bird.;
, Take your lovebird to a veterinarian if you suspect avian pox. When you call for an appointment, let the veterinary office know that you suspect pox, so that they can keep your bird isolated and avoid spreading the infection.The symptoms of lovebird pox may look a lot like tumors, abscesses, or a bacterial or viral infection. This is why a veterinary diagnosis is necessary.
Diagnosis of avian pox is done by biopsying the pox and looking at the it under a microscope., Additional infections, such as candidiasis, can establish themselves in the open wounds caused by the pox.Your veterinarian is likely to prescribe an antibiotic to help eliminate this type of additional infection.For example, your veterinarian may prescribe an eye ointment to treat eye infections caused by the pox.
 There is no specific treatment for the virus that causes lovebird pox. However, there are a variety of things that can be done to make your bird more comfortable and to support its immune system. These include:Give your bird vitamin A to increase the health of the birds skin.
Tube feed the bird if it is having difficulty eating.
Moisten scabs that are causing the bird discomfort.
 Lovebird pox can be spread by feather dust or the feces of an infected bird. If another lovebird comes into contact with the feather dust and feces of an infected bird, then it can easily become infected.


Do not allow direct contact between a lovebird that you know to be infected and one that does not show symptoms. This means that they should be kept in completely different rooms

, If you have multiple lovebirds, and one is infected, then you need to sterilize all supplies to avoid cross contamination after the sick bird is isolated. All supplies should be disinfected with bleach before being used between a bird that is infected and birds that are not.It takes some work to eliminate the lovebird pox virus because it does not die when it is dried out. Use chlorine bleach on all surfaces of all bird supplies and cages to kill the virus.
 Lovebird pox can be spread by mosquitoes. If your bird can come into contact with mosquitoes, whether it spends time outdoors or you allow fresh air in your house, then you need to minimize mosquitoes in the area.


Get rid of standing water near your home. These can become mosquito breeding grounds.
Transmission via mosquitoes occurs when a mosquito bites a bird with lesions and then bites another bird.