 Avoid spending too much time in the sun between 10 am and 2 pm (the sun's rays are strong during this period). Although it offers bright sunlight, the sun can cause a damage on your skin such as: wrinkles, freckles, age spots, rough, dry skin and skin cancer. Note: If you have any type of skin problems, you might be a candidate for our microdermabrasion treatments.;
, Apply enough sunscreen at least 30 minutes before going outside. Reapply the same amount every two hours if you are sweating or swimming. SPF 45 or SPF 30 make good choices for many people but speak to your doctor or pharmacist for advice.
 Woven long-sleeve shirts, long pants and hats will protect your face. Although you can find special sun-protective clothing which helps blocking the ultraviolet rays.
 Think of fruits, vegetables, whole grains and lean proteins. Avoid junk/sugary food. Eating a healthy diet rich in Vitamin C and Low in Fats and carbohydrates will make your skin look younger. Drinking plenty of water will help you to maintain your skin free of toxins and moist.
 Water itself remove oils from your skin. So, limit your bath time and use only warm water.
 Strong abrasive soaps can clean oil from your skin.
 Apply shaving cream, gel or lotion without alcohol before shaving to lubricate your skin. Use a clean, sharp razor. Use warm water to open up the pores and soften the hair. Shave in the same direction where the hair grows, not against it. Use gentle, smooth strokes when shaving. You can also use a very safe method of hair removal like Laser Hair Removal System.
 After washing, bathing or shaving, gently blot your skin dry with a towel, so some moisture can stay on your skin for a while.
 Use a moisturizer that is appropriate for your skin type and makes your skin feel soft and younger. A good moisturizing method is the Laser Skin Rejuvenation treatment.
 Stress can negatively affect your skin's appearance. You may suffer blemishes or skin conditions caused by stress. So, start to decrease the plenty of things you do every day and take some time for yourself. Practice indoor/outdoor activities that you can enjoy. Also, you can spoil yourself with a relaxing treatment.
 Smoking itself is unhealthy and it will make your skin look older and more wrinkled. It leads to blood flow decreasing which depletes the skin of oxygen, nutrients, collagen and elastin. All of them are important elements for your skin's strength and elasticity. Also, the repetitive facial expressions you make when smoking contributes to wrinkles. If you would like to quit smoking and make your skin look more vibrant and younger, try the Photo Rejuvenation Treatment.

