 If you have a friend or loved one who is dealing with an unexpected pregnancy, it's important to recognize that she is going through a very difficult time. Be sure to call or visit her frequently to see how she is doing and find out if she needs your help and support.Be aware if she seems to be isolating herself from others. If she is, encourage her to spend time with you and other supportive loved ones. Consider inviting her to participate in a fun activity to get her mind off of her troubles for a little while.
 If you are very close to a woman who is dealing with an unexpected pregnancy, it might really help if you let her know how you would be willing to help her out if she decides to parent her child. When she seems ready, have a conversation with her about the contributions you would be willing to make.


If you are the father of the child, talk about your plans for the future. Share your opinions on the pregnancy and allow her to share hers as well.
If you live with the woman, talk about living arrangements and child care options.
Don't pressure her to make a decision. Instead just tell her you want to talk about these things so that she has all of the information she needs.
 If the woman is undecided on what to do about her pregnancy, encourage her to get as much information as possible and speak to a counselor. Talking to an unbiased expert can really help her make the best decision for her.If she needs help finding resources, help her. She may even want someone to visit the counselor with her for emotional support.
No matter what your views are on abortion, it's important to refer your loved one to a counseling center that will inform her about all of her options and not try to influence her decision based on their own beliefs.
 You probably want to help your loved one deal with this situation in any way you can. While your instincts are good, it's best to ask her how you can help first. This will ensure that she does not feel intruded upon or pressured.


If she is not interested in hearing other people's advice, respect that she needs to make her own decisions. If she asks for advice, offer your opinion, but be respectful if she disagrees with you.
If she wants to talk, let her talk. You can be supportive by listening closely and offering unconditional support.
 You may be feeling angry, sad, or disappointed that your loved one has found herself in this situation, but don't let her know that. It's important that you show love and support for her instead of judging her for her decisions.


Keep in mind that she is already dealing with a lot; the last thing she needs is criticism from her loved ones.
If you need to talk to someone about your feelings on her pregnancy, find someone else to talk. Avoid unloading all of your issues on the pregnant woman, as this will just cause her more stress.

