 Whether you're at work or trying to nod off quickly in your living room, your nap will be more restful and you'll be able to fall asleep more quickly if you make your environment dark. Close the shades, turn off the lights, and curl up somewhere comfortable.
 No lights, no radio, no TV, no distractions. If you're only going to lie down for 30 minutes, there should be a big to-do about easing yourself into slumber by listening to NPR for 15 minutes. Create total silence and get right into the nap.


Hit the bathroom right before you take a nap. No sense in getting interrupted by nature 5 minutes into your break.
 If you have trouble getting to sleep quickly, consider playing some ambient drone music, white noise, or even turning on a fan to create a low-level hum that'll drown out the world. Do whatever will help you get into sleep-land that much quicker.


ASMR videos on YouTube feature soothing up-close whispering or background noises that some people find sleep-inducing. It's an easy and free way to queue up something that'll help you drift off, or at least relax you.
 Try to lie down completely. Even if you're at work or somewhere other than your bedroom, lay on a couch, or even create a soft surface on the floor that you'll be able to recline on and grab a few Zs. It'll be too quick for you to get uncomfortable.


If you're at home, get into bed or lay on the couch. The couch can be a nice alternatively, because it'll be easier to get up and out of, making it seem less like a return to sleep and more like a quick break in your day. It'll be easier to get started doing things afterward if your nap is on the couch.
If you're worried about getting in trouble at work, take your break in your car and put the seat back. If breaks are allowed, but napping at your desk is frowned upon, find somewhere private., Your body temperature drops off as you drift off to sleep, so Try to anticipate that you'll need a blanket or at least a long-sleeved shirt to stay warm enough to fall asleep. A nap isn't long enough to have to worry about repositioning and finding a blanket. Do it before you lay down.
 Don't worry about falling asleep deeply and whether or not you're going to get enough rest before your alarm goes off. That's the best way to have a terrible nap. Even if you don't "fall" asleep, closing your eyes for 15 minutes and relaxing is an excellent way to rejuvenate yourself. Don't worry. Relax.


If you're stressed about something and having trouble calming your mind, focus on your breathing. Try to think about nothing but taking deep, restorative breaths. Even if you don't fall asleep, deep breathing exercises are relaxing and effective.
 It's proven that napping periodically throughout the day can make you a healthier and more productive worker. Napping boosts creativity, memory retention, and productivity. Winston Churchill and Thomas Edison were famous nappers. There's no need to feel guilty about resting when you need it. Sleeping in the middle of the day doesn't make you lazy, it makes you proactive.

