 This can lead to more inflammation, an infection, and scarring. Instead, try to allow the pimple to drain naturally and heal on its own, with no scrubbing, poking, or popping.


If you cannot leave the pimple alone, you can try to exfoliate it with natural, gentle scrubs; however, many skin specialists do not recommend exfoliation as it is a bit like pulling off a scab before it falls off on its own and can cause scarring on the surface of your skin.
Gentle exfoliation can help to pull out any sebum, cell debris, or embedded hairs that are causing the deep pimple and speed up healing of the pimple.
 Combine honey with baking soda to make a paste that you apply directly to the deep pimple.


In a small clean bowl, mix ¼ cup honey and 1 teaspoon of baking soda. Add enough baking soda to make a paste.
Apply the paste with gentle, circular motions on the deep pimple or use a Q-tip to apply it to the pimple. Work the paste in gently for two to three minutes and then rinse it off with warm water.
 This exfoliant is another natural way to gently remove any dirt, cell debris, or embedded hairs in the deep pimple.


Place ¼-½ cup rolled whole oats in a food processor or coffee grinder until they are ground to a fine texture. Add enough olive oil, jojoba oil, Vitamin E oil, avocado oil, or almond oil to the oats to make a paste.
Apply the paste to the deep pimple with gentle, circular motions. You can also use a Q-tip to apply it. Massage the paste on the deep pimple for two to three minutes and then rinse it off with warm water.
 Olive oil is suggested for this exfoliant but you can use castor oil, jojoba oil, Vitamin E oil, avocado oil, or almond oil if you would prefer.


Combine one teaspoon of sugar with ½ cup of the oil until it forms a paste.
Apply the paste with gentle, circular motions on the deep pimple or use a Q-tip to apply it to the pimple. Work the paste in gently for two to three minutes and then rinse it off with warm water.
 Sea salt is known to help improve the appearance of your skin and remove dirt and debris that can cause deep pimples.


Mix one to two teaspoons of sea salt with enough olive oil to make a paste.
Apply the paste to the deep pimple with gentle, circular motions. You can also use a Q-tip to apply it. Massage the paste on the deep pimple for two to three minutes and then rinse it off with warm water.

