 It's up to you what you use. Pencils, markers, inks, etc. Identify what container you want, too.;
, An example of this would be:

Mechanical Pencil. It's sharp, you don't need a sharpener, it's portable (and has an eraser built in!) You can buy these just about anywhere. As long as they won't break easily and are light, easy to refill, and you can use anywhere,






Coloured pencils. The staple of colouring for some, others it's just for a mock up. Bring the main six colours you use. (Normally, some brands can blend to make other colours.)You can also buy these in a mechanical form from specialty office stores- see the fashion stationery section. They come in a box with a pin-hole like sharpener. They are also, rather easy to use after a while of breaking leads.






Outlining pens. Some use super-fine sharpies, whilst others may use ballpoints. Make sure that it's cheap and easy to use. Experiment with these.






Markers. They could replace coloured pencils,but they in some cases take up too much room.






An eraser. You can buy these in rectangles, modeling clay like grey putty, or in a pen form. Use what ever is easiest for you, but always remember, the size of the container/material the container is made out of can harm the putty erasers. (Example: that fluffy stuff on inside of some pencil cases made by certain brands.)






A sharpener, if you are using wood pencils.Tip: have a sharpener which has a collection container underneath. If you are on a train drawing and it's a carpet floor, the pencil shavings are very annoying for the cleaners. If you do have a sharpener without a collection tin or container underneath, don't buy a putty eraser. The little wood bits break and get into the eraser and ruin it.






If you use different products, add them.
 It could be a makeup case, a pencil tin, a container.. if it fits in most of your bags without getting lost or broken, it works. You could experiment with the container, mainly because one size won't fit everyone.
 Just remember, that it's going into a bag.
