 If you are the victim of abuse, then you can get a court to order the abuser to stay away from you. You can seek a protective order against any adult who lived in your home with you, including emancipated minors. You also can seek a protective order against a stranger. The following are some examples of violence you can seek protection against:


assault
burglary
stalking
cyberstalking
criminal mischief
criminal sexual assault
harassment
terroristic threats;
, To get a protective order, you must be an adult or a minor of a certain age. The age varies by state. You will need to show a judge that the person you want to restrain is a threat to your physical or mental health.


Parents can file restraining orders for minors. Any minor who legally lives on her own can receive a restraining order.
The youngest age you can be granted a restraining order differs from state to state. In most states, the minimum age is somewhere between 14 and 18. In California, you can get one by the age of 12.
 A protective order prohibits a person from having contact with you or your children.The full scope of the protective order will depend on the facts of the case. For example, an abuser or stalker can be ordered to stay a certain distance away from you at all times.If you live with an abuser, they can be ordered to move out of the home.
Furthermore, the judge can prohibit the abuser from purchasing a firearm, and can require that the abuser pay certain bills, your attorney fees, as well as loan payments., Seeking a protective order is fairly straightforward, but you may find that you need help, especially during an emotional and vulnerable time. Don’t be afraid to consult an attorney for help with filling out paperwork.


Also don’t forget about your emotional needs. Contact friends or family to help you through this difficult time.
If possible, consider meeting with a therapist or a support group for victims of abuse or stalking.
 Domestic violence can happen to anyone, and psychological abuse is just as serious as physical violence. No one should live in fear., States often have more than one type of protective order. Often the distinction relates to whether you know the person you are seeking an order against.


In California, for example, the Civil Court gives several types of protective orders. The Domestic Violence Restraining Order (DVRO) is filed against someone you had a relationship with (such as a spouse, partner, boyfriend/girlfriend) or a close relative (such as a parent, child, sibling, grandparent, etc.)The Civil Harassment Order (CHO) is filed against a stranger.A Workplace Violence Restraining Order (WVRO) can be filed by an employer to protect an employee from harassment by another person.If you have questions about what kind of order to obtain, ask your court's self-help center or try to meet with an attorney.
 If the threat of violence is immediate, you should seek an ex parte order. The court decides to grant this type of order without hearing from the other side.After an ex parte order is granted, the court may hear from the restrained party. At the hearing, the judge will determine whether to turn the ex parte order into a full order.Ex parte orders are good for emergencies, but they are temporary. They typically expire within 15 days of being issued if no other hearing or continuance is filed., You will need to request a protective order by filing a petition or motion in court. Go to your courthouse and ask if they have a form. It may go by various names, such as “Request for Domestic Violence Restraining Order”or “Petition for Order of Protection.”These forms should be pre-printed "fill in the blank" forms.


You may also need to get a restraining order in any county where you have had abuse take place, e.g., in the county where the abuser lives. In that case, you should get a form from that county as well.
 A typical form will ask for basic personal information about you and the abuser, including a description of the abuser.You should fill everything on the form out completely. You likely will need to provide an affidavit in which you explain the events that have led you to file for the restraining order, including all abusive or threatening behavior.


You should also get copies of medical records or police reports that support your case and detail the abuse inflicted on you or your children.If you have questions about how to fill out a form, you should contact your court's self-help center. If no self-help center is available, you may want to contact your state's bar association and ask about pro bono assistance.
 You should make copies for your records as well as one copy for the person you are seeking to restrain. Take all copies to the court clerk and ask to file. The clerk will stamp all copies with the date.


There should be no filing fee for filing a motion for a protective order., After you file, you will receive a date for a court hearing. It usually takes a day or two, depending on your state. The hearing typically will be scheduled within two weeks of your filing. If you asked for an emergency (ex parte) restraining order, then a hearing will take place as soon as possible, often that day or the following day.In some states, you can request to forgo a hearing. However, if you don’t attend, then the court will be limited as to the protection it can order. For example, the abuser may be ordered to leave the house and not contact you, but other relief may not be available., You must notify the other party that you have filed for a protective order. If you received an emergency protective order, then you will need to serve the order on the abuser. There are many different ways to serve notice on another person. Ask your court clerk what methods are acceptable.


For example, you may have someone over age 18, who is not related to the case, personally deliver the papers.
You may also hire a process server. Look in the phone book or online for process servers. Typically, a process server costs between $45-75.You can have the sheriff deliver the papers, also for a fee.
You may not serve the papers yourself.
 At the hearing, you may ask for specific protections. You will also be asked questions in front of the judge. The abuser is also afforded the opportunity to give their side of the story. If the abuser does not show up to the hearing, then the restraining order will usually be granted.


Be sure to review all of your paperwork before attending the hearing. This includes any medical or police reports, as well as your own affidavit.Dress nicely and stay calm. Even if you are angry or upset, you must remain calm.
 Typically, the judge decides whether to grant the order or not on the same day as the hearing. If your request is granted, the order can last up to five years.It will describe the rights you receive and the limitations imposed on the other person.
 To protect yourself, you will need to have a copy of the restraining order with you at all times. Having a copy handy will protect you in case the abuser ignores it and tries to contact you.


If you have to call the police, the papers will help them understand the situation faster. If you lose your copy, then contact the court for another copy.
 You should read the restraining order carefully, as it will explain your rights. If the abuser violates any rule of the order, then he can be picked up by the police. Although civil courts cannot jail someone for violation of a civil order, in some situations, violating a protective order will cause the state to take over the situation. When that happens, an abuser can be put in jail or ordered to pay a fine.Repeat violations can be classified as either gross misdemeanors or felonies.Felonies carry a longer term of imprisonment and a larger fine. Repeat violations classified as gross misdemeanors can carry a $3,000 fine and up to one year in jail. Felony violations can carry prison terms of 10 years and a fine of $20,000., If someone covered by a protective order contacts you, then you should call the police. Report any unauthorized contacts, even if they are not immediately life-threatening.


You can also follow up by bringing an enforcement action in court. You must file another petition in court and explain in your affidavit how the abuser violated the protective order. The court can order a hearing, at which you will testify. If the court finds that the protective order was violated, the judge can punish the abuser., Even if you have a protective order, an abuser may still try to contact you. You must remain vigilant because it can take police plenty of time to respond to an emergency call.


If you obtain a protective order, do not voluntarily reach out to contact the abuser.
 Each restraining order has an expiration date. If you need a restraining order extended, then contact the county clerk. You will be asked to explain your reasons for wanting to extend the order.


You can also have a restraining order dismissed. If you wish to live with the other person, then be sure to have the protective order dismissed, otherwise he or she could get in legal trouble.
If you wish to have the protective order dismissed, then you may be screened to see that the request is voluntary. As part of the screening process, you may be asked a series of questions. You will also be told your rights and responsibilities.