 If the child continues to talk back to you, you might have to take away some of their privileges. You may revoke their television for the evening or take away their video games. You can also take away dessert or make them go to bed early.


If you take away something, you must follow through on it. Do not give in and let them watch TV later if you took it away earlier in the day. This will teach your child that your discipline is not consistent.
Be reasonable with this type of discipline. Never withhold food or water from your child, and only take away something for a day., If a young (under the age of five) child is having a tantrum, then you can put them in time out. Find a chair or bed, and ask them to sit quietly for a few minutes.You can leave them in time out for one minute per year of age, or you can just have them stay there until they have calmed down.


Another option is to redirect your child to a different activity. For example, you could say something like, "I see you’re upset. Why don't you come to the table to color and draw. You can draw me a picture showing me just how mad you are." This will help to teach your child how to find an outlet for their emotions, which is a valuable skill for them to have.
 One way to help your child learn from the experience is to assign them a task that may help them to see things differently and learn from the experience. This will help them to grow from the experience rather than just punishing them for their actions.


For example, you could ask your child to read a book about being polite or controlling emotions. Or, you could ask them to think about how talking to you in the way that they did might have made you feel and draw or write about it.
 If your child shows a consistent pattern of talking back or if their disobedience occurs both at school and at home, there may be an underlying problem. Talk to your pediatrician. They may refer you to a counselor or child behavior specialist.Take notes of your child’s behavioral patterns so that you can show the doctor.
You might say to the pediatrician, “Billy is constantly acting out at school and at home. He keeps using curse words and talking back to me. What can we do?”

