 Alcohol is high in calories and sugar and can increase triglyceride levels. Even small amounts of alcohol can raise your number. Some research has suggested that drinking more than one drink a day for women and two drinks a day for men can increase triglyceride levels significantly.Some people with very high triglycerides may need to cut out alcohol entirely.
 At the supermarket, spend a few minutes reading nutrition labels. This can help you decide whether you should buy certain foods or leave them on the shelf. An activity that takes just 1 minute can save you loads of strife in the long run.


If the label lists certain sugars in the first few ingredients, you should keep it on the shelf. Be on the lookout for brown sugar, high-fructose corn syrup, honey, molasses, fruit juice concentrates, dextrose, glucose, maltose, sucrose and syrup. These are all sugars, which can increase triglycerides.One helpful tip when grocery shopping is to focus your shopping on the outside perimeter of the supermarket. This is where most of the fresh produce, grains, and meats are located. Processed and packaged foods tend to be located in the centre of the store so try to avoid those aisles as much as possible.
 If you're overweight, even losing just five to ten percent of your total body weight can help lower your triglycerides and cholesterol and reduce your risk of heart disease. Obesity leads to an increase in fat cells. People who maintain a healthy weight typically have normal (in other words, healthy) levels of triglycerides. Belly fat especially is a key indicator of high triglyceride levels.Whether or not someone is overweight or obese can be determined by using the body mass index (BMI), an indicator of body fatness. BMI is a person's weight in kilograms (kg) divided by the square of the person's height in meters (m). A BMI of 25 — 29.9 is considered overweight, while a BMI greater than 30 is considered obese.To lose weight, reduce the number of calories you intake and increase the amount of exercise you do. This is the best way to lose weight. Always be sure to consult your physician and potentially also a registered dietitian before beginning any weight loss or diet-and-exercise program.
You can also make a concerted effort to watch portion sizes and to eat slowly and stop when you're full.
You can control how many pounds of weight you lose! You've probably already heard the number one rule of weight loss: you need to have a deficit of 3,500 calories. That sounds like a lot, but really, it's just burning 3,500 more calories than you eat, or 500 more calories than you eat in a week. Every week that you follow this, you could potentially lose a pound of fat!

, To see a reduction in your triglyceride levels, try to get at least 30 minutes of some form of exercise on most or all days of the week. Studies have shown that aerobic exercise (meaning exercise that gets your heart rate up to at least 70 percent of your target heart rate), sustained for an average of 20 – 30 minutes, will decrease your triglyceride level.Take a brisk daily walk, join the pool or hit the gym to burn off those extra triglycerides.Obtain your target heart rate by subtracting your age from 220 and then multiplying it by .70. For example, if you are 20 years old, your target heart rate would be 140.
Regular physical activity kills two birds with one stone; it boosts "good" cholesterol while simultaneously lowering "bad" cholesterol and triglycerides.
If you don't have time to exercise for 30 consecutive minutes, try squeezing it in in small increments throughout the day. Take a short walk around the block, climb the stairs at work, or try sit-ups, yoga, or core workouts as you watch television at night.

