 Throw that out of the window. You cannot keep a 20 inch (50.8 cm) fish in a 20 gallon (75.7 L) tank, the poor fish would barely have room to turn. What fish you chose for your tank depends on how much waste the fish produces, and how much space it needs. AqAdvisor.com is a great stocking calculator to help you stock your tank. Try to stay under 85% stocking.

Anything less than 5 gallons (18.9 L) is not suitable for a fish, not even a Betta, you could keep some snails, or a group of shrimp, but that's it. A Betta needs a proper 5 gallon (18.9 L) tank with filter and heater. ;
, If you want fish other then a Betta, get a 10 gallon (37.9 L) or larger. Goldfish are not considered beginner fish if you want a small tank. Fancy goldfish require 40 gallons (151.4 L) at least, and common goldfish require hundreds of gallons, and do better in a pond. Good beginner fish are guppies, platies, tetras, Danios, white cloud minnows, Colorado catfish, Betta fish, and dwarf gourmands. Other aquatic pets like shrimp or snails can also be fantastic. Research the fish you want, see what size tank it needs, what its water requirements are, is it compatible with the other fish, how big it gets, etc. Do all of this and purchase supplies, and set up the tank and let it run for few days before purchasing the fish., Tropical fish like water in the high 70s to low 80's, goldfish like water in the low or mid 70's, they are not compatible.
 They probably don't even know a thing about fish. Instead, go online to fish forums and research sites to find out more details from the experts.
 Pet stores often don't tell you about cycling your tank, another reason not to trust them. The basics of cycling are as follows: All fish produce ammonia, which is toxic and will kill them in small amounts. They produce it when they poop and breathe. Rotting plants and food will also produce ammonia, so it's important to keep your tank clean. To remove the ammonia, a bacteria has to grow in the filter which eats the ammonia. This bacteria eats ammonia and produces nitrites. Nitrites are also toxic to fish, however, so it's important that another bacteria establishes to eat the nitrite and turn it into nitrate. Nitrate is only toxic in large amounts, so weekly 25% water changes are recommended in a well-stocked tank to keep the nitrates down and remove any debris. A good website for information on the nitrogen cycle is Fish lore.com. They have a good article on several methods to cycle your tank, and have a great, active forum where experts will give you advice. , All fish need a filter, because it is difficult to cycle a tank without one. A great brand is Aqua clear, as they are reliable and customizable. All tropical fish need a heater! Even if your house is warm, the temperature will fluctuate, making the fish get stressed out. Get a heater, and set it to 78 °F (26 °C) for tropical fish. Remember that some tropical fish like Cordilleras like cooler water in the low 70's, while other fish like Betta like warmer water in the high 70's to low 80's. It's also important that your heater is reliable. Emmie heaters are good, but there are many out there! Be sure to research, and let your tank run with the heater for a few days to ensure the temperature is right. Purchase a cheap, glass thermometer from the pet store to tell you if the temperature is right.
 Some fish like tetras, Corydoras catfish, and danios need to be in a group of 5 or more to feel safe, if you do not keep them in a group, they will get stressed and die.
 Only feed your fish a pinch twice a day, and remove any leftover food. Skip a feeding once a week, it will give the fish some time to clear out its system. Don't worry, the fish is not going to starve, fish can go up to a week without food. Feed your fish flakes as a staple, and add in live, frozen or freeze dried foods as a treat once or twice a week. Soak freeze dried foods in a cup of aquarium water for 5 minutes before feeding your fish, this is so it doesn't expand in your fishes stomach, making it swim funny. Also feed your fish nothing but a pea once a week. Prepare the pea by putting it in a bowl with some water and putting it in the microwave for 10 seconds. then remove the skin and feed a tiny bit.

Some fish, like corydora catfish, need sinking pellets, so the pinch rule doesn't apply.
 It can hurt your fish even more., It's better then floating the bag. Floating the bag only makes the fish used to the temperature, not the water conditions. Research acclimation methods and chose which you will use before purchasing fish. , It does not matter what size the tank is or what kind of filter it has. You should also use a gravel vacuum to vacuum the gravel, but do not go too deep, you don't want to remove all the good bacteria!
, The good bacteria lives in the filter media, so changing the cartridge will remove most of the bacteria. Only replace the cartridge when it is falling apart, and even then you should keep some of it in the tank until the new cartridge has some new bacteria on it. You can swish it in some old aquarium water when changing the water to clean it.
 The saying about keeping a bucket of tap water out for 24 hours will remove the chlorine is true, but chlorine and heavy metals do not dissipate in the air. Water conditioners like Prime by Sachems or Miquela Plus are good ones.
 Pet stores use inaccurate strips to test water, so if you're going to a pet store to test your water, then you're getting incorrect readings. Getting a liquid test kit and testing your water yourself is better. The API Liquid Freshwater Master Test Kit is recommended.
