 As the dog transitions from the first stage of labor to more active labor, you will begin to notice contractions. This stage is marked by the visible effort to expel the puppies. For instance, the female dog may get into a squatting or lying position in order to deliver the puppies.A normal delivery will begin after 10-60 minutes of active labour.
If the dog does not deliver a puppy after 60 minutes there may be a complication and you should call the vet.
Alternatively, if the mother is contracting forcefully and no puppy is born, you should call the vet.
 When a puppy is born it is encased in an amniotic sac. The mother should lick the puppy in order to break the sac and stimulate breathing. In some instances this may not happen and you will need to intervene. Using your fingers, break the sac and wipe away any fluids around the nose and mouth. Then rub the puppy’s back with a towel to stimulate blood flow and breathing.Keep the puppy close to the mother even if you have to interfere.
Only interfere if necessary because this is important bonding between the mother and puppy.
 Each puppy is tethered to the mother with an umbilical cord and this will need to be severed once the puppy is born. In a normal birth the mother will bite the cord and you will not need to interfere. If this does not happen, you will need to cut the umbilical cord.


Tie a piece of dental floss tightly around the umbilical cord, about an inch from the puppy’s body.
Cut the cord and then clot any blood using clean gauze.
 During the delivery of the puppies, the mother will also deliver the placenta or afterbirth. This is considered the third stage of delivery, but the placentas can be expelled sporadically throughout active delivery. There will be one placenta for each puppy that is birthed. Keep track of the placenta to ensure that all of them are removed. The mother may eat the placenta after it is delivered. Some people believe this is fine and healthy, but others prefer to remove the placenta from the whelping box.If the dog does not deliver the proper number of placentas take them to a veterinarian. Any unborn fetuses or afterbirth could result in serious health problems for the dog.

