 Grab a piece of white polymer clay large enough for your intended project. Knead it in your hands for 30 to 60 seconds, or until it becomes more flexible.


You can also experiment by mixing Pearl Ex pigment into pre-colored clay to produce different shades. For instance, you can add a glittery pink Pearl Ex pigment to a matte pink clay to give the clay a sparkle effect.
 Carefully dust a little Pearl Ex pigment over the clump of polymer clay, then knead it into the clay.


You must knead the clay and pigment together for a few minutes, or until the color is evenly distributed throughout the entire piece of clay.
 Line a baking sheet with nonstick aluminum foil, wax paper, or parchment paper.


The exact baking temperature may vary depending on the brand of polymer clay you opt to use. Always check the package instructions to determine the right way to bake the clay.
 Use any standard molding method to sculpt the tinted polymer clay into the pieces you wish to make.


Polymer clay can be used to form a variety of pieces, including small sculptures, beads, pendants, ornaments, and containers, among other things.
You can form polymer clay free-handed, or you can use a variety of tools and molds to help you create shapes.
If desired, you can also apply Pearl Ex pigment directly to a polymer clay mold by brushing it on with a soft-bristled paintbrush. Turn the mold over and lightly tap the back to dump any excess before pressing the clay into the mold. This will result in a more vibrant shade, and the pigment also makes it easier to release the clay from the mold.
 If you want to create a bolder shade of pigment on part of the piece, you can do so by dusting Pearl Ex pigment directly over the area with a paintbrush or cotton swab.


Press the pigment into the clay with just enough force to make it stick. The best way to do this is by gently rubbing it in with your ring finger. You need to apply a gentle amount of pressure to avoid damaging the shape of the clay as you work.
 Place the clay on your prepared baking sheet and place the baking sheet in the oven. Allow the clay to bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until hardened.


As with the baking temperature, the baking/curing time can vary based on the brand of clay you use. Check the instructions before proceeding.
 After the clay cools, brush or spray clear varnish over the surface to seal in the surface pigment. Once the varnish dries, the piece is finished.


Note that varnish is only necessary if you coated the surface with Pearl Ex pigment. Pigment that has been kneaded into the clay will remain in place even without varnish, but clear varnish can still be used to give the piece a glossy sheen.
For best results, spray the varnish out over the surface and allow the mist to fall onto it from above. Spraying the varnish directly onto the surface can cause the powder to blow away and may also result in uneven coats or spray marks.Liquid varnish can be applied directly to the surface with a paintbrush. Use a sponge brush if you want to avoid the risk of brush stroke lines.

