 Since nicotine and caffeine are both stimulants, they can make you feel jittery. Limit yourself to one cup of coffee a day. If you smoke, quitting may help you feel less anxious.It’s a myth that smoking cigarettes calms you down. While a cigarette may create a brief calming sensation by relieving your nicotine craving, smoking actually increases your overall anxiety., Deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, and visualization are several simple relaxation techniques that you can use in almost any situation. These exercises help to relieve muscle tension, which calms your mind as well.Deep breathing is a relaxation technique that anyone can try in the moment. Simply, pull in air through your nose. Hold it briefly. Then, let the air out slowly from your mouth. Repeating this exercise can help calm your entire body down when anxiety strikes.
Progressive muscle relaxation involves going over your whole body, taking turns contracting and releasing tension from each muscle group. You might start at your toes, contract them briefly, and then release the tension. Then, move to the next muscle group until your whole body is more relaxed.
Try out several different relaxation techniques to figure out which ones work best for you. Include these exercises as a regular part of your day to fight off anxiety before it starts, and to manage anxiety when it happens.
 Exercise helps fight anxiety in the short term by lowering your stress levels and lifting your mood. In the long term, improving your fitness boosts your self-esteem and makes you feel more capable. Exercise also improves your cognition, which can help you feel calmer in social situations.Aerobic exercise is best for improving your mood, but any type of regular physical activity will benefit you mentally and physically.
 Your diet may play a role in how anxious you feel. Choose foods that will keep your blood sugar steady, such as whole grains, vegetables, and lean proteins. Avoid foods that are high in simple carbohydrates, since these may contribute to mood swings and negative thoughts about yourself.Getting more magnesium, zinc, and omega-3 fatty acids in your diet may help lower your anxiety levels. You can get these essential vitamins and nutrients from green leafy vegetables, nuts and seeds, and cold-water fish like salmon.

