


Secure infants in rear-facing safety seats until they are at least a year old and 20 pounds. Once they are bigger, seat them in a forward-facing child safety seat.
Put kids who are 40 pounds or heavier in a booster seat until they are big enough to fit securely in the adult seat belt.
Stay focused while driving. Refraining from using a cell phone while driving will reduce the risk of an accident.;
,, Objects in a child's sleeping area increase the risk of choking and smothering.



Teach children about the chemicals in your home so they know the difference between a food product and a poison.
Do not store chemicals near food.
Know the phone number for poison control or keep it handy.
,


Remove dangling accessories from children when they are on the playground. These include scarves, purses, necklaces and drawstrings for clothing.
Keep children younger than 5 in an area away from the bigger kids at a playground.



Make sure your children can swim before getting in the water. If they cannot, ensure that they use proper flotation devices and stay with them the whole time.
Install fencing around a private swimming pool.



Children should always wear well-fitted helmets when riding bikes.
Make sure their bicycles are equipped with reflectors.
Though it depends on local laws, it is often safest to have children ride their bikes on the sidewalk.
A bike is too big if a child cannot sit on the seat and still be able to touch the floor with his feet.
Ensure that the bicycle is well tuned, with filled tires and functioning brakes and gear shifters.
 Fighting back is not a safe option.
, Also, teach your children about how dangerous firearms are.
 Taking smaller bites will also prevent choking.



Different sports require different precautions, so research the activity and equip them accordingly.
Teach children to warm up and stretch before playing a sport.
Take a child to a doctor for a physical before he or she starts a new sport.
,, Test and make sure they are working regularly.
