 A good time to start a clan, is when you are bored. Then people will be more open to the idea.


Start with just a few friends at first. Give yourselves warrior names, before you start adding "kit" or "star" to the end of them.
Choose who will be leader, deputy first. The leader should be the person who knows the series best. Add star to the end of their warrior name. Then they must chose a deputy.
Don't bother with a medicine cat yet. Next, you need to choose a name for your clan. You can use a clan from the books, or invent you own. At school, the first thing you need to do, is decide on where the camp will be. It does not need individual dens, just a place for a medicine cat to mix herbs, and a place for the leader to address your clan.
Place the borders. It is not a good idea to include the entire school field in your borders, as you will want to add another clan later.;
, At first your clan will be small. Don't worry though. As you continue to play, interest will grow. when someone first joins, make them an apprentice the first break they play.


Give them a mentor. In that break, their mentor should tell them where the borders are, teach them to hunt and fight, (covered below) and tell them the basic rules of the warrior code. Then, you should make them a warrior.
 When your clan is of substantial size, ask your clan if anyone would like to be leader of another clan. If so, see if any people would like to be part of that other clan. If at least five people want to, then set up another clan, and choose the starting borders.
 To fight, you want to come up with a rock paper scissors type system


Consider these simple examples:

Bellyrake beats frontal paw blow
Frontal paw blow beats roll-and-kick
Roll-and-kick beats bellyrake


If someone loses the "rock paper scissors" they have sustained a battle wound. If someone sustains three battle wounds, they must stop fighting. The fight goes on until all of one clan have stopped fighting.
Do not defend your borders from teachers or pupils who are not part of a clan. Only defend them from people in the other clan.



Have one person in your clan pretend to be prey. They should run, and when the hunting patrol catch them, they have caught they prey. Make sure people take fair turns at being the prey or arguments could happen.
 If you know someone who likes mushing up berries they find in the school grounds, ask them if they would like to be the medicine cat. If a person sustains a battle wound, the medicine cat can heal them, by naming the right herb, and pretending to mix a poultice.
 There are many ways for a clan to deteriorate, and sometimes it is impossible to stop.


Maybe there has been an argument and clan mates do not want to be near each other. One way of sorting this could be for one person to join the other clan. (Be careful if you suggest this, or you could cause offence and start another argument.
Another reason for the clan breaking up, could be simply because you have been away on summer holiday, and people have forgotten about it. One way of preventing this, is to now and again, remind them of it during the holiday. For example, on a postcard you could put: Loving it here, but I am looking forward to hunting with the clan again.

