 Any herbs that you decide to use should be herbicide and pesticide free. Look for herbs that have been organically and sustainably grown.


Find a local herbalist if possible. A local herbalist is likely to have higher quality herbs than the ones you may find online.
If you must buy herbs online, look for manufacturers that follow organic, sustainable growing practices and that use Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). This information should be easy to spot on their website. If not, then try calling and asking about their growing and manufacturing practices.
 Consider the color, smell, and taste of the herbs before you buy them.Greener herbs are fresher. A greener color also indicates that the herbs have not been exposed to excessive heat. Make sure that you smell and taste the herbs as well. Aromatic herbs should keep their odor as well and all herbs should retain their taste.


Try asking the herbalist or manufacturer for a sample so that you can inspect the herbs before you decide to buy them.
 Herbal supplement labels should include certain basic information on the package. Before you purchase an herbal supplement, read the label carefully to be certain that it includes:the name of the herbal supplement including the common and Latin name for the herbthe manufacturer’s or distributor’s name and address
the amount, serving size, and active ingredients
a full list of ingredients including inactive ingredients

, Herbal supplements with a United States Pharmacopeial (USP) seal are often higher quality than those without a USP seal. The USP seal means that the ingredients have been lab-tested and that what you see listed on the bottle is what is actually in the bottle. An herbal supplement with a USP seal has also been tested to make sure it does not contain any harmful ingredients. USP seal bottles have also been produced under sanitary conditions that meet the FDA’s guidelines.Only buy herbal supplements that have a USP seal. Studies have shown a great deal of inconsistency among herbal supplements. Some herbal supplements do not contain the right herb, while others may also contain metals, pesticides, and even prescription drugs., Herbal supplements from Europe are well-regulated, but supplements from Mexico, China, and India are not. Check the label to determine where the supplement was produced. Only buy herbal supplements that were produced in the United States or Europe., If a manufacturer claims the herb will prevent, treat, or cure a disease, that should be a red flag. Herbal supplement manufacturers may include information about health benefits of the herb as long as they are backed by studies, but they do not have to submit the studies to the FDA. Therefore, some herbal supplement manufacturers may claim to do things that have not been verified.Also, keep in mind that terms like “natural,” “certified,” “standardized,” or “verified” are not evidence of a product’s safety or quality.

