 Don’t view this situation as a failure. Being rejected by someone doesn’t mean you have failed in some huge, measurable way. On the contrary, it means that you were brave and put yourself out there and gave yourself an opportunity to learn from your mistakes.Try to think of the rejection as an opportunity to grow as a person and figure out what works for you.
Take some time to think about what you might’ve done differently to turn that rejection into an acceptance. This will help you learn from your mistakes and make changes for the future.;
, Rejection can be a difficult pill to swallow — it can create feelings of hostility, embarrassment, shame, and denial. Allow yourself to take it slow after an instance of rejection and to process all the feelings you have.The guy will need to process his feelings too. If you want to be friends again after he rejects you, you’ll need to give him a bit of time and space to figure out what he thinks about it too. This will help eliminate any potential awkwardness.
Of course, the length of time that you need to wait will vary from situation to situation. But a good rule of thumb is to wait at least two weeks, or until you start feeling more comfortable with the idea of talking to him again.
 Even if he rejected you, there was a reason you liked him in the first place. And clearly you got close enough to him to know that he likes you too (at least as a friend). Don’t change who you are just because you got rejected. Continue dressing the same, talking the same, and liking the same things that you did before the rejection, but also continue your normal activities online. Keep posting things to friends, pictures of yourself, and whatever you used to do before the rejection.Don’t ever change yourself for anyone. Your uniqueness is what draws people to you.
 One of the hardest parts of communicating with a guy after he rejects you is letting it go. Don’t obsess over what you said, what you could have said differently, or how you might have handled the situation in another way. It happened; move on.Running through alternative scenarios in your mind over and over will only prolong your agony. Just accept that it happened and try to avoid thinking about it too much.
Tell your friends that you don't want to rehash the rejection and that you'd like their support in not talking about it.
If you find yourself obsessing over the situation, try distracting yourself by doing something else. Call a friend to meet up or start watching a movie. Try rereading a book you love or going for a walk outside.
 Try not to view this as a hurtful rejection, but more as an opportunity to get to know him better and possibly gain a good friend. Act in a civilized manner after he rejects you and show him you want to continue a friendship.Don’t ice him out and ignore him so you can pretend like what happened didn’t hurt you. Instead, make efforts to continue the friendship and get to know him better.
If you want to reach out to him to try to maintain the friendship (or start one in the first place), you could try to talk to him about it. Tell him that you value him as a friend and you don’t want to lose the friendship. Invite him to hang out with you casually — like going to a movie or hanging out with a group of mutual friends.

