 Make time throughout the week to engage in activities you enjoy doing. Make it a point to relax and have fun without much stress. Hobbies, for example, are a great excuse to take a break from your busy lifestyle but still have a sense of purpose in doing them.Studies show that a rush of excitement or joy, such as taking a walk, playing with your dog, or cooking, releases eustress, a moderate psychological stress shown to be beneficial for you.
As a positive break from work, hobbies offer new challenges for your brain and an outlet for stress. Focusing on activities different from work gives your mind new tasks to focus on.
The intensity of participating in something you enjoy makes time fly by. This is time you are not dwelling on the past or worrying about the future.
Engaging in activities that you love have proven to lower blood pressure, cortisol, obesity, and body mass index while, at the same time, increasing levels of positive psychosocial states. This proves that hobbies are good for mind, body, and soul.
 Exercise is good for your body, but it is also good for your mental health. Many studies link increased self-esteem, concentration, and physical appearance with exercising. Exercising also improves sleep, energy levels, and social engagement while decreasing tension, stress, and mental fatigue.


No need for an expensive gym membership. Instead, take a jog in the park, a swim in the ocean, lake, or river, or stretch in the living room. There are many ways to remain active outside the gym or even at work.
Moderate exercise – breathing heavier than normal or just breaking a sweat – for thirty minutes five times a week is recommended by most physicians.
Choose activities that fit into your daily schedule, times that work for you, and make it a lifestyle commitment.
If you need a partner to keep you motivated, ask a colleague, friend, or family member to join you.
 Eating healthy is essential for strong mental health. Not doing so will only encourage a range of possible mental health illnesses. Recent studies show that the types of food you eat will determine whether you are more prone to mental health problems or not. In short, eat a balanced diet that emphasizes lots of fruits and vegetables.


Try to eat three healthy meals every day to control your blood sugar levels. Missing meals, especially breakfast, will cause you to be hungrier, irritable, and fatigued throughout the day. Eat a healthy snack to make up for it if you have to.
Concentrate on reducing refined foods such as sugar and increasing whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Sugar will give you a surge of energy but ultimately will leave you tired and irritable while the sugar in fruits is absorbed slower and keeps your mood balanced.
Protein is full of the amino acid tryptophan, which reduces anxiety and stress, regulates behavior, and improves the quality of sleep. Make sure your brain is fed a steady diet of tryptophan by including meat, fish, eggs, cheese, and nuts in your regular meal plan.
Omega-3 and omeg-6 fatty acids found in fish oils should also find its way into your diet because they play an important role in normal brain development and function, and are known to help prevent heart attacks, strokes, and cancers.
Drink lots of water to stay hydrated and avoid excessive alcohol to prevent dehydration. Dehydration causes irritability, loss of concentration, and reduced mental power, which is also found in the side effects of alcohol.
Keep your diet diversified and interesting so that you can ensure you are getting the complete range of vitamins, minerals, and nutrients your body and mind need to function at a high level.
Maintain a healthy weight to control your mood and self-esteem.
Avoid taking drugs. Substance abuse is not a solution to solving your problems. Taking drugs only creates problems.
 Sleeping for eight hours a day will restore your mind and body while preparing you for the next day. Without adequate sleep, your mental health will suffer, your concentration will be short, and you will be easily agitated.Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time every day. Good habits will result in better sleeping patterns since your body will become used to the routine.
If you do not get enough sleep, then find five or ten minutes to relax your brain by letting your mind wander, daydream, or meditate during the day.
 Do not be afraid to rely on others during stressful times. Whether that is dropping the kids off at mom’s house for a break or letting the kids sleep over at the neighbor’s house.


Always try to ask somebody you trust and can count on. This will bring you comfort and ease your mind.
True strength and understanding comes from utilizing your resources – friends and family – when you need them. It is not a sign of weakness or failure to ask for help. Most of the time, you will discover that people enjoy helping out other people, especially if it is somebody who will really benefit from it.
Try to be specific for the reasons you need help. People are far more understanding when they know they are helping for an important reason.
 Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is a psychotherapy that focuses on problem-solving and initiating behavioral change for many different types of mental disorders. Cognitive therapy is instrumental in teaching new skills that will alter thinking and behavior for a lifetime.CBT centers on dealing with situation thought more than on emotions.
Therapy is open for everybody not just those with a mental disorder. In fact, at any point you would like to make a change in your life at work, home, family and friends, personal relationships or colleagues, therapy is a safe route to take.
Cognitive therapy is also useful if you want to improve your intellect, cultural interests, learn new skills, or simply improve the overall quality of your life.

