 A flat table or workbench will work best for this craft. Lay down a few sheets of newspaper or a drop cloth to prevent paint from getting on your work surface. The supplies needed for this craft are available at most craft stores.Be sure the box you buy is made of unfinished wood. Finished wood might not paint over easily, or might require you to remove the paint before painting.
When selecting a paint, check its label instructions. Here you’ll find information on the surfaces the paint is suited for and whether or not it needs primer.
 Use a clean, dry cloth to remove any dust or dirt on your box. Open your paint and prepare it according to its directions. Dip a paintbrush into the paint and remove excess paint by wiping the brush on the inner lip of the can. Cover your box in paint. Allow the paint to dry completely.You may have to remove the hinge from your box to effectively paint its nooks and crannies. This can usually be done easily with a screwdriver.
The brand of paint you’ve used will influence the time it takes the paint to dry. Check its label to find out how long your paint needs to dry.
Some brands of paint or colors may require multiple coats. Generally, multiple thin coats will be stronger and have a smoother finish., Find a small bowl or container that’s roughly the size of your box. Turn it over on top of your fabric. Trace the outline of the bowl with a pencil or piece of chalk. Cut out this circle with your scissors.The circle that you cut out doesn’t have to be perfect. The edges of it will be tucked down into the sides of the box and hidden from sight.
Depending on your box, you may need to experiment with the fabric outline. Overestimating size is easier to correct and only requires you to remove excess fabric with scissors.
 This ribbon will attach to both rings, holding them in place on the pillow. Position your ribbon left-to-right across the middle of the fabric. Thread your needle and pass it through the front of the ribbon and fabric then back again. Do this several times along the center of the ribbon. Tie off both ends with knots.


If you’re not confident in your sewing skills, you may be able to attach the ribbon to the fabric with a little bit of hot glue.
You may want to trim your ribbon down so it is more manageable. Loose ends can be tucked into the sides of the box., Insert the stuffing into your ring box and cover it with your fabric. Tuck the sides of the fabric between the stuffing and the box. Arrange the fabric so the ribbon is directly in the center of the box. Your ring bearer box is ready for the aisle.


Alternatively, you could sew a hem into your fabric and run an elastic string or band through the hem. Stuff the inside with padding and you’re done.
When the moment comes, remember to attach your rings with the ribbon and tie them in place with a bow.