 The ability to interact with others and form healthy relationships is crucial to becoming a well-adjusted, independent teen girl. Healthy social interaction improves your self-confidence, teaches you how to work as a team and settle disputes, and may even improve your cognitive abilities.Taking a theater class is a great way to overcome shyness and feel more confident in all areas of your life.
Getting involved with volunteer work will help make you a kinder and better person, and will help you relate better to people in general.
 Most parents base the age they allow their daughters to date on her level of maturity. Your parents need to trust you to recognize dangerous situations, and to come to them for help if needed. If your parents have given you permission to date, understand that they are trusting you with a huge amount of responsibility.Don't let dating interfere with your schoolwork. A good boyfriend or girlfriend will be supportive, and won't drag you down or distract you from your goals with needless drama.Always follow curfew times and any other rules your parents impose. If your parents are constantly worried about where you are, they will limit your independence with stricter rules.
Keep the lines of communication open with your parents. Introduce them to your friends and dates, so they will know that you are hanging out with good people.
Avoid dangerous situations and unstable people. In the US, it is estimated that 25% of teen girls have been abused, physically or emotionally, by someone they were dating., You will need to know how to take care of yourself when you leave home for work or college, and the best time to learn these skills is now. Ask your parents if there is anything they would like help with, and offer to pitch in. They will be very impressed that you volunteered to help without being asked, which will go a long way to proving how responsible you are., You may have heard of the “Freshman 15,” the fifteen pounds many students gain their first year of college because they eat nothing but junk food. You won't need to worry about this if you learn how to cook tasty, healthy meals for yourself now., Unless you are independently wealthy, you'll need to do your own housekeeping when you have your own apartment, so you might as well learn to do these things for yourself now. Although housekeeping may appear simple, there are actually a lot of little things you'll need to learn.


When doing laundry, don't put bright colors or new jeans in with light-colored clothing, because the dyes can run and ruin the entire load.
Always start dusting on the top shelf, and work your way down. And always dust before vacuuming, or you'll just be knocking dust all over your clean floor.
As an added bonus, your parents may even increase your allowance in exchange for doing additional chores – but that shouldn't be your only incentive to help out., Today's teens are less interested in driving than previous generations were, so getting your driver's license might not be a top priority for you now. But you'll still need to find means of getting around when you need to run errands or go to work. You won't feel strong and independent if you are relying on your parents to drive you everywhere.Bicycling is becoming an increasingly popular mode of transportation. Many towns are adding bike lanes on public streets to make cycling safer.If your town has public transportation, learn how to get around safely by train or bus. Public transportation is also good for the environment, because there are fewer cars on the road.
If possible, learn to drive even if you don't plan to buy a car – it is a valuable life skill to have in case of an emergency.