 Since most students are very technologically savvy, you can use that knowledge to your benefit. Have students turn in assignments through an online software program that checks it for plagiarism.Most universities have this type of program built into the websites that they use for students.
There tend to be more cases of cheating in the computer science department than other departments at many universities, simply because they have great resources for automated cheat checking.
 Making homework count for only roughly 10% of the grade is typically enough to ensure that the students do the assignments. In addition, if you grade the assignments based more on effort than accuracy, this will provide students with little incentive to cheating on homework. Most cheating on homework is in the form of excessive collaboration or searching for answers on the internet. If you use this type of weighting and thoughtfully construct your exams, the exams will enforce the no cheating policy for homework better than you can.The students who choose to cheat will likely have their grades lowered as a result of poor performance on exams, as those who are too used to being able to freely collaborate or use the internet may have a hard time with individual assessments.
This make it so there is very little incentive for copying solutions and not very much energy needs to be put into dealing with cheating on homework.
 If you don't want your students working on homework together, you need to make that clear before the assignment is even given. Some students will work together effectively, which can enhance the learning process. However, it can be a problem if one student just copies other students assignments. Decide whether you want students to work independently and then let them know, so that they cannot claim ignorance of your policy.You can always state that you are OK with students working together, but what they turn in must be their own solutions. This allows them to work together but it also requires them to do some independent work as well.
 There are certain types of homework assignments that are more difficult to cheat on than others. Group projects and presentations are particularly hard for students to cheat on, unless they are all in on it together. In a group, each student will have specific responsibilities and they will be accountable to each other for the final product. In a group, each student will have specific responsibilities and they will be accountable to each other for the final product. When students are working together, individual students will find it harder to cheat, since that cheating will be exposed to their classmates.While group projects and presentations will not eliminate cheating all together, they do make cheating less likely.

