 The Tiger Method helps to teach you the trick of vibrating your tongue, which is needed in order to roll your Rs. This method evolves as follows:Clear your throat. This should sound something like “ckh.” While clearing your throat, turn the “ckh” sound into a “grrr” sound. The key to these sounds is making the roof of your mouth vibrate.
Say the letter L or N and pay attention to the place where your tongue ends up at the end of the letter. This spot is your alveolar ridge.
Put your tongue on your alveolar ridge and say the words “girl” and “hurl” without removing your tongue from the ridge. Use the ‘clear your throat’ routine to start the word and turn the vibration into a rolled R.
 This method using the sound that results from blowing a raspberry to help learn how to roll your Rs. The steps are as follows:Start by blowing a regular raspberry.
Add your voice to the sound of the raspberry. This can be done by simply using your vocal cords to make noise.
As you’re blowing a raspberry with vocal sound, lower your jaw as part as possible without stopping the raspberry.
Once your jaw is in a lower position, move your tongue to the alveolar ridge without changing anything else you’re doing.
At this point your should be rolling an R. If not, try the method again until you can end with a rolling R.
 This method involves speaking quite loudly, so you’ll want to try this somewhere you won’t be bothering anyone. Follow these steps:Take a deep breath.
Say the word “vision.” Make the middle of the word (which sounds like “zh”) last 3-4 seconds. As you extend the “zh” sound over those 3-4 seconds, increase the volume of the sound. The last part of the word (the ’n’) should be very short, but should also continue to increase in volume. At this point you should be quite loud.
Add the word “dream” to create a phrase. There should be less than a second between finishing the word “vision” and starting the word “dream.” The “dr” part of the word “dream” should be the climax of the phrase.
When you get to the “dr” part of the word “dream,” relax your tongue and make it go floppy. Since you’re speaking very loudly now, the breath coming out of your mouth should make your tongue vibrate. Let this happen (and keep your tongue relaxed).
If successful, it should sound like you’re saying something like “dagadaga."
You may need to try this several times before you get to the point where you’re making a good rolling R sound.

