 For this trick, you need to do a little bit of prep. You may also want to use a small piece of clear double sided tape or magician’s wax. In one hand, you will palm a quarter, hiding it. With your other hand, you will be showing your audience another quarter.


Before going in front of your audience, place your tape or a small bit of wax in the palm of the hand you will slap the quarter with. If you are skilled and quick enough you don't need to do this. The adhesive helps the quarter stick to your palm.
Explain to your audience that you will place the quarter on the top of your hand. You will then magically transfer it through your hand into a spectator's palm.
As you are explaining this, ask a spectator to hold a hand out palm up.
 As you do this, tell your spectator to really push up into your hand. If you place your hand on top of your spectator’s quickly and really press into it, your spectator won’t feel the coin that is there.


You can even grab the spectator’s hand and position it with your other hand to further distract.
Tell your audience that you can transfer the coin from the top of your hand into the spectator’s palm.
Tell your spectator to concentrate very hard and envision the quarter in your spectator’s palm.
 You will now take the coin that the audience has been aware of and place it on the top of your hand. The other coin is already in the spectator’s palm.


Explain that by slapping the top of your hand hard enough, you can magically transfer the quarter through your hand into your spectator’s.
 Slap the top of your hand quickly. You need to hit your hand hard enough that the coin will stick to the adhesive in your palm. Quickly palm the quarter and bring your hand away.


Hide the quarter in your pocket so you can reveal that your hand is empty. After you reveal that the coin traveled through your hand into your spectator’s palm, you can show your other hand is empty.
If you are skilled enough, you don’t have to use an adhesive. You can simply palm the quarter as you slap your hand down. However, this is much harder and requires plenty of practice.
 Slowly take your hand away from your spectator’s to reveal that the quarter has magically passed through your hand.


If you want, you can show that there’s nothing in your other hand as well.

