


Meanwhile, prepare four sheets of aluminum foil, sizing each so that it is 1-1/2 times as large as any one ear of corn.If there's another rack sitting above the center rack, you can leave it in place as long as it will not block or touch the ears of corn once they're in the oven. If this problem does occur, you'll need to remove the top rack or place it beneath the center rack.
 Peel the husks down from each ear of corn, removing them completely. Snap off the stem at the base of the ear.


Rinse the exposed cobs of corn under cool, running water while using your hands to gently scrub the corn and remove as many silks as possible. Dry with clean paper towels when finished.
 Center each ear of corn over one sheet of aluminum foil. Brush the corn with butter or oil, then add salt, pepper, and chopped parsley as desired.


Melting the butter beforehand may make it easier to spread evenly over the ear of corn, but doing so is not strictly necessary since the butter will melt over the corn as it roasts.
Sprinkle any seasonings over all sides of each ear to distribute them evenly.
 Loosely fold the foil around the corn, then fold and pinch the sides together to create a seal.


Arrange the wrapped corn on an uncovered, ungreased baking sheet. Keep the corn in a single layer; if possible, do not stack the ears.
 Place the corn in the preheated oven and bake the ears until they feel thoroughly hot and tender-crisp.


After the first 10 minutes, rotate the baking sheet to promote even cooking on all sides of the corn.
Check the corn after 20 minutes by carefully squeezing the sides of the foil. Wear an oven mitt as you do this to protect your hands. When ready, the corn should give a little through the foil without breaking or feeling mushy.
 Remove the finished corn from the oven. Allow it to cool for several seconds, then carefully unwrap the foil from around the ears.


The foil will likely release very hot steam as you unwrap it. To protect yourself against burns, do not hover your face or arms over the corn while removing the foil.
After unwrapping the corn, poke one of the kernels with your fingernail or a fork. When ready, the juice should shoot out from the kernel when pierced.If this doesn't happen, you may need to loosely wrap the corn and return it to the oven for another few minutes.
 The roasted corn on the cob should be ready to serve. Eat it while it's still hot to enjoy the best flavor and texture.

