 Lightly moisten a washcloth and wipe it across the surface of the table. Use a microfiber cloth or an old t-shirt so that the cloth will collect dust and not leave any lint behind., Dirt can fall into hairline cracks within the wood, so find an old toothbrush or buy one to use just for cleaning. Brush the bristles into the cracks in long sweeping strokes to try to eject the dust and dirt.For tough grime, go back with the toothbrush a second time. Wet the bristles and add a drop or two of mild liquid soap, then scrub until the cracks are clean.
 Either buy a commercial wood cleaner, or make a solution of warm water and a few drops of dishwashing soap. Dampen a microfiber cloth or old t-shirt with the cleaner and wipe the table down, focusing on areas that look and feel grimy.Do not allow any moisture to linger on the wood for long. Wet areas should be dried immediately with a clean, dry cloth.
 If soap or commercial cleaners won’t remove all the residue on the table, try dampening a cloth with mineral spirits and scrubbing at tough stains. Mineral spirits are generally safe for use on wood, but try testing it on an inconspicuous area first to be sure., Purchase a wood wax at your local hardware or home improvement store, avoiding any products with silicone, since silicone can absorb into the wood and damage it. Use one cloth to wipe the wax on and another to polish and buff the table.You only need to wax your table about twice a year, or as often as you’d like to in order to restore shine.
 Use a lint-free cloth to wipe any dust, dirt, or food off the table. If you have a glass table that’s completely transparent, wipe the underside as well., For a basic cleaning, dampen a cloth with warm water and wipe down the surface of the table. If the table is heavily soiled, mix a bowl of warm water with a few drops of dish soap and use this soapy solution to dampen the cloth before you wipe the table., Create a solution that’s equal parts white vinegar and water and pour it into a spray bottle. Squirt the table with the solution and then wipe it down with a microfiber cloth until the surface shines.Don't use vinegar if your tabletop is made of granite, marble, or any other natural stone. The acid in the vinegar can etch the stone, so just stick to dish soap and warm water., Create a separate area to catch mail, newspapers, magazines, and receipts. Use a sideboard or bookshelf near the door and outfit it with baskets or small file boxes. Sort mail as soon as you walk through the door, and keep a recycling bin near the door to catch catalogs and junk mail before they can hit the table., Install hooks on the wall or get a coat rack so you have a specific place to hang coats, bags, and hats. Find small hooks and place them near the door to hang your keys on as soon as you get home. Create special bins for kids so they know where to put belongings like backpacks and mittens., Having a trash can nearby will make it even easier to toss garbage that’s been left on the table. Find a creative way to store the can, either by tucking it under a sideboard or sticking it in a cabinet right next to the table.,