 When you are preparing meals for your flight, focus on creating easy to pack meals that are high in lean protein and whole grains, as these will make you feel full without upsetting your stomach or dehydrating your body. Make a sandwich that contains boneless, skinless chicken, turkey breast, or lean fish like tuna. Use whole wheat bread and add in vegetables like lettuce and tomato to keep the sandwich healthy and filling.You can also prepare salads that include grains like quinoa or couscous, as well as protein in the form of beans, and green vegetables, or a green salad with lettuce, feta cheese, and other vegetables or beans.
A list of plane friendly meals can be found here: http://www.thekitchn.com/travel-food-10-meals-you-can-c-149739.;
, To avoid any issues at airport security, you should wrap sandwiches in parchment paper, not tin foil, as security may require you to unwrap the sandwich if it is in foil. You should also store salads in plastic containers with airtight lids so they do not spill and are easy to identify in your luggage as you go through airport security.Make sure you remember to pack plastic utensils for your meals, especially for salads. You should also store all food in clear plastic bags so that if it spills, it does not get all over your carry on bag.
 Cut up watermelon, apples, oranges, or bananas and pack them in plastic containers for easy access on the flight. Slice up cucumbers, carrots, celery, or edamame beans so you have healthy snacks that will also keep you hydrated on the plane., Dried fruit and nuts make great plane snacks, as they are easy to carry, will not spoil on a long flight, and the smell will not bother your fellow passengers. You can make your own trail mix or pack healthy trail mix in a plastic bag.


You can also pack healthy granola bars, with no added sugar or fat, for a quick snack.
 For a healthy snack that is high in protein, you can pack small travel packages of peanut butter or almond butter. You can then spread the peanut butter on a banana or crackers while on the plane for a satisfying and healthy snack., Hydration is one of the most important things you can do while flying, as this can help to stem jet lag. You likely cannot take a full water bottle through airport security, so be sure to bring an empty water bottle and/or a thermos. You can place a dry tea bag or a few slices of fresh ginger in the thermos and then fill the thermos with hot water on the plane, thereby having your own portable mug of tea on the plane.


Be sure to have herbal tea only and avoid caffeinated tea or other caffeinated beverages like coffee or soda, as caffeine can further dehydrate you while you fly.

