 No cheap ones from Walmart. Although they are $25 dollars and can be tempting, don't buy one from there or any other stores like that. Get one from a good skate store. Don't focus on what it looks like, just get a good, complete mini logo deck. Go to a local skate store and ask anyone questions. Do not be afraid to say, "Hey, I'm new at this stuff and I was wondering..." They will most likely be more than glad to help you out.;
, A smaller board and medium-sized (53mm-57mm), soft-ish (92a-98a) wheels will be easier to learn on. Independent trucks turn the best but Thunders or Ventures are better for a beginner since they turn less and make your wheelbase longer so your board will feel more stable. Save up the money and go to your local skate shop and purchase a complete setup including deck, trucks, wheels, and bearings. Ask them if they can put it together or learn how to do it yourself. Also, have them go over the parts of the board with you. You can also get other parts for your board and trick it out to make it you. For example, get grip tape with crazy designs on them and different colored wheels and trucks. Or you can bust out the paint pens and spray paint.
 A helmet, elbow pads, knee pads, etc. A lot of skaters just wear nothing or a simple baseball cap to look good, don't be that oblivious to risk your own head for the looks, or you could suffer major, permanent damage. This may sound like your parents talking, but if you fall down you'll be glad you have a helmet on.
 Normal shoes don't grip well on skateboards, and if you want to do tricks such as ollies, kickflips and all of those other cool tricks, your regular shoes will rip in 30 minutes. Suede and leather are more durable than canvas. Emerica/Etnies, Lakai, Nike, Converse, Adidas, Puma, Vans, DC, Supra, Circa, DVS, Globe, Habitat and Fallen all make good skate shoes. Most importantly, never buy girl skate shoes! You can get them for looks, but they don't do much good. For about same price, you can get longer lasting, better gripping, guy's (boy's/kid's or men's) skate shoes. You could always get plain skater shoes and decorate them later using a paint pen or sharpie. A shoe size conversion chart will help sizing guy's shoes or try 1.5-2 sizes smaller than girls shoe sizes. http://www.zumiez.com/size-chart click on shoes

, Don't try to grind the rails, kickflip off of 10 stair stairset. Just cruise around until you are comfortable. Also, you might want to figure out your stance. Regular is riding with your left foot forward and pushing with your right foot. Goofy is riding with your right foot forward and pushing with left foot. Pushing Mongo (with your front foot) is a bad habit to get into, because you don't have as much balance, and it takes longer to get into a cruising stance from a pushing stance. To learn more, go to about.com and search.
 This is what every trick in skateboarding comes from. It's very important. Also go to the skate park to learn. I mean be modest, but people don't care if you're bad. Then you can ask people "Hey can you help me with my ollie?". It's always good to do this, and don't be afraid to ask: it makes people feel good.
 Once you know a thing or two about skating, find some friends who are willing to join you. It's funnier to be skating with friends than alone. Besides, do you really want to fall down, look silly and have a bruise alone? No. Get some friends.
 If you are learning how to skateboard, don't act like you're the coolest skater girl ever to step on a skateboard. Be honest and humble about your abilities.
 Know what all the parts of a skateboard are called and know what to call the tricks you do. Deck, bearings, trucks, wheels, grip tape; easy enough.
 Practice the basics of skating. You can watch skate How-To's on Youtube, but the best way to learn is to actually go outside and start.
 Learn how to fall... Fear is your worst enemy when learning how to skateboard. Make sure to wear the right gear when skating and don't rush into learning complicated tricks until you have mastered rolling, stopping, pushing, carving, turning, kickturns, and the ollie.
 The only things you'd want from there if you're committed to looking cool would be band t-shirts, hoodies, and piercings.
 A little is great, like something more natural. If you wear heavy eyeliner and eye shadow is cool too, if it works for you, but just take note that it doesn't work for everyone. You get all sweaty skateboarding, and then your makeup just wears off and it's uncomfortable.
 It's really difficult to get sponsored though. Some of the best skaters can't get sponsored by anyone but their local skate shop.
 There are several types of skaters: Freestylists, who basically make up their own cool tricks, street skaters, who are all about jumps and grinds, vert skaters who do flips, ramps, and are usually the people you see on TV, and cruisers, who are a sort of relative of skaters, who are mainly about some ramps, stance, and lots of speed. Cruisers are usually mistaken for posers. But if that's what you do, it's ok.
