 Cardiovascular exercise and weight training burn calories effectively, and effective weight loss includes both.For best results, aim for 300 minutes (5 hours) of moderate cardiovascular exercise each week, or 150 minutes (2.5 hours) of vigorous exercise, or an equivalent combination of the two.








A fitness trainer can help you design a program that meets your fitness goals, including working on "problem areas" such as the underarm.
Plan when you can go to a fitness center or devote time to fitness. Bring your workout clothes with you so you can head directly to the gym after school or work.;
, Exercise is an important part of losing weight, burning calories, and maintaining health. Moderate exercise means that you are lightly sweating, breathing a bit harder (but are not out of breath), and can still talk while exercising.Moderate aerobic activity may include dancing, cycling, and brisk walking. Vigorous cardiovascular training burns calories faster, and includes jogging, circuit training, aerobic classes, resistance training, and stair climbing.
 One way to engage in fitness in a new way is to try a new activity. This can be as easy as trying a new class at your local gym or trying something active outdoors. You want to make fitness fun, and there are many ways to add enjoyment to physical activity.


Hiking is a great way to burn calories and be active while enjoying some natural beauty. If you don't have hiking trails near you, consider going to a local park or somewhere you can immerse yourself in nature while you move your body.
Pick up biking. Find some local bike paths and enjoy time outside. Save gas and bike to your errands, like going to the grocery store.
Dancing is a great way to burn calories and learn a new skill. Many different forms of dance exist, such as ballroom, salsa, bachata, hip hop, ballet and freestyle. Check out dance classes in your area and have some fun while you burn calories.
 Don't be fooled by this quick and powerful workout! You will be sweating and working hard. One approach is to start with moderate intensity exercise for three to four minutes, then kick up the intensity for one minute. Repeat one to six times with any type of cardio exercise you perform.









Activities can include jogging/running, jump rope, jumping jacks, squats, or kickboxing. Get creative! Any aerobic activity that can be done at different intervals can be a HIIT.

