 Use cool water to wash off any dirt or pesticides from it.Because winter squash is thick and dense, it helps to partially cook it before grilling. Puncturing the skin with a small cut will keep steam from building up in the gourd and prevent it from exploding in the microwave while partially cooking.


Winter squash can also be quite difficult to cut in raw form. Partially cooking it will help you to cut it more easily., Put the winter squash on a microwave-safe dish and microwave it for approximately 6 to 8 minutes. After it is finished microwaving, the squash will take about 10 minutes to cool.


Handling your squash too soon after microwaving could result in you getting a minor burn or scald., Hold the squash by its top with your free hand to keep it in place and use a sharp knife to cut the outer skin free. You may need to rotate or flip the squash upside down to remove the skin completely.


You don't have to remove the skin around the stem. This portion of the squash is usually too woody to be eaten., First, cut the squash in half. You'll notice that inside the hollow part of the squash there are seeds and stringy, goopy bits. Use a spoon to scoop out these.The seeds and pulp can either be thrown away or used as compost material.
 Generally, these should be about about 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) thick, though you can cut these in either long or narrow strips. Cutting your squash too thick can result in it not cooking throughout, and cutting it too thin can make it difficult to skewer.Try to cut your squash into even pieces. This will help ensure your squash cooks evenly while grilling.
 Since winter squash is thicker and meatier, if you use wooden or bamboo skewers, they should be very sturdy. For this vegetable, metal skewers may work best. Be sure to leave some space between the skewered pieces so the squash cooks throughout.


If you plan on using wooden or bamboo skewers, you should soak these for a half hour before hand to prevent them from burning or getting charred.
 Put oil or melt butter in a bowl and use a basting brush to lightly coat the skewered squash. Then, turn the skewer over and coat the opposite side as well. This coating will help prevent the squash from sticking to the grill. After your squash is coated, sprinkle on your seasoning of choice to add flavor to it.


You can also season your squash to suit your preferences. The sweeter flavor of winter squash might work well with citrus flavors, like lemon pepper.
 The thickness of winter squash requires strong heat to cook thoroughly. For best results, place your squash on the grill where it receives indirect, high heat and close the lid of your grill., Depending on your squash and its thickness, you'll need to grill each side for about 7 to 10 minutes. After that time has passed, turn the squash, and cook it for another 7 to 10 minutes or until the squash is fork tender.Your squash and skewer will be quite hot at this point. You should use a tool, like tongs or a spatula, or an appropriate heat safe mitt/glove to turn your squash.
 You can bring out the natural flavor of your squash with a mixture of ¼ cup melted butter and 2 tbsp of honey. Brush the grilled squash with with this mixture after removing it from the grill, then allow some time for the squash to cool., After five minutes or so, your squash should be ready to serve. Most people enjoy grilled squash while still warm from the grill, so you shouldn't wait to long before enjoying this dish with your meal.

