 Pour 1 cup of Dawn liquid dish detergent, or any enzyme-based liquid dish soap, into your shower drain. Let it sit for at least an hour and then flush the drain with hot water from the tap.This solution can create a large amount of suds, so be careful.
 One natural solution that will get some slow drains unclogged is boiling water. If the water is still standing in your shower, let it drain out. Boil some water, and then slowly pour it down the drain, which will help move some minor blockages along.If you have regular PVC pipes, boiling water could damage the pipes. However, if you have metal or CPVC pipes (which can take higher temperatures), using boiling water should be fine.
However, according to most city codes, you should have metal or CVPC, not PVC.
 Another option for a natural solution is vinegar, baking soda, and hot water. These ingredients can help break up the clog when used in conjunction with each other, though you may not want to mix these solutions with chemical clog cleaners.Start by pouring a single cup of baking soda down the drain, followed by 2 cups of boiling water. Once you've given that about five minutes, follow it up with a baking soda-vinegar combo.
Pour a cup of baking soda down the drain. With the stopper ready to go in, pour in a cup of vinegar. Stop up the drain, and let the baking soda and vinegar foam together. Once it's done, pour another cup of boiling water down the drain.
Once again, make sure you have CPVC or metal pipes, as boiling water may damage regular PVC pipes. Nonetheless, most houses built to code should have pipes that can withstand boiling water.
 Tape over any overflow holes with duct tape, so you can get a better seal. Put water into the tub to cover the bottom of the plunger. If there is already standing water that is draining slowly, you can use that instead of adding more water. Place the plunger over the drain and plunge the drain a few times, moving it up and down, much like you would in the toilet.You may want to get a plunger specifically for this purpose so it will be cleaner. However, since you'll likely be cleaning out your shower when you're done, putting a dirty plunger in there won't be the end of the world.

