 Though it may be tempting to dodge your partner or act out and hurt them on purpose, having a mature discussion about how you feel will likely end in less hurt feelings and a more civil break up.Rather than play the avoidance game, recognize that your partner deserves to know how you’re feeling and that you are unhappy in the relationship.
 The healthiest way to get someone to break up with you is to discuss your unhappiness in the relationship with them in person, face to face. This will ensure you can part in a mature, respectful way that will not cause unnecessary pain to either of you., Be prepared for your partner to argue with you and claim they can change or that you are wrong about the relationship. Try to put yourself in their position and sympathize if they express hurt feelings or anger.Remain calm and return to a phrase you feel comfortable with, such as: “This relationship isn’t working for me”, or “I no longer want to be in this relationship.”
Avoid phrases that can seem like generic excuses, such as: “It’s not you, it’s me,” or “We just weren’t meant to be together.”, Explain why you don’t want things between you to continue and focus on how you feel rather than listing your partner’s faults or issues.Keep in mind this may open you up to criticism or anger from your partner, so be prepared and try to remain calm.
 Regardless of any tears or raw emotion that come up during the conversation, it’s important to stick to your decision and commit to the break up.


It is also important to give your partner space and time to accept the breakup so cut off communication with them and create distance between you. A ‘clean break’ is usually the best way to end a relationship.
 If you are trying to get an abusive or violent spouse to break up with you, it is not as simple as sitting them down for a one on one conversation. Telling your partner you plan to leave may be dangerous and greatly increase the risk of violence to you and/or others.


You will need time to plan your exit, possibly with the help of a trusted friend or family member.
There are several free domestic violence helplines you can call to get advice on your options for leaving your spouse and getting out safely.