 You might be able to use the equity in your current home to purchase an investment property. Generally, you can borrow around 80% of your home’s value. There are different ways you can tap the equity in your home, such as the following:You could get a Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC). A lender will approve you for a specific amount of credit, and you use your current home as collateral for the loan.The credit is available for a certain amount of time. At the end of this draw period, you must have paid back the loan.You might also get a cash-out refinance. The lender will pay you the difference between the mortgage and the home’s value, but is usually limited to 80-90% of the home’s value. For example, if you have $20,000 remaining on your mortgage, but your home is valued at $220,000, then $200,000 could be available. You could get 80-90% of $200,000 ($160,000-180,000). This option usually has a lower interest rate than a HELOC.
Both a HELOC and a cash-out refinance put your home at risk if you can’t make repayments. For this reason, you should think carefully before tapping the equity in your home to finance investments.
 You might be able to get this type of loan if you want to purchase a property in order to renovate and then quickly sell. The loan will be short-term and is secured by the property. Fix-and-flip loans have high interest rates, so you need to renovate and sell quickly.You might find it easier to qualify for a fix-and-flip loan compared to a conventional loan. However, lenders will still look at your credit history and income.
The lender will also want to know the estimated value after repair, which can impact whether they extend you a loan and the terms.
 Peer-to-peer lending connects investors with lenders who are willing to lend. Two of the more well-known peer-to-peer lending sites are Prosper and LendingClub.Peer-to-peer lenders will require that you complete an application. They look at your credit score and credit history.They may also have minimum credit scores in order to qualify.
You might not be able to get a large personal loan through peer-to-peer lending. However, small businesses can typically borrow more, so if you create an LLC then you might be able to borrow up to $100,000.
 You might not be able to secure a loan on your own, in which case you will need to consider other options. One option is to find a business partner who you can invest with.You will want to screen any potential business partner, just as a bank would screen you. If you are counting on the partner to help pay for the loan, then you will need to check their credit history and employment.
You also need to consider how you will hold the investment property. For example, it might be best to create an LLC and to both be owners of the LLC. The LLC will then hold title to the investment property., With owner financing, the owner lends you the money that you use to buy the property. Sometimes the owner will lend only a portion of the price, which you then supplement with a conventional loan.You should analyze the pros and cons of owner financing.


A benefit of owner financing is that an owner might be willing to lend if you don’t have perfect credit or a huge down payment available. You and the owner can work out loan terms that are acceptable to both of you.
Typically, the seller’s loan will be for a short period of time (such as five years). At the end of the term, you are obligated to pay off the loan with a “balloon payment.” This usually means you need to get a conventional loan to make this balloon payment.You should analyze your credit to see if you can qualify for a conventional loan in the near future.
See Owner Finance a Home for more information.

