 In this initial stage, you will be looking at how you will implement a project and from where you will get relevant data.;
, In writing a medical research proposal, experts recommend starting with an abstract that is informed by well-thought-out ideas on comprehensive planning for the research project. This includes proposed methods, overall study design, logistics, a schedule or timeline and other aspects of what you will be doing if the project is approved.
 Using the word "problem" in the context of a medical research proposal is not quite like the common use of the opposite words "problem" and "solution." Here, the problem defines the existing situation or general scenario, where goals and objectives seek to use research to illuminate a particular medical phenomenon or general scientific reality.
 Develop all of these ideas and use a good comprehensive approach to blend all of the above into one single proposal.


Take advantage of a good format. The style and format of your medical research proposal is crucial to its success. Take a look at what others have done to guide you in the creation of your own proposal.
Use white space and create concrete elements of your proposal. Experts recommend using labeled elements like an introduction, plan, method module and conclusion in order to make your medical research proposal look good, and to keep all of the appropriate data in the right places.
Approach your document with a concern for style. Many experts who advise individuals on writing these documents recommend keeping the vocabulary reasonably clear and avoiding wordy, vague sentences that may confuse the reader. Also keep an eye out for good transitional elements to make your research proposal flow smoothly.
 With a draft of the medical research proposal in hand, go back over the document and read through it to determine its overall effectiveness.


Look for internal consistency. In order to be fairly successful, your medical research proposal should be coherent, and the ideas that are presented should be presented clearly and consistently throughout each element.
 One thing that helps a research proposal succeed is its originality from prior research and existing projects. Make sure that yours has an angle that will appeal to those who are in authority to approve projects.

