 Interact with others differently. Many people with favorable natures are considered so due to habits they have developed of interacting with others and the world. Habits are something you can practice and learn. Begin to interact with people with your desired nature in mind. Be inspired by others by finding a person that can be a role model for the change you wish to maintain or the nature you wish to possess.


If you are more introverted by nature,but wish to be more extroverted, try and act like an extroverted individual.Behave as you believe an extroverted person would.
If you want to be a more charitable person, try volunteering more and drawing inspiration from giving and generous individuals.
Try being an encourager and an empathetic listener. Try to be a person who can feel what others feel, and then support and encourage them to go for what they want.
 When changing your nature, make sure the goals you are setting for yourself are realistic. Setting realistic goals will provide you with the best chance to be successful in making the changes you desire. It is also important to set goals that motivate you to change. Utilize the SMART acronym to help you set realistic goals. SMART goals are:Specific. Make sure your detail out the goal so that it is as specific as possible.

Measurable. Make sure you can measure your progress so you know when you have achieved your goal.

Achievable. Make sure your goal is practical so that you can be sure to achieve it realistically.

Relevant. Make sure your goal is relevant to the direction you want your nature to go.

Time-bound. Give your goal a deadline.
 After setting your goals, you should have a clear idea of what new activities or habits you should be working on. How you proceed with the changes to your nature will largely depend on what you want your nature to be and what you have identified as goals for yourself. Adopting new habits can be difficult. Try the following to help you adopt new habits:Schedule specific time to work on your new habits. For example, if you would like to be more spiritual or meditate more, schedule time to meditate when it works for your schedule, such as in the morning.
Use any tools you can to make adopting the habit easier on you, such as phone applications to help you meditate.
Keep track of how often you are working on your new habit by writing down when and for how long you are meditating per day.
 Make sure you are taking these changes at their natural speed and breaking larger behaviors or changes into smaller more manageable ones.Trying to be the cheeriest person in the office before you can even talk nicely about your friends will burn you out, and cause you to be unsuccessful in maintaining change. Make small improvements and turn them into habits. These habits will build on each other until you have fully changed your nature.


Practice. Just like learning a new skill, musical instrument, or language, the key to maintaining is practice. The more you practice the easier it will become for this new nature to be more natural to you.
If you are struggling, use helpers. Have a trusted friend or family member help you to make and maintain these changes.Spread out the changes. If you are making a change to your nature try and maintain the change in different settings such as home, school, work, and even errands like the post office.

