 Clean it out.


If it's a soda can, remove the top with a can opener.
If it's a grocery can, remove the label if it's a paper one, and remove the lid if not already taken off.
Take care to remove the top or lid so as to avoid leaving a jagged edge.;
, Be sure to keep the duct tape covering very smooth, without bumps or raised edges. This forms a neat surface for winding the yarn around.
 At this point, you have various fun options, including:


Use one single yarn color the entire way up the can.
Use a rainbow of colors, adding a new color length now and then as you wind the yarn on.
Use two tones of yarn in an even pattern.
Make a picture from the yarn in the center of the can. This will need to be added first, then the rest of the yarn is wound around this picture. Since this is very fiddly, it's best done as a project after you're used to making the yarn can the simpler ways.
 You'll be using it shortly.
 The yarn used can be scrap yarn or new yarn, as preferred. New yarn is probably easier to work with if you're doing the same color, all one length. Whatever you choose, the yarn needs to be in long lengths, to make it easier to wind around the can, unless you're making the picture design, in which case, you'll need to keep cutting the lengths to fit around the image.
 Tape the end of a yarn length to the bottom of the can. Leave it long.
 Keeping each line woven around the can closely tucked next to the previous line added, wind all the way up. Add more glue now and then, to keep the yarn neatly wound in place; it's up to you whether you add glue constantly or just now and then. The most important thing is to keep the yarn lines snug together.


If changing colors, do so seamlessly by twirling the end of the old piece into the new piece, then firmly gluing it down and beginning the winding process again.
, Once you have reached the top of the can, snip the yarn off neatly. Be sure that there is no gap left afterward. Then, use the glue gun to pin down the yarn firmly in place.
 You now have a lovely yarn can piece of art that can be used to contain pencils, pens, bits and pieces or anything else you like.

