 You can start with a single Sim, a husband and wife, or male and female roommates. If you have a single Sim, you'll have to find them a mate from around town. The married couple is easiest, as the relationship-building is already done for you.

f

Giving them the trait Family-Oriented will make it easier for you; Family-Oriented Sims want to have children.
If you're starting with a single Sim or roommates, the Flirty and Hopeless Romantic traits will make it easier for you to build a romantic relationship.
The Commitment Issues and Unflirty traits will make the relationship-building tougher, and the Dislikes Children trait will make a Sim reluctant to have children. Avoid these traits.;
, Ask them their Zodiac sign and ask if they're single. Compliment them. That makes them feel in the mood. Flirt a little bit. Make sure all these actions are done with your 2 Sims alone so other Sims won't come in and laugh. Now use a pick up line and then confess attraction. This will give them romantic ideas.


Hold hands and if you're controlling either the male or female sim, have one of them give the other a shy kiss. If it's late make them stay over. When they're happy have the guy propose. Keep going steady, this makes them BF and GF doing any romantic interactions until it reaches extremely irresistible.
 Basically keep it up and then ask the guy to propose marriage have a wedding how you like.
 This doesn't always work your female Sim might be pregnant if after the woohoo she is nauseous or has pregnant moodlet.
 And get time of work prepare a nursery (If there's only one baby coming.) Two or more if one parent has the fertility lifetime reward.
 If you specifically want a girl, have the mother eat lots of watermelons while pregnant. If you want a boy, have her eat a lot of apples.
 Give her a makeover and do her wishes.
 Watch kid programs read pregnancy books, listen to kid zone and spend lots of time with her partner whether in the nursery or at a swanky restaurant make him give her support and the male Sim HAS to do the housework, but still be romantic with his wife.
 Lots of people will scream "The baby!".
 Give it a name you like. If the pregnancy went well you get to pick 2 traits- one from father and one from mother.
 This gives the child a negative moodlet and they won't like it when they're being it in the middle if this occurs leave the child with the parent that she had a higher relationship with.

