 During the Christmas-New Years-Hannukah winter holidays, it's very common to make personalized cards and get them in the mail to friends and family as a way of keeping in touch. It's typical to include a recent photograph of yourself or your family, especially for extended family you might not often see. The end of the year is a good time to get in touch and let everyone know what you've been doing and that you're thinking about them.


Include a recent picture of your family, along with a brief note out the year's accomplishments and activities. To make it easier on yourself, make several copies of a basic card, but then handwrite a brief message in each and include a longer form note that you send out to everyone.
If you choose to write a year-in-review note, think about the right tone. Avoid the bragging about the litany of destinations on your European tour when you're writing to your working class relatives in Tulsa. Instead, say, "We were fortunate and lucky to travel some this year." Likewise, a holiday letter isn't the time to depress all your family members with a list of everything that's gone wrong for you in the year. Stay upbeat. It's the holidays.
 If you've just given birth to a new child, you've likely got your hands full. But if you want to make custom cards, including a nice highlight like a copy of the baby's footprint, or a recent photograph would be a welcome and exciting gift for your friends and loved ones.
 Everyone sends cards during the winter. What about Springtime cards? Dog days of summer cards? Stand out from the pack and send your friends cards just because you're thinking about them, or whenever you come up with a reason to make some up.


Look up obscure holidays like Nunavut Day (July 9) or Submarine Day (March 17) or Beer Can Appreciation Day (Jan 24) and use it as a reason to send out cards and shake things up.
 Think of someone you know, or might not even know well, who's seemed down lately. Sending a card out of the blue can make someone's day more than an expensive gift or another token of affection. Making a card for someone who needs it is always a great idea.

