 Developing fine motor skills and finger strength can give young children the physical skills needed to correctly hold a pencil. Have your child play with small household items, such as straws or Popsicle sticks, by picking them up and dropping them into another container. This establishes finger grip from an early age.


Another way to develop fine motor skills is to have a child practice putting small items through small holes, like corn kernels through the holes of a Parmesan cheese container or noodles through a cheese grater or a straw. Be creative—there are lots of items around the house that are perfect for developing fine motor skills. Anything that requires your child to pinch or grasp the object can help to build the muscles and skills to properly hold a pencil.
 Start with your child making the “ok” sign with their writing hand by connecting their thumb and pointer finger in an O and putting their three remaining fingers straight up. Have them open the thumb and pointer finger of the O slightly, and then place the pencil between the fingers. They can then grasp down and wrap the remaining fingers around the pencil to get their hand into the correct writing position.
 A quick way to get the pencil into the right position is to begin with the pencil lying on the table. Have your child put their thumb and pointer finger of their writing hand at the very top of the pencil, right under the sharpened part. Pick up the pencil and use the other hand to flip the pencil and twist it in a clockwise motion until it gets in the right position.


You can walk your child through this process and be the one to twist the pencil to the right place before letting your child do the whole thing on his own.
 Many children have difficulty keeping their pinky and ring fingers away from the pencil by holding them curled under the hand—their motor skills just aren’t developed enough to separate those two fingers and move them on their own. Have your child hold a small object in those two fingers, which will force the fingers to curl and press against the hand.


Small items such as a marble, play dough, or cotton ball work well for small hands.
 Just like every motor skill development, consistency is the key. Model proper pencil holding whenever you are writing or coloring where your child can see you, and point out how you are holding your pencil.


Encourage your child to hold the pencil correctly whenever they are using a writing instrument and check them as soon as they pick up a crayon or pencil to make sure they have the right grip from the beginning.
Learning the proper pencil grip takes time, but with a constant effort, your child will be more likely to succeed.

