 For most people, the wrist of the dominant hand is noticeably stronger than the wrist of the non-dominant hand. If you make an effort to start using your non-dominant hand for your daily tasks, you will probably be surprised at how hard they are to accomplish! Stick with it — over time, your weaker wrist will become stronger and your tasks will become easier. Below is a short list of tasks you can start using your "off" hand for.









Brushing your teeth
Writing
Using a computer mouse/touchpad
Eating
Stirring

, You may have seen these hand-held exercise devices in workout rooms, high-stress places (like home offices), and more. Though they come in many different shapes and sizes, the basic idea is the same for all of them — hold the device in your hand, squeeze firmly but steadily, relax your grip, and repeat. That's all there is to it!









These are great for when you have one hand free. For instance, it's not hard to get a wrist workout in while you talk on the phone or read a book.
 Thinking of hitting the links in the near future? Dust off your golf clubs early for this exercise, which is great for improving your wrists' strength along their entire range of motion. You can also use any sort of long, rigid object light enough to manipulate with one hand (like, for instance, a broom.)Stand with your arm at your side and hold a golf club by the end of the handle. Using only your wrist, slowly point it toward the sky, then point it back down again. Repeat until you feel a good "burn" in your forearm.
For an extra challenge, start with a light club, then work your way up to your heavier ones.
 These minimum-resistance exercises are great for quick breaks at the office or in situations where you can't do more complicated exercises (such as when you're on an airplane.) They're sometimes also used in physical therapy situations, but don't let that stop you if you're perfectly healthy, as wrist circles can be a great relaxer if you're feeling "all wound up."


Stand or sit with your hands out in front of you, palms down. Move your wrists in a slow circular motion to the left, then back to the right. You may want to clench and unclench your fists as you do this to add an extra degree of motion to the exercise. After you've worked out any kinks, turn your palms over and start over.
 Resistance bands are large, elastic strips of rubbery material which are often used for physical therapy purposes, but they're also great for building strength even if you're not recovering an injury. You'll need a sturdy resistance band for these exercises — usually, these are available at exercise stores, but you may also be able to get them from physical therapy centers. Below are two resistance band exercises for your wrists you may want to try out:


Wrist flexion: Loop the resistance band over the fingers of one hand, then stand with your arm at your side, your elbow bent at a 90-degree angle, and your hand palm-up in front of you. Put the other end of your resistance band under your foot or attach it to the floor. Curl your wrist upwards as far as you can, then let your hand relax back down and repeat. Keep your forearms steady as you do this. Note that this exercise is very similar to the wrist curl described above.
Wrist extensions: Identical to wrist flexion, except with your hand turned palm-down. This exercise is very similar to a standing wrist curl.
 This unconventional exercise doesn't have much in common with the others on this list, but it's simple to set up and perform and it's quite effective at building wrist and forearm strength. In fact, some baseball teams recommend it for their players as a way to build wrist strength.All you'll need for this exercise is a container wide and deep enough that both hands fit in it comfortably without touching each other and enough rice to bury your hands in the container.


Start by pouring the rice into the container. Plunge your hands into the rice until they are buried up to your wrists. Next, make the following motions with your hands and repeat until you feel a good burn — the resistance of the rice being pushed by your hands will exercise your wrists a surprising amount.
Clench your hands into fists and turn them in circles back and forth.
Open your hands and turn them in circles back and forth.
Open and close your hands while submerged in the rice.
Move your hands up and down.
Make wrist curl movements with your palms facing you.
Make reverse wrist curl movements with your palms facing away from you.

