 Knowing which toys are invited will help decide the theme and the types of things served at the tea party. For example, if it's just dolls, the party can be tailored to the type of dolls, while if it's teddy bears, the standard teddy bear's picnic would be a fun thing to do.;
, This is the "theme" and it might be helpful to suggest ideas to get your child thinking. Some theme possibilities include:


A teddy bear's picnic
A Barbie afternoon tea
A garden party for dolls and/or stuffed toys
A scones, jam and cream high tea
A birthday party for a special doll or toy.
 If you have a lot of time and you'd like to have real food, this could also include doing some baking together, to make scones/cupcakes/muffins and children's drinks. Even more fun is making cookies shaped like the toys, such as teddy bear cookies or animal cupcakes.


Real food can be combined with fake food. For example, you could have a lot of miniature food/pretend food but some real cookies and milk.
If using real food, you'll need to set up in a place where it is appropriate and hygienic to eat.
Mud pies are not a great idea when toys are involved. There is a chance of the toys getting dirty and they can be hard to clean in some cases.
 Choose a suitable spot and find the gear needed for the party. You can use doll's tea sets or real cups, depending on what you have at home. Another alternative is to buy cups, saucers, and the like, from a thrift store, just for such occasions and keep these aside in a box. They can be washed before and after use, and be reused again and again.


Set the table or lay a blanket on the grass.
Put out dishes of food and plates for the dolls and toys to eat from.
Add glasses or cups for the drinks.
Include a centerpiece for decoration.
Set up anything else that your child thinks would be nice as part of the tea party.
 It's up to you whether or not you participate. Gauge your child's wishes––if she or he asks you to join in, then by all means do so. But if your child seems to be happily playing away imaginatively without you, just keep an eye on it from afar and let him or her enjoy the play.


Your child may wish to ask over a real friend or two. They could bring their own toys along to the tea party.
Take photos. This is the sort of thing wonderful memories are made of.
 This is an important part of your child learning to put things away and to keep things clean. If real food was consumed, show your child how to clear away crumbs, clean the plates and vacuum (if needed). Even if everything used was not real, the toy items need to be packed away neatly.

