 Before you decide to breed your dog, you should make sure that they are healthy enough to do so. Make an appointment with your vet. Explain that you are planning on breeding your dog, and ask the vet to examine your dog to ensure they are healthy enough for breeding.Try saying, "Dr. Johnson, I am interested in breeding Fluffy. Can you examine her to make sure that she's healthy enough to have a litter?";
, Not knowing when your dog is capable of mating is a common problem. When your female dog is in heat, her eggs mature, making her fertile and capable of producing puppies. If your female dog is not in heat, she cannot mate. In order to address this problem, you should be aware of your female dog’s heat cycle. You should look for:Swelling of the vulva
Tendency to mount objects or other dogs
Vaginal discharge

, While it might be tempting to allow your female dog to mate during her first heat, you should avoid it entirely. While a female dog will go into her heat when it is between 6 and 12 months old, the dog is still maturing and should not mate. You should wait to breed your female dog until it is at least 2 years old., While a male puppy might engage in mounting behavior as early as 3-4 weeks of age, a male dog will not produce sperm until much later. You should wait until your male dog is at least 2 years old before you allow it to mate., The breeding tie is the intercourse between a male and a female dog. The male’s penis will enter the female’s vagina. The penis glands will then swell inside the female’s vagina, creating a tie. The tie will last for 10-30 minutes, and during this time the majority of the male’s sperm will be deposited in the female’s vagina.If you have specific questions about dog intercourse, ask your veterinarian when you take your dog in for its next checkup.
 After the male’s penis enters the female’s vagina and creates a breeding tie, it is important that you actively work toward preventing injuries to one or both dogs. You should stay near the dogs during the tie. Work to keep both animals calm, and do not let the female squirm free from the tie as this can injure the animals.Make sure the male dog’s penis has retracted after the tie, as an injured dog will have difficulty breeding in the future.
 A common mating problem is when a dog refuses to mate with another dog. For example, a female dog might refuse a male dog because he is her housemate. Submissive males, on the other hand, might refuse to mate with dominant females. If your dog refuses to mate with a particular dog, try using another mate.