 It will be especially difficult when you first try to transition from night owl sleeping patterns to morning person sleeping rhythms, but employing light is one way to "trick" your body into greater alertness.


Exposure to light, whether natural or artificial, at wake-up time helps reset your circadian rhythm and make you more alert. Allow natural sunlight to pour in to your bedroom, or invest in a “light box” or gradual alarm clock that produces a steadily brighter light., Find something that forces you to get out (and stay out) of bed. Consider the following to help you transition to wake-up mode:



Make your bed. It's a lot less desirable to crawl back into it when you've gone to the trouble of making it up.
Force yourself to leave the room – go to the bathroom, drink a glass of water, brush your teeth, or do anything else that will overcome your inner chat about returning to bed. As an aside, we are often dehydrated upon waking up, so drinking a glass of water can help the body rejuvenate and prepare for activity.Splash your face with water as soon as you get out of bed.
Stretch. Stretching can help awaken you gently, as well as improve your flexibility.
Put on upbeat music and dance to it a little.
Have a cup of tea or coffee to awaken your senses. Some people swear by slightly warmed water with freshly squeezed lemon juice as a refreshing tonic.
 You might as well work up a sweat before taking your morning shower, and you can start your day by burning some calories before you even take any in.


Physical activity will help wake you up, and exercise undertaken first thing in the morning is more effective at charging up your metabolism than exercise undertaken at any other time of the day.Have your gear ready to go the night before — lay out your running clothes and shoes, tune up your bike, lay out your weight set, or cue up your workout DVD. Jump right into action before your inner sleepy-head can convince you otherwise.
Make sure to drink lots of water before and during morning exercise.
 Don't be tempted to skip breakfast — it's your energy kick-starter for the rest of the day, and the early bird has even longer to wait until lunchtime.


A breakfast that features protein, fruits or vegetables, and a whole grain can help energize you for the day ahead. For a quick and healthy example, try greek yogurt topped with blueberries and granola with chia seeds.Look into options like adding variety to your meals, or even talking to your doctor, if you consistently don't feel like eating breakfast in the morning.
 It's important to get up at the same time every day once you're established in your new routine, including weekends.Don't sleep in on days when you don't have to be somewhere; doing so throws off your sleep rhythm. Leave sleeping in for when you're unwell. Instead, get up and use the time to read, enjoy a longer breakfast, chat with others, or exercise.


Each evening, or each week, plan out something enjoyable to do with your newfound morning time. Be it catching up with an old friend or learning to crochet, give yourself something to look forward to each night.Take notice of how much more you have accomplished when you get home from work and/or school. You'll relax more, sleep better at night, and be more refreshed for when you get up early again.
 It can take time to transition from a night owl to a morning person. Moreover, being a morning person or a night owl has a genetic basis that may not be easy to override. (It is estimated that only 10% of us are the former, and 20% the latter, which means the remaining 70% of us should be able to change our ways more readily.)


As such, it may not be possible to switch yourself over entirely to becoming a morning person, unless you're a morning person reforming from a lapse into a night owl lifestyle. However, if waking even an hour earlier is benefitting you, it can be worth the effort and the new routine in your life.
Even night owls are prone to wake up earlier during the warmer months when the morning light streams through earlier. Try to go with your body's natural flow and it's more likely that you'll wake up earlier than usual anyway during spring and summer months.
Stick with the process; it's not going to be easy for the first few mornings. The more your body becomes used to the light cues and the regular bedtimes, the more you'll find it easier to transition.
Have rewards in place for early rising, such as a delicious breakfast at the local cafe, a brand new paperback to read, an early appointment massage, etc. Reward yourself with something that encourages you to keep getting up early each day.
Give yourself a pep talk last thing each night and first thing each morning.Remind yourself that tomorrow/today is a new day. Forget about what happened yesterday, it's in the past. Today is a fresh day, enjoy it!

