 Make sure you have a total understanding of social media networks and marketing. Be active on social networking sites, and use them for personal interaction as well as promoting your own business.;
, This includes mobile technology and computers. Know the current regulations and best practices for digital media, text messages, email and other messaging.
 Find out how to structure your company and handle tax and financial aspects. Learn what type of liability insurance and other protection you need. Register your company with the IRS.
 Find out what kind of licenses and permits you need to start a digital agency.
 Options for a digital agency include handling everything yourself, including creative production, or hiring others. You can run the administrative aspects of your business and hire others to do graphic, writing and other creative work.
 Be sure to review references and portfolios carefully. Try to assign some test assignments to make sure your team can meet deadlines and produce quality results.
 You'll need a computer with enough memory and disk space to create digital content, high quality digital cameras and video recorders, and software to create videos and graphics. If you choose to outsource production work, your equipment needs will be less demanding, but you'll still need a system to view content and keep in touch with your team.
 Your website, logo, digital and paper marketing materials, and studio should project the right image. Your digital media company must be perceived as modern and in touch with current marketing, advertising and consumer trends.
 If you are working with outsourced, remote employees or contractors, a home office should meet your needs. If you'd rather work with your team in person, find an office space with room for conference areas and workstations.
 One barrier you'll face in marketing your services is that many businesses aren't familiar with digital marketing or social networking. Offer informative articles and blog posts on your website. Speak about digital advertising at community events and conferences.

