 To make your ankle bracelet, you will need string. You can use one color, or an assortment. You’ll need three pieces of string for this type of ankle bracelet. You can find the string at craft stores. When picking out the colors, be sure to choose a set that either means something to the person you’re making the ankle bracelet for or simply goes well together.


Colorful string
Scissors
Tape-measure
Safety pin or tape;
, Using your tape measure, tape around the spot on your ankle where you want your ankle bracelet to sit. Next, add 6 inches (15.2 cm) to this measurement. This gives you plenty of room to tie the ankle bracelet. Cut your string here., Tie all three of your strings together in one knot at the end. Leave an inch above the knot so that you can tie it again after you complete your ankle bracelet.
 Use tape or a safety pin to anchor your string. Attaching it to something steady will make it much easier to work with. You can attach it to anything that will hold it still.


The leg of your pants
A binder
The table
A pillow

, With your strings anchored, knot at the top, grab hold of two strings. Hold these straight and wrap your third string around these two and pull it into a knot. You’ll be able to see the knot on the side of the string. Using this same thread, repeat this step 10-15 times.Be sure to hold your two center strings as straight and tight as possible. This will make tying the knots easier because it will keep them out of the way of your staircase.
 It’s just that easy—pick your next color string after you’ve reached the length you want for the first one. Hold the other two straight and use your new color to tie a knot around them. Repeat this for 10-15 knots. Continue this staircase for the length of your ankle.


If you notice that a knot isn’t sitting correctly, you can easily undo it. However, this gets more and more difficult because your staircase gets tighter as you go; so pay attention and catch the mistake early.
 Once you have approximately 4 extra inches of string, test the length of your ankle bracelet. If it is not yet long enough, continue your staircase and check again after you complete a color.
 Now that your ankle bracelet is long enough, tie it around your ankle, or the ankle of the person you’re giving it to. Use a strong knot and cut the excess string away.

