 If your hair is prone to frizz, try creating a solution of conditioner and water to apply to the tips of your hair. Take about a tablespoon of conditioner and mix it with about 1 cup of water. Use your fingers to apply a small amount to the ends of your hair. Keep this solution handy for a quick frizz fix or make it part of your daily hair care routine.








Make sure that you only apply this solution to the ends of your hair, not the roots.
You can also put some of the solution in a small spray bottle to keep with you in a purse or bag and use as necessary throughout the day.
 Mash up one avocado. Apply it to clean, damp hair with your fingers, staying a few inches away from the roots. Let stand fifteen minutes. Rinse out with water.








Those with fine hair should only apply the masque to their ends.
The oils in the avocado will naturally coat your hair and protect it from damage and humidity. It will also lock in moisture to keep it from drying out.
You can also use olive oil to create a hair masque. Warm olive oil on the stove until it is warm, but not too hot to touch. Apply it throughout damp hair. Wait thirty minutes. Shampoo and condition normally. , Jojoba oil is a natural plant-based oil that is sold as a moisturizing hair treatment. It is very useful for frizz-prone hair. Apply the oil weekly to your hair below your ears, focusing on the ends, where more damage is likely to occur. Applying below your ears will also prevent your hair from appearing flat. 







, Coconut oil has many uses, and can be used on thick hair to keep in moisture and prevent frizz. Apply to clean, damp hair, starting at the ends and working your way up. Stop midway up your hair, as applying it near the scalp will make your hair appear extremely greasy. 







, Hair frizzes from heat styling and warm weather. To set your hair after styling it, stand in front of the freezer for a minute. This will allow the hair cuticles to cool and settle smoothly before you go outside, where it may be exposed to sun and humidity. You may also use the cool shot button on your hair dryer on a finished style to achieve the same effect.

