 Look around your house, backyard, or garage to find any kind of scrap wood for this project. Go to your nearest hardware store and ask if you can have some of their scraps.


You can use particleboard, medium-density fibreboard (MDF), or plywood.
Just make sure you have enough wood to make a decent size box. You will be making an open wooden container for small objects, with a hidden compartment toward the bottom of the box., You can use a hand saw, jigsaw, bandsaw, or a table saw to cut these strips. Make sure to cut four strips.


All four strips should be the same length.
Use a ruler to measure out two strips of one width and two strips of another width. This will guarantee that when you put the four strips together, you will have a square opening.

Measure two strips 2 ¾” wide and two separate strips 2 ¼” wide.
Measure the inside square opening. It should read 2 ¼” for width and length. Hold these four pieces together with a rubber band for now, to keep them in place.
 One square piece is going to be the false bottom everyone else sees, and the other will be the top of the secret compartment. Measure these pieces to match the square opening you have created from the four strips of wood.


One square should be thick enough to hold some screws, ex. ½” thick. This will be the top of the secret compartment.
One square could be thin, ex. ⅛” thick. This will be the false bottom. , First, drill a hole all the way through the center of the thicker square. This hole will be used to open the secret compartment. Next, drill 4 holes, one in each corner, for screws.


To find the center point on the thicker square, connect the corners using a ruler and a pencil. Drill an ⅛” hole all the way through the center.
Before drilling the corner ⅛” holes, check to make sure the hole is inset enough from the corners so that the head of each screw will not hang over the edge of the square.

Do not drill the corner holes all the way through to the other side of the square. You want the screws to be sticking out of this thicker piece to create space for the secret compartment. Screw in 1” wood screws into the four corner holes, but only enough for them to be sturdily in place.
 These magnets are circular in shape and are very strong. You can find these magnets at most hardware stores.
 Epoxy is the best way to glue metal to wood. It is a two part formula that only hardens when each are mixed together.


Mix the two parts together with a thinner piece of scrap wood on wax paper or any other hard surface that is disposable. Do not mix epoxy with your fingers!
With the piece of scrap wood that you used to mix the epoxy, put the mixture on each rare earth magnet and glue one magnet on opposite corners. , The magnets will allow you to attach the thinner square to the screws sticking out from the thicker square. Line up the heights of each screw so that the two square pieces are level with each other. Here, you have your secret compartment.
 Using the strips you made earlier as reference, take the compartment and decide where you want them to be inset from the bottom of the four walls of the box. The thicker piece with the screws will be hidden inside from view.
 Using yellow wood glue, glue the four strips you cut out earlier to the outside of the thicker square making sure the screws are facing downwards. Make sure to apply glue to the edges of each wall as well. Hold everything together to dry by wrapping up the box with rubber bands. Do not glue the thinner square with magnets to anything.


Once the box dries, you can sand the sides with sandpaper for a smoother finish.
 Place your secrets in the compartment at the bottom, then connect the false bottom. Attach the thinner square with the magnet to the screws. This false bottom will stop people from thinking there is a secret compartment.


Place pens, markers, pencils, rulers, flowers, etc. into the top space of the box. It will look like a holder to everyone else.
To open the secret compartment, you need a long, thin object that is able to fit through the center hole you drilled in the thicker square.
Unscrew a pen, and take out the thin ink tube. Dump everything from the top space of your box. Stick the ink tube through the hole in the thicker square and push the square with the magnets away from the screws of the thicker square. It will pop off., Feel free to decorate your secret box/holder however way you’d like. To help the illusion of the false bottom, paint the inside and bottom of the box black.

