 Use “I” statements, as in, “I wish we could find a way to talk more honestly with each other.” Communicating with “I” instead of “you” will reduce likelihood of conflict and increase the good, loving feelings you and your partner have for one another.


Everyone is busy. Finding time to communicate with your partner in a healthy, productive way can be difficult, even if you do sincerely love each other. To communicate in a more loving way, ensure that you make time for one another either at the start or end of each day (or any time in between). Sustained, structured time to simply sit down with your partner and talk about whatever you have on your minds can bring you closer together and help you become a more loving couple.

Don’t talk about anything difficult when either of you are tired. Being tired means you’ll feel more stressed and impatient during the conversation.


Don’t look at your phone, computer, TV, or tablet. Instead, sit with them and stay focused on them and the conversation at hand. You could do this over dinner, in the living room, during a walk, or in some other venue. Wherever you choose to spend time talking to your partner, ensure you focus on them.,

When you and your partner are arguing, sometimes both of you inadvertently escalate the argument to the point where it becomes difficult to disengage. Both of you become more and more angry, and feel the need to win. This is an unhealthy communication pattern. Becoming conscious of it and working to change it will help you become more loving.

For instance, next time you and your partner are arguing, just say, “Look, I’m sorry. Let’s not argue any more.”
Walking away makes you the bigger person. Don’t look at it as giving up. Letting things go takes strength and builds character. It says that you love the person you’re fighting with more than you love being right and winning.
Some battles are worth fighting. Don’t compromise on your principles or let your people walk all over you. Choose wisely when you decide to fight to the end.

