 PPD can manifest itself in individuals in different ways. In order to be sure that you have PPD, you need to have experienced at least four of the symptoms listed:


A strong belief or suspicion that other people are out to get you through deception, inducing harm, and/or exploitation
Have a hard time banking on the loyalty of friends, office mates, and even family members.
Have trouble venting out and sharing thoughts to others because of fear that the information you shared will be used against you in the future.
Have trouble distinguishing remarks that are innocent or malicious. Gets easily offended of benign or random statements that are actually not meant to threaten or demean.
Have the inclination to hold grudges for a very long time and is unforgiving of insults and physical injuries.
Consistently see attacks of your person and reputation that is not perceived as such by other people. This erroneous assumption often results in severe counterattacks.
Have a hard time trusting a partner (spouse or sexual partner) thinking that he or she is cheating on you at any given time.
 There are many theories surrounding the real cause of PPD but experts agree that it is a combination of psychological, social, and biological factors. How the brain is wired as it develops through adulthood is a possible cause. How a person was raised and learned to cope with problems can also contribute to the onset of PPD. Emotional trauma due to abuses in the past can also contribute to the development of PPD.Most people with Paranoid Personality Disorder also have someone in the family who suffers from schizophrenia and other psychotic conditions. Heredity can also be a big factor in the causation of PPD.
 Believe it or not, your paranoia does not need to control your life. With the help of a professional therapist, you can actually overcome your fears. It will take time, hard work, and dedication, but you will eventually regain control of your life. As soon as you begin to notice symptoms of this disorder, seek help.Research shows that PPD is a stepping stone for other disorders like schizophrenia, obsessive compulsive disorder, and delusional disorder. To avoid developing these disorders, it is important to seek help as quickly as possible.
 In order to avoid becoming suspicious of your therapist, it is important to ask him or her to explain the different steps and treatments you will take to overcome your paranoia. While you may feel mistrustful of your therapist at times, it is very important that you stay committed to your treatment or else you have very little chance of recovering., When you do begin therapy, there will be moments where you will feel sad or depressed about your disorder, particularly when you gain insights into the ways that you perceive others. This sadness can lead to clinical depression. If you do start feeling excess amounts of sadness, talk to your therapist.

