 Hypothermia is a rapid decline in body temperature, and is usually associated with exposure to cold temperatures over a prolonged period. But hypothermia is not uncommon in rabbits when they get surgery because their small bodies do not retain as much heat as a larger animal. Most vets provide a heating pad beneath the rabbit during surgery, and in an incubator when it stays overnight at the clinic for recovery.Once you bring the rabbit home, provide warm blankets (putting them through a tumble in the dryer first is a good idea) and check your rabbit’s body temperature.
If you touch your bunny’s belly and it feels cool, turn up the ambient temperature. Consider putting a heating pad in or near one portion of the cage so your bunny can get warmer.
 After your rabbit has been spayed or neutered, they will need to recover. Keep your rabbit in a peaceful, warm, quiet, and relaxing environment where they will be feel safe and free of stress. Your doctor will probably provide or prescribe a painkiller for your rabbit. Listen to your doctor’s directions and administer the medication in the recommended dosages.Some vets keep the rabbit at their clinic overnight.
If you bring your rabbit home, consider using a heating pad or heated blanket to keep it warm.
If the spay or neuter was done to solve another health condition, your bunny might need antibiotics., Female rabbits will probably not want to eat for 12-24 hours following the surgery. After this period, though, it is important to get your rabbit to eat something in order to move along the recovery process. Male rabbits will usually emerge from the surgery hungry and looking to eat. Be sure they have food and water waiting for them if you’re able to take them home. Provide your rabbit with some of its favorite foods in order to inspire its appetite.
 Look for signs of infection. It is normal for the scrotum to remain swollen for one or two weeks in male rabbits. Any redness, swelling, or yellowish crust or pus at the site of the incision beyond two weeks, however, should be cause for alarm.Additionally, handle your bunny gently during this time to avoid disturbing the sutures at the incision site.


Many vets use special sutures that cannot easily be removed by the rabbit, but if you see your rabbit has removed its sutures, contact your vet so they can bandage it back up.
If your rabbit’s incision becomes infected, let your vet know immediately. You will then need an antibiotic prescription for your pet.
 Male rabbits actually remain fertile up to four weeks after being neutered. If you have a male and female rabbit, keep them separated for at least four weeks after their surgery. If your female rabbit was spayed, keep it in a separate – but nearby – cage for two weeks to allow her to recover.