 One of the best ways to excel at the SO is to choose events based on your strengths. To do this ask yourself, “Which science classes do I enjoy most?” or “Which science classes do I excel in?” By answering these questions, you can figure out which events you will enjoy the most, and thus, which events you will excel in., Study events are reading and writing intensive. This type of event often involves completing a written component. Either a test will be administered during this event, or it will run in stations. If it is run in stations, there are typically 10 to 20 stations. For each station there will be a corresponding section in your test with questions. The stations also have time limits; typically five minutes per station. On the other hand, if a test is administered, it will be like a normal test with questions and answers. Sometimes models, like anatomy models, will be present as well.Prepare for study events by making a binder. Your binder should include your notes, charts, and diagrams. Use flash cards to help you remember names of muscles and bones. You can also use school textbooks to help you study.
Put extra time into studying charts and diagrams since a lot of the questions on the tests pertain to charts, like the skeletal or muscular system. Study their corresponding names and numbers.
Buy test packets and field guides. Purchase test packets depending on which division you are in. Test packets include tailored exercises for each event and division. For example, if you are in Division C and will be participating in a physical life sciences event, buy the Division C test packet for the life sciences., Building events are more hands-on and require participants to build something. Participants either have to build something before the competition and bring it the day of, or build something at the competition from start to finish.


Prepare for a building event by reading the rules and specifications for your model. Memorize the rules and hold study sessions where you quiz yourself and your teammates on the rules.
Plan out your design before building it. Once your design is built, hold multiple testing sessions in order to see how your model functions. Make sure both you and your partner are present during testing sessions. Also, record any adjustments you make in a log so you can gauge what effect the adjustment had on your model.Use materials that are sturdy and straight, like metal and wood, so they will not bend during competition time. You also want your model to be flexible and not rigid. This means refraining from using too much glue; use screws and fasteners (if weight restrictions do not apply) to hold your model together.