 Look in a full length mirror wearing your birthday suit, and write down your 3 most pleasing features and 1 not-as-pleasing feature. It's okay to not be comfortable with a part of yourself, but it's not okay to let that single fact control you. Make a list of clothes that accentuate your chosen features. For example, if you'd like to accentuate your waist, splurge on some new belts (to cinch in already owned shirts). To accentuate your legs, buy some skinny jeans, a miniskirt or mini-dress and a few pairs of sky high heels. For arms, try sleeveless tops or vests. Keep thinking of things to accentuate your pleasing features, then make a list of two items that could be worn to make your least pleasing features less noticeable. For example, if you're self conscious about your legs, invest in a pair of dark bootleg jeans. If you don't like your small bust, buy a push-up bra.;
, Like you did in step 1, make a list of 3 things you love about your appearance, but instead pay attention to your face. (eg. how big your eyes are) Remember to write down a facial feature you're not too crazy about. Add to your list from step 1 some makeup you'd need to accentuate (not hide behind) your favorite features (ex. mascara to highlight long lashes). Next, write down 1 item you will use to improve the feature you're not comfortable with. For example, if you have pale skin, buy some bronzer! Or, if your lips look yellow often, buy some red lip stain and lightly brush it on to bring out the pink in your lips. If you don't like your teeth, buy whitening strips! you could even get a haircut or get your hair dyed. Also, find out which hairstyle you are most comfortable with. That doesn't mean leave it to be a big halo of frizz around your head, keep it polished but comfy.
 Add items you'll need to do this on your list. For example, if you're creative, add an easel, a canvas, and some paints or a sowing machine and fabrics to your list. If you're the musical type, restring your guitar or clear out some space in your room and buy some new CD's to dance to. Finding something you're good at and getting better at it gives you confidence. Achieving goals you set for yourself make you feel accomplished and more confident.
 You'll meet new people who you have loads in common with, and will feel better about yourself because you're pursuing something you enjoy.
 This is the favorite step to many. Grab your list of things you need and go buy them! If you're low on money or just don't want to spend that much, go to a thrift store or organize a clothes swap with friends. You could even make your own clothes if you know how. Walking out of that store with the big bag in your hand makes you feel like a new person. If a haircut or new hairstyle wasn't on your list, add it now. They make impeccable changes and truly make you feel like a new person, even if the change is minor, like getting layers done, a few lowlights, even just changing the side part in your hair. You could also get a weave done or buy a hair extension if you're unhappy with short hair.
 Grab some friends you met through the activities and hobbies from Day 4 and take them out for some fun to get to know them better. You could go to a party or a movie together. Put on your new clothes and makeup, spend some extra time on your hair, do whatever it takes to make you feel fabulous. Seeing how new you look will make you want to clean off your slate and start with a new, confident you.
 Getting your thoughts out of your head is extremely important.

