 This is the minimum educational requirement for kitchen assistant work. In the UK, you should complete your General Certificates of Secondary Education (GCSEs) in any subject.;
, In order to prepare food, you should have a knowledge of basic knife skills, prep work, timing and cooking basic meals. People who have been cooking for years are likely to have developed the skills needed to work successfully in a kitchen environment.


Take introductory culinary classes, if you do not have good cooking skills. Consider getting a cooking certificate from a local culinary school or community college. An advanced degree from a culinary school is not necessary, unless you want to be on a track to becoming a sous chef or chef.
Search for a kitchen assistant apprenticeship if you are between the ages of 16 and 24. If you are within this range, you may be able to be paid part of a wage to get a qualification, including a diploma and a technical certificate. Although you will work for a wage that is lower than the average kitchen assistant wage, you will leave the apprenticeship with valuable qualifications on your resume (CV).
 A certificate can make you more marketable to employers. You may be able to study for a certificate while working as a kitchen assistant.
 Many kitchen assistants had their first few jobs in the hospitality and serving industry. Place this relevant experience on your resume.
 By researching the qualifications and experience that are preferred by employers, you can figure out whether you are best suited to catering, restaurant work or institution work.
 Kitchen assistants are often hired through temp agencies. Interview at your local temporary job placement agencies so that recruiters can find a job for you.
 Include your education, work experience and skills in cooking, cleaning and organizing. Proof your resume well and ensure that it portrays you as a hard worker with a desire to work in the hospitality industry.


You may also be required to write a cover letter to explain your experience and skills in prose. Keep the cover letter under 1 page, and explain your skills, honors and success in the culinary field so far.
 With the essential education and experience, you should be able to get an entry level job as a kitchen assistant. Look for jobs that give on the job training and promote from within.


Ask your temp agency to give extra consideration to job contracts that can be extended or made permanent if the job is a good fit.

