 Lip balm is your lips’ shield against hot, cold, and dry weather. Often, your lips will crack if you expose them to too much sun or too much cold air. Apply lip balm as soon as you feel your lips becoming dry in order to ward off cracks. When you apply your lip balm, start from the corners of your mouth and work your way into the center so that you don’t forget to moisturize the corners--they’re where the most cracks happen. Use lip balm four to six times a day.Look for lip balms that contain shea butter, cocoa butter or balms containing oils like almond or jojoba. All of these ingredients amp up the moisturizing effect of the balm. You should also look for balms that are paraben-free (a common preservative), and contains beeswax (cera alba), dimethicone, and 5% humectants (which increases your lips’ moisture).
If you are planning on having fun in the sun all day, use a lip balm that contains SPF 15, beeswax, petroleum jelly, phenol (a disinfectant), or soft paraffin (a healing oil).
Apply lip balm before you go to bed, particularly if you have a cold or generally sleep with your mouth open.;
, Applying natural oils to your lips is a great way to moisturize and heal cracks. There are a bunch of oils to choose from (see the substep). When applying the oil of your choice, put a drop or two of the oil on to your finger and smooth the oil along your lips. You can apply these oils four to five times a day, though the best time to apply is right before you go to bed, as these oils can be greasy and you may have a hard time keeping yourself from rubbing them off during the day. These oils include:


Olive oil, coconut oil, almond oil, plain butter, jojoba oil, castor oil, and milk creams.
 Honey is a bit of a wonder--it is a natural moisturizer that also fights bad bacteria. Put a drop or two of honey on one of your fingers and smooth it along your lips. Fight the urge to lick your lips (it will be hard but worth it). To keep yourself from licking, apply honey before you go to bed and then rinse it off in the morning.


You can also combine honey with glycerin (a by-product of soap manufacturing that acts as a lip softener).
 Aloe vera, like honey, does multiple things at once--it moisturizes your lips while also healing the cracks and fighting bacteria. Put a drop or two on your lips and rub it in with your finger. Leave the aloe vera on your lips for 10 to 15 minutes and remember not to lick--while it may smell great, aloe has a pretty unpleasant taste. Once the time is up, wash it off with warm water. You can do this three or four times a day depending on how cracked your lips are.Some people’s skin can become irritated by aloe vera. If you apply aloe to your lips and feel a stinging or burning sensation, wash it off right away.
 Cucumbers aren’t just great in salads--they can also help moisturize your lips. Cucumbers are packed with vitamin C, electrolytes, and fluids that can keep your lips moist. Cut a cucumber up into thin slices and then rub the slices slowly along your lips. Make sure that the cucumber juice gets every part of your lips, including the corners. Leave the juice on your lips for 10 to 15 minutes and then wash it off with warm water.
 Rose petals can be really effective in combatting chapped or cracked lips. Put a few drops of glycerin on a couple of rose petals and lay them on your lips before you go to bed. Rose petals help your lips to retain their moisture while also boosting their color.