 To make loopy flowers, which have petals that loop backward for a pretty effect, gather several pieces of fabric scraps that are about 4 inches (10.2 cm) long and 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide. This type of flower looks best with stiffer fabric, such as felt.
 Place pins along the bottom, where the two edges of the fabric scraps meet. Place the pins about an 1/8 of an inch from the open edge.
 Use a scissors to make evenly spaced slits along the folded part of the fabric. If you want your flower to have many petals, make the slits every 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm). For fewer petals, make the slits every 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm).
 Thread a needle with thread that matches the fabric you chose for your flower petals. Tie a thick knot at the end of the thread so it won't pull through the fabric. Starting at one end of the row of petals, insert the needle at the corner of the fabric where the two ends meet, near the first straight pin. Sew a running stitch along the length of the fabric, so that the two layers are now sewn together.









For a neater final look, make sure your stitches are evenly spaced, and that they are all the same distance from the bottom of the fabric. Run the stitch just above or below the straight pins you used to hold the fabric in place.
Remove the straight pins once you're finished stitching to the end of the fabric.
 Slide the fabric toward the knot in the thread so that it becomes cinched. As you slide and push it down, the fabric will begin to form into a circular shape, and the petals will spread apart. Continue cinching the fabric until you have formed a flower shape. Finish sewing the flower by folding it in half and securing the first and last petals together with a few whip stitches. Secure the thread with a knot and cut it.
 Now that you have a circle of flowers, it's time to add a center. Cut out a circle of the same fabric you used to make the petals, or use a contrasting fabric. The circle should be large enough to cover the hole at the center of the flowers, but not so large that it obscures the petals. Dab fabric glue around the edge of the fabric circle and secure it in the center of the petals.
 Use hot glue or fabric glue to add a button, bead, rhinestone, or another decoration to the center of the flower.








