 You can never revise enough might be true, but don't sit for hours on end working at the same subject—your revision will be most effective in the first hour.;
, Write out a list of topics you find difficult, look through your notes and try to break them down and understand.
 CGP and Collins are all good brands, but try to get the revision guides from your exam board like AQA, OCR, CCEA, WJEC and Edexcel.
 If you can work with music on, this can help you relax. It can also drown out noises around you. Make sure you have an empty desk to work at, with everything you need at hand for the session ahead. Have plenty of scrap paper handy. If you're using the Internet to revise, make sure you know what you want to improve on before you start.
 There are three basic types of learning styles. The three most common are visual, auditory, and kinesthetic. To learn, we depend on our senses to process the information around us. Most people tend to use one of their senses more than the others. Try different methods of revision to find out what your learner type is.
 When memorizing a phone number, an auditory learner will say it out loud and then remember how it sounded to recall it. Does any of this sound like you?






Visual learners are those who learn things best through seeing them. Visual learning students like to keep an eye on the teacher by sitting in the front of the class and watching the lecture closely. Often, visual learners will find that information "clicks" when it is explained with the aid of a chart or picture.






Tactile or kinesthetic learners are those who learn through experiencing/doing things. For this reason, tactile learners may become bored more quickly than other students while listening to a class lecture. Tactile learners like to experience the world and act out events. To remember a phone number, tactile learners may remember the pattern of their fingers as they press the numbers.
 There's no point revising for 3 hours non stop without taking any breaks. You brain will simply become overloaded with information and will not take anything in.
, Past exams are one of the most popular ways to revise.
,

, Too many of our visitors leave it all until the last minute—our usage statistics go through the roof the night before exam days.