 Brushing your teeth is something you should be doing twice daily, however, you should also do it after you have been smoking. Brushing your teeth will help to cover up any odor and may help reduce the smell of smoke in your breath.Spend at least two minutes brushing.
Make sure your toothbrush is the right size, just big enough to get in all areas of your mouth.
Try flossing as well as this can eliminate extra odors, beyond the ones cause by smoking.;
, Mouthwash is designed to quickly rid the mouth of bacteria and leave it feeling and smelling clean. Use mouthwash right after you smoke to help stop bad breath.Alcohol based mouthwashes can irritate your mouth.Look for the ingredient thymol, as it is an antiplaque/antigingivitis agent.Try carrying a small “travel-size” bottle of mouthwash with you.
 Cleaning your tongue can remove many bacteria, which are responsible for bad breath, and may also help reduce odor caused by smoking. Scraping your tongue will help keep it clean and improve your breath.Try to clean your tongue each day.
Use a brush or a tongue scraper.
Try to reach the back of your tongue, as this is where most bacteria live.
Stick out your tongue, move your brush or scraper across the back of your tongue.
Stop to check your progress. If there is more discolored areas, scrape again.
Be gentle yet firm enough to remove the bacteria.
Tongue scrapers may be more effective than a regular toothbrush.
 Chewing sugar-less gum can be a simple way to reduce bad breath. When sugar-less gum is chewed, saliva production is increased, and it washes away bacteria. Try chewing sugar-less gum after you smoke to remove these bacteria.Try chewing the gum right after you smoke.
Chewing gum helps prevent dry mouth, which can cause bad breath.
You may also want to try sugar-less mints to help freshen your breath.
 Your dentist may be able to help you find more methods that will work for you. They will also be able to check your mouth for any problems caused by smoking such as:Cancer
Tooth decay
Gum disease

