, It is one of the "spicy" elements. Zeera is usually added to the "tadka", (tempering) a little hot oil, with various spices. This Tadka forms the base of most Indian dishes. Zeera is used as a whole or in the powdered form. The powdered form can be mixed with Yogurt to make a good raita or salt lassi.
 It adds to the color of the food. Turmeric is also well known for its medicinal properties. It can be used for curing various skin ailments.
 Usually added to hot oil, so that it sparkles. Some recipes call for grinding mustard, do not at any time try to use mustard paste available off the counter. It does not suit Indian cooking and ruins the flavour.
 This of course is an extremely spicy item. If you are not used to spicy food then use it sparingly. The red chillies are also used in the powder form. Do not bother making it at home; buy it from the store. It works best that way. South Indians have a different sort of dry red chili, which is very spicy and very small. However, powders can be chosen on the basis of potency (the spicier the better), color (redder is better) and texture (finely powdered).
 They are also a part of the tarka. Powdered methi is sometimes added to dosa (Indian salty pancakes) batter so that the dosa comes out crisp.
 It is also used for making garam masala.It has a sharp smell and only tastes good after it is roasted.
 They taste really nice and are used as mouth fresheners in India. They are also known for their digestive quality, and ability to clear blood. Saunf is also used to make up the famous Bengali blend of spices called "panch phoron".
, In some areas of Kerala, coconut oil is used. In Bengal, mustard oil is used. These oils are quite pungent and give their own flavour to the food. If you do not like their smell or flavor, then you can always use vegetable oil, sunflower seed oil, or peanut oil. The lighter the oil the better the flavor.
 Ghee is available off the counter also. However, the preferred ghee is always home-made. You can find the method for making ghee here.
,, You can again find this off the counter. You can find it in any shop, not just an Indian grocery store.
, Indian food has a unique standing because of this blending.
 In the south, it is used for making sambhars/sambars, rasams and some daals. It is extremely mouthwatering, and is a favourite of many a pregnant woman!!!

, It is dried powdered mango, before it ripens. It is quite sour and has a tang to it. However, it has a sweetish note, also.
 So when in Indian recipes we say use 1 lemon, we are actually referring to around 2 teaspoons of lemon juice. We use this as the "sour" in our food. Again you can find this anywhere.
 It is used for making "chaat masala" and churans. If you find the smell offensive you can use plain salt, but the flavor of this salt is quite different.
 It gives a subtle flavor, and is less salty than processed salt. You do not HAVE to buy this.
 This also refers to the by-product of date-palm sugar. This is the "sweetness" in indian food and often used for making many varieties of sweets.
 Therefore, if you find sugar in Indian stores, buy it once and try it. You can accordingly adjust the quantity of your local sugar up to the sweetness of Indian sugar.
, If you are comfortable using your own rolling pin, go ahead. If you don't have one, then get the one from the Indian store.
 However, woks have a rounder base than our kadais. However, you can safely buy a kadai.
 Try to go for a skillet without edges.
 A bit noisy, but the most viable and eco-friendly items (it takes less time to heat and cook items). The pressure cooker comes in a variety of sizes and the sizes are 1 liter (0.3 US gal), to 10 liters (2.6 US gal). You can boil potatoes, meats, veggies, dals, etc. in a matter of minutes. Sometimes, Indian recipes will speak about the number of whistles for cooking food. This is when the weight is placed on the lid, and the pressure builds up. The cooker "whistles" loudly, as in lets off steam in one go. To cook rice, you need three whistles, same for potatoes. So and so forth. If you buy this from an Indian store, it sometimes comes with a booklet containing recipes. You can also use those to get used to your pressure cooking.
 Non-stick and stainless steel versions are available. They also come in various sizes. Depending on the size of your pressure cooker.

