 Making wine from scratch is challenging and the end result can vary immensely, especially when performed by an inexperienced wine maker. That being said, don't be deterred from giving it a shot — after all, practice makes perfect!;
, A basement or garage is often ideal. Try to find a space with well regulated temperature.
 Research local grape suppliers. Contact a local vineyard, and arrange for them to sell you grapes. Keep in mind that no vineyard can promise you a due date. Grapes are ripe, when they are ripe. Therefore, you must be ready when the grapes are.


Alternatively, you may order concentrated grape juice online, which is made explicitly for wine making. If you do this you may skip to the "Test the acid content" step.
Wine grapes are different than your grocery store or table grapes, do not try to substitute.
You will want about 70-80 pounds of grapes for each carboy of wine you plan to make. A carboy hold 19 liters or 5 US gallons. That is about 30 bottles of wine.
 Once you have bought your grapes. Wash your grapes and sort them. Remove any rotten or bruised grapes.
 You may smash your grapes with or without the stems, which contain tannins. It depends on what flavor profile you are after. You may smash your grapes by hand, foot, or with a crushing machine. The resulting mass of pulp and juice is called "must".
 Follow the instructions that came with your acid testing kit to test the acidity of your must. Most likely your acid content will be too low, and the sugar content will be too high. Use the acid blend in your kit until it reaches 65%.
 Measure the specific gravity of your must using your hydrometer. Adjust the specific gravity of your must with water until you reach 1.095.
 Add 1 gram of metabisulphite for each 10 pounds of grapes. Mix. The metabisulphite will form sulfur dioxide gas (SO2) in the must. This will prevent most wild microorganisms from growing. Metabisulphite acts as an antioxidant.


Note: Some people are allergic to sulfites. If so, you may want to skip this step, but know you run a higher risk of contaminated wine.
 The must should be between 68–80 °F (20–27 °C). If it is too warm, add a bag of ice to the middle. Stir and check again. If it gets too cool, toss a warm water bottle in the middle. Stir and check again.

