 Traditional cars and trucks produce nitrogen dioxide as a byproduct of driving and idling so one easy way to cut back on emissions is to drive less. Try walking, biking, or taking public transit instead.


If your location is close enough, try walking or biking, especially if the destination has showers for clean up (workplace, gym, etc.).
Many large cities offer public transportation such as buses, subways, trains and "park and ride" which allows you to park your vehicle and take public transit to your destination.Don't drive during certain times. For example, drive less during peak traffic periods, when it is extremely hot, or when there are ozone warnings in effect.If driving is a necessity, try setting up a carpool so there are fewer cars on the road and fewer trips being made.;
, Keeping your car "healthy" will not only improve mileage, but can also reduce emissions. Get regular tune-ups and oil changes and make sure your tires are properly inflated to ensure your car is functioning at its best.


Many states require smog and emission tests to make sure your car isn't emitting too much pollution. These are usually required annually or bi-annually.Inflating your tires to the correct pressure allows the engine to function better by maintaining a steady load.Consult your mechanic or your owner's manual for specific information regarding maintenance for your vehicle.
 Pump gas early in the morning or later in the evening when temperatures drop. This prevents the fumes from gasoline from heating up and creating harmful toxins at ground level (ozone).There are alternative fuel sources that are in the works such as ethanol, natural gas, and hydrogen, but not all engines can function off of these fuel sources., These vehicles have been known to dramatically reduce emissions for many reasons (depending on the type of model). Some decrease the consumption of fuel while others do away with fuel altogether. The result is a reduction in tail pipe emissions and therefore a reduction in smog.Hybrid vehicles are fueled by gasoline alone but have the ability to recapture energy and use it to power the car, resulting in less fuel consumption.Electric vehicles are powered by electricity alone and must be plugged in and charged in order to drive.Plug-in hybrids are the best of both worlds, running off of either electricity or gasoline.