 Use ordinary 8 ½ in (21.5 cm) by 11 in (28 cm) printer or A4 paper. Perform a book fold to begin. A book fold is made by folding your paper in half the long way.


Notebook paper, construction paper, or printer paper all work well.
For best results, lay your paper on a flat surface like a desk.
Crease your fold with the edge of your finger, then unfold.
 Take about two 2 inches (51 mm) at the top of your paper and fold down in a horizontal valley fold.


Keep the center crease aligned when you fold the top of the paper down toward you.
Crease the top edge with your finger to keep the flap in place.
 Now repeat the fold you just made, only this time folding only the top 1 inch (25 mm).


Align the bottom edge of this fold to the bottom edge of your previous fold.
Crease to keep the fold in place.
Perform a third horizontal valley fold. Fold the top 0.5 inches (13 mm) down.
Line up all the edges once again.
Go over all of your creases and press each one again to keep the folds in place.
 You center crease should now be a mountain fold, meaning it is pointing up. The last folds you performed should be on the opposite side of the paper now facing down. Fold the top two corners to the center line.


Take the top two corners and fold each into the center. Align each so both folds are even.
You may have to play with getting the paper to fold as the three folds you previously made might make it hard to fold the flaps down.
 You will now have a piece of paper that looks like a house with a small triangle cap at the top.


The folds you just made should now be on the opposite side of the paper facing down.
 Fold your paper up in a vertical valley fold along the center crease.


You will now have two rectangular flaps showing, a triangle portion, and a square portion.
 Fold the wings down over your rectangular flaps. You want to fold the wings so the edges are flat.


Fold the wings down so the creases you make here are at the top of your rectangular portion. This will create the wings and the body of your plane.
The body should be about 0.5 inches (13 mm) tall.
Make sure both wings are even with one another.
 With your wings still folded down, take about 0.5 inches (13 mm) of your paper and fold it up in a valley fold. This will create a fin on each wing to help the plane fly.
 Fold the wings up so the top portion is flat. Lift up your wing fins so each is perpendicular with your wings.This plane has a heavy nose so you can throw it hard and watch it fly far.
Hold the plane parallel to the ground and let loose.

