 Go over carpets and rugs thoroughly at least once a week with a vacuum cleaner.Doing this and annually cleaning with steam will prevent larvae from being able to live, grow and eat because it removes their food sources: lint, hair, and dead insects.You can either hire a professional to clean your carpets or you can steam them yourself.;
, Vacuum floors, walls, and shelves of storage spaces at least two or three times a month to remove dust, spider webs, and any inconspicuous eggs or larvae that are hiding in corners., Any trace of adult carpet beetles, larvae, and eggs can be removed with a good washing. Carpet beetles won’t have time to sustain life on your clothing if you stay on top of washing them.Wash and air out clothes immediately after they’re removed from storage. Don’t wait to do this until after you wear the clothes or hang them in your closet because this will allow any present beetles to find a new area to thrive in.Each month, make sure that any clothes kept in your closet or dresser that you haven’t worn and washed get a good warm wash and air dry too.
 Every time you take out your trash, wipe the inside of your trash can lid with a disinfectant wipe. Once or twice a year, spray down your trash cans inside and out with a mixture of 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of bleach and 24 fluid ounces (709.8 ml) of water, rinse the cans thoroughly with a hose, and wipe them dry with a hand towel or paper towel., Constantly be on the lookout for dead insects in the cracks of the walls and flooring of your home.Try removing dead bugs by vacuuming over them or picking them up with a paper towel. Cracks are one of the more subtle living spaces that carpet beetles can thrive within.
 Get products made of synthetic fibers instead of natural ones as often as you can. Carpet beetles don’t feed on synthetic fabric. Keep this in mind when purchasing furniture, rugs, and carpets., The longer you keep fabrics folded in a compact manner in a dark, hidden place, the more likely it is that carpet beetles will get to them. This is the kind of environment that they prefer. Avoid keeping garments, bedding, wool rugs, or upholstered furniture in storage.Instead, if you haven’t used the items in the past six months or so, consider dropping them off for donation.

