 This information might be included on the event invitation. It’s important you dress for the occasion, because being under-dressed will likely make you feel uncomfortable during the event. The phrase “formal attire” is used broadly, but there are specific expectations for different levels of the formal dress code.White tie: typically reserved for diplomatic events or prestigious award ceremonies, this level of formality calls for a tailcoat, white vest and tie, and gloves for men, and a floor-length evening gown with optional gloves for women.
Black tie: for men, this means a stroller or morning dress for daytime events, and tuxedos for evening events. For women black tie means a cocktail dress or long gown, and the choice can be guided by what the event host is expected to wear.
Black tie optional/preferred: for men, either a dark suit with bow tie or a tuxedo. For women, black tie optional means a cocktail dress, a long dress, or dressy separates. The host will likely wear black tie, but guests are allowed some flexibility.
Creative/themed black tie: for men, colorful shirts and bow ties are encouraged, along with appropriate accessories. For women, a trendy gown would be a good option.
Cocktail: for men, a dark suit and tie will suffice. For women, a short dress, including the classic Little Black Dress, is called for.
Festive: this dress code usually means cocktail with holiday flair. Choose colors and accessories accordingly.;
, Confidence in your attire will make you feel confident about yourself.Think about colors and wardrobe pieces you’ve received compliments on, and use these as a starting point for putting together your ensemble., If you have short legs, wear heeled shoes that elongate the leg. If you have excess weight around your stomach, a well-cut sports jacket can create a nice silhouette. De-emphasize the areas of your body that you feel self-conscious about by choosing cuts and styles that mask them., If you have fantastic arms, don a sleeveless dress. If your chest is trim, consider a slim-fit button-up shirt. If your eyes are an arresting deep brown, wear a color that makes them stand out. Drawing attention to the parts of your body you love will make the parts you feel uncomfortable about less noticeable, improving your overall confidence level in the process., Formal attire makes us feel powerful. The external change can create internal change. Use that positive surge to carry yourself with your head held high throughout the event., If you can afford it, take your dress, suit, or other formal attire to a tailor for a proper fitting. The right hems will keep you from tripping up the entire evening, and a proper fit that conforms to your body perfectly will leave you feeling confident and at ease., Trim or shave facial hair the day before the event so your skin is not irritable on the day of.If you’d like to wear a little makeup, choose one facial feature to play up while keeping the rest of the look neutral., Choose a style that you can set and forget. If you’re worried about strays and frizz throughout the event, you won’t be at ease.If you want a fresh cut for the event, have it done in time for your hair to relax into the new length and style., High heels may make you look great, but if you are not accustomed to them, they will hurt your feet. Oxfords with a tight vamp will pinch throughout the event. Choose a formal shoe that feels comfortable and familiar., No matter what shoes you decide on, you should wear them a few times before the occasion itself. Wear them around the house, but keep them looking clean and polished. This allows the shoe to conform to your foot, which will make you feel more comfortable during the event itself., A bit of sparkly jewelry can turn a plain ensemble into formal attire.Shirt studs, cufflinks, and tie pins provide a chance to add a touch of personality to a suit or tuxedo.
A stylish watch will catch the eye when it peeks from beneath your cuff.
A necklace and bracelet combination with sturdy clasps can be topped off with simple gemstone stud earrings.
 If your shoes start to get uncomfortable throughout the course of the night, you can always run off to a quiet corner and remedy the situation by applying whatever gel pad, insole, or bandage you need in order to get you comfortably back on your feet., These will help you keep your look together if you should you drop a curl, a stud, or a hem., If the temperature takes a sudden drop, you will have a means of keeping yourself warm. Choosing a cover-up as a part of your outfit keeps you looking sharp even when the weather turns., The clutch is considered the most formal type of handbag, and the strap gives you the option of either carrying it comfortably over your shoulder or in your hands. A clutch is a fashionable way to carry your backup items.

