 Though QR codes do not guarantee you a job offer, they make life easier for the recruiter, employer or HR manager. Simplifying the process an employer must go through when accessing your resume and other relevant information takes you one step closer to getting a job.


Furthermore, if the QR code is synced to the recruiter’s Outlook folder, they will have all your information on their drive without even typing a word.;
, The addition of a QR code to your resume lets you advertise your professional skills and abilities. By adding a code to your resume, you show that you are connected to and aware of the ever-changing tech world.


Many employers like candidates who are on the cutting edge, even if the job is not related to Information Technology.
 Adding a QR code to your resume can surprise the recruiter. An element of surprise will make your resume stand out from the rest in the mind of the recruiter.


Any time you can make your resume stick in the mind of a recruiter, you should seize the opportunity in order to further your chances of being hired.
 You can store a wide range of information in a QR code. You should include any information that could be of help to the recruiter in regards to understanding and knowing about you on a professional level.


Use the QR code to help you achieve a competitive advantage by strategically reinforcing your skills and desirability as a job candidate.
You can include details like:

Samples of your work; they could be video or graphics.
Link to websites pertaining to your experience and skills.
Testimonials from colleagues or clients.
Touch friendly contacts like click-to-email or click-to-call options.
Social media channels, etc.
 Similar to a website, you can always track the performance of your QR code. You can get the details of internet traffic and time spent by viewers on your landing page, insights that are obviously unavailable with paper resumes.


You can also find out the number of people visiting, to see if hiring managers are viewing your content.

