 Over many years of use, water, soap, and other washing chemicals can sometimes harden around the base of the agitator, essentially "freezing" it in place and making it very tricky to remove (if not impossible).Luckily, in this case, it's often still possible to remove the agitator by using a sturdy 2x4 plank as a simple lever. However, if this method is used to "force" an agitator that is bolted or otherwise fastened in place, it can break the agitator and even cause damage to the inner machinery of the washing machine.


For this reason, it's extremely important to ensure that the agitator is not bolted down before attempting this method. Remove any bolts holding it in place as directed above and ensure that the agitator for your model of washer can be safely removed before beginning.
If in doubt, contact a mechanic — the price of a repair is usually minor compared to the price of replacing a broken machine.
 To begin, fill the washing compartment with about six inches or so of hot water — enough to completely cover the bottom of the agitator. This will help loosen any built-up soap and chemicals, making removal slightly easier.


To be clear, you don't want to start a wash cycle with hot water. You only want to add hot water to the washing compartment. Attempting maintenance on your washing machine while it's "on" is always an unwise idea.
 Grab a strong piece of rope about five feet (one and a half meters) long. Fold it over on itself at its midway point and loop it through itself to fasten it between the fins on the agitator neck. Give it a firm upward yank to tighten it and ensure it's secure.


In a pinch, you can also use an old dryer belt for this task., Grab a 2x4 plank about five feet long. Loop the ends of the rope over the 2x4 and tie them securely in place around the wood so that they won't slip.


To protect the finish on the edge of your washer from the pressure of the 2x4 in the next step, put a folded towel underneath it.
 Start putting firm pressure on the end of the piece of wood outside the washer. This will raise the end over the agitator, pulling it directly upward. Gradually increase the downward pressure on the lever until you are able to lift the agitator out. Beware — this can require quite a bit of force, especially if your agitator hasn't been removed in years.


If you can't remove your agitator this way, call a mechanic. Using extreme amounts of pressure to push down on your lever is a sure-fire way to injure yourself, damage your washer or both, so play it safe.

