 Put the focus on buying quality, not quantity. The tea should be good quality, it's a tea party after all.


Think about what you can save money on; for example, paper napkins don't have to come from a high end retailer. Milk can be from anywhere, as long as it's fresh. Shop for any vegetables, i.e. cucumber, at the market or greengrocers instead of the supermarket. A bakery, especially at the end of the day, might be a more cost effective option for some items than the supermarket.
Don't over cater. Unless you want to be eating tea party food for days after your event, or worse, throwing away spoiled food, buy enough food, not too much.;
, If you choose whether a quiet and private spot, you can select more elaborate food, for instance. If you out in a park having a picnic tea party, you may want to select simpler, more easily portable foods that won't melt in the heat or require refrigeration.
 To select food, you'll need to know how many people you are catering for. The location of your tea party may also depend on the amount of people attending.
 Children may enjoy foods different from those the adults would like. For example, a birthday tea party may require a cake. Or, a bridal shower tea party may be themed to include such things as a diaper-shaped cake, small baby cakes and a statue of baby cheeses. Select food suitable for all your guests, consider their dietary needs, their cultural requirements and of course, what they will enjoy!

, You can give all of your guests a place setting with flatware, etc. Or, serve finger food. Finger food is more traditional at a tea party but you can serve dishes that need a knife and fork to eat them if you wish. Some classic tea party foods include:


Cucumber sandwiches
Smoked salmon sandwiches
Scones with clotted cream and jam
Iced buns
Macaroons.
 You will need at least one of everything for each person. A tea party meal should contain as much food per person as would be eaten at a normal lunch. You don't need to serve the equivalent of a three course meal, unless you want to.
 You can make ordinary foods look fancy for a tea party. How biscuits, cookies, candies etc are arranged on a plate can make them look more, or less attractive. Select dainty foods that look pretty served on paper doilies, if that's your thing.
 Are you going to serve a large birthday cake, Christmas Cake or other celebration cake? You may wish to select fewer small cakes and other sweet treats if everyone will be enjoying a slice of cake, or two.
 Have you got a cake stand? Do you have enough matching side plates? Can you keep everything cold or hot? Will you need a piping bag? A smoker? Select food that you can already prepare and serve or buy the additional equipment you will need.


Set up with plenty of time to spare so that you have time to yourself.
If you're self-catering, it's useful to set up the seating/eating areas earlier, then focus mainly on food preparation prior to the guests' arrival, allowing time for dressing yourself too.

