 It can be difficult to figure out emotions or feelings if you're autistic, so the first thing to do is to determine if you have a crush on this person. Find a way of sorting out what you feel by writing it out or talking about it with a trusted friend, and look for any key signs that you might have a crush.


Does this person cause a jumble of thoughts to come rushing into your head all at once? You could have a crush on them.
If you want to spend most of your time with this person, or if something exciting happens and you wish they were there to see it, then you may have a crush.
If you stim when excited or nervous, try to keep an eye on how much you're stimming whenever you're around this person. If you start stimming a lot whenever you think of or are around this person, then it's possible you have a crush.
If you smile a lot when thinking about them or talking to them, you could possibly have a crush.
If you could previously speak somewhat smoothly around this person, and now you're suddenly tripping over your words, or are unsure of what to say all the time around them, you could have a crush.
If you are shy around this person and are afraid of the impression you'll give off in conversation, you probably have a crush.
If you regularly fantasize about spending time with this person, or even things like dating or kissing them, you definitely have a crush.;
, If you do have a crush, pretending that you don't have a crush isn't a very good course of action! While it can seem like a great way of dealing with it, when you eventually end up admitting it to yourself, it'll only end up making it worse. It's important to accept your feelings and recognize how you think of this person.
 Sometimes, crushes can make you feel funny or like there's something wrong with you. It's important to realize that there's nothing wrong with having a crush on someone, and that most people end up getting a crush at some point in their life. As long as you respect the person you have a crush on and don't do anything to intentionally make them uncomfortable, there's nothing wrong with liking someone.


If you don't have a crush, there's nothing wrong with that, either. Not having crushes doesn't mean that you're broken or that there's something the matter with you. It's possible you may be aromantic, or that you don't feel romantic attraction, and there's nothing "broken" about that.
 When it comes to crushes, there's a lot of conflicting advice - tell, or don't tell? Be affectionate, or just behave normally? What you choose to do is often dependent on the factors of the situation, but it's usually best to take time out to decipher what you think is best.


If your crush is significantly older or younger than you, it may be best to avoid telling them about your feelings or showing affection. You may get taken advantage of, or be viewed as "creepy".
 Unfortunately, not everyone in the world has good intentions, and it can be hard to figure out whom to avoid—especially if you have a crush. It's extremely important to tell who is a friend and who's not, as confessing your feelings to your crush may open up a window for you to be taken advantage of, and as a result, get badly hurt.


Don't take this to mean that you should assume everyone is a bad person. Many people have good intentions, and if they find out you have a crush on them, their initial response won't be to hurt you. However, there are some people in the world with malicious intent and who may want to string you along or play mind games with you. For this reason, be careful about who you associate with.
Avoid telling your crush how you feel if they belittle groups of people - for example, if they mock people of a different race than them or use "autistic" as an insult. This person probably isn't the kind of person you would want to be in a relationship with, no matter if you think they like you back or not.

