 As you decide which country you are interested in travelling to for your procedure, you should research the standards for medical care and your particular procedure. Never travel to a country for medical tourism before you understand the standards of medical care for the country and their medical professionals.Every country has different standards for care, which include levels of education and certifications for the medical professionals, along with codes of ethics and legal practices.
To find this information, you can contact a medical tourism agency, who can help you find the information you are looking for. You can also search online for the individual country's standard of medical care, or find this information on a particular international hospital's website. You may also contact hospitals or healthcare agencies in the country.;
, You should try to talk to other people from your country who have had a similar procedure through medical tourism. You can talk to them about their experience, the quality of the care their received, and any problems they had with their procedure. They also may be able to recommend hospitals or doctors.Look online for others who have had your type of surgery. If possible, try to talk to these people in person or on the phone to make sure that you are hearing a legitimate experience.
You may be able to ask the doctors or medical-travel facilitator for help finding others in your area or country to contact about their procedure.
For example, you may say, "Hi, I am thinking about getting a knee replacement/bariatric surgery/dental work done in another country. I see that you had a similar procedure done in that country. Would you mind telling me a little bit about your experience?"

, You may want to read patient reviews on the hospitals, clinics, and doctors before making any decisions. Websites such as Treatment Abroad or Patients Beyond Borders offer reviews of many different procedures, hospitals, and doctors from all over the world.Reading reviews can help you learn which hospitals, clinics, or doctors are generally well-known or respected for their procedures.
 Some international hospitals have connections with leading U.S. hospitals and medical systems due to their high safety standards. Look for hospitals that are connected to these respected domestic hospitals since they more than likely will have a higher standard of care.For example the Cleveland Clinic, Johns Hopkins, and the University of Pennsylvania have partnered with international hospitals.

