 Chartreux cats are very affectionate cats. They will crawl into your lap as soon as you sit down. They also will follow you around the house. They love attention and want to be around you all the time.You can spend time with your cat by playing or relaxing around the house.
 The Chartreux will sit around with you all day, so make sure they get enough exercise. They love to jump and climb. They will chase balls and laser points, and they can be very acrobatic when playing with dangling toys.This breed is very smart, so buy toys that will challenge their brain. Puzzle toys go over well with this breed.
You can also try teaching your Chartreux tricks. For example, you can teach your Chartreux how to fetch toys, like a ball, or to come when called.
 Chartreux cats love to climb. They will climb onto cabinets, bookshelves, and other high places in your home. Because of this, make sure to set up many different places for them to climb. Consider cat trees or cat shelves.Setting up a cat shelf under a windowsill is a good idea for this breed. They love sleeping near windows.
 The Chartreux is a great cat for families. They have a very mild disposition that makes them good with smaller children. However, when children interact with them, they should treat the Chartreux gently. This means the children shouldn’t pet the cat too hard or hold the Chartreux too tightly.This breed is known to walk away instead of scratching or biting if a child annoys them.
 This breed is very clever and quick to learn. They are considered escape artists and can figure out how to open cabinets.You may want to use a locking mechanism on your cabinets. You can buy pet or baby guards that help keep cabinet doors closed.
 This breed is very adaptable and calm. Due to this mild personality, Chartreux cats are great companions when traveling. They do well in RVs or even as companions for long-distance truckers.If you travel, consider taking your cat with you. They are calm if left alone, but they love to go with their people.
 The best way to keep the Chartreux happy is to keep their routine the same each day. They like to play for a short time in between napping and eating. Keeping things similar for the Chartreux each day will keep them happy and unstressed.They like to play the same games over and over.
If you travel with your cat, try to keep their routine as similar as it is at home.

