 Hinduism is the dominant religion in this country despite of a significant number of Muslims, Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Jains, and Sikhs. Onto this religious diversity is grafted a layer of British formality and good manners resulting across the country in a disposition that is as polite as is distinctive. Indians love bargaining and derive immense pleasure out of it.;
, Indians are very formal upon the first meeting. Elders are respected and deferred to, even in the matters of business. Caste rankings still exist amongst some, though they are not as pervasive as they were before. You may even find one Indian bowing to another which is a sign of respect of age or for someone who is higher in rank

, This is a sign of informality in the traditional Hindu culture and some might even be offended much to your dismay. So always use last names especially if you are meeting them for the first time. And only call them something else when they insist or allow you to.
 India is overall a hot and humid country so the clothing has to be casual and comfortable. As a result, suits are rarely worn. A light jacket with shirt and pant is considered a formal outfit for businessmen. Women wear blazers over their shirt and trousers or clean, crisp saris (unstitched cloths draped over the body). Wear a sari only if you think you can carry it off well or else go the safe way of blazers and trousers.
 Business lunches are becoming very common in India. Dinners at Indian homes are bounteous and delicious. It is not necessary to show up on time, but don't be more than 30 minutes late. If you are visiting the house for the second or third time, do take some sweets/fruits/eatables along with you. This is not exactly business, but a little politeness does no harm.
 If you want to impress the person or client you are with, you could also use your hand to eat. But be sure you don't mess it up. One's left hand should never be used on the dining table while eating. It is considered messy only if you dirty your fingers beyond the second knuckle. Also, do not thank your host after the meal is over. Thanking is considered as a fake gesture by several. Weird, but it's true.
 Also do not use your feet to touch someone or point towards something. It is a sign of disrespect in the Hindu culture to use the feet during conversations of any kind.
 It shows a sign of respect, confidence and sensitivity.

