 This is an important adjustment to make right away, as many of your thermostat’s settings will follow the clock. Look at your instruction manual and follow its directions regarding making this change. You will likely need to press a “Set Clock” button, scroll to the proper numbers, and then approve the changes by pressing a “Done” button., You will generally have two choices of fan settings: Auto or On. If your thermostat is set to “Auto,” this will lead to your fan running only as necessary when connected to the heating or cooling system. If your thermostat is set to “On,” then your fan will keep running, regardless of the heat/cool settings., Your general choices in this section are: Heat, Cool, Off, or Auto. The “Heat” button activates the heating system, whereas the “Cool” button will turn on your AC. The “Off” setting turns all temperature systems off. The “Auto” setting is only available on certain thermostats and regulates the temperature systems according to your program schedule settings.Be aware that turning your setting to “Cool” can damage your system if the outside temperature is lower than 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius).
 Depending on which Honeywell thermostat you own, there are a wide variety of schedules that you can choose from or personalize. You can set your system to come on at certain time periods each day, or choose different temperature settings for certain days. You can also set-up energy-savings mode, where your system operates at a lower level when you are not in the home.Some people can save as much as 35% by activating the energy savings program settings on their Honeywell thermostats.
 You can generally override a program in place by pressing the up or down button on the control panel. This will make the temperature warmer or cooler, depending on which button you choose. If you want to cancel the entire schedule, then you will need to go into program settings and follow the directions on your thermostat’s instructional manual., With certain types of Honeywell thermostats, including the Lyric, you are able to communicate directly with the control panel via your Amazon Echo. You enable the connection between the two devices via your SmartHome app and then simply speak any commands to Echo.For example, you might say, “Alexa, please raise the temperature by ten degrees.”

, To set this up you will need a thermostat that is Wi-Fi enabled and can connect to your smartphone. You can then follow the manufacturer’s instructions to set up a geofence around the perimeter of your home. When you step outside of this perimeter, your thermostat will then change your temperature settings to away.