 Research which breed of praying mantis you wish to introduce to your garden. Then order one or more egg cases from a garden-supply retailer. Expect each egg case to produce anywhere from 50 to 200 insects. Depending on the size of your yard or garden, buy as many egg cases as needed to populate the area.One egg case should produce enough mantises to cover 1666 square feet.Plant at least a couple of egg cases in your garden, on the off-chance that one of them is infertile.Once the babies, or “nymphs,” emerge, they will scatter from the case within a couple hours. Since they’re camouflaged (and since the case will appear the same as before), it will be hard to tell when and if this has happened., Since frost and cold will kill mantises,delay hatching your egg case until the weather turns consistently warm with the approach of summer. Place the egg case in a container that allows air circulation and refrigerate it until spring. Then take it out at least a month or two before you’d like it to hatch.While cold weather kills mantises, egg cases are laid in the wild before winter,so refrigerating them is fine.
 Gently tie the egg case to a loose twig with zip-ties, wire, or twine. Handle the egg case delicately to avoid damaging it. Then find a suitable place in your garden to secure the twig and attached case. Look for an area that’s a couple feet above the ground with enough cover to hide the case from predators.Using the twig as an attachment point, secure the case to low branches or fences.Before attaching the egg case to the loose twig, locate the slits from which the babies, or “nymphs,” will emerge. Attach the case to the twig with the slits facing outward.Use zip-ties, twine, or wire. Sticky substances like glue or tape may trap the nymphs once they emerge., Expect the nymphs to emerge after three to ten weeks of consistent warm weather.Since mantises thrive on humidity, gently water the immediate area in the meantime, especially in dry weather. Lightly mist the ground and leaf-cover on a regular basis.


As long as other insect-life remains plentiful in your garden, your mantises should have an abundant food source to survive on their own. Each generation has a one-year life cycle and will die off with the approach of cold weather. However, females will lay new egg cases in the fall, so your garden should be repopulated by next spring or summer.