 Many counties have a process for “abating” taxes. This means forgiving some or all of the taxes. An abatement is not an appeal in which you argue that the assessment was incorrect. Abatement may be granted in the following situations:temporary and costly family illness
a parcel of property is going through probate and no one knows who the ultimate owner will be
you use all of your income for basic living expenses and have nothing left over to pay property taxes
the county made some listing error (but not an error related to the valuation of the property)

, The abatement board does not have to grant an abatement. Instead, it has the power to do so.The board realizes that if it gives an abatement to everyone who asks, then the town might become bankrupt. Accordingly, they are selective about who they award an abatement.


Because it is discretionary, some states might be more willing to approve an abatement than other states. For example, Vermont tends not to award abatement because people have low incomes. However, Maine might., The abatement board will want to see documents that support your claimed reason for an abatement. For example, you should try to find the following:


Family illness: copies of medical bills and medical records.
Probate process: copies of court records that show the probate court has not yet determined who the owner is.
Poverty: detailed records showing what you spend all of your income on.
Mistake on the listing: copies that show the mistake.
 Go to your county office and tell the clerk you would like to request an abatement on your taxes. You should be given a form to fill out.Follow the clerk’s directions and complete the form.


Keep a copy for your records before submitting the form.
Remember to submit supporting documentation if requested.
 The board should hold a meeting to consider your application. Depending on your state, the meeting might be held in private or in public. Also, in some states your attendance is mandatory because you need to answer questions. In other states, your attendance is not required.
 The board should give you a decision in writing and should explain the reasons for approving or denying your abatement request.The timeline will differ depending on where you live.


Read the decision carefully to see if you understand it.
If you don’t hear anything from the board within 60 days, you should call and check.
 You will greatly benefit from legal advice if you are trying to get an abatement. Although you can have a lawyer help you from the very beginning, you definitely need help if you decide to appeal an abatement denial., Depending on where you live, you may be able to appeal the board’s decision. They should tell you how to bring an appeal. Generally, you will write a letter to a higher authority and ask that they review the decision. Your rejection letter should tell you where to send the appeal letter.There may be multiple appeals available. For example, you could appeal to a higher board and then, if rejected once again, appeal in court.

