


Part of being taken seriously while working from home involves distinguishing your office or workspace from the rest of your home environment. Designate one room or part of the house as your working office and furnish it like a regular business office. Keep all records and files for your business in your office and keep children, pets, toys, grocery lists and all household items out.;
,


Be taken seriously when you work from home by establishing work time when you can't be interrupted. You don't have to stick to a 9-to-5 schedule, but make sure family and friends know what times you are devoting solely to work throughout the week. Create a schedule for them so they know when you're not to be disturbed.



Be respected as a professional when you work from home by having a work space with a door that you can close. This will encourage family and friends to respect your workspace and help visiting clients view you as a professional.



Earn respect as a working professional by creating a business image for yourself. Create a website or online profile that advertises the services you offer and credentials you've earned. Consider creating a recognizable logo or business name that will further establish you as a legitimate business when you work from home.



Look and act like a professional when you work from home so people will be more likely to take you seriously. Dress professionally or business casual when you meet with clients, whether the meeting is in your home office or outside your home. Conduct business professionally over the phone or on line.



Attend networking functions and join professional organizations pertaining to your business. Networking contacts will help increase your contact and client list and will also show people that you work just as hard and have the same quality contacts as a professional working in an office.



Business cards are a great way for any professional to advertise their services and increase public awareness of their business. Invest in business cards that list your business name and logo, your credentials and what services you offer ,but not that you work from home. These will help establish you as a serious working professional with valuable experience that should be taken seriously.

