 Talking with your friend more helps you become more than friends in several ways.You are letting your friend know that they are important to you and getting to know them better. It also gives you more opportunities to flirt with your friend.


Ask your friend for their contact information if you don’t have it already. You could say, “What’s a good way to get in contact you with you?”
Try to gradually increase how often you communicate with your friend.
For example, if you interact weekly, send them an email or text every couple of days. Then move to texting daily and calling every few days until you are talking every day.
 Invite your friend out to places more often, but make sure they are places where you can be alone. You may be used to hanging out in a group, but in order to become more than friends with your friend you need to start doing things with just the two of you.Even when you are in a group setting, make a point of spending most of your time with your friend.
So that it’s not so awkward at first, invite your friend to do something that they are interested in so that it has more of a “buddies hanging out” feeling
For example, if he likes racquetball, invite him to play a round with you at the local gym and then go for smoothies this weekend.
If your friend always has reasons for not hanging out one-on-one, you might want to wait a bit before trying to become more than friends.
 This will give you the opportunity to interact with your friend more. This will also help you become more than friends because they will see that you really care about them and their interests and that you make an effort to support them.


Ask them about things they are doing and express your interest in participating or supporting them by being there.
For example, if your friend has a softball game, then go watch and cheer her team on. Try to get a seat where your friend can see you.
If your friend is volunteering at a community event, then volunteer also, or at least attend the event.
 Just like when you support their interests, being available for a friend when they are having a hard time is a way to show them you care about them and want to be more than friends.It lets them know you care about the well-being and the things that go on in their life.


If your friend is upset about something, talk to them about what is going on and listen to their problems.
For example, if your friend calls you and he’s upset because he lost his job, don’t just say, “Oh, that’s too bad! Well, I’ll see you at the next meeting.”
Instead, go by and see how he is doing. Listen to his worries about losing his job and try to help him cope with what happened.
 You probably already say things like “nice outfit” or “what you did was cool”. But, you can become more than friends with your friend if you make the compliments more specific and compliment them more often.Look your friend in the eyes when you give them the compliment. This makes the compliment a bit more intimate.
For example, instead of “Nice makeup” you might say, “I really like that eyeshadow. It matches your Pride shirt and makes your eyes look hot.”
Or, instead of “Good idea”, you could say “I love the way your mind works! You are so insightful.”

