 Women and men have many different physical characteristics, and you'll be a more convincing female with a narrow, tapered waist. A panty girdle is intended to do just this. This is especially important if you have a masculine body type.


In the event that you have narrow hips already, you may only need to wear a laced corset so you can adjust your torso shape to look more feminine.
 This might not be necessary if you are young enough that your female peers have not yet developed breasts. However, most teens, young adults, and adults will have to pad their chest to give the appearance of having bosoms.


Lack of proper padding can lead to your bra riding up throughout the day, which will be a dead giveaway that you're not what you appear to be.
A bold colored bra, like black or pink, will show more easily through your clothing, which will help convincing others that your disguise is genuine.
If you do not have a breast form, padding will likely be necessary. You can pad your bra by cutting a leg from nude tights, putting birdseed into it, and tying a knot to represent your nipple.
Other padding options include: socks or tissue paper (though these can be lumpy), and sponges cut to the appropriate shape.
 If you don't have pierced ears, you might want to consider buying a pair of convincing clip-ons. Lip gloss or colored chapstick can give a feminine accent to your lips. When applying makeup, try to use natural tones and colors. Bold choices require a light touch and experienced hand, otherwise you might end up looking like a clown!


You should get an impartial second opinion of your makeup job before going out in public. Sometimes what looks acceptable under good light in a mirror can look less than flattering from across the room.
Don't forget:

Bracelets
Eyewear (sunglasses, imitation glasses)
Hats
Necklaces
Purses
Scarves
Stylish belts, A long skirt or dress is an excellent choice of garment while you get used to your female disguise. These will cover some of your masculine features (like the muscles in your legs), while the loose parts of your dress will signify where you likely need padding. In addition to your breast padding, you may also need hip and butt padding to give yourself a convincing feminine figure.Keep in mind that if you wear something that shows your legs or armpits and you have thick or visible body hair, you will probably have to shave to maintain your disguise.
 Talk to yourself using your female name, sashay your hips with attitude, pout your painted lips in the mirror, and run over the details of your backstory. Think back to the research you did on common topics for the female age-group you are impersonating, and remember - you are beautiful!

