 During recovery, your body heals along with your mind. Commit to giving yourself the rest and nutrition you need during this time, even if it isn’t always convenient. Work on making changes and building new habits that you can sustain for years to come.A good way to start is to make a small change every week. For instance, this week you could give up soda, and next week you could start going to bed half an hour earlier.;
, Eat at regular intervals throughout the day, so that your blood sugar stays level. Don’t rely solely on your physical cues to tell you when to eat, or you may end up getting too hungry and losing your self-control.Aim to eat three meals a day. If you get hungry between meals, plan to have one or two snacks as well.
 What you eat is just as important as how often you eat. Avoid foods high in sugar and refined flour, since they can make you feel moody and tired. Instead, fill your plate with complex carbohydrates, protein, and fresh vegetables and fruit.Oatmeal, brown rice, beans, lentils, and potatoes are some examples of complex carbohydrates.
Increasing your omega-3 fatty acid intake may help keep your mood stable. Fish, flaxseed oil, and walnuts are a few good sources of omega-3 fatty acids.
Drink plenty of water, especially if you are still detoxing.
 Adjust your schedule so you can get at least eight hours of sleep every night. Practice good sleep hygiene, and make sure your bedroom is quiet, dark, and comfortable.Try avoiding caffeine during the second half of the day, turning off your electronics an hour or two before bed, and creating a relaxing bedtime ritual.
If you have frequent insomnia, talk to your doctor about possible solutions.
 Regular exercise is important for lasting physical and mental health. What's more, a good workout can help you sleep better at night and boost your mood. If you take your workout to the gym or outdoors, you may even make new friends or find a workout buddy to keep you accountable.

Try working out at least 30 minutes on most days of the week. If working out in the evening affects your ability to go to sleep, schedule your workouts in the morning or afternoons.