 Believe it or not, there are databases online that match potential donors with charities.


Donor matching services can match you with companies looking to offer in-kind donations or grants, and/or to start long term relationships with charities and nonprofits. Two large donor matching services are charity-match.org and www.donationmatch.com.
Since the investment in time and effort is minimal, start your search here. A database of corporations looking for organizations to which to donate money and goods is about as direct as it’s going to get.;
, Businesses sponsor nonprofits for a variety of reasons, but chief among them are visibility and public relations. These can be some of the best candidates for sponsorship, so be sure to thoroughly search within your community for possible donors.


Local businesses need local visibility and good relationships with their local communities. nonprofit sponsorship because it can help buy them "earned media," which is unpaid media exposure. Sponsoring one nonprofit can be far more cost effective than launching a huge advertising campaign.
A great place to start looking for likely local sponsors is your board of directors. The members of the board are probably members in the first place because they have local connections and clout. Use this to your advantage.
You can also try searching for sponsors that serve a similar community to the non-profit. For example, healthcare companies fit with non-profits who deal with research of victims of a specific disease. A non-profit dealing with women's issues might seek out a retail chain aimed at women customers.
 It might seem counterintuitive, because fundraisers raise money and so do sponsors. But by hosting a fundraiser, you are able to get a list of people interested in donating to nonprofit organizations.Many of these people will be business owners and highly placed employees of private companies. Turn these people into your pool of leads for a long term corporate sponsorship.
Don’t let the fundraisers you already hold go to waste. Gather as much information about the workplaces of attendees as is possible, because it can pay dividends later on.
 Many large corporations have dedicated branches of their companies that handle philanthropic efforts.


One of the benefits of working with large corporate foundations are their “deep pockets.” They have a lot of money to give, and the people who are in charge of giving it typically don’t personally own it, meaning that they’re less attached to it.
Conversely, it means that a lot of people are asking them for money, and you face stiffer competition and more bureaucracy between you and the funds. As with anything, there are pros and cons.
It's always good to have a warm introduction rather than a cold call. Network if you can, and even a face to face intro is better than a cold call.Request a meeting and be prepared to be succinct about your benefits to them and how they outweigh the cost of contribution.
A good partial listing of major corporate foundations can be found at https://charityvillage.com/directories/funders/corporate-funding-programs.aspx


, Just because you represent a charity doesn’t mean that you are charity. Make no mistake, a corporate sponsorship has benefits for both parties. In fact, it might be best to think of it as a partnership, and not a sponsorship.When you think about what each sponsor can do for you, think about it in deeper terms than simply giving your organization money. Ask what that particular organization brings to the table that other organizations don’t. What is the specific advantage of each possible sponsor?

, While you can enter into any number of corporate sponsorships, if you're a smaller nonprofit, you should probably only pursue one at a time. Since time is money, this is the stage to pay special attention to the advantages and disadvantages of a local sponsor.


Especially if you are active in a smaller town or region, going with a local sponsor can provide a lot of spillover benefits that you might not get with a larger entity. Local notoriety can translate into local pride, giving you a boost in donations and volunteer time that you can't get with a more distant entity.
The important thing is to weigh the more shallow pockets of the local business against the possible countervailing force of the earned media and publicity driving up donations. Partnering with a local supermarket that solicits a donations at the cash register might boost your donations far more than a one off grant from a large corporation, but that option won't make sense for every nonprofit.
 Research your prospective sponsor. Look at their history of charitable giving, and see if they have a history of giving to organizations like yours.Make sure that you’ve researched their corporate and legal history as well. You don’t want to place your organization at the mercy of a predatory company., Some corporations are inherently inconsistent with some nonprofits, and the association can undermine the ability of the nonprofit to be taken seriously.For example:


The Heart Health Group, sponsored by the Easy Cheese Foundation.
The Wholesome Families Group, sponsored by an X-rated video store.
 A corporate partnership can fatten your bank accounts, but it can also hinder your freedom of action. Consider the strings that are attached to the money.


Don't agree to any conditions that might force you to say complimentary but untrue things about a sponsor now or in the future that could undermine your organization's credibility.
Don’t hamstring the mission of the nonprofit for a short-term financial partnership. There are always other potential partners out there., When you begin to make your pitch to the prospective company, delegate one person to negotiate, and give them authority to enter into detailed terms with the funder.


Negotiation by committee is a recipe for disaster, because it slows down the process. With so many other charitable groups competing for funding, it’s the last thing you want.
Negotiation through a low level staffer also creates a poor impression of the nonprofit with the company. The company wants to feel important. Nothing makes a company feel more unimportant than constant cries of “I’ll have to check with my supervisor.”, Think of landing a corporate sponsor as akin to wooing a mate. In this case, you are the pursuer. Though they might be playing hard-to-get, a diligent pursuit makes them feel needed and important.


While there are mutual benefits for both parties, make no mistake, you are selling your nonprofit to the corporate sponsor. Chase down your leads, and keep coming back for as long as they are a lead.
 A company interested in sponsoring a nonprofit is looking to make an investment. Just as you have articulated the specific benefits of one sponsor over the other within your organization, you need to explain to the prospective sponsor why your nonprofit and not another nonprofit can provide value.Try to think of what a business may be after and how you can give it to them. A museum or a medical nonprofit sponsorship may be able to offer entry in to a more affluent demographic.Social service nonprofits may be able to offer access to governmental and political officials. Specifics vary, but it’s an important component in selling yourself to the sponsor.
 Be sure to have information like financial statements, fundraising plans, or campaign strategies ready. You want to look as prepared and competent as possible, and being able to provide detailed information about plans and organizational assets creates the impression of knowledge and organization.
 If your sponsor is reluctant to enter into a long term arrangement, try to get them to sponsor a specific event, like a gala or a fashion show.Do what you can to tailor the event to provide what the sponsor is looking for. While you can’t change the whole orientation of your group, you can tweak an event to get your sponsor in front of the people it’s trying to impress. If they are looking to target a certain demographic, do you best to bring that demographic into your event.
This can also demonstrate your organizational and managerial skills to the sponsor. Especially if you are a small nonprofit, that can be a big concern for a sponsor.
 When you’re trying to land the big sponsor, do your best to identify common values. A company is more likely to enter into a relationship with you if they feel that you are already working on the same goal.This can be a company-wide value. If your nonprofit is focused on diabetes research, then a company that manufactures healthy products might see a benefit in an association with you.
This can also be a personal value. A company run by a CEO who thinks of herself as self-made might really be sympathetic to a nonprofit that focuses on education to underserved populations. If you can get to know a bit about your prospective sponsors as people, it can really help you identify personal goals that are near and dear to their heart. A little detective work can go a long way.
 Don’t just let them blow you off. It doesn’t make a good impression with respect to your work ethic or determination, and it there’s no countervailing benefit.Remember, you’re trying to talk these folks into giving you money now for a benefit that might be hard to quantify (although you should try) and that they might not see until far down the road. It can be easy for them to put it on the back burner.Don’t let them, because the sooner they enter into a sponsorship with you, the sooner they can see benefits.
Don’t take “no” for an answer. Get specific reasons for the rejection. You can’t change a simple “no,” because you can’t address the underlying reasons for a “no” answer. But if you have reasons and conditions, you can look for those conditions to change on their own or change them yourself, then re-approach.