 Making your Peter Pan hat will be a whole lot simpler once you have everything laid out.


½ a yard of green felt should be plenty of material to make a Peter Pan hat. Alternatively you can use two (2) 12” x 18” pieces of green felt as well.
Fabric scissors (any scissors will work, but fabric scissors will give you the best cuts).
Sewing machine, or a needle and some green thread.
One large red feather.;
, The dimensions used here will fit an average sized head. If you want to make your Peter Pan hat fit a specific head size, you can measure your head from front to back and use those measurements in place of the ones described here.


If you’re using one larger piece of felt (½ a yard) measure out 24” x 18” and cut the section so you end up with a rectangle.
 Fold the fabric so that you end up with two (2) 12” x 18” sections stacked on top of one another.









Outline the shape of the Peter Pan hat.You can either draw the shape of your hat freehand if you’re going for a more natural look, or print out an outline to follow.
Peter Pan’s hat looks a bit like a Scalene triangle, meaning that all the angles are unequal with one side longer than the others. You can draw your outline in the shape of a triangle adding your own subtle curves as you like.
Or you can print out an outline and place it on top of your felt rectangle and trace the outline.
 Now it’s time to start shaping your Peter Pan hat.









If you have a stencil, place it along the folded edge of your felt.
Cut along the outline that you’ve either printed out or drawn for yourself.
 Now that you have two pieces of felt cut out in the shape of your hat, it’s time to start sewing.









Measure between about ½-inch to ⅛-inch to give some extra room before you start sewing.
You can use a sewing machine for a quicker and straighter line, or sew it by hand, especially if you want your Peter Pan hat to look even more unique.
Make sure that you don’t sew up the bottom part of the hat where you will place it on your head.
The shape should resemble somewhat of a triangle so leave the flat bottom part open.
 Your Peter Pan is currently inside out, so clip little snips at the corners and curves of your hat so that your hat will look cleaner and lay flatter.








Once you’ve done that, and cut away any extra fabric that’s on the outside of your seam, it’s time to flip the hat right side out.
 You should have some extra fabric at the bottom of your hat where your head will go, so now flip them up and finger press them, or very gently use the lightest setting on an iron to iron them flat.









Be careful here if you’re using an iron as you don’t want to burn your felt.
 Now it’s time to create a small slit for the feather! simply take your scissors and give your hat a small clip.









Put the feather in your cap and viola! You have made your very own felt Peter Pan hat!

