 Children learn a majority of their behavior from watching their parents. Help them become a good friend by being a good friend, yourself. When they see the friendships you have they may be encouraged to look for similar relationships.


Avoid talking negatively about your friends or having arguments with them in front of your children. Instead, behave the way you would like them to behave. Doing so makes it more likely that they will learn to become a good friend by watching you., Part of being a good friend is helping and having empathy for one another. You can show your children what this means by acting towards others in that way. Often children mirror their parents’ actions while growing up and it sets up frameworks for their own relations with others.For example, you can bring food to friends and family who are sick, cut the elderly neighbor’s grass, give money to a homeless person, or make someone a present, just because. These acts of kindness teach children empathy and selflessness: two traits of being a good friend., Your child may not know how to respond to certain situations with their friends. They can learn, however, when they see how you would resolve it yourself. A good way to show this is through role play.


You and your partner, friend, or older child can create the situations your youngster may encounter. For instance, if your child and their friend can’t agree on what to play with, set up a scenario in which you and your acting partner handle it. Focus on the positive scenarios rather than the negative, as you want to display the way you want your child to behave., Playdates can be a great way for your child to learn good friendship behavior, especially if they have trouble making friends. Having a friend come over to play or hang out with your child is an excellent opportunity to help them become a good friend. Monitor the date and make note of anything your child is doing that doesn't represent good friendship behavior.


When the moment is right, pull them aside for a teachable moment. Explain to them why good friends wouldn’t do what they—or the friend—did.
Try not to be too involved in their interactions, just peek in when you can or do so in a way that isn’t too obvious. Identify and correct the behavior immediately, instead of waiting until the friend leaves. The child may not remember what happened if you wait too long to address the situation.