 Rating your hunger level on a scale may help you determine what to do — have a snack or wait for your next planned meal. Try rating your hunger from one (almost faint with hunger) to 10 (overly full, sick feeling).If you're hunger level is around a three or four, it may be time to eat. If your next planned meal isn't for another two hours or more, have a planned snack. If your next planned meal is within the next hour or so, try to wait until your meal to eat.
Ideally, do not let yourself be at either extreme — starving at a level one or so full you're at a level 10. Fluctuate between a four and seven.
It's normal and expected to be hungry prior to eating meals and even right before going to bed in the evenings.;
, This is a simple test that can help you figure out if you're experiencing physical hunger or emotional/head hunger. In general, emotional hunger is a craving or desire for a very specific group of foods (like carbs) or a specific food (like chocolate cake). Physical hunger will be satisfied with a wide array of food options.Ask yourself would you still want this snack if it were only an apple, raw carrots or a salad?
If the answer is yes, go for that apple (or other fruit or vegetable) or other healthy, planned snacks to truly nourish that physical hunger.
If the answer is no, then the hunger/craving you are experiencing is probably not a physical hunger in your stomach, but instead an emotional hunger.
If you've determined you're experiencing emotional hunger, this might be a good time to take a walk or take a 10 minute break and reflect on what may be bothering you.
 Before eating any meal or snack, take a minute or two to do a self scan. This may give you clues about your hunger level and desire to eat.Think about:


Your level of hunger. Are you starving? Are you full? Are you satisfied?
Take note of any physical signs of hunger. Your stomach may be growling, you might feel an "emptiness" in your stomach or you might feel hunger pangs with physical hunger. You may feel irritable or have a headache.
If you feel like you might be craving food without being physically hungry, assess your emotional status. Are you bored? Did you have a stressful day at work? Are you tired or fatigued? Many times these emotions cause us to feel "hungry" when in all reality, we are not.