;
, Note the following:



Colouration: Galloways are primarily black, though they also come in dun (silver to brown), red, white with black points (ears, nose, eyes, teats) and the Belted (black, red or dun).

Belted Galloway are the same in characteristics and origin as Galloway, but are considered a separate breed and will be covered in a separate breed article.



Body type and characteristics: Galloways are beef cattle, and are moderate in size, much like other British breeds are: cows weigh around 1000 to 1500 lbs, and bulls around 1700 to 2300 lbs. In addition to their beefiness, they have long, shaggy hair much like Highlands do. The coat is double-layered, with coarse hair on the outside to shed wind and rain, and the soft fur-like undercoat acts as an insulation and waterproofing.

Head characteristics: Galloway cattle are naturally polled, and their heads tend to be a little larger in comparison to the rest of their body. They are also as shaggy as the rest of their body, with a bit of a shaggy poll between their ears as well.

Other characteristics: Galloways are docile, tough and hardy creatures able to thrive in colder environments that most other cattle would suffer in. They are, however, extremely protective of their young against pretty well any predator, especially dogs, coyotes and wolves. Some folks even report that just a couple Galloway cattle in with a herd of sheep will protect those sheep from predators much like livestock guard dogs, llamas or donkeys will. They are also an excellent grazer, able to thrive and graze coarser forage that would otherwise be shunned by other breeds; this makes them an ideal breed to use for any grass-fed-only operation. The dense hair coat influences this breed to have very little fat on their bodies, making the meat quite lean, yet tops the charts for the most juiciest, tenderest and flavorful beef than any other breed, according to tests done by the USDA, particularly in Galloway-cross cattle. Galloways are also known for their excellent maternal qualities, making them easy calvers, great mothers, good milkers, and the calves are very hardy and vigorous. The breed also tends to have quite the longevity, with cows being able to be productive well into their teens and beyond.

Galloways are one of the more ancient breeds that originated from Scotland, though its origins are not quite clear. The name originated from Gallovid or Gaul, which is a clan that occupied the southern lowlands of Scotland. They were first documented in the mid 1500's by Hector Boece and Ortelius. The Galloway breed wasn't officially recognized as a breed until 1878 when the Galloway Cattle Society of Great Britain initiated its own volume of pedigrees, separate from the Polled Herd Book that included Aberdeen, Galloway and Angus breeds.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Galloway cattle, and compare them with pictures of Galloway cattle on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

