 The best time to book a domestic flight is between 112 and 21 days before you depart to secure the lowest fare. 54 days before is considered the perfect time. However, even booking 54 days before your trip is not guaranteed to get you the lowest fare.If you are booking an international plane ticket, you should book as far in advance as possible, especially if your destination is smaller or only has one nearby airport.If you are flying to a popular destination during a popular time, such as Florida during Spring Break, you should book as far in advance as possible. Because this flight is popular, it is unlikely that the fare will be lowered., Before booking, scan an airfare deal website, like Airfare Watch Dog, for sales. This is especially helpful if your destination or trip dates are flexible so you can take advantage of any deals.


Airlines sometimes share sales with their customers through their websites or newsletters. You can subscribe to the newsletters of your top airlines or visit their sites to search for deals.
 Visit an aggregator website that searches multiple airlines, like SkyScanner, Momondo or GoogleFlights, and enter your trip information. The website will be able to show you lots of flight options for your requested destination and dates that you can sort by price, airline or length of trip.Many aggregator sites will allow you to enter multiple destinations and search flights on multiple dates. This will help you find the best deal if your trip is flexible.
If you have time, check a few aggregator websites. Some sites may advertise different prices so it’s good to check around and ensure you’re getting the best deal., Many flights, especially to far away locations, will require you to make stopovers at airports along the way. Sometimes these will involve changing planes and going through security again. As you look at flights, remember to keep in mind how many stops you are comfortable making. Also check how long and what time of day the stops are.


You may be able to find a cheaper flight if you're comfortable adding an extra stopover. However, it's important to take into account if the length and time of the stopover is worth the money you will save.
 Once you have found the best trip, select it on the aggregator ste and move to the airline’s direct website to book your tickets. Some aggregators allow you to book the ticket through their website, but there may be an additional service fee., Many airlines will allow you to choose your seat at your time of booking. Ensure you choose seats for all of the passengers that you're booking airline tickets for. You can select to sit together, if there is space for your party, and whether you want an aisle, window or middle seat. You may also be able to select seat upgrades, like extra legroom, for an additional cost.


If you're airline does not allow you to select your seat at the time of booking, you may be able to do it when you check in. If you have a specific seat preference or need to sit with your travel companions, for example if you're traveling with a child, call your airline to see how you can make arrangements ahead of time.
 Towards the end of the booking process, your airline may suggest add-ons that you can book, such as hotels or car rentals. You can add these at the time of booking or book them separately from your airline ticket.


Before choosing an add-on like a hotel stay or car rental, you should do some research online and ensure your airline is offering you a good deal.
 If you require any special accommodations for your flight, such as a wheelchair, request these at the time of booking. If you are not prompted to enter this information during your online booking, call your airline directly.


Other special accommodations may include traveling with service animals, medical concerns and dietary restrictions.
 During the booking process, you may also be prompted to add insurance. Read the fine print and decide whether or not your flight and trip require insurance.


You might be covered by insurance through your work, healthcare or credit card. It's a good idea to look into these options and compare costs if you want to add insurance coverage for your trip.
 On the airline’s website, confirm that all of your trip information is correct. Then follow the prompts to enter your personal and payment information to finish booking your tickets. You may also need the personal information of anyone else flying with you.
 After booking, your receipt and ticket confirmation should be emailed to you. If you don’t receive this within a few hours of booking, contact your airline.

