 Scene guys, let's face it, spend a lot of time perfecting the look. They care about fashion, and about their fashion making a statement. They don't want to look like your average Joe on the side of the street. Their unique dress is part of their overall mentality.
 Hair should always be pin straight, and possibly teased. You're lucky if you have straight hair! If it isn't straight, blow-dry it after showers and brush it. Make it dry after showers so curls are prevented. You could use a straightener, but many guys don't do it, so don't feel forced to do it.


Get the bangs. If it's one thing that epitomizes the scene look for boys, it's the shaggy, layered bangs. They are absolutely essential. Look around for inspiration.
Start off with natural hair colors, and dye around it. You probably want the base of your hair to be dark or blond or brown, so dye the whole mane a dark color and fill in highlights (maybe blonde, maybe platinum, maybe purple) around it.
 You're going to be dressing quite differently from how most guys dress, so you have to pull it off with confidence and verve. The clothes that you'll fit into your standard rotation include:


Tight jeans or slim-fit jeans. Wearing jeans is good, but they should be tight or even slim. If you can't fit into skinny jeans, just wear tights. Don't force yourself to fit into something to skinny.
Bright shirts, cartoon shirts and striped shirts. These are the staple of your tops. Brights and stripes really rule the day here. The occasional plaid isn't too bad.
Skater shoes like slip-on vans or chucks. Bright colors are a good idea. Chucks might be a little over-worn at this point, so think about getting some vans.
 Guys usually will get party shades, like what Brokencyde wear.
 Get some ink or piercings in visible places to let people know that you are hardcore and/or a deep person. Note that many scenesters choose to get henna tattoos or "make" their own using permanent marker; if you're unsure about getting a tattoo, remember that it's permanent and that you can't change your mind afterward.
, Try Rue 21, Banana Republic, Aeropostale and even others similar. Don't try Hot Topic unless you search for musical merch or find some bright clothes. Scene people wear bright colors and preppy clothes. They don't wear dark clothes and pocket chains.

