 Since retailers have to pay a fee to credit card companies when consumers charge a purchase, some will offer a discount to customers who pay cash. Check to see if the store you're in has a policy posted about this. If it doesn't, ask to speak to a manager about a cash discount.;
, Credit cards are a common method of payment for appliance purchases. If you plan to pay the balance off when the bill comes, choose a card with a rewards program. If you plan to pay over time, use the card that offers the lowest interest rate available to you.
 Asking for gift cards to a store that sells refrigerators for gift-giving occasions is an effective way to save up for an appliance purchase. If your credit card has a rewards program, you might also find that you can cash in your points for gift cards to a variety of retailers, including several that sell refrigerators. Some airline frequent flier points also can be cashed in for retail gift cards.
 Although layaway programs are less common than they used to be, there are still appliance retailers that offer them. Layaway programs typically allow you to pay a down payment, then make payments on a fixed schedule (usually every week or 2). Once the item has been paid for, you're free to take it home. Be sure to read the rules carefully to ensure you understand what fees are involved in your layaway purchase.
 Some retailers (especially independent stores) are willing to barter for goods or services. If you have a skill or a product that might be of use to the owner of an appliance store, offer an exchange for the refrigerator, or a discount or upgrade on your purchase. Perhaps you can write an employee handbook, fix a computer or design a new logo for the store. Be sure to research the tax implications of your trade before you finalize the deal.
 Some manufacturers or stores offer rebates on the sale of certain models. Check the store's print advertisement or website before shopping. Stores also may offer trade-in rebates, allowing you to exchange your old model for a discount on a new one.
 Various parts of your existing refrigerator may have cash value that you can apply toward the purchase of a new unit. Contact scrap metal dealers in your area to find out what parts they can use and how much they are worth.
 If you have a refrigerator that still works, consider selling it and applying the cash to your new purchase.

