 Every person and pet in the safe zone will be on edge during a tornado, no matter how many drills you have run. Adding small, familiar comforts can ease at least a bit of this anxiety for your pets. Make sure to include some toys, treats, blankets, and similar comfort items in your shelter.Keep your pet occupied with play, training, or other everyday activities as much as is possible. Try not to express your own anxiety or be overly comforting toward your pet; act as though sheltering through an actual tornado is just as normal and safe as one of your drills.
Although, if your anxiety does get the best of you, your pet might assume the role of comforter and be the source of calm in the storm. They can be very sensitive to the needs of their human companions.
 Fears of loud noises, and especially storms, are common in pets like cats and dogs, and in some cases can be considered a phobia due to frequency and severity. There are ways to recognize and address such phobias in pets, and treatments are typically most effective when started early in life.Watch for signs of excessive storm fears in younger pets, and take note especially if a pet loses body control, becomes destructive, or risks injury to itself or others.
Consider utilizing the services of a licensed veterinary behaviorist for severe phobias.
 If your pet has mild to moderate storm fears, you may be able to use training to desensitize them to the commotion caused by severe weather. Try playing an audio clip of storm sounds at a very low volume, and immediately offer a treat and praise if your pet does not respond negatively.If the pet responds negatively, don’t use punishment; simply try again another time.
Each day following a positive result, increase the volume and duration of the storm sounds a bit. Continue to offer immediate treats and praise for successes.
When an actual storm blows through, similarly offer treats and praise for a calm response. But never punish a poor response.
 When dealing with severe noise or storm-related phobias, your vet may recommend one or a combination of medications. Some medications will provide long-lasting benefits during the entirety of the storm season, while others are meant to be used right before a triggering event occurs.Clomicalm or Reconcile, to name some common examples, may be prescribed for use throughout the storm season.
Fast-acting medications like Valium and Xanax, alternatively, might be prescribed for use during individual events.
Make sure you understand the dosing and administration instructions given by the vet, and follow them to the letter.

