 The original Flappy Bird game has unfortunately been revoked by its creator after he received a large amount of harassment about the game. While it is no longer available for new players, you can download any one of a number of clones. This can be done through the app store, Android market or Google play.


Some notable clones include: Silly Bird, Flappy Fish, Flappy Hipster,Fly bird ,Tappy Nyan, and Flappy Bert (from Sesame Street)!
You can also download the original game, but you will have to find it on the internet and install it manually. Just be sure to use a reputable website!
The creator has recently stated that he will someday bring the game back to official channels, but that that will not happen any time soon.;
, This game will require immense concentration if you wish to achieve a high score. This can entail the removal of pets from the room, lowering of music volumes or not sitting on an aisle seat whilst playing on a bus, for example.


However, everybody has their own methods to increase levels of focus. Try experimenting with various external factors to find what suits you best.
 Play several games and try to score as high as possible, getting used to the game's speed and techniques.
 The flappy bird will move down quite quickly. It's crucial to get used to the way the game moves in order to play well. After a while, you'll discover that the game seems more predictable.
 For example, if you keep flying too high, try to fly lower next time. In other words, learn from your mistakes and make corrections each time.
 Try to tap just before you reach the top part of the bottom pipe. Your best bet for survival is to get as far into the width of the pipe so that when you tap again, it reduces the odds of you hitting the bottom of the top pipe.
 However, be attentive. Be sure to wait until the first possible second to tap, as you will then be less likely to hit the top of pipes or fly too high. However, not paying close attention and waiting too long will likely cause you to hit the pipe.
 Once you start getting at least a score of 10, get into a rhythm. Begin to memorize how the flappy bird flies at each tap; having or developing good spatial awareness is of great benefit here.
 Once you have a high score, don't stop. Try to beat your high score. Play against others––competing with your friends is a great motivation to do better.

