 In working to create change, be sure that you are doing so in a persuasive way. Appeal to people’s emotion and logic when asking them to switch up how things are done. For instance, if you have recently taken over a restaurant that could potentially be shut down soon, and are looking to change things, appeal to your staff’s need for a job as well as their desire for the establishment to have a good reputation and serve good food.Find out what issues your staff wishes to tackle.
You may also want to enlist their help to develop a mission statement and a set of values for people to stick to. Then, when people express fear of change, you can direct them to this mission statement and values.
 In working with your staff and planning for the future, set clear and realistic goals. If you made $100K in profit during the first quarter, consider setting a goal of making $150K during the second after you implement the changes. Ask your staff for feedback on and assistance in achieving these goals.Avoid making outlandish goals or you might become discouraged when you don’t achieve them.
Be very specific with your goals so that you can make them more actionable.
Have your staff set individual goals for themselves.
 During this process, hold your team accountable for their role in the work. Check in with them periodically and give them deadlines for assignments that are time sensitive.You might consider setting up one on one meetings every so often.
Make sure to provide employees with written feedback on their performance. This will be a helpful resource for them to read over and use to improve their work.
 Perhaps you have some staff who are not being utilized as effectively or strategically as they could be. Have conversations with them to see where they think they fit in this change and if there are any other kinds of assignments they’d like to be working on.For instance, perhaps one of your goals is to have a greater social media presence. Use those in your organization with experience or knowledge in this area.

