 You can make your own fez pattern with a little effort, but if you find it difficult to get the dimensions right or would rather save yourself the trouble, you can find a free pattern online and use that.


Print the pattern on standard printer paper.
You can search for a pattern online. Search Pinterest or other similar sites.;
, Use a cloth measuring tape to find the circumference of your head. Position the end of the measuring tape just below the curve of your skull, roughly 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) above the top of one ear. Wrap the tape around your head keeping it as parallel to the ground as possible while you work.Note that this measurement needs to be somewhat precise so that the hat sits snugly on your head, but also keep in mind that a measurement that is too tight will prevent the hat from sitting on your head at all., Once you know the circumference of your head, multiply it by 1.273. For example, if your head measurement was 21.5 inches multiply 21.5 by 1.273 to get 27.37. You can imagine the shape you are going to draw for the body of your fez as part of a giant perfect circle. If the circle was a pizza, the piece we are trying to make would be the crust of one slice. Since we only need part of it, we don't have to draw the whole circle, just figure out its radius. We do that by multiplying your head measurement by 1.273. In this case, the radius is 27.37. Next, cut a piece of string that is that length. In this example, you would cut a piece of string 27.37 inches long.Make sure you use something that won’t stretch a lot.
Birthday ribbon is a good alternative if you don’t have any string or twine.
 Before you start drawing your pattern, be sure to tape your paper down to the table or cutting board so that it doesn’t move around while you are working. One piece of scotch tape at each corner should be enough.Your best bet is to tape the paper down to a cutting board. This way it will stay secure after you draw your shape and be ready for you to cut it out right away.
 The curved strip will form the side of your fez. The longest part of the curve will need to equal the circumference of your head plus an additional 1/2 inch seam allowance. Take the length of string you cut and hold one end of it on the table perpendicular to the paper. Tie a loop in the other end and slide a pen or pencil inside. Place the pen at one edge of the paper. The string should be stretched from the point on the table and run at an angle to the pen. Now, keeping the string taut, slide the pen like a pendulum across the paper, letting the string guide you. This will work like a homemade compass and allow you to make a perfect curve that will match the size of your head. Do the same thing for the top of the shape, making the second curved line 5 inches above the first.Make sure to keep the string tight while you draw your line or you’ll end up with an uneven shape.
Keep your pen straight up and down while you draw. Tilting it will give you a distorted line.
 On a standard piece of printing paper, draw a perfect circle with a radius of 2-5/8 inches (6.67 cm). The best way to do this is with a compass that you can buy at a place like Walgreens or Office Depot. Cut the circle out.


This pattern piece will be used for the top of the fez.

