 If you're just going to practice or class, there's no reason to dress up. Dressy clothes can be stuffy and limit movement, so they're best saved for formal occasions. At practice or class, you do not want to limit your mobility. You want to be able to move as much as possible to get the moves down., Keep the blouse light, as lighter materials will gather less sweat. Opt for shorts or pants that are also made out of lighter materials. High-waisted shorts and pants have a vintage feel that allow you to encapsulate the traditional feel of swing dancing without sacrificing comfort during practice.Comfort is the most important thing, so choose shorts and pants that fit you well and that you can move around in.
If you don't want to wear a blouse, a light t-shirt can also work.
 With men, it's considered traditional to wear full-length pants to swing dancing. If you prefer shorts, that should be okay for practice, but comfortable pants are considered more in adherence with tradition. You should pair your pants with a light shirt that you can move around in.Pick pants that fit you well and are comfortable. This is important for swing dancing practice.
 You will get a little sweaty during swing dancing practice. It's a good idea to bring some extra clothes. Have an extra shirt on hand going into swing dancing lessons., A vintage dress is a classic swing dancing look that works great for more formal swing dancing events. Swing dancing was prominent in the 1940's and '50s, so try to pick a dress fitting with this era.In the '40s, dresses usually had fitted tops and collars with an a-line skirt. Button-down dresses were particularly popular, as were colors like black and navy blue.
In the '50s, full, long skirts were often paired with tighter tops. Tops usually had a halter neck and skirts ended around mid-shin. Dresses were more colorful and often had prints like flowers.
You can look for a vintage dress online or at a local secondhand or thrift store. You can also buy a new dress that's cut in a vintage style.
 If you decide to wear a skirt and blouse for swing dancing, this can be an acceptable look. However, make sure the skirt you choose is not constricting. Remember, movement is key for successful swing dancing.Skirts should usually be knee length or longer and loose-fitting. Skirts that cling to the body will be constrictive for swing dancing.
If you want to wear a more fitted skirt, watch the fabric. If you wear something like a pencil skirt, make sure the fabric has a good stretch so you can move around.
 Layers can add a touch of formality and fits with the swing dancing style. If you want to wear layers, try some of the following combinations:Wear a vest over a dress shirt, with a tie, and then throw on a jacket. This look works well for cooler months.
For warmer months, you could stick to a vest, tie, and undershirt but lose the jacket.
If it's very warm out, you can still layer for formality. Hold up a pair of dress pants with suspenders and wear an undershirt and tie.
 If you want to go very formal, wear a suit. Traditionally, a double-breasted suit in worn for swing-dancing. This can work great for very formal occasions, such as a date night or a formal swing dance competition. Go for a suit with a slightly old fashioned, vintage feel.Wear a suit jacket with broad shoulders.
Opt for wider neckties or bow-ties.
The pants you wear with your suit should be high waisted.
 Above anything else, select shoes that are comfortable to wear. This is particularly important if you are selecting shoes for practice. Simple sneakers work best for both men and women who are just starting out swing dancing., Leather soles are important for grip and comfort on the dance floor. When selecting dance shoes, opt for shoes with leather soles either built in or added.Find things like boots, dress shoes, and loafers with leather soles for menswear.
For women's wear, it may be difficult to find heels with leather soles. However, you can try flats, tennis shoes, or boots with leather soles.
 Heels can be a great formal touch for dressier events. A mild heel is fine for dancing if you're experienced. Once you get comfortable swing dancing, it's okay to wear heels. However, until you feel like you have control when dancing, hold off on the heels.If you're unsure when it's safe for you to wear heels, talk it over with your dance instructor.
 If you're serious about swing dancing, find a dance store in your area and talk to a worker about purchasing dance shoes. A professional should be able to help you find shoes catered for your specific feet, style, and goals as a dancer. If you're going to be swing dancing frequently, dance shoes will hold up longer than regular shoes.