 If he seems engaged in the conversation, he likely wants to see you some more. His body language will tell you whether he's engaged. For instance, if he's pointing his body towards you rather than away and if he's smiling, those are good signs. Similarly, if he seems to be genuinely listening and responding to you, he's likely interested., Just asking the right questions can make you seem more interesting, and those questions can open up space for finding similar interests.For instance, you could ask him about the last interesting book he read by saying something to the effect of "So are you a reader? What have you been reading lately?" If he's not a reader, move on to a movies instead. As an example, you could say, "Oh, well, nobody has time to read these days. Do you enjoy movies instead?"You could also ask sort of what-if questions, such as "Would you prefer to have power or money?" or "What would you tell your younger self if you could?"Try asking him where he was born or where he considers his hometown. That gives you a jumping-off point for talking about childhood and family. You could say, "So where'd you grow up?",


For instance, you could say something to the effect of "I'm really enjoying spending time with you." That tells him that you'd like to spend more time with him.
 That is, make it clear you have time to go out with him.


For instance, you could casually mention you don't have plans for the weekend. You could say, "I usually have plans on the weekends, but I'll probably be holed up at home this weekend unless something interesting comes up."

, You can talk about upcoming events that you're interested in to see if he bites.


For example, you could say, "I heard there's going to be an awesome jazz band at The Jazz Club over the weekend. Do you like jazz?" , If you can make a suggestion about a dating opportunity, let him talk his way into it by staying quiet for a minute or two. Most people will try to fill silence, so he will keep talking, which works to your advantage., Some guys take a little longer to get around to asking you out. He could be shy or introverted, and he may need to work up the nerve to ask you on a date. Don't be discouraged if he doesn't instantly ask you on a date., You don't have to disclose everything about yourself in the first 5 minutes; you're just getting to know the guy., That is, not every guy you meet is going to be the one. If you can't get him to ask you out, don't worry about it. He's obviously not the person you should be with for the long haul.