 The main goal of dressing a pear figure is to draw attention to the torso and away from the hips and thighs. Outfit your upper body in bold colors and big prints. These catch the eye at the top, making your shoulders and chest seem a bit broader than they actually are.;
, Certain necklines are better for a pear-shaped figure, as they broaden the shoulders and emphasize the bust. Wide necklines like boat-necks and scoop-necks visually widen your shoulders. Bust-enhancing necklines like sweetheart necks draw attention to the bust, making it look fuller. Strapless tops and dresses can also make your shoulders and bust look wider, but may not be a comfortable choice for every pear-shaped girl.
 Deciding between tight and loose can be difficult, as there are pros and cons to each. Look for tops that are tight around the waist and highlight an hourglass figure. Loose tops should be worn a bit long so as to cover the hips and provide substance for the shoulders. In general, the fit of your shirts should aim to highlight your waist and shoulders, something that can be accomplished with the right combination of tight and loose.
 Bulking up with layers adds bulk to your torso, which evens out your body’s proportions. Use layers of tank tops, blouses, and cardigans to create visual interest and give the illusion of added size. If you’re using multiple layers which take away the smallness of your waist, use a thin belt to cinch them in and give yourself that hourglass figure again.
 Shirts that have adornment near the neck elongate the shoulder and neckline. Select a load of shirts which have beading, bows, or collars near your neck. These can be large or small, as they both accomplish the same task of drawing the eye upwards and away from your bottom half. You can also choose to wear a scarf to the same effect.
 Although it’s not always easy to find wide-sleeved shirts, keep an eye out for styles like bell and kimono sleeves. Wide sleeves add volume to your arms, and as a result, your naturally voluminous hips and rear look more balanced and proportioned. If nothing else, try to wear shirts that have rolled or scrunched sleeves; these also add volume to your arms, but without making such a bold fashion statement.
 Look for tops that skim over your hips; tops that extend just below you hipbone extend your torso and mask the widest part of your hips. Avoid hemlines that reach down to your thighs, however, since these will only make the widest part of your legs look wider. On the flip side, crop tops should be widely avoided for drawing attention to your midsection, which is too close to your hips to be flattering.
 Your entire upper body can undergo a major transformation when you wear the right undergarments. Consider a padded bra or push-up bra. This will add volume to a small bust, and accentuate an hourglass waist. Look for a natural style that can be worn under both casual and dress clothes., Visually, dark colors give a slimming effect and aren’t distracting; the eye tends to skim over dark colors. Denim is appropriate too, but wear dark washes and stay away from medium and light wash jeans. Choose a variety of pants and skirts in shades of black, gray, navy, brown, and olive green. As a bonus to being slimming, these will match nearly any shirt in your closet easily.
 Similar to your tops, you want to create proportional sizing in your legs and the rest of your body. Choose pants that are straight leg or flared at the bottom to create a bottom half with full volume all the way down. Pants that are very skinny will showcase the size of your hips/rear, while pants and jeans that are equal width or slightly wider in the calf and ankle area will draw attention away from your mid-section. Avoid cigarette-style pants, as these are the least flattering style for a pear-shaped body.
 Skirts that hit the knee or ankle are perfect for pear-shaped ladies. These draw the eye to the end point, rather than short skirts which forces the eye to linger on the widest part of your body. Look for skirts that start just above your hips near your waist, and are no shorter than just above the knee. Avoid tight-fitting skirts, and look for those with ruffles or beading along the bottom hem draw attention to your curvy bottom half without adding bulk to your hips. Placing these details at the knee or lower may even help balance out your hips.
 Although jeans with cute beaded and embroidered pockets may seem like a good idea, these can draw the eye to your least flattering location. Avoid glitzy pants and belts, and stay away from bottoms embellished with buttons, gemstones, sequins, or bold embroidery near your hips and rear.
 Dresses are a great way to accomplish both your tasks at once: draw the eyes upward to your torso, while creating a tight waistline and covering up your midsection. Look for dresses that are A-line or that have a tulip-skirt, and avoid those that are tight and stick to your hips. Dresses get bonus points if they are banded around the waist and cover up your shoulders to give the illusion of bulk., A bold, bright necklace that hangs low draws the eye to your upper half. The extra detail on your bust makes it look fuller, which keeps your entire body looking better proportioned. You can choose to wear a collar-style necklace which adds width to your neck and shoulders as well, a bonus for highlighting your upper body.
 Keeping in mind that you should wear only one statement piece of jewelry at once, putting on some glitzy earrings is a great way to draw the eye further up the body and away from your hips. Choose chandelier style or dangly earrings for the best effect.
 Scarves add volume and dimension to your upper half, as the extra detail at the neck often prevents onlookers from focusing in on your fuller lower half. Try a variety of scarves tied in different ways to see what looks best for you. Circle scarves are successful when worn for a pear-shape, as their lack of tail ends prevents the eye from travelling downwards as quickly.
 Believe it or not, your shoes can change the appearance of the rest of your body. Look for shoes that have a pointed toe, as these elongate your legs and make your hips look more proportional. High heels are often a good choice for adding height and sculpting the muscles in your legs, making them look more flattering. If you’re up for the challenge, wearing bold and colorful shoes can do the same thing as a big necklace; it draws the eyes away from the unflattering regions of your body and adds interest to a smaller area.