 Place one hand on your head with the palm down and elbow out to the side and bent. Keep your fingers locked and holding your head firmly. No one will be able to dislodge your hand from your head no matter how strong they are. You must remain still.You may ask them to use two hands or tell your friends that you will pass along your powers to someone else and get them to repeat the exercise.
You can even lift your entire body without removing your hand if you are lifted by your wrist and the force is pushed upwards toward your underarm.
 Bend both elbows and place both palms on your chest with your fingertips touching and forearms parallel to the ground. Challenge anyone to pull your hands apart by holding your wrist. Ask them to pull steadily and not to give a sudden jerk. It will be impossible to pull your arms apart.You may ask small children to follow your lead for greater effect. Or you may ask someone much larger than you to pull your wrist apart to show the wonder of the trick.
 Ask someone larger than you to place his fists together as hard as he can. Get him to place his fist one on top of the other and flex to show how firmly his position has been locked in. Ask him if he thinks you can move them apart, then, with one finger push them apart.Ask small children to push his fists apart with a single finger. You may also ask skeptics to hold their fists together and challenge you. Repeat the same procedure to move their fists apart with a single finger to prove them wrong.
 Get a large volunteer to sit in a chair. Get four volunteers to put their hands together, interlocking their fingers, keeping their index fingers together but pointed outwards in the shape of a gun. Have two volunteers put their pointed fingers under his arms and the other two volunteers under his knees. On the count of three get them to lift him. Your friend will appear to levitate despite his size or the strength of the four people.For added effect, ask the four people to try to lift him one by one or to try to lift him together and see how high they can lift him. Compare this first height to the levitation height after you teach them the proper technique. He will significantly be raised higher while they exert less effort.
 Ask two people to lift you by your elbows. At first keep your arms loose from your shoulders down. The volunteers will find it extremely difficult to budge you. Next, keep your elbows pressed tightly to your side and your arms rigid against your body. They will find that lifting you is much easier with your elbows in and arms rigid.You can ask more people to try to lift you with your arms loose to prove how difficult it is to lift you up. Your friends will be impressed with how easy it is to lift you once your have your elbows in and arms rigid.
 Stand facing a wall and push against it. Keep your arms and back straight. Flex your legs and ask volunteers to try to push you against the wall copying your stance. One by one, add another person to the back of the line to try to push you against the wall. No matter how many people push against you in that line, you won’t topple over.


The more people you add to the chain, the more impressive your feat will be. You may also get a child to push the wall and repeat the display.

