 You can avoid falling for someone by devoting your time to your own needs and interests rather than to them, or thoughts of them. Distract yourself from your romantic yearnings by pouring your energy into a hobby you love. Or take up an activity that will be all-consuming and leave you little time to focus on your romantic feelings for someone.For example, perhaps you pour your energy into a hobby like painting, writing, playing music, or singing. You could also take up an activity like sports or join a team at school to fill your time.
 Though you may be tempted to keep your romantic feelings to yourself, you may try talking to those closest to you about your emotions. Tell close friends about how you are trying to avoid falling in love with someone. Speak to a close family member about your conflicted feelings. Often, talking to someone who will listen to you about how you are feeling can make you feel less alone and confused.You may also be able to get some perspective on your situation from a friend or family member. They may also offer advice or suggestions on how you can avoid falling in love with the person.
For example, you may say to a friend, “I have feelings for someone but I do not want to fall for them. What do I do?” Or you may say to a family member, “I think I’m falling in love with someone but I don’t think it’s a good idea. Do you have any advice on what I should do?”

, If your romantic feelings for the person are overwhelming and undeniably, you may want to consider telling them how you feel. Though the conversation may be awkward, being honest about your emotions and telling the person can make you feel better. It can also open the door to the possibility that the person may feel the same way about you.If you do decide to talk to the person about your feelings, you should ask them if you talk just the two of you in person and in private. You may then tell them, “I think I am developing romantic feelings for you. I’ve tried to deny these feelings but I think it may be better to be honest with you about how I am feeling.”

