 Some of the major personal risk factors for prostate cancer are age and family history. The risk of prostate cancer increases the older you get. Although approximately 75% of the cases of prostate cancer have no pattern or order, about 20% of those with prostate cancer have had cases of the disease in their family previously. There are also approximately 5% of cases that are hereditary.


More than 80% of prostate cancers are diagnosed in men over the age of 65.
If you have a first-degree relative, which would be a father, brother, or son, with prostate cancer, your risk of developing prostate cancer is two to three times higher than the average risk.If you have BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutations, you are more likely to develop prostate cancer. Your doctor can test to see if you carry these genes.
There may be a correlation between prostate cancer, waist circumference, and waist-to-hip ratio.This means carrying fat around your waist may increase your chances of developing prostate cancer.;
, If you are African-American, the risk of prostate cancer is 60% higher than if you are Caucasian. African-American males are also twice as likely to die from prostate cancer and develop prostate cancer at an earlier age than Caucasian males., The hormones that your body naturally produce can contribute to the development of prostate cancer. Testosterone is a male sex hormone that is responsible for the deep voice, increased muscle mass, and strong bones that are prevalent in males. It is also responsible for the male sex drive and sexual performance and contributes to aggression. The growth of prostate cells is stimulated when testosterone is naturally converted to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). According to studies, excess levels of DHT have been implicated in the development of prostate cancer.Another hormone implicated in the development of prostate cancer is excessive levels of insulin growth-like factor 1 (IGF-1).There is a modest increase in prostate cancer in men who have the high levels of IGF-1.
 There are some symptoms that you can look for that might be caused by prostate cancer. See your doctor if you experience symptoms such as frequent urination, especially at night, weak or interrupted flow of urine, difficulty urinating or straining to start the urine stream, inability to urinate, pain or burning while urinating, blood in the urine or semen, difficulty having an erection, or nagging pain in the back, hips, or pelvis.


These symptoms don’t necessarily mean that you have prostate cancer, but you should see your doctor to get tested for it or other issues.
 One of the best ways to start to reduce your risk of prostate cancer is see your doctor. Your doctor can screen you for prostate cancer with a DRE. During a DRE, a doctor inserts a gloved finger into the rectum and feels the surface of the prostate for any irregularities.


Men of average risk for prostate cancer should be screened beginning at age 50. African-American men and men with a family history of a first-degree relative being diagnosed with prostate cancer before age 65 should begin screening at age 40 or 45., The PSA test requires the doctor to take your blood and check the antigen levels in your system. Depending on your levels during your first test, the doctor may suggest different periods between testing. The higher your level of PSA, the more frequently you need to be tested. If you are found to have an extremely high PSA, your doctor will run more tests to see if your have prostate cancer.According to the American Cancer Society, if your PSA is higher than 2.5 ng.mL, you should be retested every year. If your PSA is lower than 2.5 ng/mL, you may only need to be retested every two years.If your PSA is between 4-10 ng/mL, there is a one in four chance that you will have prostate cancer. If it is higher than 10 ng/ml, your chance of having prostate cancer rises to over 50%.Abnormalities uncovered by the DRE or the PSA test can be further investigated with a transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) and a biopsy if necessary., Your doctor can also prescribe medications that have the proven ability to reduce the risk of prostate cancer. In clinical trials, the drugs Avodart and Proscar reduced the risk of prostate cancer.Currently, these drugs are only approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), which is nonmalignant enlargement of the prostate gland.


As a result, these drugs have been used off-label for the prevention of prostate cancer, which means they are not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer by the FDA., One great way to possibly reduce the risk of prostate cancer is to exercise. Some studies even indicate that your risk of cancer decreases further the more vigorous you exercise.You should do aerobic exercise at least 30 minutes per day for 5-6 days out of the week. Aerobic exercise is the best type of exercise for disease prevention because it has all sorts of health benefits, including improved circulation, a healthier immune system, and increased energy levels.
Try aerobic exercise such as biking, swimming, running, dancing, spinning, and rowing. You should also make an effort to become more physically active in your day-to-day life. Take the stairs instead of the elevator, park your car further away from work, or use a standing desk instead of a seated one.
In one study, men who participated in vigorous aerobic activity for at least 3 hours per week had a 61% lower risk of death from prostate cancer., Men with a healthy body weight as defined by body mass index (BMI) have a reduced risk of developing prostate cancer when compared to men considered to be obese.Body mass index is a measure of body fat based on height and weight. BMI ranges are categorized in numbers, where underweight BMI is less than 18.5, normal weight BMI is 18.5 to 24.9, overweight BMI is 25 to 29.9, and obese BMI is 30 or higher.


To figure out your BMI, multiply your height in inches by itself. Then, take your weight in pounds and divide it by the number you got from your height. Then, take that number and multiply it by 703.Consult with your doctor to come up with a healthy diet plan to ensure that you lose weight at a healthy, yet effective rate.
 Another way that you can reduce your risk of prostate cancer is to have more sex. According to an Australian study, if you masturbate five or more times per week, you are 34% less likely to develop prostate cancer by age 70. Along the same lines, sex also counts toward the total number of weekly ejaculations.


The finding could be explained by the flushing out of cancer-causing agents during ejaculation., You can reduce your risk of prostate cancer by making dietary changes. In order to help lower your chance of getting prostate cancer, you should eat a diet that is low in fat. According to numerous studies, there is an established link between a diet high in saturated fat and the development of prostate cancer.In general, fats should not exceed 30% of total daily caloric intake. Saturated fats should also not exceed 20% of your daily intake and the combination of polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats should not exceed 10% of your total daily caloric intake., If you are trying to cut down on fat, a way to help this is to eat less red meat and dairy. In addition to this, if you reduce or eliminate your consumption of red meat, dairy, and eggs, you will have a decreased risk of prostate cancer.


Red meat is a significant source of saturated fat in the diet. Red meat also increases levels of IGF-1, which is associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer.
A general rule of thumb is to limit each protein serving to 3 ounces with a maximum of 6 ounces per day.Red meat, dairy, and eggs also increase levels of choline, which is also associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer.
Dairy can be a significant source of saturated fat, as well as calcium, in the diet. Excessive intake of calcium may also increase a man’s chances of developing prostate cancer.You can reduce your calcium intake by cutting down on or even eliminating dairy products such as milk, cheese, and yogurt. Choose soy-based alternatives instead.
 Increasing the consumption of soy products is another dietary option to consider to reduce the risk of prostate cancer. Soy products contain isoflavones, which are natural compounds that act like estrogens. In laboratory tests, they have been proven to inhibit the growth of prostate cancer cells.


Try to incorporate soy products such as soymilk, tempeh, miso, and tofu into your diet.
In American Adventist men, high levels of consumption of soymilk, which provided them with about 90 mg of isoflavones a day, created a 70% reduction in prostate cancer risk.
All traditional soy-containing foods provide 30-40 mg of isoflavones per serving.
Other sources of isoflavones include peanuts and legumes such as chickpeas, lentils, and kidney beans., Eating more fruits and vegetables may work to reduce the risk of prostate cancer. Eat vegetables such as tomatoes because they contain lycopene. This substance is abundant in cooked tomatoes and has been found to reduce the total risk of prostate cancer by 35% and the risk of advanced prostate cancer by 50%. Onions, garlic, leeks, shallots, scallions, and chives contain oregano-sulfur compounds, which are associated with reduced risk of prostate cancer.


You should also eat vegetables such as cabbage, broccoli, kale, brussel sprouts, cauliflower, and horseradish because they contain compounds which lower prostate cancer risk., You should consider increasing your intake of fatty fish. Fish, which is full of omega-3 fatty acids, may lower prostate cancer risk. Try new recipes that include tuna, salmon, trout, herring, and sardines.


If you don’t like fish, you can add omega-3 fatty acids to your diet with flaxseed.Flaxseed can be bought whole, crushed, or milled to add to your diet.
 You should consider drinking red wine to help reduce your risk of prostate cancer. The skins of red grapes contain high levels of resveratrol, an antioxidant which may help inhibit the growth of prostate cancer.Although it is good for you, red wine should be consumed in moderation. You should drink no more than two glasses, or 10 ounces, of red wine per day.Drinking more than the recommendation of 10 ounces per day may negate the beneficial effects., Drinking green tea may also reduce the risk of prostate cancer. Brewed green tea contains high levels of polyphenol compounds, particularly catechins, that may be protective against prostate cancer. Try to brew yourself a cup with breakfast or lunch to help lower your risk of cancer.


Unfortunately, the caffeine found in green tea may limit its intake due to side effects such as trouble sleeping, headache, heart palpitations, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.Black tea contains much lower concentrations of polyphenols and catechins than green tea.
 You should be mindful about supplementing with vitamins and minerals. Selenium and vitamin E supplements may double your risk of prostate cancer, especially if you have low levels of selenium to begin with., There are some supplements that will naturally help you fight prostate cancer. Naturally occurring folate, a B vitamin, has been shown to reduce the risk of prostate cancer. You should not take folic acid, which is a synthetic form of folate, because it has been found to increase the risk of prostate cancer.You should also try to maintain an adequate level of zinc. While there is conflicting evidence, zinc is considered protective against prostate cancer, while zinc deficiency or an excess of zinc may promote the development of prostate cancer.A study done at the National Institutes of Health revealed no association between multivitamin use and the risk of prostate cancer., You can also explore herbal options to reduce the risk of prostate cancer. In a laboratory test, the herbal mixture of ginger, oregano, rosemary, and green tea sold under the brand name Zyflamend reduced the growth of prostate cancer cells by 78%. Another herbal option is FBL 101, which is a blend of soy, black cohosh, Dong Quai, licorice, and red clover, helped reduce the risk of prostate cancer.


Scientists at the National Cancer Institute administered FBL 101 to mice with prostate cancer and found that it decreased the growth of prostate cancer.The dosage of Zyflamend is 2 soft-gels daily with food. You should consult your doctor before using the herbal blends in Zyflamend or FBL 101.

