 The only sure-fire way to avoid getting chlamydia is to not have sex. Chlamydia is transmitted during unprotected vaginal, anal, or oral sex. The more people you have sexual contact with, the more likely you are to come in contact with someone who has chlamydia.If someone is infected with chlamydia, the bacteria will be in their semen or vaginal fluids even if they are not symptomatic.
This means that it may also be possible to catch the infection if you get infected bodily fluids on your hands and then transfer it to your genitals or inside your body.;
, Condoms won’t completely eliminate your risk, but they will greatly reduce it. However, the condoms must be latex or polyurethane.Put the condom on correctly. Pinch the tip of the condom and hold it while you unroll the condom over the entire length of the penis. There should be space at the tip to catch semen during ejaculation.
After sex, remove the condom carefully to avoid spilling the semen.
If you perform oral sex on a woman, use a dental dam. This is a small piece of latex which will greatly reduce the risk of disease transmission. You can also use a split open male condom for this purpose.To avoid infection, you must also use condoms during anal sex.
Put on a condom or dam as soon as sexual activity starts.
If the condom breaks during sex, your risk of infection increases.
 If you share toys, you can spread chlamydia and other sexually transmitted diseases. In order to prevent this, the toys must be:Sterilized between users.
Or covered with a new latex or polyurethane condom for each user.
 Douching disrupts the natural, healthy bacterial community in the vagina and may make women more vulnerable to infections.Douching will not prevent pregnancy or the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
 This is particularly important if you are not using protection, have many partners, are younger than 25, or are pregnant.The prevalence of chlamydia is highest in young people. It is estimated that 1:20 sexually active females under the age of 25 has chlamydia. If you are at high risk, your doctor may suggest yearly screening.
Pregnant women can pass chlamydia to their children during childbirth, so it is important for pregnant women to get tested, especially if she or her partner might be infected.
Chlamydia can usually be detected through a urine test or a swab test. For women the cervix is swabbed, for men, the urethra or anus.
 You will not catch chlamydia by:Kissing
Sharing towels
Sitting on a toilet seat

, Not everyone gets symptoms, but if you do, it may start about a month after you are exposed. Symptoms include:


Pain or burning when urinating
Abdominal pain
A discharge coming from the vagina, penis, or rectum
Women may experience pain or bleeding after sex or between periods. Men may have pain in their testicles.
Heavier bleeding during menstruation
Your symptoms may stop after a while. This does not mean the infection is gone.
 If you think you might have been exposed to chlamydia, get tested. If it goes untreated, it can lead to fertility problems for both men and women and increase the risk of acquiring HIV.Both sexes can get sexually acquired reactive arthritis from chlamydia. This is a painful inflammation of the joints, eyes and/or urethra. Most people’s symptoms go away after a few months, but this does not mean that the chlamydia is gone.
Men can get chlamydia infections in their testicles and in the passages through which the sperm travels. This can reduce fertility.
Women can get chlamydia in the uterus, ovaries, and fallopian tubes, causing pain and fertility problems. This can be a cause of pelvic inflammatory disease and can increase the risk of life threatening ectopic pregnancy in the future.
Chlamydia can also be dangerous for unborn babies. It increases the risk of miscarriage, stillbirth, and premature birth. If it is transmitted from the mother to the baby during birth, the child may get it as a lung or eye infection.
 Chlamydia can be very effectively treated with antibiotics. Over 95% of people who follow through with their treatment get rid of the infection.Your doctor may prescribe azithromycin, doxycycline, or erythromycin. Take the whole course of antibiotics to make sure the infection is fully wiped out.
Don’t have sex, even with a condom, until both you and any possibly infected partners have finished the treatment. If you had a one-day course of antibiotics, you may still need to wait a week to be sure you have fully cleared the infection.
Get retested after finishing the treatment if your symptoms don’t go away, you didn’t take the medications as instructed, you had sex before you finished the treatment, or you are pregnant.

