 The only general rule to oiling your hair is that you should comb through it to prevent tangling and messy oil application. Beyond that, there's debate over whether hair should be clean when oiled. Some swear that oiling works better when the hair is already a little bit oily and dirty — say two or three days after your last shampooing. Others insist that oiling works best soon after you've shampooed your hair — when it’s clean and bare. Try it both ways to decide what you prefer.
 Especially if you’re new to oiling your hair, there’s a good chance you’re going to make a mess.


Spread old towels or paper towels around the area where you’re going to work. This includes table surfaces and floors.
Have an extra hand rag available for spot-cleaning drippy messes.
If you’re going to sleep with oil in your hair, protect your pillows with plastic pillowcase coverings.
 Pour one teaspoon of oil into the palm of your hand. Rub your hands together to spread the oil. You’ll be applying the oil mainly with your fingertips, so focus on spreading it there.









Using your fingertips, work the oils into your scalp.
Use a massaging motion to both work the oil in and stimulate the scalp. (Plus, it feels great!)
Make sure you cover the entire scalp area, including the back of your head, just above the neck, and behind your ears.
 Split it right down the middle of your scalp, and pull one section over your left shoulder and the other over your right shoulder. This will make it easier to apply the base oil to the shafts of your hair.









You might tie one section into a piggy tail to keep it out of the way while you’re working on the other section.
 If you have long hair, you might be tempted to pour a large amount of oil into your hands. This will always result in a dripping mess, though. No matter how much hair you’re working with, pour one teaspoon of oil into your palm at a time, adding more oil when you need it.









Run your hands through the length of your hair.
Don’t neglect the hair on the back of your head.

