 There may be long periods of time where you don’t know where your partner is. Unexplained chunks of time may be a sign of lying, or your partner is lying about where they are.


Talk to your partner about what they do when you’re not there. Be respectful of the other person’s space, as well as the relationship you have.
You can double-check stories by asking friends, family, or coworkers.j

, Dishonesty in relationships can stem from financial disagreements or troubles, and it is important that you check your bank account, extra cash, and wallet. This step is more pertinent for married couples, but applies to anyone with shared finances.


Look for any charges that are unfamiliar to you.
Don’t root through someone else’s personal financial history without their permission. You can look through your own.
 When your guy or girl is around, they might act differently than they used to. This could be anything from checking their phone more often to kissing you before bedtime. Behavior changes can signify almost anything, including lying. Investigate the cause of a behavior change in case it is that your guy or girl is lying.


One common change is the response to questioning: often, people who are lying do not like being questioned. “Why don’t you trust me?” or “Who wants to know?”
The behavior change might be most obvious in social media, texting, or at work. It might not be the most obvious to you.
 Has trusting your guy or girl been an ongoing problem? Have you caught your partner in a lie before? At some point, the problem is not whether your partner is lying to you: the problem is that you feel like your partner could be lying to you at all. If you suspect your partner is lying to you, look at the overall picture of your relationship with this person. Systemic or serial lying can be a sign that something in the relationship is not working.


If your partner is lying, you must decide if you want to move forward in the relationship and forgive.
For forgiveness to occur, the wrongdoer must accept responsibility, show remorse, and repair the relationship by changing their behavior.You must acknowledge their efforts and reinforce a positive perspective.

