 While the anti-inflammatory properties of turmeric need more scientific investigation, many people take it regularly in hopes of reducing inflammation in general. If you want to treat your acne with turmeric, one way you can do that is by ingesting it and one easy way to take it daily is in pill form.


Consult with your doctor before taking turmeric to make sure that it will not interact with any medicines that you are taking and that it is safe for you to take.
Dried turmeric in pill form is usually available in all natural food stores but it is also available online.
In order to figure out dosing, follow the directions on the packaging of your specific turmeric pills.
 Turmeric is probably best known as a food additive and spice. It is used to turn foods yellow, including curries and mustard, and has a bitter taste.Try adding it to your favorite recipes to incorporate it into your diet.


One food that turmeric can easily be added to is rice. If using one cup of uncooked rice, add between one half and one tablespoon of turmeric powder to the rice before cooking, depending on the level of flavor and color you desire. The turmeric will turn the rice a bright yellow and will give it a wonderful flavor., Another way to take turmeric it to mix it into a tea or a milk and drink it.This will allow you to enjoy the flavor of the turmeric in a warm or cold beverage.


Turmeric milk can be bought at many natural food stores or can be made at home. If you want to make it, simply add a small amount of turmeric powder or fresh turmeric, between a quarter and a half teaspoon dry or one inch fresh, to a pot. Combine with one cup of your favorite milk, one cup of water, and additional spices, such as nutmeg, cinnamon, and allspice, and then bring to a simmer. You can use traditional cow's milk or a non-dairy substitute, like soy milk. There are also turmeric products sold that are made to be mixed into milk that contain spices and sweeteners in addition to the turmeric.Turmeric tea is available from commercial tea companies in tea bags. You can also make your own turmeric tea with dried or fresh turmeric. Combine a small amount of turmeric, one teaspoon dried or one inch of fresh, with one cup of hot water. You can add a variety of ingredients as well, including cinnamon, ginger, honey, and lemon.