 The old adage, “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you” holds true in any societal situation. Remember that you get what you give--you don’t respect or give others the benefit of the doubt, they will return the favor.


Never assume you know what someone is facing. Whether it’s a run in with an aggressive driver on the road or a friend who constantly appears to be upset about a situation at home, never get annoyed or dismissive with someone because you can’t empathize. Give friends a pass when they seem to be upset (even if you don’t think their situation would be upsetting to you) and take a deep breath when someone seems rude in society. You never know what the people you encounter are truly trying to manage.
Deliver respect even if you aren’t getting it back. Want to appear to be someone with class and dignity? Rise above situations by treating everyone with respect. Not only will you come out smelling like a rose, others will find this trait to be admirable and possibly infectious.;
, Develop and possibly exploit the characteristics that your friends and family members find to be endearing. Also, find out what got you hired at work--professional attributes are also a great way to find out what makes you accepted and possibly respected amongst your peers.


Identify at least three qualities that people love about you. Whether it’s your warm smile or generous spirit or your unwavering determination, focus on three solid traits to develop.
Make a concerted effort to tap into these qualities as often as possible. For example, if your smile is what attracts people most, make an effort to smile more in social situations (provided the opportunity is available) or be available to help a friend if generosity is a common theme.
 As you develop positive characteristics, it wouldn’t hurt to take your “medicine” and find out the bitter with the sweet. Ask trusted resources which of your qualities are annoying or even somewhat mean-spirited. You may not realize that you give off a certain impression or that some of your actions or comments are taken more to heart.


Identify situations where these unfavorable qualities may rear their ugly heads. Perhaps when you feel pressure or stress or even if when you are bored, figure out when some of your less than desirable qualities appear.
Consider specific encounters where you may have led with one of your less than attractive qualities. Whether it was during a stressful meeting at work or a first date, you may be wondering why you didn’t get a promotion or a second date--these qualities may be to blame.
Develop a way to replace the undesirable qualities with a positive trait. Do you scowl when being criticized or roll your eyes when others may be moving too slowly? Think about ways you can revise that behavior and replace it with something else. For example, if you are a big eye roller, instead try smiling and shaking your head. You can still express annoyance but with a gentler less overtly annoyed behavior.
 If you are looking to make a certain kind of impression (more professional, funnier etc.) think of someone you admire and the qualities they possess.


Avoid completely copying someone else’s behavior or mannerisms. Be true to yourself and don’t try to clone someone else to help you achieve a certain goal. Instead, identify a few traits you admire and think about ways you could integrate those traits into your style.
Only consider traits that would be intuitive for you to integrate into your life. If being a fabulous shopper is something you would love to be, but are trying to make it on a budget, find other traits within this person instead. Also, don’t go against your inherent personality in an effort to adopt traits. Find something that would be a natural fit in in order to avoid looking like you are simply trying to be someone you are not.
 Even though you may want to look more like a daredevil (if that’s the impression you want to give) or aggressive in business, find other ways to get your point across without abandoning your homegrown morals and values instilled upon you as a child.


Don’t behave a certain way that could get you into trouble. Perhaps you want to hang out with the “popular” kids and want to make the kind of impression that would get you accepted by the group. However, if it means lying or stealing (if that’s what the kids are into) reconsider ways to be accepted by this group (or look for a different group).
Stick to your principles, even if they may seem to be unpopular. If picking on another person is what’s considered to be cool, resist joining in and perhaps demonstrate how people should really treat each other. Give off the impression that you are above the behavior and perhaps influence others around you.
 Most people actually do judge a book by its cover and if your “cover” is giving off the impression opposite of what you desire, its time for a makeover.


Consider how people treat you before they get to know you. Do they approach you with caution or speak down to you? First impressions starts with your appearance. Perhaps you love punk rock and brash styles, but deep down inside you want people to take you seriously. Will you achieve the level of respect you desire by dressing this way (even though its how you feel most comfortable or expressive)?
Dress for how you want to be perceived, not how you think people currently see you. If you want to be give off the impression you are a professional, an artist or an adult (for example) start dressing like one. You may think that since people treat you one way, you must dress or be styled in that manner. The only one who can change other’s impression is you.
Find a style role model you can use for inspiration. Like the way one of your coworkers is treated and notice that his/her style consists of classic lines and subdued colors? You don’t have to copy the style verbatim but instead weave elements of the style into your own appearance to help you give off a similar impression.

