 Reputable salons use good sanitation practices to protect their clients and employees from skin infections, but it is still possible to get an infection from a reputable salon. There are some things you should keep in mind whenever you go for a manicure or pedicure.


Make sure that any salon that you visit is licensed by the state health department.
Ask how the nail tools are sanitized between uses. The tools should be heat-sanitized with an autoclave to kill all of the germs and bacteria. Other methods are not as effective.
Never get a manicure or pedicure if you know that you have nail fungus. You may spread it to the nail technician.
Tell the nail technician not to push back or trim your cuticles. This increases your risk of infection.
Wash your hands before a manicure and request that the nail technician does the same. The nail technician should also wear gloves.
Request a liner for the whirlpool bath or bring your own if you know that the salon does not provide them., By practicing good hygiene you may be able to avoid contracting nail fungus. Keeping your hands and feet clean and dry is a simple way to prevent nail fungus from infecting your nails.


Keep your nails trimmed short and keep them dry.Wash your hands and feet regularly.
If you have nail fungus, avoid touching anything after touching your nails, as this can spread the fungus.
 Feet are often subjected to conditions that carry a higher risk of contracting nail fungus. Shoes and socks create warm and moist environments, which is what nail fungus needs to grow. Take some of the following steps to prevent toenail fungus.Wear shoes that allow for airflow.
Don't wear socks that cause your feet to sweat. Look for bamboo or polypropylene socks and avoid cotton.
Change your socks often.
Don't share shoes or socks with anyone.
Alternate which pair of shoes you wear from day to day.
Wash your socks in warm or hot water with detergent.
 Damaged nails and nail beds can be an opening for nail fungus to take root in. By caring for you nails, and protecting any injured areas near them, you help keep any potential infections out.Don't pick or chew your fingernails.
Take care of any cuts or injuries near your nails.
 By applying nail polish or artificial nails, you may increase the risk of causing a fungal infection. Painting the nails can trap moisture and fungal spores underneath the nail, causing an infection. Try to reduce the amount you use nail polish to lower this risk.If you already have nail fungus, do not try to cover it with nail polish. This will only worsen the infection.

