 Pour the mix into a large mixing bowl, then whisk it to remove any lumps or clumps. This recipe will give you a chocolate molten lava cake.If you don't like chocolate cake, use white cake mix to make white cake instead.
If you have a different mug cake recipe that you prefer, you can use that instead., Take a look at the box you cake or brownie mix came in. Measure out the water, oil, and eggs called for on the box, and place them into a separate mixing bowl. Add one extra egg, then whisk everything together.You are adding an extra egg because this will make your cake richer and taste more homemade.
Most cake mixes will call for 1 cup (240 milliliters) water, ⅓ cup (80 milliliters) vegetable oil, and 3 eggs.
Most brownie mixes will call for: ¼ cup (60 milliliters) water, ¼ cup (60 milliliters) oil, and 1 egg.
 Pour the whisked water, oil, and eggs into the dry cake or brownie mix. Stir everything together until combined and no lumps or streaks remain., You can try to pour the batter straight from the bowl, or you can ladle it out using an ice cream scoop or soup ladle. You will have enough batter to fill about six 8-ounce (240-milliliter) mason jars. Set the lids aside for now.Do not over-fill the jars. If you fill them more than halfway, the batter may rise too much and overflow.
 Choose a rich, soft, dark chocolate. Press two squares into the center of each mason jar, then cover them with more batter.If you are making a different type of cake, you can skip this step.
 You can cook up to four cakes at one time. If you choose to cook more than one cake, add 30 seconds for each additional cake. This means that if you are cooking four cakes, you should cook them for a total of 2 minutes and 30 seconds.The cakes will puff up as they cook, and deflate when you stop the microwave.
Place a paper towel or paper plate under the jar. This way, if there are any spills, they will be easier to clean up.Every microwave is different, so the cooking times on your cake might be a little different., If you want to, you can garnish them with a dollop of whipped cream or a scoop of vanilla ice cream.Cover any leftover jars with the lids. The heat from the jars will automatically cause the lids to seal. Let the cakes cool down to room temperature before putting them into the fridge.

