 Under certain conditions, you do not need to apply for Medicare Part B. If you meet one of the following qualifications, you will automatically receive Medicare Part B.If you're already receiving Social Security or the Railroad Retirement Plan, you usually automatically receive Medicare Part B when you turn 65. This is also true if you live in Puerto Rico.
If you're under 65 and have a disability, you should automatically receive Medicare Part B as long as you're already receiving disability benefits from Social Security.
If you have Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), also called Lou Gherig's Disease, you will automatically get Medicare Part A and B the month your disability benefits begin.;
, If you don't meet the above conditions, you will need to apply for Medicare Part B. Eligibility usually begins a few months before your 65th birthday, and the timeframe to sign up extends a few months beyond this. If you want to check to see when you qualify, and also get a sense of how high your premiums will be, you can use an online calculator through Medicare.gov.To find out if you're eligible, click the green button that says "Find out if I'm Eligible." You will be asked for your date of birth, and whether you've worked a job in the last 10 years for which you pay taxes towards Medicare.
You may want to calculate your premium, as this can help you budget for Medicare. To do so, click on the "Calculate my premium" link. From here, you'll be asked information about your birthday, your marital status, and whether you're currently receive other health benefits.
 You want to make sure you apply for Medicare during the appropriate timeframe. To apply for Medicare Part B, there is a 7 month period during which you can sign up. This period begins 3 months before your 65th birthday, and then extends 4 months after this date. Make sure to put your enrollment period on a calendar so you're aware of when you need to apply.If you failed to sign up for Medicare in the months around your birthday, you can sign up during the general enrollment period. General enrollment begins January 1st and ends March 31st of each year. Keep in mind enrolling during this time may be considered late enrollment if this timeframe does not fall around your birthday. If you enroll late, you have to pay higher premiums.
 Under certain conditions, you can sign up during a Special Enrollment Period without higher premiums. You qualify for a special enrollment period if you meet the following qualifications:If you're currently employed and covered under a group health plan, you do not have to sign up during the months around your 65th birthday. You will qualify for a Special Enrollment Period, you can sign up for Medicare Part B any time as long as you or your spouse is working and covered by a group health plan through your place of work.
After employment ends and your group health plan is terminated, you will have 8 months to sign up for Medicare regardless of your age.
 There is an application you must complete in order to qualify for Medicare Part B. You can obtain the application online at Medicare.gov. Fill out the application to apply for Medicare Part B.The application will ask for basic information, like your name, social security number, address, city, state, and phone number.
You may need a witness to watch you filling out the application to assure you're giving the information yourself. The witness will have to sign and date the form.
You will also need to sign and date the form.
 You can fill out the above application online. The application process is quick and simple. It's one of the easiest ways to apply online, and will save you a trip to a local Social Security Office. You can apply on the Social Security website.It shouldn't take you more than 10 minutes to fill out an application. However, if you cannot fill out the application in one sitting, you can save your application and finish it later.
If you failed to fill out anything correctly, someone will contact you to let you know. You will also be contacted once your application is successfully processed.
 If you're uncomfortable applying online, you can also apply in person. Print out and fill in a Medicare application online and then take it in to a local Social Security Office. You can find a list of Social Security offices online, at secure.ssa.gov., The application for Medicare is fairly straightforward. However, if you have any questions along the way, call 1-800-772-1213. A worker there can answer any questions you have.If you work on a railroad, you can call 1-877-772-5772 with questions.
 As with any other health insurance, Medicare comes with premiums. If you fail to pay premiums on time, you may be subject to a late fee or even the cancellation of your benefits. Make sure you mark on your calendar when payments are due and pay them in a prompt fashion.


You may be able to set up automatic payments online, depending on your specific policy. These payments can be automatically deducted from Social Security payments.
 You may be qualified for COBRA coverage once your employment ends. This means your existing insurance will continue for a number of months after retirement, though usually for a higher fee. In most cases, your COBRA coverage will generally end. COBRA coverage lasts for a limited period of either 18 or 36 months, depending upon circumstances. Check with your employer's insurance and ask about COBRA coverage. It may or may not be in your benefit to maintain COBRA coverage, depending on your Medicare premiums.
 If you do not qualify for a Special Enrollment Period on Medicare Part B, you will have to pay higher premiums if you fail to sign up during the 7 months surrounding your 65th birthday. Take extra care to make sure you sign up during those months. Mark the dates on your calendar to assure you sign up on time.

