 Online dating scammers usually target people older than themselves. In the case of a male scammer, they often target middle aged women in their 50's to 60's. They believe these people to be ideal targets as they are usually richer and more vulnerable.;
,, Save a copy of their profile picture. Use Google image search. Check the results. Are they already marked up as scammers or is the return illegitimate in some way? Report to the dating site giving the evidence, including any website links.
 Look for signs that don't seem to gel with who you understand this person to be. For example, check the background, landscapes and even clocks or calendars. Can you see identifying features that do not match with the picture this person has built up of themselves?

, For example:


They say they have been away, yet their profile shows them online (most likely chatting up some other victim online).
The profile shows geographic inconsistencies, often referencing places that are not in geographic proximity to where they live.
 The scammer will send you an email which is full of inconsistencies, often getting their own name or your name wrong. It will be badly written and repeat itself. Watch for these other signs:


Their command of your language deteriorates with time. They may even start out having no clue about grammar or punctuation.
They make mistakes, in that their "story" begins to contradict itself here and there.
They mix pronouns (he/she, him/her).
They mention things that seem entirely unrelated to the profile they've built up of themselves, or that seem too revealing and even unbelievable.
 Phone conversations can often unravel a fake. When you hear this person on the phone, note whether they have a slight accent and use awkward phrases; if their accent does not match their supposed origin, be suspicious. Ask them probing questions and trust your gut instinct about the validity of the replies.


If phoning, beware a cell phone number that does not match the area in which they claim to live. This often means that the person is not in the same country at all. Match the cell phone number and the area code with the state or province they claim to live in.
If you spot a number discrepancy, beware excuses. They may tell you they've just moved or didn't bother to change it when they did because it would be too hard to contact all their friends with a new number.
 If the person suggests that the communication switch to phone calls and texting ASAP, be alarmed. Then, if the phone calls and texting rapidly escalate in expressions of love and passion, and within a matter of 5 to 6 weeks they tell you that they have fallen in love, be very alarmed.


Over-the-top expressions of feelings for you even though you haven't met are a warning sign.
 When they think they have you on their hook, this is when they reel you in. They will tell you they are on their way home to be with you to start a new life together. But then out of the blue they will say they have a financial emergency. They will ask for money to be sent to them immediately to get them out of a fix. If you do not send them money or insist on safeguards in the sending of any, they will pull out the trust card, saying: Where there is no trust, there can be no relationship. Take that as your cue to walk away for good.


Think about why it is that this person has all the time in the world to text or email you but cannot manage to meet you in person. That's a telling sign of the faker.

