 If you notice a friend is withdrawing or just acting a lot differently than normal, ask them how they’re doing. Let them know they can talk to you. This will give them some space to express their feelings. They might feel alone on top of feeling too proud to ask anyone for help. They may have the sense that they should be able to figure it out on their own. So, let them know, they’re not alone.It’s important that you ask in a way that doesn’t sound like the typical pleasantries. Try saying “What’s going on with you right now?” or “I noticed you’ve been struggling lately. How can I help?”

, Sharing your experiences is a good way to let them know they aren’t alone. If they seem to be anxious or depressed, talk about a time when you felt that way. If you haven’t felt that way, try to find an experience that is at least somewhat similar. Don’t make it up. If needed, refer them to a friend who might be able to help them more than you can.Try saying something like, “I don’t know exactly what you’re going through, but I have experienced something similar.”

, Letting them know you’re on their side can be a big relief for some people. By being a support in other ways (cleaning, childcare, etc.), you can help take a load off and possibly encourage them to get the help they need. You can say something like “I’m here for you” or “I’ll check in tomorrow to see if I can help you with something.”For example, you might offer to cook dinner for the person one night by saying something like, “I am planning to try out a new recipe on Saturday. Would you like to come over to my house and join me for dinner?”

, Most people have at least one person who they look up to, such as a mentor, an educator, a boss, or a charismatic family member. Your friend might be more open to listening to someone who he or she looks up to. Find this person and get him/her to go up to the proud person and encourage him or her to accept help from others. This person might be able to convince your proud friend to seek help from you or someone else who can help.