;
, You can usually even find maps of the sites online which will help you find where you're going. If you know that a band you want to see is on early in the day, leave plenty of time to get to the site and find the right stage as queues are usually very long to get into the arena.
, If you stand at the front all day you'll miss the interaction further back. If you never get up close you'll miss the adrenaline. It's a good idea to just go with the flow, see where the day takes you. It saves you getting upset at missing the perfect view, or at having to leave your spot for the toilet or some food. Some of the best festival experiences are to be had further back in the crowd, singing and dancing with total strangers.
 They enable you to sit on the ground when it's wet and can be used to protect your bag from rain. Don't bring chairs or stools as they block people's view and create an obstruction, which is rude. Don't feel you have a right to any particular space - festivals are a free-for-all and you need to be laid back otherwise you'll find the whole experience very stressful.
 This will keep it well refrigerated and you don't have to sample any of the fast food stuff! But if greasy spoons (which are quite nice as an occasional treat) are your thing then go for it; just be prepared for horridly long lines and the possibility that someone will snaffle your great spot while you're gone. (Have a friend guard it if you go with someone; take it in turns to seek food, bathroom breaks etc.)

, Long ponchos are a good idea because they keep your bag dry too. Don't take an umbrella though because they are dangerous in a crowd as people jostle about and it's easy to accidentally poke somebody. Just expect to get a little wet. Water won't kill you. You should also make sure to take sunscreen because it's occasionally sunny, and a warm jumper in case you get cold.
, Or spend the time chatting with your friends.
 Just be sure to keep an eye on it always - wearing it in a bag that crosses your chest is the best option.
, You don't have to spend the whole day together. If you split up for a while, though, make sure you know where and when you're going to meet or make sure you have mobile phones so you can get in touch if you need to.

