 Free verse poetry came into popularity after the modernist movement of the early twentieth century, when poets like Ezra Pound declared that the deliberate rhyme schemes, metrical patterns, and stanzaic structures that dominated poetry for most of its history were incapable of depicting anything approaching truth or reality.As a result, much the poetry written in the past hundred years has been without rhyme, predictable rhythm, or set stanzas, making it far more difficult to memorize.


Even if you’ve had success memorizing formal poems like sonnets in the past, don’t expect free verse poetry to be as easy.
Be prepared to put in more work.
If you have a choice as to which poem to memorize for a class and you’re on a strict time schedule, you might wish to choose a formal poem instead of a free verse one.
 Just as you did with the formal poems, you need to begin by getting a good sense of the rhythm in your free verse poem. Even though it lacks the formal characteristics that make other poems easier to remember, as T.S. put it, “no verse is free for the man who wants to do a good job”. What he meant by this is that all language, even casual conversational language, can be scanned for metrical rhythm and pattern produced on an unconscious level, and that a good poet will draw out the musicality of a line even without the parameters of a rigid structure: “What sort of a line that would be which would not scan at all I cannot say.”When reading the poem aloud, try to pick up on the poet’s distinctive voice. Do they use a good deal of commas that slow down the pace of the poem, or does the poem seem to go by in one great, unbroken rush?
Free verse poetry seeks to depict natural speech rhythms to the greatest extent possible, so the poem will likely rely heavily on iambic meter, which closely mimics natural English. Is that the case for this poem?
Or does the poem have a surprisingly different rhythm than iambic meter? For example, James Dickey is known for the pops of anapestic trimeter scattered throughout his free verse poems.An example is Dickey’s “The Lifeguard,” which is largely iambic, but punctuated with anapestic trimeter and dimeter throughout: “In a STAble of BOATS I lie STILL”; “the LEAP of a FISH from its SHAdow”; “with my FOOT on the WATer I FEEL.”Read the poem aloud repeatedly until you begin to internalize the musical rhythm of the poet’s voice.
 Because free verse poetry is far younger, it’s unlikely you’ll come across archaic words you don’t recognize. Some branches of free verse strive for poetry that closely mimics normal conversational English rather than fancy “poetic” English; Wordsworth, an influential precursor to free verse, wrote that a poet is merely “a man speaking to men.”However, as poets seek to push the boundaries of language, they sometimes turn to less commonly used vocabulary to elevate the work into more artistic terrain. Make good use of your dictionary.


Modern and contemporary poetry also has a tendency to be highly allusive, so be on the lookout for references you don’t understand. Classical references to Greek, Roman, and Egyptian mythology are fairly common, as are Biblical references. Look up any references to gain deeper insight into the line’s meaning.
For example, Eliot’s “The Waste Land” is so heavily allusive that it is almost incomprehensible without consulting the notes he provided to accompany the poem.(Even then, it’s hard!)
Again, the purpose here is to make sure you understand the poem before you try to memorize it. It’s easier to memorize a poem you “get.”

, Because you can’t rely on rhyme or rhythm to jog your memory, you need to find key points in the poem for your brain to latch onto. Comb through the poem looking for moments that you either like, or that surprise you. Try to space them out throughout the poem, so that you have one distinct, memorable line or phrase from each small section of the piece, however you choose to break it up. Even if the poem is written in one long stanza, you might choose one memorable image or phrase for every four lines, or perhaps for every sentence regardless of how many lines it spreads across.


Look at James Dickey’s “For the Last Wolverine” as an example.For this poem, we’ll simply list the startling, memorable images as they jump out at us:
the silence of whitening snarls; the last red meal; his gnarling head; a single spruce tree is dying higher and higher; snarling complete in the joy of a weasel with an elk’s horned heart in his stomach; hunched in mangy feathers; let them mate to the death; it has come back, this time on wings; but small, filthy, unwinged; the timid poem; the elk’s heart in the belly, sprouting wings; Lord, let me die but not die out.
Note how each of these phrases is both memorable and indicates a key movement in the plot of the poem.
By putting these key phrases to memory before attempting to recite the poem completely by rote, you will have landmarks to help guide you through the poem should you get stuck in a recitation.
Memorize the exact wording of these memorable phrases in the exact order in which they appear in the poem. This will give you a condensed outline of the poem that will help you summarize in the next step.
 Just as with the formal poem, you must fully grasp the story or meaning of the free verse poem before you should attempt to memorize it. That way, if you get caught up on a word when trying to recite it, you can think back to the summary to jog your memory as to what comes next. Focus on working those landmark memorable phrases from the previous step into your summary, making sure to flesh out the connective tissue that leads from one phrase to the next with your own language.


If the poem is narrative, try staging it out like a play to help you remember the chronology of progression. For example, Robert Frost’s “Home Burial” is so narrative, with its exposition and dialogue, that it has been staged and acted out.“Home Burial” is an otherwise difficult poem to remember, being written entirely in blank verse, or unrhymed iambic pentameter., You should have a head start on memorizing at this point because you’ve already put the list of key phrases to good use in your summary. Continue reading the poem aloud to yourself — but with each subsequent reading, try to travel between more and more landmark phrases without having to look down at the page.


Don’t get frustrated if you don’t perfect your recitation on the first try. If you get frustrated, relax for a moment and take a five minute break to let your brain reset.
Remember to make use of your landmark images and your summary to help you remember each line as it appears in the poem.

