 You will need a 12” or longer metal ruler, a pencil, paper, and a craft knife. The process will be easier if you also have a cutting mat: these are widely available at hobby and fabric stores, have straight lines printed on them, and protect working surfaces so that you don’t end up scoring lines in your dining room table. “Sticky tack,” a removable putty-type adhesive, can help anchor the ruler.


X-ACTO knives are very commonly used by crafters, and are easily found in most craft stores and many superstores. If you don’t have one or don’t want to buy one, a box cutter will also work (as long as it’s sharp).
If you use a box cutter, straight razor blade, or other extremely sharp object, use extreme caution! Craft knives such as X-ACTO knives have safety handles that can help keep you from cutting yourself. Never allow children to use sharp knives without adult supervision.;
, If you have a cutting mat, place the paper there. Make sure your work surface doesn’t have any bumps or bubbles, as this will affect your cutting.
 Lightly mark your paper (so you can erase the marks later) with small dots or lines to show the beginning and end of your line.
 Line up the ruler alongside the marks you made in Step 3 to create a straight line between them.









If you’re working on patterned paper, such as scrapbooking paper, make sure that the line you’ve created is aligned with the pattern. If your line is straight but askew from the pattern, the final product will look crooked. Adjust the paper as necessary.
If you have sticky tack, place a small bit on either end of the ruler and press it onto the cutting mat (or work surface). This will anchor the ruler in place so it doesn’t move as you cut.
 Press the ruler firmly onto the work surface, or secure it with sticky tack. Place the blade of your knife right alongside the ruler and slice downward, pulling the knife carefully toward you. Repeat a few times to make sure the paper is completely cut through.









Don’t apply too much pressure with the knife as you cut. This could break the blade or create drag on the paper, making it tear instead of cut neatly.
You can also cut from side to side, rather than pulling the blade toward you. If you do this, move the blade in the direction of your dominant hand (towards the right if you are right-handed, towards the left if you are left-handed). This will allow you to see what you’re doing.
 If you can still see the pencil marks, gently erase them. Don’t press too hard on the paper with the eraser or you could tear the paper.








