 Freshwater aquariums contain nitrogen, which can provide your plants with a healthy boost. Fish naturally release nitrogen into the water, making their "waste" water an important source of nutrients for plants. Instead of dumping it down the toilet, use it to water your plants once a week. Fish waste, as well, contains trace elements important for plant growth., Mix coffee grounds with leafy yard waste for "quick compost," especially for acid-loving plants. Mix your coffee grounds with an equal amount dead leaves, pine straw, and other brown yard clippings and sprinkle over the soil once a month. Roses, azaleas, hydrangeas, and many other plants crave a low pH soil, and will respond particularly well.


This method isn't just for acid-loving plants -- any gardener can use it to add nitrogen, simply cutting back to once every two months in order to protect the soil from a pH swing., Spread old eggshells over your garden, or in the bottom of planting holes, for a calcium boost. Plants like tomatoes and peppers particularly love calcium, but your whole garden will enjoy eggshells. Calcium, which is over 90% of an eggshell's makeup, helps a plant develop strong cell walls. To use eggshells, light crush up the shells and spread over the garden. You can till them into the soil or leave them right on top -- they decompose very quickly., Make a "nutrient tea" with grass clippings from your yard. Use the bag on your lawnmower to keep the clippings the next time you cut the grass. Use them to fill up a 5-gallon bucket roughly 2/3s of the way to the top, then fill it near the top with water. Stir it quickly, then let it sit for three days, stirring once each morning. When done, strain out the grass clippings and use your "tea" to water your plants, providing essential nitrogen, by mixing it with an equal amount of water and spraying over the plants., While it may seem gross, urine is a free, nitrogen-rich option for fertilizing plants. While most people are understandably squeamish about storing their own urine, it is high in essential nitrogen. To make the process more palatable, fill a bucket with sawdust and pee into this, dumping a large cup of water over it after you're done. You can then use this nutrient rich mulch when planting your next batch of plants.


Because urine can contain pathogens, you may want to sterilize it by keeping it at a temperature above 68 degrees Celsius for at least 30 days.If you don't mind going "to the source," you can dilute your urine with 10-20 times the amount of water and use it to water your plants directly. Straight urine is too concentrated for plants to handle.
Note that you can water this down significantly -- up to 20 parts water for 1 part urine, so it doesn't smell foul., Wood ash is high in calcium and potassium, making it an excellent supplement to your soil. Simply spread it right over the garden, using your hands to lightly turn it into the top layer of the soil.


Vegetables, in particular, tend to love ash, as it promotes healthy root growth.

Warning: Do not use fireplace ashes on plants that love acidic soil like blueberries, roses, or azaleas., Cut up banana peels and add them to the hole when planting. Banana peels don't do much once the plant is already in the ground, but it can work wonders as you're planting. The peels contain a lot potassium, which promotes a plant's root development. Cut up half a banana peel and toss it in the bottom of your hole before adding the plant., Composting at home is easy, so you can turn all of your old food scraps, leaves, and plant clippings into food for your garden. When organic matter decays, it releases nutrients that can enrich your soil. You can build your own compost in your yard, or you can try one of the commercially-available kitchen compost units., Take a sample of your soil for testing to fine-tune your fertilizer options. The only way you can tailor your fertilizer effectively is if you know what the soil already contains. The steps above list many different household fertilizers, as well as their essential nutrients, allowing you to make a garden-specific program. You can get home testing kits, or you can bring your sample into a local garden store or county extension office for analysis. When pulling up a soil sample, follow the directions on the kit. If nothing is provided:


Use clean, plastic shovels and a well-cleaned bucket. Dirty or metal implements can introduce other minerals and nutrients.
Dig a hole 4-6" deep, placing the dirt in the bucket. Do not include mulch or trimmings.
Repeat with 4-5 holes, mixing together in bucket.
Dry the soil on newspaper for 12-24 hours.
Bag the sample in a clean plastic bag or container and take in for analysis.