 Chances are that with a diagnosis, you already know about some aspects of schizophrenia. Still, there’s a lot outside of the symptoms and day-to-day effects. Learning more about the disease will help you move toward full acceptance.You might be interested to know that schizophrenia can affect anyone regardless of sex, ethnicity, class, culture, or intelligence. It may have a number of possible causes, like genetics, biochemical causes, and environmental factors.Look for information on schizophrenia that is backed by evidence – in other words, it should be accurate and based on science. Start at your local mental health center, the library, or online at reputable websites like the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
Reading about other people’s experiences with the illness can also be helpful. You can learn practical tips on how to cope and overcome challenges. You might find this sort of material online or in magazines and books, but also in support groups at your mental health clinic or community center.;
, Make sure to get an accurate picture of the disease. This means identifying and rejecting misinformation, which can often lead to harmful stigmas for people with schizophrenia and mental illnesses in general. Consult trustworthy sources for your information.Know, first of all, that schizophrenia is an illness. Sufferers are not “crazy” or weird. Having a mental illness is no different from having a problem with your lungs, heart, or eyes.
Be assured that schizophrenia is not caused by bad parenting or bad upbringing, poverty, or alcohol. It’s also NOT contagious.
People with schizophrenia aren’t any less intelligent and don’t have a developmental disability. They are also not more violent or aggressive when in treatment. In fact, a person who has schizophrenia is much more likely to be the victim of violence than the perpetrator., Everyone’s experience with schizophrenia is unique. The disease acts differently for everyone and your recovery will depend a lot on you and how the disease affects you. Start to think about what getting better means for you.Ask how you envision “recovery.” Does it mean going back to the way things were before? Or, maybe it means living independently, having your own home, job, and life.
For many people, living with schizophrenia means treatment with medication, therapy, or some mix of approaches. The right combination of approaches is different for every individual.
Talk with your doctor about possible treatment options and what kind of things help recovery, like following a prescription regime, learning coping strategies, knowing warning signs and triggers, and having an emergency action plan.Also be aware of things that can hinder recovery. These include drug abuse and going off your meds.
 You may have questions about your diagnosis once you’ve read more about the disease. You may even feel that the diagnosis doesn’t “fit” you. This isn’t uncommon. Talk to your doctor and express your concerns. Ask as many questions as you need to feel satisfied.Ask your doctor how your symptoms fit with schizophrenia rather than another disorder. How do your symptoms match the disease rather than another physical illness?

, You might want a second opinion, but consider sticking with a doctor who already knows you. It can be possible to re-evaluate and get a more accurate diagnosis. However, this is harder to do if you change to a doctor who doesn’t know your symptoms as well.It’s important that you are satisfied with the diagnosis. Ask whether your current doctor has explored all the possibilities. Could it be something other than schizophrenia? The doctor should rule out other physical or chemical causes.
Before changing doctors, ask yourself whether you are able to continue working with your original doctor. Does the doctor listen to you? Does she show sympathy and understand your goals?
You can also consider a compromise. Agree to disagree about the diagnosis for the time being, while following your doctor’s treatment plan.
 It may take some time to get an accurate diagnosis. Some people wait only to find that their initial diagnosis seemed like a better fit. Others may never feel totally comfortable with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or anything that medical personnel attach to their symptoms. Still, be patient and remind yourself that recovery is the most important thing.Tell yourself that a diagnosis is only as good as the treatment it leads to. A diagnosis of schizophrenia might not feel completely right, but it can still lead to effective treatment.
Ask if your definition or the doctor’s definition of the problem works. Will it allow you to control your symptoms?, You may feel a lot of different or conflicting emotions when getting a diagnosis of schizophrenia. This is natural and can include feelings of guilt, like “How did this happen? Is it my fault or because of something I did?” Rest assured that mental illness is NOT your fault.It’s quite normal to wonder if something you did led to your mental illness. Close family members may also wonder about their role. Schizophrenia is no one’s fault, though. It happens like any illness.
Remind yourself that no one is immune from mental illness and that these diseases are the result of many different factors. They’re also not a sign of a character flaw or weakness on your part.
 Apart from guilt, you may feel a range of emotions. These can be troubling even if you’ve suspected for some time that you had schizophrenia. To accept the diagnosis, you’ll have to make time to process and move past these emotions.Many people feel relief with a diagnosis – a validation that something is in fact wrong. Others also feel hope at the prospect of getting treatment.
People with guilt may also experience feelings of denial, anger, shame, or shock, e.g. “This can’t be happening to me. Why me?”
You may also feel powerlessness or grief that your life will have to change, e.g. “I don’t know how I’ll ever get through this. I just don’t know what to do.”
Know that it’s perfectly normal to have these feelings. You do not have to come to terms with your illness right away – it’s OK to be unsure how mental illness will fit into your life. Just be assured that you aren’t alone.
 Above all, recognize that a diagnosis of schizophrenia will not end your life. People with schizophrenia can and do recover to live happy, meaningful, productive lives. Hold onto hope and work with your family, friends, and medical team to get better.It might help to know the names of some people who have been diagnosed with schizophrenia but still lived worthwhile lives. These include the mathematician John Nash, jazz trumpet player Tom Harrell, and pianist John Ogden.
Think of recovery as a journey. There may be bumps in the road, but with the help of your medical team and friends and family, you can control your symptoms, keep your independence, and achieve a good quality of life.

