 Use a square cut out of thin cardboard to trace your pattern onto your fabric and batting first. This will ensure that all of the squares are the same size. Cut the squares out using a sharp part of fabric scissors.


The linen fabric will be on the inside of your box. Consider a solid color for this.
The cotton fabric will be on the outside. Consider a coordinating pattern for this.
Use thin batting. If you can't find any, iron fusible interfacing to the wrong side of your cotton fabric.;
, Set the batting down first. Place the linen fabric on top, right side up. Set the cotton fabric down last, wrong side up. It may look weird now, but it will look fine once you turn everything inside out., Sew around all four edges using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Leave a 1 ½ to 2-inch (3.81 to 5.08-centimeter) gap along one of the edges so that you can turn the square inside out.Pin the fabric and batting together with sewing pins first, if necessary. Be sure to remove the pins when you are done.
 This ensures that your box will have nice, sharp corners. Start by cutting straight across the corners, close to the stitching. Then, cut the seams to either side of the corner at angles to make it narrower. This will help further reduce bulk.
 Keep the linen and batting together as you turn the fabric. This way, you will have the linen fabric on one side and the cotton on the other. The batting will be sandwiched in between.


Use something long and slender, like a knitting needle, to push the corners out.
 Use the cotton setting on the cotton side. Flip the fabric over, and iron it again. This time, use the linen setting, if your iron has one. Ironing the square will get rid of any wrinkles and make the next step easier.


Be sure to tuck in the seams from the gap nicely. Use sewing pins to keep the gap closed, if necessary.
 Use a ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) seam allowance. Be sure to go over the gap that you left earlier.Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing a few times so that the stitching doesn't come undone.


Use a thread color that matches your cotton, and a bobbin color that matches your linen.
Consider using a contrasting thread and bobbin color. This will make the top stitching part of the design!

, The square will make the base of your box. The larger your square is, the shorter your box will be. The smaller your square is, the taller you box will be.


For a perfect cube, measure your fabric, and divide it by three. Draw a square in the center according to those measurements.
 The stitching will help the box "fold" properly. Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing!


Remove the ink or chalk by gently wiping it with a damp cloth.
 Take the two bottom left edges and fold them together so that they touch. Use an embroidery needle and some embroidery thread to stitch the edges together, ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) from the corner. Repeat this step for the remaining three corners.You can also glue the corners together with a drop of hot glue or fabric glue. If you use fabric glue, secure the corners with clothespins until the glue dries.
You can match the embroidery thread to your fabric, or use a contrasting color for a hint of design.

