


It will also help you understand how to interact with them in a way that works for both of you (or to your advantage).
There are several different theories of personality, many of which have years of research supporting them.Listen to what people are telling you and watch their actions and body language to evaluate what type of personality they have.For instance, watch the person you don't understand's body language when you're talking. If his body language suddenly stiffens when you touch on the topic of family, then you can pretty safely assume that is a sensitive topic. Gathering information like this over time can help build a clear outline of that person's personality.
While personality types can serve as a guideline for understanding people, keep in mind that experiences, situations, and even the person's current mood can all influence how he acts.;
, This method looks at people's Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism.By observing whether or not a person has these traits, you may have a sense for how willing someone might be to try something new, work with a group or team, or even start a conflict.


Determine how open to new experiences and ideas a person is by watching how she responds to change or novel suggestions. Does she welcome the new plan or resist it?
Observe her habits to see how conscientious, or aware of herself, her goals, and environment she is. Is she detail-oriented and well-organized?
Pay attention to how she interacts with others to determine how extroverted she is. Does she seem to prefer to work alone? Does she move around talking to everyone in the room?
Ask open-ended questions to see how agreeable she is like, “What do you think about the new project?”; “How do you feel about our sales goal?”; “What’s your opinion on the lunch menu?”
Notice neuroticism (how moody, negative, or anxious she is) by listening to and observing her. Does she complain or rant a lot? Is she emotional, unpredictable, and irritable?, This personality system organizes people as either Playful, Peaceful, Powerful, or Precise.A lot like the Big Five, using the Four Ps can help you understand how to approach, influence, and react to people.


Like openness and extroversion from the Big Five, you can see how playful a person is by observing him. Playful people are less organized, more talkative, and creative.
Notice how a person handles conflict and problem-solving to determine how agreeable he is. Does he frequently mediate conflicts? Is he diplomatic, calm, and even-tempered?
Determine if the person has a powerful personality and is assertive, goal-oriented, and focused on work. Does his body language suggest confidence, determination, and purpose?
Look at his attire and surroundings to assess how precise he is. Similar to neuroticism in OCEAN, precise people may need a strict order and routine, with everything in its place.
 Once you recognize the person’s personality type, you may have a better idea of what to say, when to say it, and how to say it.You may better understand how to engage the person and respond to her in ways that meet her emotional needs and your goals.


Playful, extroverted, open people need fun and stimulation. They enjoy talking with and spending time with others. Give them attention and do things to keep their attention.
Get straight to the point without any small talk with powerful, precise or neurotic people. Be prepared to stand your ground with them or get run over.
For the disagreeable personality, understand that they may create conflict or reasons why something won’t work. Anticipate their objections by thinking about what you will say in advance.
Conscientious people need to know how what you are suggesting aligns with their values and goals. Show them the big picture of what you are suggesting.

