;
, Make sure to consider and cover the following:



Social Dynamic: Are there different races, clans or tribes within the region? How do the people treat each other and outsiders on an individual basis? Any out of the norm national or domestic traditions or practices? On a larger scale, what is the overall societal feel of the region? Perhaps it's coming apart at the seams from civil war, with roving death squads or maybe there's a tentative peace. On the other extreme it could be highly patriotic or religious, full of tight-knit, radical nationalists or zealots...







Fashion and Language: Decide how the people of the area dress, how they adorn themselves (popular jewelry, hairstyles, tattoos?), their language(s) and how they speak.







Calendar: What are some holidays, festivals or other popular observances?







Religion: What is the dominant religion, if any, and how powerful is the priesthood?







Art: Cover some artistic output and distinctions: music, high art and folk art, literature, folklore, theater, architecture...






Come up with one or two other societal and social aspects, like caste systems or major cultural taboos.
 Legal punishments and consequences. Are there any specific laws governing magic? Are servants and landholders free/serfs/indentured/slaves? What is the judicial system like, if there is one (a trial or hearings, representation, guilty-until-proven-innocent/vice versa, thrown in the dungeon and wait for the Holy Fruit Bats of Kayobish to decide...)? What other fundamental rights do people have under the law, again, if any (property rights, parental responsibilities, due process)? What are the rulers like? Are there different duchies, protectorates or provinces with different laws? Are the rulers themselves of the regular variety (officials, nobles, bureaucrats) or unusual (mages, undead lords, priests)?

,,, Are they a conquering empire or do they trade and interact peaceably? Are there old feuds or alliances? Could they care less about each other?

, What do they import? What do they export? Are there taxes of any kind (usually yes if it's a kingdom)? What are the local resources (from the land and the populace)? How much influence do the merchants and traders have? Describe the country's specific currency system if they have one, or do they barter or trade gems or something else? Are there any disproportionate gaps in economic classes that could potentially cause trouble?

, How advanced or crude are their tactics, weapons and war machines? How about standing forces versus reserves? Drafting? How do they all coordinate and react in times of war and conflict? Does the army hire mercenaries? How many? What kind? What arcane-aided tactics do they employ (undead or supernatural troops, magical weapons among the forces, war wizards or, for the overly dramatic, flame throwers)?

, Describe some outstanding flora and fauna, unusual or magical things included. What kinds of "uncivilized" humanoids live in the wilderness? Describe the major weather patterns of the region. How does the local geography and weather effect the populace, if at all (if it's a mercantile society are they coastal and sea-faring merchants or maybe land-bound nomad traders)? Create one or more encounter tables for the wilderness.
 Are there stone arches or canyons? Lush river valleys? A vast field of geysers? Forests, cave networks? A mile-high cliff or waterfall? A magical desert in the middle of a jungle? Limestone cliffs that fall into the ocean when there's an earthquake, causing immense tsunamis?

, Cities and dungeons often need detailed descriptions all on their own. Do it now if you're inspired or get a general feel for them, then, work out the details after you've finished your country. Create encounter tables for cities and dungeons.
 Also use this section to describe the main types of transportation found within the region as well as any prominent nearby currents or maritime trade routes for sea-faring cultures.
 Try to deviate from the standard RPG historical interactions (that is, 'barbarians fought the mages' or 'dragons attacked'). Come up with a few twists to make it interesting. For example, perhaps the dwarves and the gnolls are loyal allies after they had to band together thousands of years ago to fight an even greater evil. Maybe the gnolls even let the dwarves ride them into battle now. Figure out why.
, What is happening currently in the region (specifically things that could involve the PCs)? Are there coups or power-plays in the making? Is a colossal monster, plague or natural disaster about to strike? Maybe all is well and quiet for a change or maybe happenings here could affect the entire continent or world.
 Note here if there are any popular mercenary or adventuring companies in the area and how adventurers are treated.
 Use them to maybe introduce your players into the area.

