 When you feel the urge to play with your hair, redirect yourself. Select activities that require you to be focused, but not to the point that you lose awareness of your hair playing behavior. Activities such as reading, playing a video game, watching a movie, and writing may be activities that increase the likelihood of your hair playing. Playing a game outdoors or taking your dog for a walk can be great distractions.


Some activities, thoughts and feelings may increase your urge to play with your hair. If you catch yourself immediately say, “Stop," then find a substitute activity. For example, if you are talking to someone and you start to play with your hair, grab a pen to hold, or even sit on your hands.Observe the number of times you need to distract yourself from playing with your hair. This will help you understand the severity of your habit.You will likely notice a high frequency in the beginning stages; but that leaves a lot of room for celebrating your improvements.
 There are a lot of possibilities such as baking a cake, playing a sport, making something from metal or wood, frosting some cookies, shopping for clothing, building a rock garden, painting with both hands (give it a try), doing handstands, grooming your pet, or playing a musical instrument, etc.


Not only will you stop playing with your hair, but you could have a lot of fun too.
Find new and exciting things to do that you’ve never done before. Be adventurous. You may discover a new and rewarding interest.
Worry stones may help you dispel the nervous energy that is causing you to play with your hair. These are smooth stones that are made for you to play with and rub. They have also been successfully used to help smokers deal with fidgeting as they quit smoking.You can find them online or in some health or new age stores.
 Playing with your hair can be a sign that you feel anxious or bored, which means it's important to deal with the cause rather than take it out on your hair. If you're feeling anxious, there are many calming techniques you could try. Talking to someone who will lend an ear, will help you process your feelings. If you are bored, then find a way to entertain yourself.


Try meditation or yoga, which will help you focus on your breath and will teach you to be calm.Find other soothing behaviors that will help you manage your anxiety. Simply talking to yourself (out loud or silently) in a positive way will help. Tell yourself, “I’m safe and I am taking care of myself and everything is going to be okay, and I don’t need to play with my hair.”A sure cure for boredom is to get busy doing the things you need to do. Make a list and check off each item as you complete it.

