 Place the rope over the edge of your open left hand. The short tail should be over the front of your hand. The rest of the rope should be behind your hand.


The long portion of your rope is the working end. This is the portion you will use to create the knot.;
, Grab the long tail, or working end, and wrap it around your fingers three times. Start the first wrap on the area of your fingers closest to your palm. Each successive wrap should be closer to the tips of your fingers.
Try wrapping the paracord around your first three fingers, or even just your first two to make it easier., Be sure that you maintain the orientation. Keep this same hand positioned so the loops hold.


With your free hand remove the rope from the hand you wrapped it around, keeping the first set of turns in place.
Keep the first three turns intact by pinching the rope together with your forefinger and thumb.
You can also keep the rope on your hand if you wish and thread the next horizontal loops through your finger. , Grab the long tail and wrap it perpendicularly around the three vertical loops just created. Do this three times. Each subsequent horizontal strand should be above the last. When done, you should have three turns of rope looped vertically and cinched loosely by three horizontal wraps.


Do not pull tight, these wraps need to be loose.
Finish the horizontal turns by creating a loop, with the remainder of the rope, going through the three vertical strands. Here, you’re taking your final turn and passing through the middle, not the outside., Again grab the long tail and wrap it around the three newest horizontal strands. Pass the rope through the opening. Go over the horizontal wraps but between your first three vertical loops. Continue with this motion three times.


Weave the rope through the top and out the bottom.
You should notice the monkey fist shape coming into place.
 To add an extra weight to your monkey knot, add a small marble to its center. This is an optional step, but it is recommended for a sturdy monkey knot.


Any small spherical object will work. But a marble is easiest to work with.
 Spend a few minutes gently tugging each loop to tighten your knot. Start with the first loop you cast and end with the last.


You have to cinch the slack by tightening each loop in the order in which you created it. Start with the vertical loops, then the horizontal loops, then the last set of vertical loops.

