 Most hairstylists are trained in how to properly bleach hair, but some may be more skilled at it than others. Schedule a brief consultation with your hairstylist so you can strategize how you might want to bleach your hair. Ask your hairstylist how often they’ve bleached hair, how they’ve handled different types of hair, etc. Also ask for their recommendations on how to handle your hair and how they think your hair will react to the bleaching process.


You should also ask if your hair is healthy enough to bleach. Some colorists won’t bleach hair that has already been color-treated, because it is such a damaging process., Bleached hair does still have variety in terms of hues. You can choose white hair, white blond, platinum blond, or a few other hues. Bring in a picture of someone with the same shade of hair that you’d like. This will help your hairstylist figure out the best approach to bleaching your hair.
 The bleaching process is a slow process and does not happen instantly. The hairstylist needs time to wash your hair, mix up the bleach solution, and apply it to your hair. It needs to sit in your hair for a while (30 minutes or so). Then your hairstylist needs to wash it out and dry your hair.


You may need to schedule a second session with your hairstylist if you have very dark hair and you want to go white blond.Your hairstylist is also skilled at bleaching highlights into your hair. It is also much easier for another person to do this process, rather than trying to do it yourself. They can see your head from above and can apply bleaching solution evenly over your head.
 Your hair will be brittle and dry after this treatment and will need deep conditioning to restore some moisture and elasticity. Use a deep conditioner (store-bought or natural) at least once a week, leaving it in your hair for 20-30 minutes and then rinsing it out. Results can be improved by heating up your hair with a hair dryer while the deep conditioner is in place. If you have made your own deep conditioner with food items, check to make sure it hasn’t gone bad. If it’s been mixed up for longer than a few days (or a week if kept in the refrigerator), throw it away and mix up a new batch.

