 To ensure that the oven is hot enough when it’s time to bake the brownies, set it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). Next, line a 9-inch by 9-inch (23-cm by 23-cm) baking dish with parchment paper or foil, and then grease it with butter or nonstick cooking spray.Make sure you know how your oven indicates that it’s fully preheated. In most cases, a light will flash or a beep will sound to alert you.;
, Place 1 ¼ sticks (142 g) of unsalted butter, cut into pieces, in a small sauce pan, and heat over medium low heat until the butter melts. That should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes, but don’t try to rush the process by turning up the heat. Remove the pan from the heat once the butter has melted.It helps to stir the butter with a wooden spoon while it’s on the stovetop to make it melt more quickly.
If you’re in a hurry, you can melt the butter in the microwave. Cut the butter into pieces, place it in a microwave-safe dish, and microwave on high for 30 to 45 seconds or until it’s fully melted.
 Once the butter is completely melted, mix in 1 cup (200 g) of granulated sugar and ¾ cup (88.5 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder into the butter. Use a whisk to completely combine the ingredients., After you’ve blended the butter and cocoa mixture completely, mix in ½ teaspoon (3 g) salt, 2 teaspoons (10 ml) vanilla extract, and 2 large eggs. Whisk the mixture continuously to ensure that the eggs are fully combined.It’s a good idea to crack the eggs into a separate dish before adding them to the other ingredients in case one or both are rotten. You don’t want to ruin the entire batter by adding a bad egg.
 When the eggs are completely incorporated into the batter, add in ½ cup (62.5 g) all-purpose flour. Stir the batter until the flour is just combined, and set the batter aside until you’re ready to assemble the full brownies.Avoid overmixing the flour into the batter. It can lead to a tough, chewy brownie layer in your finished bars.
 In a large bowl, use an electric mixer to combine 2 sticks (227 g) unsalted butter that have been softened to room temperature, ½ cup (100 g) brown sugar, and ½ cup (100 g) granulated sugar at medium speed. Beat the mixture until it becomes light and fluffy, which should take approximately 3 minutes.The best way to bring your butter to room temperature is to cut it into pieces and leave it out on the counter or table for approximately 30 minutes.
If you don’t have an electric mixer, you can mix the cookie batter together by hand. It will just take a little longer.
 Once the butter and sugars are combined, mix in 2 large eggs and 2 ½ teaspoons (12.5 ml) vanilla extract at medium speed. Beat the mixture until the eggs and vanilla are fully incorporated., After you’ve mixed all the wet ingredients together, it’s time to add the dry ingredients to form the batter. Turn the mixer to low, and add in 2 ½ cups (312.5 g) all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (6 g) salt, 1 teaspoon (5 g) baking powder, and 1 teaspoon (7 g) baking soda. Mix until the dry ingredients are incorporated.It may be easier to combine all of the dry ingredients in a separate bowl before adding them to the wet ingredients. Then add the dry ingredients in small batches so you can be sure that they’re completely blended into the batter.
 When the batter is formed, you can mix in the chocolate. With a spatula, fold in 2 cups (350 g) semi-sweet chocolate chips so they’re evenly distributed throughout the cookie batter.While semi-sweet chocolate chips are traditional in chocolate chip cookies, you can add any type of chip that you prefer. Try milk chocolate, bittersweet chocolate, or dark chocolate chips depending on your preference.
 Take your prepared pan, and press the half of the cookie dough into the bottom. Make sure to place the dough in as even a layer as possible.You can save the rest of the cookie dough for another use because you don’t want to make the cookie layer too thick. If stored in an airtight container, it will last in the fridge for up to 2 days and in the freezer for up to 6 months.
 With the chocolate chip cookie dough placed in the bottom of the pan, set a layer of Oreo® cookies on top of it. Lay as many cookies as necessary to cover the dough, but don’t overlap them. Gently press the Oreo® cookies into the chocolate chip cookie dough to keep them in place.It usually takes approximately 16 Oreo® cookies to cover the cookie dough layer.
 With the two cookie layers in place, add all of the brownie batter on top of the pan. Use a spatula to spread the batter over the cookie layers to ensure that it’s even., Place the pan in the preheated oven, and bake for 30 to 35 minutes. To determine if the brownies are done, stick a knife in the center of the pan. If it comes out mostly clean, they’re baked through.If you stick a knife in the center of the brownies and it comes out covered with batter or crumbs, leave the brownies in the oven and check again in 5 minutes.
 While the brownies are particularly delicious when they’re still warm, you should allow them to cool for at least 10 minutes before cutting them. That will make it easier to slice them into 16 even bars with a sharp knife.If you want to serve the brownies warm, you can, but be aware that they’ll be messier when you cut them.
 To ensure that the oven is ready to cook the brownies when they're prepared, set it to 350 °F (177 °C) and allow it to preheat. Next, take a 9-inch by 9-inch baking pan, and spray it with nonstick cooking spray to prevent the brownies from sticking.You can grease the pan with butter instead of cooking spray if you prefer.
To make cleanup easier, you might want to line the pan with parchment paper or foil, and then grease it.
 Take an 18 oz. box (510 g) of brownie mix, and prepare the batter as laid out in the box’s instructions. In most cases, you’ll need to add eggs, water, and oil. Once the batter is prepared, set aside.You can choose any type of brownie mix that you like, but a basic fudge brownie mix is usually the best option.
 Open an 18 oz. package (510 g) of refrigerated chocolate chip cookie dough, and use your fingers to create an even layer of the dough in the bottom of the pan.
 Open a 15.3 oz. package (434 g) of Double Stuff Oreo® cookies, and press them into the cookie dough to create an even layer without any overlapping.Spread the Oreo® cookies across the entire surface of the cookie dough, but don’t worry if there are gaps between the Oreos.
You won't need to use all of the Oreos. It typically takes approximately 16 cookies to cover the chocolate chip cookie dough layer.
 When the cookie layers are in place, spread the brownie mix over the them with a spatula to ensure that it’s even. Place the pan in the oven, and bake for approximately 45 minutes.You’ll know that they’re done when you stick a knife or toothpick in the center of the brownies, and it comes out clean with few crumbs.
 Once the brownies are finished cooking, let them cool in the pan for approximately 15 minutes. Use a sharp knife to cut the brownies into 16 even bars.
