 You need to be able to break the day’s tasks into achievable targets that give you a clear sense of purpose. Keep the bigger picture in mind, i.e. what are you working to achieve? Have this goal as a clear vision, and use it to keep you focused on the work at hand.;
, Decide early on what the most valuable use of your time is. Evaluate how important each task is to you by weighing up their urgency against their value. If there any deadlines looming then be sure to focus on these first. Be sure to give yourself plenty of time to complete each task so you don’t feel pressured or rushed when carrying them out. This means completing work with deadlines well in advance, so you have plenty of time to check over the task and make sure everything’s up to standard.
 Deciding on what’s most important to do should reduce the amount of time you are spending juggling tasks that keep you busy, and streamline your productivity. There’s nothing worse than having a day where you are so busy that nothing gets done properly, if at all. Ranking the tasks and completing them in order of importance should reduce this panicky feeling of being busy all the time, and instead allow you to be as productive as possible within the given time-frame.
 There’s nothing worse than trying to complete work and being distracted by something, especially if it’s someone else that’s distracting you. If your working environment is too loud, then try moving to a calmer more productive space, or if that’s not possible, try putting in earphones. Other people’s interruptions shouldn't be an excuse for you not completing your tasks. Let the people around you know what you need to do, and how you intend to do it, so that they won’t bother you until you’re done.
 Telling someone to stop bothering you is easy when compared to stopping yourself from getting distracted by your own bad habits. This is where your will power really comes in to play. It’s healthy to take a break from your work every few hours, but constantly checking social networks or making yourself a drink every half hour can be destructive to your work flow. Recognise what is useful to you and what’s nonconstructive; if you don’t need the internet for your task at hand then there’s no need for you to use it.

