 Regular physical activity boasts many known benefits like greater immune functioning, improve cognitive functioning, better attention and concentration, reduce stress, boost self-esteem, and enhance mood . Some research has shown that healthy amounts of exercise can, too, be beneficial for those recovering from eating disorders, and even prevent eating disorders.Be sure to talk to your treatment team before starting an exercise regimen. For the non-purging type of bulimia, exercise may be inadvisable if it is used to work off post-binge calories. Work with your doctors to determine if exercise is a good choice for you., Having dysfunctional thoughts about your body and a negative relationship with food are two of the largest contributors to bulimia nervosa. Overcoming these thinking patterns is necessary for recovery.Instead of falling into these negative thinking patterns, try to change your responses and be kind to yourself like you would be with a friend. By changing your responses, you may start to view yourself with more compassion. Common thinking errors affecting those with eating disorders include:Jumping to conclusions: "Today was hard; I will never overcome this eating disorder." Expecting the worse can be destructive to all the positive changes you are making. Instead say something like this "Today was hard, but I got through. I only need to take it one day at a time."
Black and white thinking: "I ate junk food today. I'm a total failure." Thinking in extremes and believing that things are either completely right or wrong can quickly prompt a binge, if you're not careful. Instead, try telling yourself, “I ate junk food today, but that's okay. I can enjoy junk food once in a while and still eat healthfully. I will have a healthy dinner tonight.”
Personalization: "My friends don't want to hang out with me anymore because I'm too health-conscious." Reading into others' behavior and taking it personally is unfair to them. Your friends may just be busy or want to give you space to heal. If you miss them, reach out and say so.
Overgeneralization: "I always need help." Applying a negative pattern to your life is self-defeating. You can probably come up with tons of things you can do with out help. Try that now.
Shoulds, coulds, woulds, musts, have tos: "I have to be the one with the best form in practice today." Such rigid thinking is irrational and limiting. Even if you do not have the best form, it does not discount that your form is still great.
 It's time to rethink your belief that your worth is connected to your body shape, size, or weight. Stop tearing yourself down and build yourself up by connecting your self-worth to other characteristics.


Dig deep and look for other non-body or appearance related things that you like about yourself. List out your very best qualities.For example, you might say because "I am smart" or "I am a fast-runner" or "I am a good friend".
If you have trouble thinking of ideas, enlist your best friends or close family to help. Ask them to give you a few things they like about you that are unrelated to appearance.
 Over the past weeks, months, or years you have been unkind to yourself. Replace this neglect with an abundance of self-love and compassion.Give yourself a hug. Watch your favorite movie or read your favorite book. Swap out negative self-talk with positive statements about yourself. Be nice to your body by getting a massage, a facial, or a manicure. Wear clothes that you feel comfortable in and that fit you - don't hide beneath your clothing. Be gentle and nurturing by treating yourself as you would your best friend.

