 Your doctor will prescribe (or recommend an over-the-counter version of) an anti-worm medication. Some examples include Mebendazole, Pyrantel permeate, and Albendazole.You will be directed to take one dose of one of these medications (follow the specific instructions of your doctor) and then to wait two weeks.


The way this medication works is that it kills off any adult worms. They are all eradicated, except for the eggs which will remain in your system.;
, The purpose of this second dose is to kill any new worms that have formed as a result of the eggs. The two week timing is extremely important, as it catches the worms at just the right phase in their lifecycle so as to kill all of them without needing any further doses after this one.
 It is better to be safe rather than sorry, and to prevent the hassle of someone in the household showing signs of an infection just after the initial person was cured.
 This is especially true if you are treating pinworm infections in children.Although pinworms can technically be treated with six weeks of very strict hygiene measures (because the lifecycle of the worm is six weeks), it is very challenging to adhere by these strict standards at home, particularly if children are involved.


The benefit of medication is that it is extremely effective at clearing the infection in two weeks.
Hygienic measures can then be used as a means to prevent re-occurence or subsequent infections down the road.
 Therefore, excellent hygienic measures at home are key to preventing the spread of threadworms to everyone who lives in the household, as well as to supporting a cure for the person who was initially infected.
 Clean with water and regular household cleaners (no special products are needed). Use gloves when you clean to keep your hands clean.
 This will help to get rid of the threadworms faster by preventing spread of the infection.
 It is also important to wash your pyjamas regularly (or whatever you sleep in), as well as the clothes you have been wearing, for the same reason of avoiding re-contaminating yourself with eggs. This will help to clear up the infection faster by removing eggs that will simply continue the lifecycle of the threadworm, making it more challenging for you to regain your health and wellbeing.
 People, especially children, may be tempted to scratch around the anus to alleviate the itch. However, this is one of the worst things you can do, because your hands then immediately become contaminated with eggs, which will spread to everything you touch after that. Therefore, to reduce the spread and transmission of threadworm eggs, avoid scratching around the anus.


Also avoid applying ointments or creams to the anal area in an effort to soothe it. This may cause the female worms to lay eggs higher up in your rectum or colon, which makes the problem worse not better.
 Common signs and symptoms include:


Itching and irritation around the anus
Potential signs of irritation or infection on the skin around the anus (particularly in children, who are more likely to scratch there which can lead to an infection from broken skin)
Difficulty sleeping (due to anal itchiness)
Irritability (from itchiness and poor sleep)
Sometimes vaginal itchiness or irritation in girls (as on rare occasions the female worm can enter the vagina rather than the anus).
"If you suspect you or someone in your household may have threadworms, contact your doctor as soon as possible. As previously mentioned, rapid diagnosis and treatment is key to getting rid of the infection as soon as possible. For a tape test, the doctor will ask you to take a piece of cellophane tape and press the stick-side against the skin surrounding the anus. Remove the tape and put it in a plastic bag and give it to your doctor, who will check under the microscope for the presence of eggs. Eggs can only be visualized under the microscope. A test positive for eggs is diagnostic for a threadworm infection.


Do the tape test first thing in the morning, before showering or using the toilet.
Make sure you wear gloves and wash your hands thoroughly to avoid spreading the eggs. Don't let the tape touch anything, either!

, This is because your risk is high enough, so it is better to be safe than sorry and the benefits of treatment far outweigh the risks.

