 It's located at https://adblockplus.org/.;
, It's a green button on the right side of the page. Doing so will take you to your browser's respective extension installation page.


This button will also have your browser's name in it.
 This process will vary depending on which browser you're using:



Chrome - Click Add extension when prompted. Chrome will refresh the page when the Adblock Plus extension finishes installing.

Firefox - Click the green Add to Firefox button, then click Install.

Safari - Click the download arrow in the top-right side of Safari, then double-click the setup file and click Install when prompted.

Microsoft Edge - Click GET in the Microsoft Store window, then click Turn it on in your Edge window once the extension has downloaded.
 It resembles a stop sign with "ABP" written on it. You should see it in the top-right area of most browser windows, though it will appear on the left side of the URL bar on Safari.


For Microsoft Edge, first click ... in the top-right corner of the window.
 Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu.
 It's near the middle of the drop-down menu. This option will take you to the Adblock Plus options page.


For Microsoft Edge, you'll click Manage in the drop-down menu, and then click Options on the right side of the page.
 It's in the top-left side of the Adblock Plus page.
 This button is toward the bottom of the "Filter Lists" tab on the left side of the page.
 It's a white box to the left of the Add filter subscription button. Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu.
 It's at the bottom of the drop-down menu.
 This address is https://easylist-downloads.adblockplus.org/fb_annoyances_sidebar.txt. To do so, two-finger click or right-click this address and click Copy link address.
 It's the text field near the bottom of the page. To paste, simply two-finger click or right-click the field and click Paste.
 This button is to the right of the drop-down menu bar. Doing so will add your selected address, which prevents sidebar ads from appearing on Facebook, to Adblock Plus' list of filters.
 You have one more filter to add in order to eradicate Facebook ads.
 Again, it's at the bottom of the drop-down menu.
 It's https://easylist-downloads.adblockplus.org/fb_annoyances_newsfeed.txt.
 It's the text field near the bottom of the page.
 Doing so will add the News Feed ad blocker extension to Adblock Plus, which will prevent you from seeing News Feed ads (or "Suggested" posts).
 Doing so will help Adblock Plus implement your changes the next time you open Facebook.
 It's at https://www.facebook.com/. If you're logged into Facebook already, this will open the News Feed.


If you aren't logged into Facebook, you'll have to enter your email address (or phone number) and password in the top-right area of the page and then click Log In to continue.
 If you scroll down and don't see ads on the right side of your Facebook window or in your News Feed, your Adblock Plus extension is working as it should.


Sometimes ad blockers fail to block certain ads when a page loads too quickly. If you see ads on Facebook, try refreshing the page a couple of times.

