 Professional desktop publishing or design software may be helpful in creating elaborate invitation designs. However, any word processing program can be used to create basic wedding invitations.
 A font is the typeface (or sometimes called lettering) used for your invitation. Most wedding invitations feature 2 fonts--1 script font and 1 block font. Do not use more than 2 different fonts or the invitation may be difficult to read.


Experiment with free fonts available for download online. Try different font combinations and font treatments, such as italics, lowercase and uppercase typeface.
Try different font sizes. The font size is how big the text appears on the invitation. Because fonts vary in typeface size, it is difficult to provide a suggested font size for invitations. As a rule of thumb, avoid font sizes smaller than 9 point. Consider using larger font sizes to highlight different parts of the invitation text, such as the names of the bride and groom.
 The text alignment is how the text is aligned or arranged on the invitation. Traditional wedding invitations feature center alignment. However, consider right or left justified alignments depending on your invitation design.
 Line spacing is the amount of space between the lines of text. If the line spacing is too far apart or too close together, the invitation will be difficult to read. Adjust the line spacing as necessary to meet your design needs.
 If you are not an artist or graphic designer, the easiest way to add graphic elements to a wedding invitation is through high-end clip art.


Look for clip art with resolutions of at least 300 dpi (dots per inch). Low resolutions graphics do not reproduce well and often appear blurry. For crisp, high quality graphics, use only high resolution images.
Incorporate graphic elements that carry out the theme of your wedding. If your wedding does not have a specific theme, consider images like florals, branches and Victorian flourishes to create invitations with timeless appeal.
 Evaluate the color scheme of your invitation as a whole, and then add carefully placed pops of color. Consider colored graphic elements like clip art or choose text in a color that complements the invitation design.


Consider adding color to the finished invitations with embellishments like ribbon or paper strips. Wrap a single ribbon around the invitation suite (with the invitation in front and the enclosures behind it) and secure with a piece of tape along the back of the invitation. You can also use patterned strips of paper or fabric instead of the ribbon to add color.

