 If you have a depressed mood, such as feelings of sadness, and you have lost interest or pleasure in things that were previously pleasurable, you may be depressed. These symptoms should be present most of the day and nearly every day for at least 2 weeks.These symptoms may last for 2 weeks or more and they may stop and come back again. These are called “recurrent episodes.” In this case, the symptoms are more than just a “bad day.” They are severe changes in mood that affect the way someone functions socially or at their job. You may have stopped going to school or showing up for work. Similarly, these feelings might make you lose interest in some of your favorite hobbies or activities, like playing sports, doing crafts, or visiting with friends.
If you have undergone a major life event, such as a death in the family, you can exhibit many depressive symptoms and not be clinically depressed. Consult with your doctor or therapist to determine if you are experiencing more depressive symptoms than is typical in the normal grieving process.;
, In addition to feeling sad and losing interest in things, a depressed person will also show other symptoms most of the day, nearly every day, for at least 2 weeks. Looking at your list of feelings for the past 2 weeks, check if you have 3 or more additional typical symptoms.These symptoms can include:


Significant loss of appetite or loss of weight
Disrupted sleep (either unable to sleep or sleeping too much)
Fatigue or loss of energy
Increased agitation or decreased movement noticeable by others
Feelings of worthlessness or excessive guilt
Having difficulty concentrating or feeling indecisive
Recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, attempting suicide or having a plan for suicide

, If you or someone you know is having thoughts of suicide, please seek help immediately by calling 911 or going to the nearest emergency room. You should not try to get rid of these thoughts without the help of a professional.
 The blues are a valid set of feelings that can be brought on by stress, major life changes (both positive and negative), and even weather. The key to distinguishing between depression and the blues is knowing the severity and frequency of the feelings or symptoms. If you have had symptoms of depression nearly every day for 2 weeks or longer, you may be depressed.A major life event, such as the death of a loved one, can bring on symptoms similar to depression. A noticeable difference may be, during the mourning process, that positive memories of the deceased are possible and one may still gain pleasure from certain activities. Depressed people have a harder time doing normal activities with a sense of pleasure., Make a list of every activity, from going to work or attending classes to eating and taking a shower. Observe if there are patterns in your activities. Also notice if there is a decrease in frequency of certain types of activities that you normally do willingly or happily.


Use this list to observe if you are engaging in risky behaviors. People who are depressed may do risky things because they no longer care about the outcome of their lives, and may need help from others to take care of themselves.If you are depressed, this may be a difficult task to complete. Take your time with it, or ask a trusted family member or friend to help you write a list.
 Talk with a trusted family member or friend to see if they’ve noticed differences in the way you act. While a person’s own experience is most important, the opinions of other people who know the person well are also important.


Others may notice that you are prone to unprovoked bouts of crying or the inability to complete simple tasks like taking a shower., Some illnesses cause depressive symptoms, especially those related to the thyroid or other parts of the body’s hormone system.Talk with your doctor to find out if a physical medical condition might be contributing to depression.


Certain medical conditions, especially terminal or chronic conditions, may carry a risk for depressive symptoms. In these cases, an objective medical professional is essentially for helping to understand the source of the symptoms and how to alleviate them.