 Make sure that you have enough time for outlining your paper, looking through the book, writing your paper, seeking feedback from others, and revising your paper.


Make a schedule for the time frame in which you will complete your paper.
Set internal deadlines where you are accountable to another person. Saying “I will send a draft of my paper to my peer revision partner by Thursday” is some effective than saying “I will finish a draft by Thursday.”
Reward yourself for completing tasks on time with breaks and smaller rewards. For example, if you complete your outline on schedule, you could go get ice cream with friends.
 All effective papers about literature include a thesis statement, or a specific argument that you wish to prove in your paper. Your thesis statement should be opinionated, original, and relevant to the literary work. It should not be a factual statement but instead a debatable opinion. An example of an ineffective thesis statement: “In Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, Harry’s wand is unique to him.” This statement is ineffective because it is simply a fact--although one could write many interesting things about the fact that Harry’s wand is unique to him, no one can dispute that this is true because it is a fact.
An example of an effective thesis statement: “In Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, Harry’s wand represents his coming of age through its power to give him more agency through magic, its link to both his past and his future, and its unique physical form.” This thesis statement works well because it is debatable; someone might instead argue that the wand represents Harry’s duty to the wizarding world or that the wand more represents his identity as a student. The thesis statement has both facts and opinions, so it seems opinionated but not outlandish.
 In order to support your thesis statement, you should find quotes from the book that illustrate your point. If your thesis statement argues that rain presents despair, for example, you might want to look for a passage in the book where a character is crying in the rain. Then, once you have an example, you should analyze this example in your own words.


Quotes should be integrated well into the text of the essay itself, and analysis should analyze the quote further. For example, you might write, 'When Romeo says, “But soft, what light through yonder window breaks? / It is the east, and Juliet is the sun' (Shakespeare 2.1.44-45), he draws a comparison between the sun rising in the east and the beginning of the relationship between the two lovers."

, Ask your friends, family, and teacher to read your paper. Incorporate their feedback into your edits. Read over your paper for grammar, spelling, and punctuation mistakes. Don’t be afraid to make a lot of changes between your first and second drafts--your paper will improve with every thoughtful revision.


When you’re done with your paper, read it aloud to yourself to check for awkward wording and small mistakes.
You can also try reading it, starting from the last sentence and working towards the first sentence.
When you turn in your paper and receive feedback, keep your feedback for the next time you write a paper.

