 To get ideas for your main female character, you may draw on the women in your life. Think about female role models like your mother, your aunts, your siblings, a teacher, employer or your female friends. You may be inspired by the strength of the women in your life and use one of them or a combination of them for your character.For example, if you are trying to find a model for a main female character who is a teenager, you may talk to your mother about her life as a teenager or draw on your sibling’s experience of being a teenager.;
, If you are a woman, you may think about your own personal experiences. Think about how it feels to walk around in the world in your body and how your gender shapes your perspective. If you are not female, you may think about the women you have interacted with in the past or in the present. Consider how you can depict the women you know accurately on the page.If you are not a female, you may find it challenging to draw on the experiences of a gender that is not your own. Focus on how you view the women around you from your perspective and get inspiration for your character that way.
 Once you have an idea in mind for your main female character, you should write out a backstory for your character. Give the female character unique personality traits and quirks. She should have a list of hobbies, interests, and beliefs that make her a well rounded character. Create a backstory for her that is nuanced and engaging.

For example, perhaps your female character is interested in politics, though she is still in high school. She may aspire to be the first female president and focus on social justice issues in her community.
Or, perhaps you have a female character who is struggling with her identity and trying to fit into a friend group in college. You might also give her an interesting hobby like archery that involves mental and physical skill.
 You can also look at published writing that does a good job of representing women on the page. You may read writing by primarily female writers to get some inspiration or read great writing in general. For example, you may read:Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen

The Bluest Eye by Toni Morrison

The Color Purple by Alice Walker

The House on Mango Street by Sandra Cisneros

Mrs. Dalloway by Virginia Woolf

The Outlander Series by Diana Gabaldon

, One of the key ways to give your main female character depth is to give her agency. This means the character should be a key participant in the plot of the novel. She should exist for herself, not as a mirror or a victim to other characters, especially male characters. Give the character a full sense of self and allow her to exist in an active way in the story.For example, you may have a main female character who is in a relationship with a male character. Though she can have strong feelings for another character, her whole character should not be based on pleasing the main character or responding to the needs of any other character, whatever their gender. She may devote more time or equal time to her own interests as she does to her relationship with her partner or her children, if she has any.
 To make your main female character relatable, she should have flaws. Avoid the perfect image of a woman when writing, as this often objectifies the female character and makes them appear flat. Instead, be willing to give your character flaws or issues that she is grappling with in your narrative. This will often deepen the female character and make her feel more genuine.For example, maybe you have a female character who is physically strong. But her flaw is that she experiences panic attacks due to stress and has serious stage fright. This is a flaw that deepens her character and makes her more nuanced.
 When you are writing the female character, you should be aware of the cliches that exist about female characters in writing and work hard to avoid them. Describing a female character with physical traits like “pretty”, “petite”, “bosomy” or “hot”, can be cliche and often flattens your character so they are one dimensional on the page. Rather than resort to cliches, try to come up with nuanced ways of describing your female character.For example, you may describe your main female character by focusing on her actions rather than her physical attributes. You may talk about her in terms of her critical thinking, her ability to speak her mind, and her sense of humor, rather than focus on her body shape or appearance.
 Another way you can deepen your main female character is to have more than one female character in your story so they can interact and talk. Having more than one female character will also show readers that you are not tokenizing one female and are willing to include several female voices in your writing.One test that is used in the writing community to determine if the narrative is representing women properly is called the Bechdel Test. The Bechdel Test states that the narrative is successful if it features two female characters who are named, who talk to each other, and talk about something other than a man.
 Your main female character should be just as detailed and nuanced as the other main characters in your story. Regardless of gender, you should strive to create characters that will linger in the reader's mind and feel unique. Do not limit your main female character just because she is female. She should have all the qualities of a strong character and stand on her own in your story.

Look at your other main characters and consider if they are more developed than your main female character. Do they have more aspirations, goals, and wants than your main female character? Do they feel more unique and nuanced than your main female character? If the answer to these questions are "yes," you may need to go back and rethink your main female character.
 Once you have finished crafting the main female character, you should allow women around you to critique the character. Solicit feedback from female family and friends. Be willing to accept constructive criticism and listen to what others have to say.Another option is to show the character to a writing group that has female members. Getting professional advice from female writers can help you avoid cliches and deepen your character.
 Write down all the feedback you get from others on the character and then apply the feedback to the character. Revise the character with attention to her agency, her personality traits, and how she is described in your writing.

You may try reading the main female character’s dialogue out loud to listen to how your character sounds. Your main female character should sound just as nuanced and detailed as any other character in your story.
 When you have a strong draft of your main female character, you should think about how the character fits into the rest of your story. You may place the main character within the plot outline for your novel and consider if she is an active part of the plot. You may have her interact with other characters in your novel and think about whether she is as nuanced and detailed as the other characters.Think about how your female character embodies some of the themes in your story. For example, if you set out to write a story about empowerment, you may think about whether your main female character feels empowered and strong in your story.

