 Your ferret will not do well if the temperature is 80 degrees Fahrenheit or higher. If it is warm outside, try to stay in the shade. Take a water bottle with some ice in it so your ferret has something cool to drink. You can also fill a spray bottle with cold water and spray your ferret down.Consider the temperature of the walking surface. Asphalt and cement heat up on warm days and bother his feet.
Neither extreme cold nor extreme heat are good for your ferret. Keep him inside instead.
If the temperature is below 40 degrees Fahrenheit, your ferret may get cold. If he begins to shiver, place him in your jacket and go home.
 Spray your ferret with a ferret safe flea and tick spray. These bugs carry diseases and/or parasites that are harmful for your ferret. Spray his entire body, and use a cotton swab to apply the spray to his ears and under his chin. Avoid spraying his eyes and nose.Check your ferret for bugs before you bring him back inside.
If you notice any bites, treat them with antibiotic cream or ointment.
If your ferret has any swelling or redness from the bites, call your veterinarian.
 At the end of each walk, check his feet for any pebbles, stones, splinters, or broken toe nails.Wash his feet after the walk if you need to. You can also carry alcohol wipes with you on your walk so you can immediately clean his feet if necessary.Be extra careful if your ferret walks on gravel. There may be sharp stones or glass mixed in with the gravel.
 Distemper is a fatal, airborne virus. Your ferret is much more likely to get distemper by going outside. He can pick it up from grass, weeds, trees, other animals, shrubs,and even you.After the initial shot, your ferret will need to get an annual booster.
You may also want to give your ferret the rabies vaccine. Talk to your veterinarian about the proper vaccines for your pet.
 Fertilizers and weed killers are poisonous to your ferret. Do not take your ferret in any lawns that have signs from commercial lawn care companies. You will not always know if a lawn has been treated with fertilizers, but try to avoid them as much as you can.Fertilizers are usually safe after drying for 24 hours.
Also avoid any leaking car fluids such as oil, antifreeze, and windshield washer fluid.

