 Greek people tend to be open and casual in their greetings. As such, there are few strict differences between formal and informal greetings. Be open and casual with your body language. Try to make eye contact and smile at strangers and friends alike.


Do not bow or attempt to kiss the cheek. The former is too formal, and the latter may be considered too forward.
Do not attempt to shake hands unless a hand is offered to you. Shaking hands is not a common custom in Greece – certainly not among friends or locals.;
, Pronounce it "YAH-soo". This phrase is best suited for informally saying hello to one person. Smile as you say it – be friendly! Bear in mind that "Yassou" is only a rough English rendition of the Greek pronunciation. The word is sometimes spelled "giasou" or "ya su". You can also shorten the phrase to "ya" in an informal setting.Say "Yassas" (pronounced "YAH-sas")in formal situations, or when you're informally greeting two or more people at the same time. Use this formal version if you're addressing a stranger or an older person.Technically, the somewhat more informal "yassou" is best suited to use with people you know and people much younger than you. However, you will hear both used interchangeably, so you don't need to worry much about getting it "right".
 Pronounce it "HE-reh-teh"; say the e's like you would in the word "egg". You can use "herete" in both formal and informal situations. It is typically used between the hours of 10am and 2pm., As with many cultures, Greeks use certain time-specific greetings in the morning, the afternoon, and the evening. You can use "yassou" or "yassas" during most of these times, but you may find the following phrases more appropriate.


Kalimera (καλημέρα): "good morning". Use this when reaching or leaving a location or event. Pronounce it "kah-lee-MEH-rah".Kalispera (καλησπέρα): "good afternoon" or "good evening". Use this only when coming to a place or meeting someone in the evening or at night. Pronounce it "kah-lee-SPARE-a".
Kalinihta (καληνύχτα): "good night". Use this phrase only as a goodbye greeting in the evening or at night. Pronounce it "kah-lee-NEE-hta".

