 Your mango juice will taste much better if your mango is perfectly ripe. To select a ripe mango, look for one that is fragrant when you pick it up. If you press the skin with your fingers, the mango should indent slightly, but it shouldn't feel soft.Judge a mango's ripeness by feel, not color. The skin may be yellow, green, orange, or red, depending on the variety.
If you're able to find Indian mango varieties such as Alphonso or Kesar, they make the best juice without too much fiber. If not, you'll just strain the fiber from the juice after you blend it.;
, Use a sharp knife to slice through the mango until you reach the pit. Cut the fruit around the pit (like you would for an avocado) and pull the two halves apart. Place the mouth of a glass where the skin meets the fruit and push the rim into the fruit to separate it from the skin. Repeat on the other side. Discard the skin and pit.If you don't like the glass method, separate the two mango halves and then use the knife to cut the fruit from the peel in chunks.
Or use a spoon to scoop the flesh from a very ripe mango.
 Place it in a blender and puree the mango until it's completely smooth. Make sure there are no mango chunks in the juice. If you're using a fibrous mango, you may see thin fibers in the juice, which you can later strain., Half a cup of water added to the blended mango will create a drink with the consistency of juice. Use very cold water, and stir it together with the blended mango using a spoon.


Blended mango is usually too thick to drink without adding water to dilute it a bit. Add more or less water depending on your tastes.
You can add milk, coconut water or another liquid in place of the water.
 Pour the mango juice through a fine-mesh strainer placed on top of a glass. You can skip this step if you don't mind having pulpy fiber in your mango juice.
 A very ripe, sweet mango may not need extra sugar. If you like your juice sweet, stir in a spoonful of sugar. You can also use honey, agave nectar or maple syrup in place of sugar. Other ingredients you can stir in for extra flavor include:1 tablespoon of fresh lemon or lime juice
1/2 teaspoon cardamon powder
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon powder
1 tablespoon heavy cream or coconut milk
Add ice if desired

, If you love the taste of freshly blended mango, there are a number of other drinks you can make with this delicious fruit. Try any of the following drinks to cool you down in the summer:


Mango Lassi
Mango Milkshake
Mango Smoothie
Mango Lemonade

