 The harder you work your vocal cords, the quicker you'll wear them out. Yelling and screaming strains your vocal cords much more than ordinary talking and should lead to a hoarse or lost voice in a fraction of the time. For maximum results, try yelling as loudly as you possibly can. Keep in mind, however, that yelling like this can be quite painful and may even lead to lasting damage.


If you're worried about bothering people with your yelling, try attending an event where people are encouraged to yell, like a sporting event or rock concert.
 Often, when someone loses his or her voice, it's as a result of a recent cold. If you're really serious about losing your throat, consider putting yourself in situations where you're likely to catch a cold. For instance, you may want to spend time around friends with colds and get less sleep than you're used to. Obviously, however, giving yourself a cold on purpose can result in many unpleasant side effects, including fever, nausea, aches, and general malaise, so stay far away from cold viruses unless you're really serious about losing your voice!


It may go without saying, but, to be perfectly clear, it's never a good idea to knowingly expose yourself to serious diseases. Use common sense.
 Allergies are known to cause throat irritation and hoarseness under certain circumstances.If you have a history of mild allergies and have gotten sore throats from your allergies in the past, you may want to expose yourself to allergens to help you lose your voice. For instance, if you have seasonal allergies triggered by pollen, in addition to using one of the methods above, you may want to go for a walk in the park and smell some flowers!


If you have a serious allergy, don't flirt with danger by triggering an allergic reaction simply to lose your voice. Severe allergy attacks can be fatal.
 With time, the body will heal most throat irritation on its own. If you want to lose your voice, don't let this happen! The less you allow your larynx to rest, the quicker you'll be able to lose your voice. Push through the fatigue!


Keep in mind, however, that you put your voice at risk by doing so. Wearing your voice out (especially doing so over and over again over a long period of time) can cause permanent vocal damage. For example, many once-powerful singers find themselves with diminished abilities after years of vocal fatigue.

