 Cold weather causes a lot of damage to skin, causing it to dry and crack. Wearing gloves in cooler temperatures protects the skin.Buy multiple pairs of mittens and gloves, to go with every outfit.
If you work outside, remember to always keep a replacement pair of gloves in your vehicle's aptly-named glove compartment.
 Wearing rubber or latex gloves to wash dishes is essential to softening your hands. The chemicals of cleaning products also damage skin. Having multiple pairs of rubber or latex gloves will save your hands.Disposable latex gloves can be worn to do gardening work, saving the skin while still allowing for subtle touch.
Use gloves when handling hot peppers, zucchini, eggplant or other foods that might result in drying hands.
 Most experts agree that 8 cups per day is needed to remain hydrated. Remember, your skin is an organ and it requires water like other organs for proper functioning. Without water, your skin will become dry and cracked.Avoid alcohol, which dehydrates your skin.
Keeping a water bottle or a glass of water near your work space will help you remember to drink water throughout the day.
 Moisturizers can be helpful, but they should be applied in small doses. If you use lotion more than twice a day, you may be preventing your hands from using their own moisture.If you need to occasionally apply extra lotion, that's fine.
The best lotion includes lanolin, a natural moisturizer that comes from sheep.Petroleum jelly is another good moisturizer for dry hands.
 Hot water strips the skin of its natural oils, and dries out hands and fingers. Use lukewarm tap water, just about the same temperature as the air.Hot water that causes your hands to become red is too hot. The red comes from dilated blood vessels just beneath the surface of the skin. The capillaries open, and more blood flows to your hands, resulting in more fluid loss.
Stay away from hot-air hand dryers as well.
 Look for a hand soap that contains aloe vera, vegetable oils, avocado or cocoa butter. Soaps with vitamin E and jojoba oil can help protect against dry skin conditions.


If you don't need to wash your hands for hygienic purposes, use a gentle liquid soap without water. Simply rub the soap into your palms, and blot it off gently. This can be particularly effective for someone with eczema.Choose soap based on your own experience, as skin conditions vary widely.
 Sun acts on skin to dry it out and results in damage. If you don't like the feeling of sunscreen on your palm, wipe it off with a wet wipe after applying it to the backs of your hands.


Good sunscreen protects your skin from dust as well as sun damage.
Sunscreen often includes skin moisturizers which can help soften skin.

