 The best remedy to heal a pinched nerve is rest. Avoid activities that aggravate the condition, and stop doing whatever activity caused the injury.Sciatic nerve pain is the most common type of pinched nerve. The pain can start in your buttock or back of your upper thigh and run down the length of your leg.
If you rest for 1-3 days and don’t notice improvement, consider getting evaluated by a medical professional.;
, You may need to use an assistive device to immobilize the area of your pinched nerve. This can help make sure you rest the area and allow the nerve to heal.Talk to your doctor about this, or request a referral to a specialist. Orthopedists specialize in bones, muscles, and nerve pain caused by muscle problems.


Carpal tunnel syndrome is nerve pain in the wrist caused by overuse. A wrist splint can help heal this kind of nerve pain.
 Pinched, stretched, and aggravated nerves can heal with rest and time – but it’s also important to prevent causing the same problem in the future. Ask your doctor for a referral to a physical therapist. They can teach you exercises to strengthen or stretch the muscles around the injured nerve. Do your exercises exactly as directed. Follow their advice on how to alter the activity that irritates the nerve., In addition to the exercises your physical therapist advises, you can also strengthen your body to alleviate pressure on your sciatic nerve. Ask your doctor or therapist about safe exercises to accomplish the following:Strengthen your core
Improve the strength of your back muscles
Increase your hamstring flexibility
Make your hips more flexible

, Capsaicin is found in hot peppers. Used in cream, it provides a warming sensation. Get capsaicin cream from your local drugstore or pharmacy. Rub it over the area where you have nerve pain on a regular basis.You might feel some burning when you apply the cream. This usually gets better over time, but stop using the product if you experience severe burning, itching, or a rash.
 Lidocaine numbs the area of your skin it touches. Get a lidocaine patch from your pharmacy and apply it as directed over your area of nerve pain to help alleviate the problem.It may cause some drowsiness or dizziness.
 Sciatic pain is common during pregnancy. If you have burning nerve pain down the back of your leg, it may be caused by pressure on your sciatic nerve from the developing baby. Try to modify your lifestyle and movements to alleviate pain; it should resolve once you deliver the baby.Lie on your side opposite the side that hurts. For example, if your nerve pain is in your left leg, lie on your right side.
Avoid heavy lifting.
Try not to stand up for long periods of time.
If you have pain while standing, lift one foot and rest it on something.
Try swimming regularly.
Put cold packs or heating packs on the sore area.

