 Brush the hair, and then part the hair down the middle. The part should run from the hairline to the base of the nape.


Secure one side of the hair with a hair tie. This will keep it out of the way until you are ready to use it.
An alternate style is to leave the hair unparted. If you leave the hair unparted, follow the same steps. Your hair may get combined, so use a hair clip to keep the hair separated and neat.
 Gather the hair at the base of the neck. Divide the hair into three sections. Cross the right strand under the middle, then cross the left strand under the middle. This makes the anchor braid.
 Add a section of hair to the right strand, then cross under the middle strand. Add a section of hair to the left strand, then cross under the middle strand. You should be braiding upwards along your head.









A Dutch braid is also called an inverted French braid or a reverse French braid. The hair is braided under instead of over like in a standard French braid.This braid will be done from the bottom of the head up instead of from the top of the head down.
You may want to comb the hair in an upward direction before you begin so the hair is already in the right direction.
 Since this is a crown braid, the braid should follow along the curve of the head. Continue Dutch braiding by adding hair to the outer strands and crossing under.









Make sure that the amount of hair added to the strands is equal each time. This keeps the braid uniform instead of uneven.
 When the braid is finished, secure with a hair tie. Since this style works best on long hair, the braid probably will end somewhere around the forehead. Leave the braid as is.
 Unlike the first side, you will begin this braid at the top of the head. Starting at the part, repeat steps 2-5 as you Dutch braid down the side of the head. Just like the other side, this braid is curving along the head.









If you don't have a part, start the braid in the middle of the forehead.
 Once you have reverse French braided both sides, wrap the two braids around the head. Secure the braids with bobby pins. Tuck the hair bands and the hair below the hair bands beneath the braids. Secure with bobby pins.
