 If you are still in communication with the long-lost sibling, you should ask them about why they refused to meet with you. Getting a full picture of why they refused to meet with you will help you emotionally process things and decide what to do next. It is important that you address any extenuating circumstances that might prevent them from wanting to meet with you.


Although a phone call would be ideal for this conversation, you should utilize whatever mode of communication feels the most comfortable.
You might ask them things like “Why won’t you meet with me?” or “What is getting in the way of us meeting in person?”

, It is important that you give the sibling the distance that they ask for. Continuing to contact your long-lost sibling after they have refused to meet you will likely only strengthen their desire to avoid you. If your sibling asks you to back off, you should honor their request and give them some space., If you are interested in leaving open the option of reconnecting in the future, you might offer your sibling your continued emotional support. Although your sibling has expressed their desire not to meet with you, let them know that you are still there for them. Express to them that, if they need anything or want to reconnect in the future, that you would be available.You might say something like “I love you and I’ll be here if you need me” or “If you ever want to talk, you can call me.”
However, try to set healthy boundaries. For example, avoid financially supporting a long-lost sibling who refuses to meet with you in person. You do not want to enter into a situation where someone is exploiting you for your resources.
 If your long-lost sibling shows no indication of wanting you in their life, you should know when to walk away. It can be extremely difficult to end a relationship, particularly with a family member. However, distancing yourself from a painful relationship, in the end, may help you feel better. If your long-lost sibling absolutely refuses to have a relationship with you, it is important that you know when to step back.You might say something like “I can’t handle your rejection anymore” or “It hurts me too much to not be close to you.”

