 A lot of people associate nightmares with children, believing they are something you grow out of. However, it is not uncommon for adults and teens to experience nightmares as well.


In fact,1 in every 2 adults will experience nightmares now and again, while 2% to 8% of the adult population suffers from chronic or recurring nightmares.Nightmares are characterized by vividly realistic images, thoughts and emotions which cause your heart to beat faster and sometimes even force you to wake from your sleep. Sometimes details of the nightmare will be remembered and the terrifying or disturbing images can be difficult to shake.
As a result, nightmares affect the quality of sleep, leading to physical exhaustion and mental anxiety and stress. If your sleep is being interrupted by nightmares, it can cause issues in other areas of your life and even lead to long-term health problems. Therefore, it is important to understand the source of the nightmares and take steps to prevent them.;
, Nightmares and night terrors are two different types of sleep disturbances which are sometimes confused.



Nightmares tend to occur during Rapid Eye Movement (REM) sleep, so you will usually experience them in the early hours of the morning. They are experienced as frightening or disturbing dreams which seem vividly real as they occur. The content of the dreams will vary from person to person, though adults often report having nightmares about being chased or falling from a height. People who have experienced a traumatic event tend to relive that event in their nightmare.

Night terrors occur during the deeper stages of sleep and so tend to occur in the first few hours of going to bed. They are experienced as an intense feeling of fear, which is not accompanied by dreams or images. It is often accompanied by movement (thrashing or sitting upright in bed) which may cause the person to wake up. Usually the person cannot remember why they were so frightened upon waking., Although nightmares in adults often happen spontaneously with no serious underlying cause, sometimes nightmares will be the result of psychological conditions such as anxiety, depression or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).


This is particularly likely if the sufferer has recently experienced a traumatic or life-changing event, such as the loss of a loved one, changing or losing a job, having a baby, undergoing surgery or being involved in an accident.
Sometimes nightmares are a symptom of another sleep disorder such as sleep apnea or restless leg symptom. Other times, a person is just genetically predisposed towards nightmares, as research has shown that the likelihood of having nightmares runs in the family., If your nightmares are the result of an underlying condition such as sleep apnea, narcolepsy, REM disorder, or restless leg syndrome, receiving treatment for these conditions should help to reduce nightmares.


If your nightmares are related to anxiety, depression or PTSD, certain forms of therapy or medications might help to alleviate these conditions and lessen nightmares.
In particular, a drug known as Prazosin is often prescribed to help patients with PTSD, anxiety and panic disorders, and can alleviate nightmares.
It is important that you speak to your doctor to figure out a treatment option that is best for you.
 Eating before bed can trigger nightmares, as food speeds up your metabolism and sends signals to your brain to become more active. Therefore, it's a good idea to cut out bedtime snacks, particularly those that are high in sugar. , Stress can contribute to nightmares, so take some time relax throughout the day and aim to go to bed with a calm, clear mind.



Yoga and meditation are both good activities for relieving stress and clearing the mind. Consider taking a class, or simply practice for a few minutes each day in the comfort of your own home.
Other activities such as reading, knitting, running or just spending more time with your family and loved can also help to relieve stress.
Taking a hot bath before bed can help you to unwind after the stresses of the day and leave you feeling calmer and more relaxed .
 Certain medications can increase the likelihood of nightmares, so speak to your doctor if you feel this might be an issue for you.


Anti-depressants and certain blood pressure medications are often responsible for causing nightmares, so speak to your doctor about switching to a different drug.
Sometimes a change in dosage or coming off a particular drug can cause nightmares, in which case the bad dreams should subside once your body adjusts., Although nightmares may cause sleep deprivation, sleep deprivation can also cause nightmares. Therefore, taking steps to improve the quality of your sleep can help to prevent nightmares.



Make your bedroom a relaxing environment. Keep your bedroom neat and tidy, make sure it's dark enough and avoid temperatures that are too hot or cold. Make sure your bed is comfortable. Use a white noise machine to block out any undesirable sounds. Reserve your bedroom for sleeping - working in your bedroom may cause you to associate it with stress.Get more physical exercise. Tiring yourself out with physical exercise is a great way to improve your sleep. Find an activity that you enjoy, whether it's running, strength training, dancing, rowing or rock climbing and work out 3 to 5 times a week. Schedule it for the morning if you can. Just don't exercise right before bed - it will leave you too amped up for sleep.

Cut back on your caffeine, alcohol and nicotine intake. These substances can interfere with your sleep, so it's a good idea to cut them out or at least cut down. Also try to avoid drinking, smoking or consuming caffeine less than 3 to 4 hours before bedtime.

Avoid blue light. The light emitted from electronics like phone, computers, and tablets can suppress sleep hormones and affect the quality of your sleep. Avoid using these devices close to bedtime., Imagery rehearsal treatment is a type of cognitive therapy which has been found very effective in reducing nightmares in PTSD and insomnia patients.With imagery rehearsal treatment, the patient is encouraged to imagine an alternate ending to their nightmares - one with a more pleasant or satisfying outcome - while they are still awake.

For example, if you're dreaming you're being chased, you could imagine the monster that's chasing you, when it catches you, saying "tag, you're it" and it's really a game of tag.
If you're dreaming that you're falling, you could imagine that a parachute opens up and saves you.


Sometimes this is done orally, other times the patient is asked to write down, draw or paint the alternate ending to their nightmares., Envision a happy, peaceful place - like a tropical beach or a secluded mountain top. You can make one up, or base it on somewhere real. No matter what or where it is, just make sure it's calm and relaxing. In addition to just envisioning the scenery, try to imagine the sounds, the smells and the overall atmosphere.
 As you drift off to sleep, try to think happy thoughts. They could be anything you like - try imagining yourself as a superhero saving the world, as a famous actor or actress or heading off on your dream holiday. It can also help to focus on your goals and envision yourself achieving them - getting that dream job, hitting your ideal weight or finding your true love.
 Find someone who you trust, and explain your dreams. Also explain to them why they scare you. Just letting your feelings out can make things better. You can also keep track of your dreams in a dream journal, but be aware that sometimes it's more effective to talk to an actual person who you know is listening.
 See if you can manipulate your nightmare by making certain things happen and altering the outcome to make it less frightening or upsetting. This ability comes to some people faster than others, so don't be frustrated if you can't manage it at first.
 Nightmares can also be caused by stress, such as wondering if you will get a job or not. Let go of your worries, and begin having happy dreams again. You can relax by either meditating, or having a nice day at the beach. Just make sure it's a quiet area where you can relax and chill out.

