 Other brands of lighter fluid intended for similar lighters will work most of the time, but the Zippo fluid is recommended by the manufacturer for maintaining its condition and operation.If you use a different brand of lighter fluid, make sure it is a premium brand. Sub-par fuel may fail to ignite in your lighter.
Never use charcoal lighter fluid. Charcoal lighter fluid is not made for a small container like a Zippo. Using charcoal fluid can be very dangerous.
 The insert, which includes the chimney-shaped wind guard, should be wedged inside a rectangular metal case.Use your fingers to pull the insert free of the case.








Grab the chimney cap, the small rectangular portion with holes in it, and pull the lighter out. In some cases, you may need to loosen the insert by wiggling it back and forth.
The refill access for Zippo lighter's (and most similarly designed lighters, too) is at the bottom of the insert.
 Flip the insert over so the bottom faces up. You'll see a small circular pin. Surrounding this pin and sealing off the bottom will be a rectangular piece of felt, known as the felt pad. Lift the felt pad at the designated location with a screwdriver.








The rectangular felt pad will say “LIFT TO FILL” on it. Lift the felt pad from this end to reveal the rayon balls, which look like cotton, and a wick underneath.
There may also be a small hole in the center of the felt pad. Use a small screwdriver or pen and insert it into the hole. Use your tool as a lever to pull the felt pad up., While holding the felt pad back, put the tip of your lighter fluid into the lighter insert and squeeze gently. Keep squirting lighter fluid until you see the top portion of your rayon balls dampen.








Be careful not to let lighter fluid drip down the outside of your Zippo or get any on your hands.
Wipe up spills with a wet rag. Rinse the rag regularly while doing so to flush fuel down the drain.
Refill slowly so you don’t overfill the lighter. If you add too much fluid, your lighter will leak, which can be dangerous.
 Release your hold on the felt pad and wedge it back into place with your fingers or tool. Let the fluid soak in for about 45 seconds before flipping it right side up. Wipe the outside of your lighter with a damp clean rag or paper towel.








It’s also a good idea to wash your hands before placing your lighter back into the casing. Some fluid might've transferred to your hands without you noticing.
 Simply slide your Zippo back into the casing. Push down on the chimney to firmly wedge it back into place. Snap the lid shut to make sure the insert is low enough.
 Light your Zippo to make sure that the wick is absorbing the fuel and your flint is creating a spark. If your lighter doesn't spark up, the most likely issue is the flint. Check out fixing and replacing this part in the next method.









The first couple of times you light your Zippo after refilling, your flame may be bigger than usual. This is completely normal.

