 A legitimate credit repair agency should not require that you pay before using their services. If they do, then you may be dealing with a scam.Hold onto any communication in which the agency demands payment before doing any work. This information will be helpful if you choose to report the agency.;
, A credit counselor should tell you about their services before asking you to reveal any details about your personal financial situation. If the counselor wants to know your business right up front, then you should treat this as a red flag and move on.Credit counselors should be happy to provide you information about their services through the mail or in person without pressuring you.
 One scam is to sell you a nine-digit number and call it your new “credit profile number” or “privacy number.” This number may be a stolen Social Security Number (SSN). After selling you the number, the agency encourages you to take out new credit using it.The agency may also encourage you to get an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the IRS. This number is typically used by a business and is not a substitute for an SSN.
If you don’t have a legitimate business and use an EIN, then you are probably committing fraud and could be prosecuted. You could go to jail or have to pay heavy fines.
 Some credit repair agencies will encourage you to get new credit by lying on application forms. For example, they might tell you to inflate your income or to use someone else’s name. It is actually a crime to lie. Any agency encouraging lying is definitely a scam., A legitimate credit repair agency should help you come up with a plan to pay off your debts. However, some promote bad advice. If the agency tells you any of the following, then you should stop doing business with them:You are told not to contact credit reporting agencies directly.
You are told to dispute information on your credit report that is accurate.
You are not given a description of your legal rights (called “Consumer Credit File Rights Under State and Federal Law”).
You are not given any kind of written contract or description of services offered.
 Sometimes, credit repair agencies make promises that sound too good to be true.In fact, they almost always are. If an agency promises to fix your credit in a short period of time or makes the process sound easy, then you should be on your guard.


Also be skeptical of any agency that promises to raise your score a certain number of points. They can’t make that promise., The BBB collects complaints about businesses, so you can always check your local BBB to find out if anyone has lodged a complaint against the credit repair agency. Visit www.bbb.org and enter the agency’s name and location.


See Check a Business at the Better Business Bureau for more tips.
 You should also check with your state Attorney General to see if complaints have been made or if lawsuits have been filed against the credit counselor.Scammers usually have many complaints. However, realize that a lack of complaints isn’t 100% proof that the counselor is legitimate.


Also check with a local consumer protection agency. Visit https://www.usa.gov/state-consumer and click on your state to find a local agency office.
 Every state has an attorney general who prosecutes criminal violations, such as fraud. You should find your state’s AG’s office and report the fraud. You can find a list of state AGs here: http://www.naag.org/naag/attorneys-general/whos-my-ag.php.


Click on your state’s AG to access contact information and a website address.
 You can also report credit repair fraud to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at 1-877-FTC-HELP.Be sure to have evidence of the scam, such as the following:


the name of the credit repair agency
the names of any individuals you spoke with who work at the agency
why you suspect they are a fraud

, You can also report the scam to the FTC using their complaint assistant, which is available here: https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/#&panel1-1. At the website, you can file a report by clicking the following:


Click on “Credit and Debt” on the left-hand side of the screen.
Click on “Debt” to report the actions of a company offering to repair credit.
Identify the company by clicking “A company offering to repair your credit.”
Select how you were contacted (e.g., “I initiated contact”).
Provide requested information, such as how much you were expected to pay the credit counselor.
If you have questions, you can contact technical support Monday through Friday, 9:00 am to 8:00 pm Eastern Standard Time by clicking on the button.
 You should visit the BBB website and report the scammer.Provide all information requested by the BBB and offer a detailed reason why you suspect the counselor is a fraud.
 You can always sue a credit repair agency that defrauds you. For example, you can sue to get compensated for the amount of money you paid to the agency or for however much money the agency has cost you due to their fraudulent behavior.You can also seek punitive damages. This is an amount of money awarded to punish the credit repair agency.
You can file a lawsuit in federal court. However, you should probably talk with an attorney to discuss your options before doing anything.
 Generally, non-profits are more reputable than for-profit credit repair agencies.When you find an agency, you can call and ask whether it is a non-profit. Often, agencies will advertise their non-profit status.
 You can find a legitimate credit counselor from many different places. First, you should ask friends or family if they have ever used a credit counselor and if they would recommend the agency. Other places you can look include:credit unions or banks
local consumer protection agency
housing authority
universities
military bases
branches of the U.S. Cooperative Extension Service

, The U.S. Trustee Program approves a list of counselors to provide pre-bankruptcy counseling.Many of these agencies can also provide credit repair services. You can check the list at the U.S. Trustee’s website.


The list is available here: https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-credit-counseling-agencies-approved-pursuant-11-usc-111.
Select your state from the “Choose Option” drop-down box. Then click “Go.”

, A good credit repair agency will provide clients with a variety of services. You should get a flyer or check the website to see what they offer. Look for the following:counseling
education to avoid future problems
debt consolidation
debt payment services

, Before hiring an agency, you should find out important information so that you can compare them to other agencies. Call up three or four credit counselors near you and ask the following questions:Are they licensed to offer services in the state?
What are their counselors’ qualifications? Are they accredited by any organization? How were they trained?
Do employees get paid a bonus the more people they help sign up?
How does the credit counselor keep personal information confidential?
What are the fees and how are they charged (e.g., monthly)? Is there a set-up charge?

, A legitimate credit repair agency should provide you a written agreement that explains your rights before you begin working together. Make sure to read this document closely. It should be clearly written and easy to understand. A solid written agreement should contain the following information:the company’s name and business address
an explanation of the services they perform
an estimate of how long it will take for your credit to improve
the total amount you will have to pay
any guarantees
that you have a right to cancel without charge for the next three days

, Often, credit counselors will have you make one payment to them. They will then divide up the payment among your creditors and forward the payment on. However, you should always check with your creditors to see that they received your payment.Some unscrupulous counselors might skim some money off the top of your payment and keep it for themselves.
 You don’t need to pay an agency to repair your credit. Instead, you can do it yourself by reviewing your credit reports and removing inaccurate information. Then you will need to come up with a budget and stick to it.


See Repair Your Credit for more information.

