 Everything you throw in the garbage, tie up and take out to be collected is going to end up in a landfill. Plus, all that trash - plastic, paper, metal, and whatnot - was likely manufactured using unsustainable practices that hurt the health of the earth's land. By making less trash, you can reduce your impact. Try making these changes:


Buy products that you can reuse. Get glass containers instead of flimsy plastic ones, for example.
Don't use plastic bags - use cloth.
Maintain and repair durable products instead of buying new ones.
Avoid products with several layers of packaging when only one is sufficient. About 33% of what we throw away is packaging.
Use reusable plates and utensils instead of disposable ones. Use reusable containers to store food instead of aluminum foil and cling wrap.
Buy rechargeable batteries for devices used frequently.
Copy and print on both sides of paper.
Reuse items like envelopes, folders and paper clips.
Use e-mail or texting as a substitute for paper correspondence.
Use recycled paper.
Mend clothes instead of buying new ones.
Buy used furniture - there is a surplus of it, and it is much cheaper than new furniture.
 When you make your own dinner from scratch or mix up your own cleaning supplies, you naturally make less waste. Single-sized TV dinners, shampoo bottles and the like can really add up in the trash can! Here are a few things you can make on your own:


Food. If you're really ambitions, grow your own! Otherwise, do your best to make as many meals as possible from scratch. Buy ingredients in bulk to cut back on packaging.
Body products. Shampoo, conditioner, lotion, toothpaste etc. - you name it, you can make it! Try replacing a few things at first, then work up to making most of what you use. Hint: coconut oil is a brilliant replacement for lotion, deep conditioner and face wash.
Cleaning products. Everything from window cleaner to bathroom cleaner to oven cleaner can be made using all-natural supplies.
 This is an excellent way to cut back on waste and improve the health of the land you're living on at the same time. Instead of throwing your food scraps in the trash, compost them in a bin or a pile. After tending the pile for a few weeks, you'll have rich soil you can spread on your grass or use to make a delicious vegetable garden. The land around you will be healthier and more vibrant for your efforts.
 Trees protect land from getting eroded, and they're an integral part of the ecosystem. In saving trees you'll be protecting not only land, but water and air, too. If you have room in your yard, consider planting a few trees to invest in the future of your neighborhood.


Do research to figure out what trees will be most beneficial to the environment where you live. Plant native species.
Aim to plant trees that will grow tall and provide shade., These practices raze and gut the land so that it's no longer healthy enough to provide a home for plants and wildlife. Join up with a group working to protect your region from industrial practices that damage the land.