 Be careful not to damage the porch, deck, or support columns when removing existing lattice.


Cut the lattice into pieces with a reciprocating saw if you are having trouble removing it. This will make it easier.You can also use a small carpenters cat's paw, which will help pry off small nails. If the old lattice is stapled, find a screwdriver with a blade just wide enough to fit onto the staple. Gently pry it off.;
, Do not install new lattice without making sure there are no animals living underneath your deck.


If you find animals, encourage them to leave by allowing as much light in as possible. Also, let your water hose run next to the deck. This will encourage the animals to leave because they like dark, dry, and quiet areas to nest in.Avoid using traps or poison as that may kill any non-target animals or kill an animal in an unreachable place.
You may be able to find a volunteer group that will relocate wildlife. Call your local or state fish and game office or city animal control to learn about options in your area. If you can't find a volunteer, you may be able to hire a professional wildlife removal service.
 You will screw the lattice to the frames, and then you will attach the frames to the house. Be sure to use rust-proof hardware and fasteners.
 Measure the openings between the support columns or posts of the deck or porch. The completed frames should be 1/2 inch narrower than the overall width and 1 inch shorter than the height of the openings.If you install the lattice flush to the ground, the framing can buckle and snag leaves., Use a circular or jigsaw to cut 1-by-6 inch lumber to a length of 4 1/2-feet or to your required measured length.
 Cut the center stiles the same length as the shorter edges of the frames using 1-by-4 inch lumber.
 Lay the frame pieces face down and assemble them. Attach a 6-inch mending plate and a 3 1/2-inch flat corner brace to each corner joint of the frame. Attach the hardware approximately 1/4 inch from the edges of the frames using 3/4-inch flathead screws. Make sure you work on a flat, sturdy surface to put together the frames

, Use two 4-inch T-plates, making sure that the plate is centered on the support piece. Position the T-plates about ¼ inch from the edge of the frame. Use 3/4-inch screws to secure them. , Lay the frames face down. Attach a piece of lattice to each frame using 1-inch pan head screws driven through washers.Allow a 1/ 4-inch gap on all sides between the edge of the frame and lattice. This lets the lattice to expand and contract when the weather changes. This will prevent the lattice from buckling., The two pieces of lattice will form a seam on the center stile. Screw 1-inch (2.54 cm) pan head screws with washers to each of the lattice panels where they meet at the center stile. Make two rows of screws, drilling them at each point the lattices meet.
 Screw the hinges to the lattice frames first.
, Once it is tight, screw the hinges to the porch or deck using a drill with a screwdriver head.
 If the lattice frame drags on the ground or doesn't close all the way, use a shovel or garden hoe to remove some of the dirt in front of and underneath the frame. If there is too much space beneath the lattice frame, add and compact more dirt. Distribute the dirt evenly so that the ground will be flat.

