 If you can, a hand written note will likely be more appreciated. However, if you have ended the semester, graduated, or are unsure how to find your teacher again, you can type the letter and email it.
 Think about how this teacher made a difference in your life and what you want to thank them for specifically. Make a list of words to describe your experience with this teacher.


Keep your letter sincere and light.
Avoid stating the obvious or being redundant. You don’t need to say why you are writing the letter.
Avoid saying things like, “I’m writing to thank you for…”
Just thank them!

, Begin your letter with a formal hello to your teacher. Address them the same way you would in class. If you have established a first name relationship with them, use that name in your letter.


Saying “Dear” instead of “Hey” or “Hi” is more professional and respectful.
You may want to write your letter on a nice piece of stationary. You can purchase stationary for a cheap price at Target or any office supply store., Take a few sentences to simply tell your teacher, plain and simple, why you are thanking them. Using specific examples and instances will make your letter more powerful and personal. Include phrases like:


You really helped me understand when I was struggling.
Thank you for encouraging me when I was struggling.
You’re class taught me how to be a better student.
Thank you for your patience.
You helped me see what I could be.
You are the best teacher ever!
I will never forget you.
 Express to them how their class really impacted you. Often teachers go home wondering what, if anything, their students retained from their lecture. Tell your teacher how they matter. At the end of the day, everyone wants to be appreciated for their hard work.


If your professor inspired you to seek out more education in their subject, tell them!
Whether you are your teacher were best friends, or had your share if differences, they still performed a service for you. Let them know that you are grateful.
 Express to your teacher how much you would enjoy networking with them in the future. Invite them to contact you and offer methods for them to do so.
 Thank your teacher again and sign your name. Include your contact information if you would like to keep in touch. Add a formality to your signature like:


Sincerely
With Kind regards
Warmest regards
Yours truly
Best regards
Our deepest thanks

, Hand deliver your letter if possible. You may also be able to leave the letter in your teachers mailbox on campus, or mail it directly. If you have no other choice, email your letter.


If emailing your letter, make sure to use a recognizable email address (like a campus email if possible) and write a clear subject line like, “Thank You Note from Eric.”
If your teacher doesn't recognize your email, they may not open it.

