 Talking to your coach will be easier once you have defined the reasons why you need to leave. Perhaps you have an obvious reason, such as a medical condition. Maybe you’re just overwhelmed or stressed out by your duties. Being able to put your feelings into words will help you talk to your coach. Some reasons might be:


You have a medical condition or injury
You need more time to focus on school or work
You're not having fun anymore
You no longer have the time
You have family or personal reasons
The coach or teammates are bullies;
, If you are upset about quitting or if you are uncertain about your decision, there may be factors that can help you stay on the team. Think about your situation. Are there compromises that you and your coach can work out to help you stay on the team?


If you are quitting because the sport takes up too much of your time, perhaps the coach can cut back on practice hours, or perhaps practices can be rescheduled to fit more easily into your schedule.
If you have problems with other people on the team, ask the coach to mediate your arguments. Perhaps you can work out a solution together.
If you are injured, you can ask the coach if you can still attend practices and events on the sidelines until you have recovered. If you are not certain you will be able to play again, you can volunteer for other, non-intensive tasks such as water duty., If you can, it may help to ask others to back you up on your reasons for leaving. Perhaps they can provide you moral support while you talk to your coach, or maybe they can give you a signed note that explains your reasons for leaving.


If you are quitting for medical reasons, ask your doctor or therapist for a signed letter detailing your condition. They may state in the letter that they recommend you to stop the sport.
If you are quitting to focus on your studies, you can ask a teacher or professor to write you a note, stating that you need to spend more time on your schoolwork.
If you are in middle or high school, your parents might come with you when you talk to your coach. Explain to your parents why you want to quit, and ask them if they would be willing to help you break the news to your coach.
 You can prepare to talk to your coach by writing an outline of what you plan to say. You do not need to write a script; rather, jot down why you are quitting and how you might introduce the topic to your coach.Think about how your coach might respond to you quitting. Do you think they will be understanding? Are you worried that they will be mad? Try to plan for that reaction as you write your reasons. How might you respond to their objections?
Keep a confident but polite tone. Emphasize that you want the best for the team, but that leaving is the right thing for you to do now.
 A good way to build confidence before you meet with your coach is to practice your speech on a family member or friend. Ask them if they would be willing to talk you through the process.


If you cannot find anyone to listen to you practice, you can talk to yourself in the mirror.
You may not want to tell your teammates that you are quitting before you tell your coach. You want your coach to hear the news from you, not from locker room gossip., You may be nervous about telling your coach about your plans to quit. Before you have the talk, energize yourself with motivational sayings. These can give you confidence and ease your nerves.


You can say, “You’ve got this. Just tell them what’s up.”
You might remind yourself, “You will feel so much better once you have done this. You can do this.”
Try to frame the discussion in a positive light.You might tell yourself, “Imagine how relieved you’ll be when this is done. You won’t have so much stress every day to worry about.”

