 If you have homework due on Monday that was assigned on Friday, don't start the assignment at 11 p.m. on Sunday. Take your homework seriously and try hard problems, even if you're not sure on them. If you are really having trouble, ask a friend or a parent. Don't stress about your homework though. Don't let yourself go over 40 minutes a night per assignment, don't procrastinate either. Manage your time.;
, If you have a big test or essay coming up, don't spend your time on watching television. Tests are a huge part of your final grade. Spend every free moment looking at the textbook, studying. When you have more free time, do some extra exercises. Make flashcards of words and remember to feel completely prepared when you come into class each day. A good sign is if you know all the questions, you're prepared.
 Make sure they are neat, so you can read them later on. Notes are judged upon in some schools, and if yours are, watch out. Write your name and date at the top of each. Use a nice, sharp, pencil and practice neat handwriting. Write what the teacher writes on the board and what the teacher says is important.
 This way, the next day you will understand more when your teacher explains. Don't really read them, just scan them over, and see what you'll be learning next unless that teacher does not want you to.
 If you don't pay attention it will be almost impossible for you to understand the lesson by yourself. Remember to participate in class as well. This is good for your relationship with your teacher, for your grades and for passing the time.
 If you are confused on something in class, ask the teacher. Teachers love questions, but not too many. Remember not to bug her/him all the time with endless questions. When asking them, be polite, simple, and get to the point. Only ask what you're confused on though, because teachers can tell whether or not you are confused.
 Say you have to complete a map on the names of all the states in the U.S. and their capitals. Do it neatly, add color and you could even cover it with contact paper. Try typing it if you have a bad handwriting and be neat.
 It's disrespectful to the teacher, and if you keep looking, it's going to seem like a longer class. If you feel the need to sneak a look, though, your best bet is to bring a watch.

