 This is a major step in knowing how to start a DUI school.


DUI requirements vary from state to state and county to county. The DUI class requirements are also affected by the nature of the offense. The driver's BAC, whether or not the driver has had a prior offense, and whether or not the driver is willing to submit to a breathalyzer test at the time of arrest all have an impact on their legal situation and how long they will be required to attend DUI School.;
, Enlist a business plan writer, if necessary.


Study the competing schools in your area to see the kind of plans they offer. Find out what kind of educational techniques will fulfill the legal requirements for DUI in your locality.
 Study the local requirements for starting a business and be aware of insurance, safety, and tax requirements in your area.



According to Gaebler Ventures, Resources for Entrepreneurs, DUI schools are not marketed to the people who must attend the school. Most people arrested for DUI do not know what is required and must be advised by law enforcement officials or legal counsel. Thus, the smart plan is to market your DUI School directly to local police and lawyers in your area who specialize in DUI.
 Study the programs offered by well regarded DUI schools that are recommended by local law enforcement offices.


DUI schools use various techniques, including instruction from certified educators and educational films to teach drivers in the dangers of alcohol use and driving under the influence. Some schools refer to programs like Alcoholics Anonymous that offer counseling for drunk drivers.
,


In the state of California, for example, a school must first apply to the county's Board of Supervisors. Upon approval, the board will then submit the application to the Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs. Schools are approved when they show they have the fiscal and administrative means to run a DUI program. They must also show that their program is drug and alcohol free and works within all local legal regulations.
