 Downplaying your successes and maintaining an even perspective in the world will keep you happy, humble, and will earn respect from people. Let your actions speak for themselves and let people come to their own conclusions about your skills and talents. Don't trumpet your own horn, let other people trumpet it for you.


You won't need to play up your abilities if you spend all your time proving that you're great.
 Everyone's got an opinion about everything, but that doesn't mean you've always got to share it. Sit back and let other people talk while you listen sometimes, especially if your tendency is to chatter. Take in the perspectives and offer yours if you have anything to add to the discussion. If you don't, keep quiet.


Sitting back and letting other people talk will also give you a leg up by allowing them to reveal themselves to you, giving you the opportunity to understand them and relate to them a little better.






If you're a quiet person, learn to speak out when you've got something to add. Don't let humility and a desire to be a stony stoic get in the way of you sharing your perspective. People won't respect you for that.
 Just as you wouldn't say one thing and do another if you want to earn people's respect, you've got to be consistent in your actions. Finish what you start. We all screw up sometimes. If you do, own up to it and maintain the respect that you've cultivated for yourself.


If you can do something by yourself, don't ask for help. Let a one person job remain a one person job, even if it's going to be difficult.
 Nobody will respect a doormat. If you don't want to do something, say so. If you've got a dissenting opinion and know in your heart that you're right, say so. Being assertive in a polite, courteous, and respectful way will earn respect from people even while you're disagreeing with them.
 There is a popular proverb: "Respect yourself, then you will be respected". If you wish to earn respect of people, you should respect yourself first for whatever you are. You need to assess yourself and feel good about things that make you a better person. Charity begins at home.