 Although there are a fair number of men who choose to grow their hair long, this is largely considered a feminine trait (at least in European-American culture). Common male hairstyles include crew cuts, comb overs, fades, faux hawks, shape-ups, and waves.


Take a look at professional hair salon photo galleries and pick out a style that appeals to you.Oftentimes it's easier to look at male celebrities to determine what kind of hair style feels appropriate or comfortable for you.
 Shaving, or even just cutting your hair isn't necessary, especially if you want to be able to wear it down and dress as a girl. If you have long hair you will need to braid it and pin it up. Then place a wig cap over your head and secure it to the hair with pins.Once this is done you can wear any wig of your choice.
 Breasts are an immediate physical trait that let people know you are a woman. In order to alter your appearance - especially for those women with curvier figures - using a binder will help you create a flatter, masculine chest.


There are companies who make binders specifically for trans men
Do not use Ace Bandage or duct tape as a binder, as this can cause scarring, limit breathing and create fluid build-up in your lungs, among other possible injuries.
Do not wear a binder for 24 hours. 8-12 hours is a safe maximum range for binder use. Do not wear a binder that is too small for you.
 If binders are too intense for you, or simply unnecessary thanks to your body size, sports bras do a good job of securing breasts and creating a masculine appearance.
 Although it may seem possible to use it to your advantage in giving your face a masculine look, ultimately the mere presence of make-up on a man (or someone dressing as one) draws attention.


If you're dead-set on integrating make-up into your transformation, try using a small amount of brown or dark eyeliner to fill in your eyebrows.
 For those transgender people looking into a serious physical transition, this can be the next major step in their lives. It's advised to always pursue hormone therapy under the guidance of a primary care physician and primary psychologist. Be sure to educate yourself on the health protocols for transgender health before seriously pursuing this.