 If you suspect that your bird has a bacterial infection then it should be assessed and treated by a veterinarian. Your vet will likely have a conversation with you about the symptoms you have noticed, assess the bird's physical condition, and then run any necessary tests that will give him or her enough information to give a diagnosis and treatment plan.


It is best to take your bird to a veterinarian that is experienced with treating exotic birds. They will have the knowledge to properly assess, diagnose, and treat your pet.
However, aviary veterinarians, as they are sometimes known, are not always available in every area. This means that you should try to find one before you have an emergency situation and need to find one in a hurry.;
, Most bacterial infections are treated with antibiotics. While there are problems with over-prescribing antibiotics for infections, which can lead to antibiotic-resistant strains developing, serious bacterial infections often require treatment with antibiotics in order to be eliminated.


Your vet will determine the type of antibiotic that needs to be used by assessing the type of bacterial infection, the severity of the infection, the location of the infection, and the sensitivity of your bird., Bacterial infections can take hold in your bird because it has another infection that is weakening its immune system. If this is the case, the additional infection needs to be eliminated in order for your bird to fully recover and be healthy.


Keeping infections at bay also requires that you keep your bird's area clean and tidy. Clean your bird's cage regularly and focus on good husbandry, such as avoiding overcrowding, when caring for a sick bird., Treatment length and type will vary depending on the type and severity of infection your parrot has. However, most serious bacterial infections will require continued treatment with an antibiotic after the bird is released from veterinary care.In the case of chlamydiosis, an infection that affects parrots, treatment with antibiotics usually lasts for several weeks.
In the case of mycobacteriosis, which is avian tuberculosis, treatment may be required for six months to a year before the condition is cleared up.

