 As soon as the noodles have come to a boil, turn off the heat and strain the noodles. Submerge shirataki in a bowl of cool water.


The shirataki shouldn’t need much cooking. Rather, the par-boiling is designed to remove some of the odor from the noodles. Then the shirataki can absorb the full flavor of the sukiyaki sauce.
If using other kinds of noodles, look at instructions and par boil until they are only a couple minutes away from being al dente.;
, Sukiyaki calls for very thin beef. Choose a marbled sirloin (or similar) cut for very good results.


Place the beef in the freezer for a couple of hours if you want to slice the beef yourself. When hard but not completely frozen through, beef is much easier to slice very thin., The stalks of the cabbage are a little more fibrous and take longer to cook. Therefore, cut right around the stalks of the cabbage until the stalks can be separated from the leaves. Cut the stalks into 1-inch (or smaller) pieces. Coarsely chop the leaves into larger pieces.
 If you weren't able to get shiitake mushrooms, cut whatever mushrooms you have into bite-size pieces. If you were able to get the shiitake, here's how to traditionally prepare them:


Remove the stem from the shiitake with a knife. Score a small star or cross into the cap of the mushroom with a knife. Imagine a straight line going through the middle of the cap. Take a knife and make a 30° angled cut along this straight line, digging only a small amount of flesh from the mushroom, enough to show the whites. Angle the knife in the opposite direction and make another 30° cut along the other side of the line. Repeat this process at the perpendicular to make a cross, and once more to make a star.
For enoki mushrooms, simply wash and cut off the root bulb to prepare.
, If substituting spinach or watercress, rinse thoroughly and separate the leaves from the stalks. Discard the stalks.
 In a pot, bring 1/2 cup sake, 1/2 cup mirin, 1/3 cup soy sauce, and 1/4 cup sugar to a boil over medium heat. As soon as boil is reached, remove the sukiyaki sauce from the heat. The goal is to burn off the alcohol from the sake, not reduce the sauce.
 The traditional way of cooking sukiyaki involves an earthenware or cast iron hot pot with a kerosene burner underneath. This way the chef can cook at the table where he intends to serve. Alternately, an electric pan can be put to great use to cook at the table as well.


If you have neither a hot pot or an electric pan to cook with, you can of course cook the sukiyaki on the burner away from the table. Just make sure to choose a large pot with an accompanying lid.
 Beef suet is traditional, but lard or even vegetable oil can be used if the aim is a healthier meal.
 You will keep the beef in the pot while the other ingredients cook, so be careful not to overcook it. Once the beef loses its pinkness, move it over to the side of the pan so it doesn't cook at quickly.


Some cooks introduce a little bit of the sukiyaki sauce to the pan while they are cooking the beef.The sukiyaki sauce will bubble and reduce quickly because of the soy sauce.
Other cooks prefer sweetening the beef a little with plain sugar while it’s frying in the pan with the fat. There's no reason you can't do both.
 Keep all ingredients separate; each separate ingredient should be bunched together on the pan.
 Since shirataki contains a compound that makes beef tough, segregate it from the beef while all the ingredients are cooking.
 Introduce the cabbage leaves, chrysanthemum, and onions into the remaining spots of the pot.
,, Traditionally, a dipping sauce of raw eggs is served alongside sukiyaki.The combination may not sound especially appetizing to westerners, but it is a surprisingly good combination, even if you aren’t predisposed to liking it.


If you are worried about uncooked eggs carrying salmonella or don’t like the flavor, omit them. For what it’s worth, salmonella is very rare in raw eggs., Simply grab whatever looks appetizing out of the hot pot and dip it into the egg.


If you are not eating with family or close friends, use the thicker ends of your chopsticks to grab food out communal pots. This is considered polite.
 If there are leftovers that didn’t find into the first generation of the meal, cook them now in the remaining broth. Meat and leafy greens will take less time to cook than vegetables will.
 In Japan, it is traditional to use the leftover broth as the broth for udon noodles. If you don't have enough broth but wish to make more, use the recipe for sukiyaki sauce above and combine it with the remaining sauce. Heat the broth back up to boiling, then reduce the heat to a simmer. If the broth tastes too overpowering, cut the broth with 1/3 cup of water and taste again.

