 Going to a restaurant or to a bowling alley is great, but your kid might go ga-ga over a themed birthday party – and you could even have that theme at the bowling alley anyway. It makes it easier to pick out decorations, design the cake, and choose activities. Talk to your child about what they’d like – it should come down to their preferences.


If your child has pretty outlandish taste (“I want a hashtag theme, mom!”), take him or her to the party supply store with you. Show them the options and let them pick from there.
 Now that your child is growing up, the guest list should be a collaborative effort. Cap it at around 7 or so other children, depending on how many other parents will be available (you don’t want to be left supervising 20 children on your own). Sit down with your birthday-er and pick out who they really, really want at their party.


Make sure invitations get handed out covertly. If only certain friends are getting invited, it should be handled with care so the other kids don’t get upset. You can either deliver them yourself, ask a teacher to hand them out with other items, or have your child do it covertly (if you think they can handle it).
 If kids are left to their own version of fun, you're going to enter the room finding spaghetti on the walls, chairs broken, and someone crying in the corner. Organize a few activities to keep everyone happy and the chaos to a minimum. Games with music, face painting, or craft making are trusty standards.


A warm up activity is good, too.That way as the kids trickle in, the early-birds are content having something to do.
 Kids are easily impressed. If you can whip up a bunch of mini corn dogs, their tummies will be smiling. Have a few healthier snacks (pretzels, a veggie plate), in addition to some candy and finger foods, like chips and salsa.


The time of the party will determine the food. If it's just in the afternoon, you'll only need snacks. During a meal? Try ordering pizza or getting take-out. What's the most important part? The cake, of course.

