 Pinpoint why you want to stop using mood stabilizers and write a list of why it’s important to you to stop. You may feel like you no longer want to take the medications or that they no longer serve you. Perhaps you’ve found better ways to cope with your mood, or you’ve realized you can no longer tolerate the side effects of mood stabilizers. Some people stop medications due to health problems or a desire to get pregnant.You may not like how you feel on the medication or feel out of touch with yourself. Some people feel like medications distance them from their own feelings and don’t want to feel out of touch.
Other people feel frustrated with medications and cannot find one that addresses their needs without awful side effects.;
, Before stopping medication, be sure to discuss your thoughts with your medication provider. If you do not feel supported in stopping medication, it is okay to get a second opinion. Remember that it is your choice whether to take medication or not and if you wish to stop, you need to find a prescriber who will support you.There are some certain circumstances where medication cessation may be ill-advised. For instance, some Lithium treatments require 6 months of use. If you’ve experienced intense mood swings or relapse recently, it may not be a good time to cease medication., Stopping medication use suddenly can be harmful to your body and your mind. You may begin to feel ill, experience difficult side effects, or even have a seizure.Follow your mental health provider’s direction for tapering off medication.


If you stop taking medication suddenly, you are at a higher risk for withdrawal symptoms or a recurrence of previous mental health symptoms.You may also endanger your health.
 Your provider may set up a regimen for you to slowly taper off medications. Even if you feel fine, don’t jump to the next stage of withdrawal as this can be dangerous.Instead, follow the program and gradually withdraw from mood stabilizers.


If you have any questions, talk to your provider. Don’t hesitate to get a second opinion if you are unclear or unsure of your provider’s decisions.
 If you develop symptoms that worry you, do not hesitate to contact your healthcare provider and report your symptoms.These can include mental, emotional, or physical symptoms that appear as a result of lowering or changing your medication dose.


Extreme side effects may include seizures, agitation, rapid speech, and mood instability., When stopping mood stabilizer medication, recognize that the risk of relapse can occur.You may experience a reemergence of symptoms. Be sure to discuss the risks of relapse with your provider as well as discuss ways to prevent and/or deal with relapse.


Relapse is more likely if you suddenly stop taking medication. Make sure you taper your doses of medication as according to your provider.
 Think about what triggers your mood disorder and what early warnings signs to look out for. What stressors may set you off? These may include financial difficulties, moving, starting a new job, seasonal changes, lack of sleep, problems with people at home or at work, or other stressors.You may also check with friends and loved ones as to what warning signs they pay attention to regarding your behavior. They may notice things that you do not.
 As you come off your medication, track your moods daily. Keep a record of your daily (or if applicable, hourly) moods, thoughts, and feelings.You can include how many hours you’ve slept and the quality of sleep, eating habits, exercise, alcohol or drug consumption, weight, and other important markers. This is a great way to track any changes you may experience as you come off of your medication.


Find a way to easily track these factors. You can use an application on your smartphone, a computer, or a pen and paper. Whatever you do, keep it organized and easy to use.
 Let your loved ones know your plans to stop taking medications. Despite your best efforts, you may encounter symptoms or a relapse of your mood disorder. Plan ahead and know what you (and your loved ones) can do.Have a list of emergency contacts readily available. This can include your medical doctor, therapist, and close family members.
Keep a list of all medications you take, as well as any medical diagnoses you have or life-threatening allergies.
Outline your treatment preferences. You may wish to be directly taken to the Emergency Department, or admitted to a clinic nearby. Specify your wishes and make them known.
 Alcohol can interact with certain medications and become dangerous.Alcohol and drugs and continue to be dangerous as you withdraw from medication.Drugs and alcohol may increase the risk of relapse or the experience of side effects of withdrawal. If you drink alcohol, consider cutting back or stopping altogether. If you use drugs or alcohol as a means to cope with difficult life situations or circumstances, find new and healthy ways to cope with difficulties.


If much of your social life revolves around drugs or alcohol, consider finding new hobbies or encouraging your friends to hang out in different ways. You can watch movies together, go ice skating, or play games instead of going drinking.
 Therapy is an important part of treating any mood disorder. However, it’s especially important if you’re stopping your medication use. Therapy helps you to cope with difficult times and gives you the tools to approach your mental or emotional problems more constructively.Especially as you stop your medications, your therapist can help you monitor any changes in mood, behavior, or other symptoms you may experience. Therapy can help you gain tools to help you in your personal and professional life.
 Continue to go to appointments and discuss the effects of the medication. Discuss any recent side effects, changes in sleeping, eating, mood, or concentration. Be honest with your provider and raise any questions or concerns you may have honestly. Don’t be afraid or shy to bring up questions. It’s your right to be informed and have correct information.You may wish to write concerns or questions prior to the appointment so that you don’t forget to bring them up when you meet with your provider.
 Look for a support group in your area, or try online support groups. Meeting with people with similar experiences can be helpful in understanding symptoms, experiences, and the process of letting go of mood stabilizers.
 Sleep can greatly affect your mood. Build healthy sleeping habits, such as going to bed and rising at the same time each day, even on weekends. Minimize napping and avoid caffeine after midday. Maintain a consistent sleep schedule and aim to get between 7-9 hours of sleep each night., Exercise can help impact mood and fight depression. Try to incorporate 30 minutes or more of activity 5 days each week.Start slow and build your way up; there’s no need to make exercise miserable. Instead, do activities that you enjoy. Start riding your bike, taking hikes, or pick up yoga or Thai Chi.


Do things you’ve always wanted to do but have never done.
 Have people you can count on to help you through difficult moments. Don’t allow yourself to succumb to isolation and instead, allow people in your life.Even if your family is far away, arrange phone calls or video chats or write emails to stay in touch. If your friends invite you to watch a movie, say “yes” and go instead of staying home alone. Reaching out doesn’t mean you are weak or that you are a burden. Your loved ones want to help you and support you.


If you’re struggling through a difficult time, pick up the phone and call or text a friend.
 A support group can be helpful in maintaining mental health. Join a support group with other people with mood disorders. You can each support one another in the daily struggles of coping with a mood disorder. Talking with other people who have “been there” can be comforting and therapeutic in itself.It can be helpful to share experiences and support with other people who have similar experiences.

