 The best thing you can do to improve your grades is focus and pay attention when the information is first presented to you. It's easy to lose focus when your teacher is going on and on about something that's not interesting, but you should not tune them out. Really listen to what they're saying and keep yourself engaged by asking questions and taking notes.;
, It might seem silly, but notes are actually a great way to help you improve your grades. Good notes are like a road map, when you go to study later on. They'll also show your teachers that you're serious about doing better in your classes. You don't have to write down everything your teacher says: just get down the basics. You know when you tell your parents about what happened to you during the day? That's how you should take notes. Just get the broad strokes, with the really important things written with greater detail.


If you know something is confusing to you or seems really complex, write that down too! Even if you don't understand what your teacher is saying, you'll have a note to yourself that you need to look that up and get more information later.
Write out your notes by hand, instead of on a computer. You will have an easier time remembering them this way.
 When you don't understand a concept or fact that your teachers talks about in lecture or that you encounter in your text books, don't be afraid to ask! Smart people don't just know everything instantly...they're curious enough to ask and find out when they don't know something.


If you're nervous about asking in front of everyone else, you can also talk to your teacher outside of class time and ask about getting some extra help or explanation.
You also shouldn't feel like your teacher would be angry about you not understanding. Teachers are happy when you're interested enough and invested enough to ask for help.
If your teacher doesn't explain it in a way that you can understand or if you still feel uncomfortable, try going on the Internet to find a new explanation. You can often find YouTube videos covering common school concepts, and there are also forums and other websites that might deal with your question and explain it to you better.
 Your teacher will probably give you a syllabus at the beginning of the year or semester. This is a written outline of all of the subjects you will study over the course of the year. You should go over this syllabus carefully and ask your teacher about anything on it that doesn't make sense. Paired with your notes, it's another great road map to your learning.
 You might not realize it, but your problems concentrating might be because you're hungry! Try eating a small snack between classes, as well as a drink of water, in order to help your brain concentrate and have the best chance at absorbing the material.


Your snack should be high in protein, which will give you the most energy. Try salami sticks or a handful of almonds or soy nuts.
 Everyone learns in different ways. Some people learn better when they're moving and using their body. Some people learn better with lots of pictures and visuals. Some people learn better when they can hear things like words and music. Think about what helps you remember things the most and then find ways to work that into how you learn your course material.


For example, if you're an auditory learner (someone who learns better with sounds), ask your teacher if you can record lectures to listen to again later.
If you don't know your learning style, you can take a test here or you can take any number of other online tests. You can also just analyze your own classroom experiences.
If you're a visual learner, draw up some charts or webs which visually represent the information you need to learn and how the ideas are connected.
 Don't procrastinate! Waiting until the end of the quarter to study or, even worse, cramming the night before a test dooms you to poor grades. Your brain won't have enough time to really understand the material and log it away. Cramming leads you to remember things incorrectly or not at all. Basically, you should set aside time every night to go over material from the previous week and make sure you remember and understand everything.


This means that when you study for a test, all you have to do is a quick refresher.
Try to return to old material as much as possible, to help solidify the ideas in your mind.
 Having good notes allows you to quickly go over the material and refresh your memory. If you didn't understand it the first time, your notes will give you a road map to finding the information that you need. Organize your notes by topic and go over them one topic at a time.


Sometimes topics that are related are covered at very different points in the year. You might have to pair information you learned in September with information you learned in January, to get a full picture of it.
 Sometimes your teacher may give you a study guide, but if not, you should make your own. A study guide breaks up the information that might be covered on the test and then lists out the most important facts and ideas. These are usually used for preparing for tests but they can also be used for keeping up with regular subjects as well. Make one for yourself each time you finish a unit and you will be prepared for anything your teacher could throw your way.


Make study cards. Study cards are like little study guides, with a single concept or set of facts to one note card. You can then study these like flash cards, giving yourself 2-3 per day, covering material from previous weeks so that it stays fresh in your mind.
 Have you ever seen a mind map? This is where someone writes down an idea on a card and places it on a wall, then connects other cards with similar ideas to the first. You can do this for studying too! Make charts, graphs, and written descriptions on pieces of paper or note cards, and then organize these by taping them to your wall. Study from your wall and when it becomes test time, you'll be able to think of where the information you need was on your wall and you'll have a much easier time remember it!

, You'll probably have to do at least a little memorizing, for information that you can't remember easily. Different people memorize things better or worse using different techniques, so you'll probably have to do some experimenting. The most important thing is to remember to start the process early and spend a lot of time working on it, so that your brain has enough time and experience to really log it away. You can try these memorization techniques:


Work only on small sections at a time. When working on memorizing lists (such as vocabulary words, place names, or groups of people), never work with more than five items at a time. Thoroughly memorize these five items before going on to the next five items. If you try to do all at once, you'll really struggle.
Use mnemonics. Mnemonics are when you use acronyms or other keys in order to remember lists or concepts. For example, "Memory Needs Every Method Of Nurturing Its Capacity" is a mnemonic for how to spell mnemonic. Look up if there are any mnemonics for what you're studying, or make up your own!
Use flash cards. Flash cards are useful for studying vocabulary words and other things, like dates. Write yourself a question or word on one side of a note card, and the answer or definition on the other.
 Your studying will be most effective if you break it up with mental rest periods. MIT recommends 50 minutes of study or work followed by 10 minutes of rest. They also recommend using this time to do things like eat and get a few minutes of exercise, since this will keep your mind sharp and productive.
 You need to have a productive environment to study in. Your study environment should be free of distractions, so turn off those cell phones! You need to focus because each time you do get distracted, studies show, it takes 25 minutes to really get back on track. Sometimes, you might be able to find a quiet spot in a busy house if you think outside the box: try a basement or bathroom. If your home isn't good for studying, try a library or coffee shop.
A lot of the time, we tell ourselves that we need certain things, like television and music, to help us focus when really we just want to justify a distraction. If you're one of the 30% of auditory learners, your learning will be more productive if you speak aloud the information, rather than trying to learn it while other noises are competing for your attention.
 Eating poorly can make it hard for your brain to work, because it won't have the tools it needs. The same goes for sleep. Scientists now think that when we sleep, our brains clean out toxins and other dangerous materials that keep us from being able to think clearly. Get your 8 hours of sleep (or however much leaves your body feeling refreshed for the entire day) and eat a healthy, balanced diet.


Skip out on junk food, sugar, and too much fat. You should eat fruits, vegetables (kale and spinach are good), and healthy protein sources like fish and nuts.
 Keep all of your work organized in folders and binders and keep a calendar of due dates. Staying organized like this will help keep you from forgetting assignments and tests. It will also help you schedule in study time and relaxation time, in a way that you can create a healthy balance.


Staying organized extends to your work space as well. You should keep extras off of your desk that might cause distractions.
 When you study, start by evaluating what you do know. You can set aside the information you do know for last minute review. Just make sure that you really are comfortable with the material and do set aside at least a little review time before going in for a test. Once you've set this aside, you can focus on conquering the information that you don't know or aren't comfortable with.
 When you know you have a test coming up, you'll need to really buckle down and devote extra time and focus to making sure you understand the material. Talk to your teacher for some extra, pointed advice on how to prepare for your test. You should at least ask them about the format that you can expect, as well as how it will be graded.


Study for tests in the testing room. Visual learners especially will benefit from this technique. Your brain will associate the visuals in the room with the studying you did and the information you learned, making it easier to recall.
Some studies have argued, however, that moving around to different rooms can help you remember information better. This technique, however, may cause too much distraction so use it carefully and if it doesn't seem to help, stop using it.
Take a practice test. Practice tests can help you overcome test anxiety and help you understand what you're likely to encounter on the test. Get together with a group of friends and make several practice tests. You can even ask your teacher with help on this!

, Time management is crucial to making good marks on assignments and exams. A lot of the time we feel like we've spent more time on studying than we really have (because of distractions) or we'll feel like we shouldn't spend more time on studying because we have so little free time to begin with. When you cut out activities that really don't add anything to your life, like playing Candy Crush or checking Facebook, you'll find that you have way more time for both studying and relaxing! Really prioritize what's important and you'll be setting aside a good amount of time for study before you know it.
 If you're really working to turn your grades around but you're not making any headway, try talking to your teacher. Set up a meeting after school or at lunch and explain your problem to them: you're trying to improve your grades but studying more, taking notes, and other traditional methods aren't working. They might be better able to understand where you're struggling and help you find a way to overcome the problem.
 If you're working hard on your coursework and you've shown your teacher that you've really changed your approach to learning, you should consider asking for extra credit or even a special, big side project. This can help make up for poor grades you got earlier and help you end with an A...even if you had a C!


Make sure you explain to your teacher everything you've been working on, so that they know you're serious. A lot of teachers don't like extra credit, but they'll probably have sympathy if they see you really working to put yourself on a better path.
 If you're really having a hard time, ask your teacher or your university's tutoring center if they can help you find a tutor. Getting a tutor isn't admitting defeat and it doesn't make you dumb: a tutor is a tool, like a code book or a translator. Everyone has something that they don't understand at some point and you're making the smart decision by using every weapon in your arsenal to defeat your lack of understanding.
 When you study with other people, you're pulling together all of your different pieces of intelligence and understanding to make one academic ace! You can compare notes and discuss the class to make sure that you all have the fullest, best understanding of the material. Just remember: you have to give a good as you get when working with others or no one will want to work with you.
 Sometimes, if you take your learning into an immersive environment or do it in a way that gives you a way to really see what it is you're learning, this can help you learn the information a lot better. Find a way to make your subject real and give yourself context for what's happening and you'll find you connect with the material in a way that you haven't before.


So, for example, going to a history museum and seeing actual items people used as you learn about the history. Another example would be doing science experiments instead of just reading about reactions in books.
If you want to try some science experiments, wikiHow can help. Try making colored fire or making your own personal cloud!

, There are lots of online tools that can help explain the material you're trying to learn. You can just go looking for communities that are interested in the material you don't understand or you can go to websites that are specifically designed to help. Just remember: you're not just looking for the answer so you can copy it down. If you really want to improve your grades, what you really want is to find someone that can help you understand the material. Some good places to start include:


http://www.mathsisfun.com/
http://grammar.ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/
http://www.cosmeo.com/bysubject.cfm?science
http://quizlet.com/

