 You can find a sport you enjoy or even a dance. If sports aren't your thing, try BeachBody exercise programs. Especially the "Yoga-Booty-Ballet" which helps you feel GREAT about yourself.;
, Hollister Co. Models are either required to wear all HCO. clothes, which is the easiest, or have a strict wardrobe:

Bottoms have to be denim shorts, skirt, or jeans.






Jeans can be Abercrombie or from another company, but only if there is no distinct pocket design or label.
Tops have to be in white, gray, or navy.






Shoes have to be neutral-colored or leather flip-flops. Depending on the Hollister near you, Vans and Converse are acceptable.






By all means you DO NOT have to dress according to this policy. The policy will help you look more authentic Hollister, but if you don't work there there's no point in stressing over what to wear. Hollister Co. is all about the laid back surfer look. That means that shorts and tank-tops are your new BFF's.
 The models at Hollister are required to make their hair look like it came from their own head. You can't straighten your bangs and then curl the rest of your hair. Keep your hair down and, if possible, always natural. Deep condition and trim it often to keep it fresh and healthy.
 This is a stake to the heart when a teenage girl hears this, but it's what keeps the look laid-back. You should only need:

Foundation






Concealer






Powder






VERY light eye makeup






Lip balm







, Small diamond studs and a ring or bracelet are more than enough, as you don't want to look too overdone. Only wear a clear coat of nail polish if you want to wear any at all, and keep your nails manicured nicely. Don't get acrylics or any colored nail polish, as this doesn't look natural and looks a bit too done-up.
 It's less fancy than a purse and it's more pretty than a backpack.
 This is the Hollister Model's secret to being a true Cali Girl. Brush your teeth regularly and keep some mints in your beach tote. Get braces and have your teeth whitened to keep them looking as perfect as possible.
 Nothing says "I feel good about myself!" more than a healthy glow. Don't stay in the sun too long or you'll be way to sunburned to put on your HCo. clothes. Be careful not to spend too much time in the sun, or this can cause potentially fatal problems later in life. Try using a self-tanning lotion, they are better for your skin than the harmful UV rays from the sun or a tanning bed. Some tanning lotions even have moisturizers! However, if you are very fair skinned naturally, just embrace your skin color, and do not ruin it with damaging or fake-looking tans.
 Having good posture will boost your confidence and will help you have less back problems in the future.

