 Notice feelings of anxiety, worry, fear, and sadness and how they affect your behavior. For example, you may start to have problems sleeping, notice changes in your appetite or weight, disengage from activities or friends, or not leave your home. Be aware of your feelings and how they affect you.Keep a journal to write how you feel. Write down any changes to your behavior or feelings and how you are coping with the stress.;
, After a tragedy, it’s easy to feel pessimistic and discouraged. However, keep a balanced attitude by recognizing that there are good people who want to help. Not everyone in the world is evil, greedy, or violent. Acknowledging balance can empower you to see the world around you more wholly and not narrowly through sad or angry eyes.Remind yourself of people or events that are comforting and meaningful to you. For example, reflect on the time a stranger helped you find your wallet or the way your grandma bakes you cookies when you’ve had a hard day.
 If the stress of violence is too much to handle, be careful not to take on additional stressors. If watching the news makes you anxious or fearful, don’t turn on the television. If driving or going shopping feels threatening, ask a friend to accompany you. Do what you can to feel safe and minimally stressed.If there’s someone who causes you stress or will increase your stress levels, spend time away from them during this time. If this is not possible, limit the time you spend with them or make it clear when you do not wish it discuss a topic. Say, “I need some time away from talking about this, please.”
If you begin to avoid leaving your house out of fear, such as by ordering groceries online because you are afraid to go to the grocery store or by making excuses why you can’t meet with friends, then seek professional help.
 If you don’t feel safe at certain locations, find places that make you feel safe and secure. For example, you may feel safe at your home or at a friend or family member’s home. Perhaps you feel safe at church, synagogue, or another religious or spiritual place. Find places where you feel secure and know that you can go there when you feel threatened or scared.


You can also have people to call when you feel unsafe. For example, if you feel scared, call a sibling, teacher, neighbor, or friend. Say, “This really scares me and I want to talk about it.”
If you want to feel safe yet don’t want to talk about the violence, say, “So much is happening and I feel really affected by it. I need a friend to help keep my mind off of things.” This can help you feel supported and less alone.
 While you cannot make mass violence go away, you can make adaptations on your behalf to tolerate the situation better.Focusing on violence and potential threats can make you feel overwhelmed, scared, and worried. While you may not be able to control the violence, you can control things within your own life.


Instead of focusing on what you cannot control, focus on what is within your control, such as what you eat, how you respond to people, and what action you take.
If you tend to turn to bad habits, focus on finding ways to cope with stress helpfully. For example, if you turn to alcohol, find an alcohol-free social activity to do with friends like a game night or movie night. (Make sure that your friends are aware of your desire to avoid alcohol and are not drinking themselves.) If you want to drown things out with television or video games, take a walk instead.
 Have people you trust to talk to about the experience and your stress. It’s also important to have times when you can connect with others and talk about things that don’t relate to violence. Have friends and family members who you know you can lean on in times of stress to talk to, cry with, and also distract you from troubles when you need it.Even if you don’t live near family or friends, write emails or make phone calls to stay connected. Being connected to others is important when you are under stress.
 If you’ve lost someone or are affected by a tragedy, take the time to grieve. Grieving looks different for everyone, so do what you need to do to cope with your loss effectively. You may want to surround yourself with friends or wish to spend some time alone. Whatever you do, honor your feelings and experience.If you’re having difficulty in your grieving process or feel like you can’t do it on your own, reach out for support. Ask friends or family members for help or reach out to a therapist. You can also get involved in a support group.
 If you suffer from an anxiety disorder, depression, or other mental health diagnoses, you may be more sensitive to external stressors. Stressors like mass violence can lead to worsening symptoms.If you have a history of mental health problems, be extra aware of how you feel and how you cope with the stressors around you.


Stay on any prescribed medication and continue treatment. Now is an important time to stay extra careful of your mental health. If you notice any changes in your symptoms, contact your medical or mental health provider.
 If you’re experiencing trauma, it can be beneficial to talk to a therapist. A therapist can provide you with a space to express yourself and share how you feel without feeling judged or shamed. Whatever stress the violence causes you, a therapist can help you learn to cope and relax more effectively.


If you’re struggling with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a therapist can help you understand what you’re feeling and help you to work through your symptoms and trauma., It’s likely that you are not the only person affected by mass violence and that others feel stressed or worried about it, too. Connecting with other people can be helpful in sharing support for one another. Especially if you feel like you lack a social group or friends and family to support you, a support group can be helpful in building connections and feeling united with other people during difficult times.Look for a support group through a local mental health clinic, community center, or ask for recommendations from a friend or physician.
 Escaping stress through drugs and alcohol can bring immediate relief, but the long-term effects are often harmful. Drugs and alcohol may feel like an easy escape, yet stress will wait for you and come back at full force.If you’re feeling stressed around mass violence, find other outlets that do not include drugs or alcohol.
 One healthy outlet for stress is through a relaxation practice. For 30 minutes each day, find a quiet place to calm your mind and emotions. Let go of whatever is happening or has happened and focus on relaxation in both your mind and body. This can help lower stress, stabilize moods, and decrease depression.Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation. Get into a routine of practicing relaxation every day in order to cope with daily stressors and to reduce overall stress levels.
 When you feel overwhelmed or like stress is getting you down, focus on something that brings you gratitude. Reflect on things, people, or experiences that you appreciate in your life. Especially if you feel hopeless, practicing gratitude can give you a different perspective.When you’re feeling down or discouraged, change your thoughts to something you are grateful for, even if it’s something small. Focus on the food you have to eat or the sound of birds outside.
Get in the habit of writing in a gratitude journal daily to highlight the positive things in your life.
 While exercise may be the furthest thing from your mind during times of stress and violence, it can help you manage stress and feel better. Exercise can help you to relax and relieve tension in your body. It can also help your mind to think more clearly and more positively.Go for a run or a hike, or if you’re scared to go outside, do some exercise at home. Put on some music and dance to it, or do an at-home workout with some weights.
 Keeping your body and mind healthy is a great way to resist stress and stay healthy. Eat a healthy and balanced diet and don’t skip meals. Avoid turning to sugar or caffeine as a comfort as these can make you crash in both your mood and your energy. Reducing and minimizing sugar and caffeine intake can help you sleep better and feel more relaxed.Do your best to engage in healthy sleep habits such as avoiding screens around bedtime and going to bed and waking up at the same time each day, even on the weekends. Not getting enough sleep can lead to irritability and a drop in the ability to think clearly.

