 As discussed above, Scouts have a 6/32 medium-close ranged Scattergun (Primary). Aside from this, he also wields a 12/36 medium ranged Pistol (Secondary) and finally, the Bat, which is completely deadly for picking at the opposing players' health until death (Melee). The other two weapons are his speed and double jump, which the Scout possesses for movement, confusion and evasion. Learn these in a combo.;
, It is very powerful. It works well in medium ranges and can be lethal at short range. It is stronger than the regular Shotgun. To do maximum damage with this weapon, you have to be up close to your target. Reload this weapon whenever you're out of combat range, and make sure to think ahead and plan your reloads carefully if you have to do so during battle. This could mean popping behind some cover to do so.


Use the Pistol in long ranges. The Pistol is the most accurate weapon the Scout has, and it is perfect for picking off enemies who try to flee. This weapon does more damage than the Scattergun at long ranges. The Pistol also has a very fast rate of fire. You can use it as a second-hand weapon to the Scattergun. To fire it at maximum speed, you should rapidly click the mouse button instead of holding it down.






Use the Baseball bat at point-blank range. The baseball bat can be lethal when in range. It is also very fast. However, if you miss a swing, your plan could go awry. You should only use this on an unsuspecting enemy whose back is turned, or when the Scattergun and Pistol are not available for use. This weapon, compared to the other melee weapons in the game, swings faster, but each swing does less damage, so it isn't like the burst damage of the other melee weapons. Beware if your target is also trying to use their melee, as a critical hit from it will kill you instantly if your health is low.



1. The Scout runs around 1/3 faster than the other classes that run at standard speed. The Scout is also capable of using a double jump to dart around in the air during combat or reach places unreachable to other classes (excluding Soldiers and Demomen). The superior speed and movement is one of the key abilities to his style of gameplay, and you should hardly ever be staying still. Jump around and move in unpredictable patterns during combat to make it harder for the enemy to aim at you, giving you a further advantage.






2. The Scout has a health pool of 125 HP. This is one of the Scout's main weaknesses; being exposed to heavy damage (such as a Heavy's Minigun or a Sentry gun) will kill you very quickly. You will be constantly rushing for health packs or a Medic to keep yourself alive. Make sure you memorize the maps you play on so you know how to retreat from a battle or rush for a health pack to heal you.
 As a Scout, your biggest advantage is speed. This allows you to escape in tight spots. Scout, with the exception of Spy, is the only class who can get into a fight and get away clean by running away. You can run across places other classes can't. You can easily capture the "intelligence" in Capture The Flag games. You can also easily capture control points, as Scouts capture twice as fast, and can run before any enemies attack them. You can also use your speed, to a certain extent, to avoid enemy fire, although don't rely on it for heavy, concentrated fire. Jumping around and running in unpredictable patterns in combat makes it harder for the enemy to accurately aim at you, so use this to your advantage.
 As a Scout, your biggest disadvantage is your low health pool. Your health pool is at only 125, so you will be constantly rushing around for health packs. Make sure you memorize the maps and remember where they are. One of the best way of staying alive is attacking while your targets are focused on killing one of your team-mates. If you are at the center of attention, you are likely to take heavy damage and die very quickly.
 As a Scout, you can, while in the air, jump again to get a double jump. You can reach places inaccessible to other classes (excluding Soldiers and Demomen). Utilizing your double jumps to take small shortcuts on maps can make you traverse even quicker, or get you into advantageous positions (e.g. straight behind your targets without them knowing, allowing you to wound or even kill them).
 Scouts aren't particularly known for their defensive abilities, but they perform at their best on the front lines. Being in a small group is the most convenient, as Scouts are known to die quickly if they're on their own with a lot of enemies surrounding them. Assisting your team-mates in attacking ensures the highest rate of survival for you, if your enemies keep their attention off you. Strike at them from positions they wouldn't expect, and even if you don't manage to kill them in the first encounter, run off to get a health pack or something else, and strike again when their attention is focused on something else. Scouts are probably at their weakest if they get caught up in direct confrontations. Assisting other players attack and attacking from unexpected positions greatly bolsters their ability to perform better.
 Scouts aren't well known for massive killing sprees. Helping your team through a group perspective, such as capping the point, or attempting to get the enemy Intel, is an area where you shine, as you are specialized in doing these things (Scouts cap twice as fast as other players, and can make great carriers due to their speed).

