 If your dandruff is severe, you can try anti-dandruff shampoos that contain certain ingredients that kill the fungi partly responsible for dandruff. Look for shampoos at your local drugstore or pharmacy that contain:Zinc pyrithione: This ingredient helps to kill the malassezia fungi that is partially responsible for the development of dandruff. You can find zinc pyrithione in the brands like Head & Shoulders, Jason Dandruff Relief 2 in 1, and SHS Zinc.
Salicylic acid and sulfur: This ingredient helps to soften dead skin cells on your scalp, causing them to shed and release from your scalp and can be found in Neutrogena T/Sal and Sebulex. Be aware you may experience dryness on your scalp after using a shampoo that contains salicylic acid. You can use a conditioner after the shampoo to keep your scalp moisturized.
Selenium sulfide 1% to 2.5%: This ingredient helps to slow down the production of skin cells on your scalp and kill dandruff causing fungi. It can be found in Exsel, Selsun Blue, and Reme-T. However, this shampoo is not recommended for individuals with blonde or chemically treated hair, as it can discolor your hair.
Ketoconazole 1% shampoo: This shampoo has a powerful antifungal effect that can treat and prevent dandruff. This ingredient can be found in Nizoral A-D shampoo.
Coal tar shampoo: These shampoos can help to slow down the production of dead skin cells and prevent dandruff. This ingredient can be found in Neutrogena T/Gel, Tarsum, and Tegrin.
You should not use certain types of anti-dandruff shampoo if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. Always read the instructions on the label of the shampoo before use and talk to your doctor if you have concerns about using the shampoo.;
, Once you decide on an anti-dandruff shampoo, it’s important that you apply it properly for the most effective treatment. You can apply all of these shampoos once a day or every other day until your dandruff is under control. The exception is Ketoconazole shampoo, which only needs to be applied twice a week.Apply the shampoo by massaging it into your scalp and leaving it on for at least five minutes so the ingredients have time to work. If you notice one type of shampoo has lost its effectiveness, try alternating between two different types of dandruff shampoos.
If the dandruff shampoo appears to be working, reduce your use of the shampoo to two to three times a week. If the shampoo does not work after several weeks and your dandruff is still severe, you should talk to your doctor about prescription treatments.
 In addition to anti-dandruff shampoos, you may want to try medicated creams that you can apply to your scalp to treat dandruff. There are two creams you can use:Corticosteroid creams: These can reduce any inflammation or dry skin and are available over the counter in either 0.5% or 1% concentrations. You can use them on your scalp on damp hair after you have used anti-dandruff shampoo.
Antifungal creams: These creams are effective as they can reduce the amount of yeast organisms living on your skin, including your scalp. Look for over the counter creams that have 1% clotrimazole and 2% miconazole cream. You can apply antifungal creams one to two times a day.
 If you have copious dandruff on your scalp, then you can also apply warm mineral oil at bedtime to help loosen up the scales. Cover your hair and scalp with a shower cap and wear it overnight. Then, shampoo your hair with a medicated shampoo in the morning.