 You will need a hand saw, electric drill with various bit sizes, a braided rope that’s five eighths of an inch, masking tape, screws, and branches that are one and half - two inches. The number of branches and the amount of rope will depend on how many animals you wish to display., Select branches that are straight and are even in diameter. You may need to cut the ends so that they are an even length or keep them uncut for a more rustic feel. Use a hand saw for clean cuts. Make sure that you dry the branches first if you have collected them from outside or you may purchase branches from a hobby or home and garden store., First use a small drill bit, about two inches, to create a pilot hole through each end of your branch. Continue to increase the sizes of your drill bit as you drill through the pilot hole until you have created a hole large enough to fit the rope through., Measure your rope to the length that you wish your swing to hang and then add fourteen inches to compensate for knots that you will be tying at the end of the rope. Prevent fraying by wrapping masking tape at the end of your rope. This will also allow you to thread the rope through the branch smoothly., At both ends of the branch thread a length of rope so that you have two pieces of rope attached to each branch. Tie a knot at the end of the rope. Use a drill and screw the top knots of the rope into the wall near mouldings or the ceiling.Make sure that the swings are only held by the knot in the rope. They are not meant to bear heavy weight especially if you have young ones who will want to climb it. Allow the swing to easily release from the wall in case a child tugs on it.
 Make sure the swing is level and adjust the height to your preference by adjusting the knots at the bottom of the swing. Play with the look of placing several swings side by side at different heights. Once you have your prefered heights, remove the masking tape from the ends of the rope and fray the ends of the rope to your preference.


Freshen the look of your branches by hanging stuffed toys in different colour combinations or style combinations. For example you can have all white bears on one branch and all black dogs on another.

