 While there are many smaller religions and subsets of major ones, most people in the world practice either Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, or Judaism.Educate yourself on the history and origins of these religions to get a fuller understanding of their customs and beliefs.


You can find most historical information on these religions online or at a local library.
It may be hard to research all five at once, so start with one you’re unfamiliar with and slowly move on to learn the rest over time.
Islam, Christianity, and Judaism were derived in the Middle East while Hinduism and Buddhism were founded in India.The age of each religion varies drastically in some cases. Hinduism is the oldest known religion that's still practiced and has been developed in India since 1500 BCE., Religious texts exist as standards and practices for major religions, and are great sources to better understand most belief systems. While your personal belief may lie elsewhere, reading and comprehending the texts will give you a better appreciation for other religions.


While Judaism has the Torah, Christianity has the Bible, and Islam has the Quran, most major religions usually have hundreds of associated texts related to the canon of the religion as well.You can always pick up religious texts in your native tongue by looking online or at a bookstore.
 The best way to get perspective on other faiths is to talk to people that actively practice them. Ask them questions in a respectful way about how their faith impacts their life.


You can ask people about specific dishes that they eat during certain holidays, or customs that you’re not sure about.
Most people will be pleasantly surprised when you take interest in their religion., Holy places, or sacred sites are areas of religious significance and are often visited by people who practice the religion.Visiting them will allow you to experience the religion, in person, and give you special knowledge that can’t be attained from books. In addition, it will allow you to surround yourself with those that follow a different faith.


Sacred sites can be found all over the world including countries like Nepal, India, China, Japan, Italy, France, and Israel.Refer to a travel guide to find local sacred sites.

