 The first step to improving your bulimia is to accept the fact that you have a serious problem, and that you cannot overcome this issue on your own. You may truly believe that if you could only get your weight or eating under control, you could be happy. However, the only way you can get better is to admit you have an unhealthy relationship with food and your body. You must open your eyes and heart to the possibility of recovery.
 To start the recovery process, you must see a doctor. Your doctor can provide a thorough exam and assess your bloodwork to determine how much damage your body has endured. He can also help you and your loved ones determine the level of care needed to help you recover., Your primary care doctor is not sufficient to treat bulimia on her own. After you get an initial evaluation, she will likely refer you to a community resource who has a special background in treating eating disorders. This professional may be a licensed therapist, psychologist, or psychiatrist., An effective treatment plan for overcoming bulimia will focus on helping you identify and avoid triggers, manage stress, build a better body image, and address any psychological or emotional issues that contributed to the eating disorder.Research has shown cognitive behavioral therapy to be one of the most effective treatment approaches for bulimia.In this type of therapy, patients work with the therapist to challenge unrealistic thought patterns about their appearance and bodies and develop healthier relationships with food.Find a cognitive behavioral therapist specializing in eating disorders for the best chance at recovery.
 Another aspect of your bulimia recovery will be meeting with a registered dietitian. The dietitian will help you determine how many calories and nutrients you should consume each day and work with you to adopt healthier eating behaviors., A common complaint of many people battling psychiatric disorders like bulimia is not having anyone who understand what you're going through. If you feel similarly, it can be comforting to participate in local or online support groups catered to bulimia sufferers.Your parents or other loved ones may also benefit from taking part in a support group for families. In these meetings, participants may discuss and learn how to care for you better and foster a successful recovery.

