 Reconfiguring your professional self takes commitment. Before you switch, identify one or more good reasons for doing so.Things that may cause dissatisfaction at your current job--including feeling constantly underutilized, unfulfilled, stressed, underpaid, and so on--could potentially be good reasons for consider a career change.
A temporary stress (like a big project with a definite end date), or issues that may be “fixable” (like asking for a higher salary) might not be good reasons to rush into a career change.
 Changing careers might mean a pay raise, or it might mean taking a pay cut in order to do something that is more fulfilling. If you are transitioning between careers, you might also find yourself in situations where you are working only part-time as you gain skills and experience. In any case, a career change can have significant financial consequences, and you’ll want to think them through. Ask yourself questions like:If I have to work part-time for a while or take a break from working at all, will I be able to stay financially afloat?
Are the long-term income prospects of a new career adequate for my basic needs, lifestyle and goals?
Am I willing to take a pay cut and sacrifice some things in order to pursue a career that matters more to me?
Do I feel like I need to move into a career that pays more than my current one?

, Since careers are so closely tied to personal identity, changing jobs will change the way you think about yourself to some extent. Make sure you’re ready for this.


Will you take pride in the new career?
Will you be able to talk about how the change fits into your personal and professional goals?
Do you see yourself regretting the change down the road?
Will you feel as professionally fulfilled in a new career?
Are you willing to redefine your priorities in order to pursue a new career?

, In many cases, a potential career change won’t just impact you, but also your family and even “surrogate” family, like close friends. Think about whether your loved ones will support your career shift, how it will impact them, and whether or not the change is in everyone’s best interest.Will changing careers impact other family obligations you may have? For instance, if you are a teacher with time off in the summer, will changing careers alter your childcare commitments, vacation plans, or other other things?
If you’re ready to make a career change, your loved ones don’t necessarily have to be immediately on board with the plan. However, you should be able to talk to them about why you think the change is important, and a good idea, and pull together to find solutions to make it work.
 Before making a headlong dive into a new career, you can try taking small measures, like signing up for an online or traditional course in the field, or freelancing in the area. That way, you can gauge your interests and see if you are ready to make a career switch, without fully committing right away.If you're a dental hygienist thinking about opening your own cupcake business, maybe start by taking a class in business basics to see if you can commit to the idea.
If you’re a lawyer looking to become a writer, you might test things out by freelancing a bit on the side as a start.

