 The FAFSA is the only way to apply for federal financial aid. Fill out the FAFSA online at www.fafsa.gov, or, if you know what school you will attend, request a form from the financial aid office. If you are trying to maximize your aid it’s to your benefit to submit the FAFSA. You should submit the form as early as possible, ideally during the January before your first fall term. This is because some loans are given on a first-come, first-served basis.The FAFSA asks about your tax information, including your social security number, your number of dependents, and your annual income. If you are not an independent adult over age 24, you will also have to provide your family’s tax information. However, do not make the mistake of waiting until you’ve filed your taxes to submit the FAFSA – you can submit the form using estimates.
Similarly, you don’t have to wait until you know which school you’ll be attending or how much it will cost. Get the form submitted as early as possible.
 Once you’ve submitted your FAFSA, you will receive a confirmation and an estimated EFC. The federal government determines your EFC with a formula, using the information from your FAFSA. This number represents the amount of money that the government expects you and your family to contribute to your education each year. The lower the EFC, the more financial aid you are likely to receive.Many students find that the EFC is higher than what they can actually afford to pay. If this is the case, don’t give up. You are also eligible for non-need-based federal aid, such as unsubsidized loans. By cutting costs and investigating other sources of support, you may still be able to attend your school of choice.
 Whether you’ve decided on a program or are debating the merits of multiple programs, you’ll need to determine what your annual expenses will actually be. Check with the school or schools for an estimated cost of attendance.


This cost should include not only tuition and fees but also room and board (unless you will live with parents or relatives for free), groceries and/or meal plan costs, textbooks, supplies, laboratory fees, transportation costs, day-care costs if you have young children, and miscellaneous personal expenses.
 In most cases, once you add up all your costs, you will have a number much higher than your EFC. You can get a rough estimate of what your federal financial aid will be by subtracting your EFC from the cost of attendance.As an example, consider a university with an annual cost of attendance of $27,000. If you have an EFC of $10,000, you would subtract that from the cost and see that you are likely to be offered $17,000 a year in financial aid. A significant portion of that amount will be in the form of student loans. If you cannot afford the $10,000 EFC, you can obtain unsubsidized loans to cover this amount.
 When your official financial aid offers arrive, read them carefully. Your financial aid package will typically consist of:


Grants. Grants are funded by the government and do not need to be paid back.
Loans. There are various types of loans, some subsidized and some unsubsidized, but all of them will eventually need to be paid back. It is extremely difficult to discharge student loans, even in bankruptcy.
Work-study offers. If you are awarded work study, you’ll spend a predetermined number of hours working somewhere on campus to earn that extra funding.

