 Before a fighter wearing gloves and entering the ring, you wrap your hands first. This is done using hand wraps, which can be made from cotton, elastic fibers and gel (the latter being fingerless wraps). In this case, try to opt for ones made of cotton or elastic fibers. Basically, hand wraps are used for two purposes: to protect the tendons and muscles and to help tighten the fist. Learn how to apply hand wraps before setting foot into the gym in order to save your instructor the trouble. It’ll also enable you to go straight into training.;
, Though you do not run great lengths when inside the boxing ring, the matches require you to be in perpetual motion. You will learn how to do so in boxing lessons, which is why you need to start building up stamina as soon as possible. In most professional matches, boxers usually lose steam in the latter part of the fights. Though the chances of you ending up fighting a 12 round bout are low, it pays to have the lungs of an elephant and the endurance of a migrating bird. Remember, the stronger your endurance, the longer you’ll last during the lessons, enabling you to get the most out of the experience.
 Increasing punching power and hand speed does not actually require you to lift heavy weights (mainly because it slows down your hands). Keep in mind that lifting weights is for people who want huge biceps, not for those who want to enhance their punching ability. In boxing, the power of your punches depends on how much force you put behind your fists in seconds. To enhance this ability, simply train with a medicine ball. As for hands speed, try to shadow box while holding a couple of two to five pound dumbbells.
 Since boxing is a physically straining sport, you need to be able to get sufficient nutrients to fuel you. Make sure that your diet includes healthy doses of protein, calcium, zinc and the essential vitamins. Take in food supplements if your diet does not provide enough but talk to your health professional first. If you’re aiming to lose some weight, focus on eating a high protein diet.