 Ever wonder how you lost that battle and you got the first shot off? Your enemy was probably getting the headshots off with whatever weapon they were using. Remember to always be moving in a battle and jumping around a little, this makes it harder for the enemy to hit you. Whether your using an assault rifle or battle rifle, always go for the headshot, if you can pull it off right, you'll win most of your 1v1 battles., Need a way to take out that enemy around the wall but you just can't get a shot off? Throw a grenade at a wall in the hallway in order to make the grenade bounce off into the hallway and cause damage or even kill the enemy that was there., I have always played better with people that can communicate and I can work well with., It will only make playing harder for you and your team, you always tend to play better when your relaxed and can think it through., It can be very useful to crouch, this makes you undetectable on the radar until you fire or start running again, this is also very useful so can sneak around the map without detection, use surprise attacks and sneak up on those pesky snipers, and this works best with camo., 2) Based on what you see in the opponents screen, find out where they are and throw a grenade in their direction., Instead, try running side to side as you move towards the opponent. Also, you may want to jump, which will make it harder for the average player to kill you. But beware, this will only make it easier for an experienced player to kill you, since you can't change directions in midair. Shoot at him as much as you can while rushing, taking damage will cause the rifle to un-scope and give you more time to get in cover., Instead, hit them with the melee attack or take a couple swipes at them with a sword. Be sure to not take too much time sneaking up on them because the player could look at your screen and turn around to make your job harder., If the vehicle has weapons on it, jump up and down as you run, as most vehicles can't adjust their aim up and down. If the vehicle has no weapons don't jump before you get hit. And if you're in a vehicle and trying to splatter people, act as if your going to run them over, wait for them to jump, when the jump, that's when you stop, wait until they start falling to charge at them, trust me, you'll get them as they can't change direction in mid air., If all else fails,try to stick the vehicle with a plasma or a stick grenade. Throw a frag in front of you before you would be run over and the vehicle will flip over you and crash., If you do, continue shooting.,,, You'll be able to tell because they cannot shoot and the sides glow blue. (They also speed up considerably.) If you are low on shields or ammunition, DON'T BE AFRAID TO HIDE! Your health will regenerate., This weapon locks on to vehicles and homes in with deadly accuracy, and it's very easy to aim. And if they happen to get close enough you should use a plasma pistol so it temporarily shut down the vehicle and Hijack it, oh and, you can thank them for the shiny new banshee/hornet., Grab your own aerial vehicle. You can ask a friend to pick off your foe while you distract him, if you're on a team., You can even defeat foes if you're using the energy sword like this, with patience and practice., A great way to do this is use the Forge feature in the game. It would be good to use them when fighting enemies., The Gravity Hammer may be great for killing one Brute, but if there is a pack of Brutes, you have a problem. Try to get comfortable with a weapon that works in all situations, as well as your favored one. For example, the Assault Rifle or Battle Rifle is a great secondary weapon to the Sniper Rifle or Beam Rifle. Also consider how often it is found in the game, and how fast it runs through ammunition., If you see a wall that extends into a battlefield, hide behind it when your shield starts to run low, and run out when your shield recharges. Halo 3 is an accurate game, so you can use real battlefield tactics, like flanking and cover just like in real life., Being able to take out a pack of Brutes is great, but what if they all get Choppers? Find and exploit the weaknesses of the vehicles, such as, shoot the Covenant out from the turret in Wraiths and shoot the fuel tank on the Ghost. Being able to snipe a Brute or Grunt out of a ghost is not essential as it is very difficult, but learning to do so can make the Legendary campaign significantly easier., If you run out of ammo, just run to a dead body and pick up a new gun, and find a new one later. If there is a small Covenant with a good gun, run up to it and beat it down, then take its gun and continue on your course.,,