 It's a good idea to apply a light amount of hair gel to your hair before starting the braiding process. This will make it easier to shape your hair into a braid. Add a small amount of something like mousse or another type of gel you prefer to your hair before you start.If you prefer using less product, only add the gel to the hair on the nape of your neck. This is the hair you will be braiding.;
, Use a brush to gather the hair near the top of your head. Use your ears to guide you. You should gather all your hair that falls above your ears in a ponytail., Jedi braids are very small, so only grab a tiny strand of hair from the nape of your neck. The hair strand should easily fit between your index finger and thumb.Tie the strand of hair in place for now with a hair tie or rubber band.

The precise width of the strand will vary depending on factors like the thickness of your hair. Keep in mind that, if you're new to braiding, go for a slightly thicker strand of hair simply because this will be easier for a beginner to braid. As you get more comfortable braiding, you can style your hair with thinner Jedi braids.
 After removing a strand, gather the remaining hair on the nape of your neck. You only need the one strand hanging down for a Jedi braid. Add your remaining hair to the ponytail you sectioned off earlier.You can then remove the rubber band you used to tie your strand for braiding in place.
 Take a small brush or comb. Run it through the strand you're going to braid. It's important to start off with tangle-free hair when braiding., Drenching the braiding hair with water first can help you have better control when braiding, especially if your hair tends to be a little messy. You can either dip the strand in water or dip your fingers in water and run it over the strand. Just make sure the strand is wet before you begin braiding., Separate the strand into three roughly even sections. Braid the strand together as tightly as possible. Start braiding at the nape of your neck and stop when you reach the tips of your hair., Pinch the end of your braid between your thumb and index finger. With your other hand, run a blow dryer back and forth over the braid. Keep blow drying your braid until it's completely dry to the touch., After your braid is dry, you should make sure it stays in place. Take a small rubber band. Tie it to the end of your braid, looping the rubber band around until it's tight., Jedi hair is usually marked by the hair outside the braid being secured in a bun or ponytail. You want to make sure your ponytail/bun looks smooth, so you should remove your sectioned hair from the hair tie so you can style it again to your liking., Use a brush to brush out your hair until it's smooth. This will make your hair look neat and uniform when you pull it into a ponytail.Make sure to avoid accidentally messing your braid when you're brushing. It's a good idea to push your hair to the side opposite your braid to brush it.
 After brushing out your hair, pull it into a ponytail again and secure it with a hair tie. If you want, you can then loop the ponytail into a bun and secure it with hair clips and/or another hair tie.Keep in mind that a ponytail is a more traditional Jedi style, but some people like to add some variation with a bun.

