 Most common mistake writing scenarios is sitting behind the computer. You will have to know the terrain. Minimum get a map or make one. Then go reckon the area, making notes like "this is a good place for a base" etc. The game area is the most important factor to how you build your scenario and/or gameplay!;
, Vehicles? Equipment? Dummies like rockets, Sams, mortars, etc? Radio communications?, Here you can use your fantasy. This should be a background story of the conflicting states, why they are in conflict and what is going to happen., Medic rules, spawn rules, hit rules, ammo rules, "explosive" rules etc.Do a lot of thinking about how to balance the game. Not fun if one part is wiped out in a short time. What is the main goal/ goals for each side.This is also a good time to place the players on the map. Starting point, re-spawns, positions, roadblocks, HQ borders, no-play area, parking etc."", Make many of them, not all will be needed. Missions can be defending, observation, patrolling, blowing things up, terrorist attacks, VIP escort etc. These missions you can test beforehand because they are fun to play in small skirmishes with your friends or team mates., This will be the actual organization of each side. Commanding officers, chain off command. VIPs. Civilians. Special units, medics, engineers, political leaders etc., Make a website or group on Facebook or similar where you beforehand post rules, scenario, maps and other useful information. On site do a brief for everyone about the game. The brief should contain""


(1) Security. You should always use a chrono to decide the players softgun fps, and have rules for it. (Example: 350 fps, full auto, 1 meter security distance.) Inform about the hit rules. To always wear eye protection, no mags in AEG in the safe zone, use of a dead rag, size and borders of the game area etc.

(2) Game Specific Rules. Spawn and medic rules. Specify rules like VIPs, role-play, use of dummies, radio channels, where to spawn and how long etc.

(3) The Scenario. Story and missions (these you may need to provide to each party individually.

