 Calculus is a subject that moves very quickly. You cannot always expect the teacher or professor to slow the presentation for you to keep up. You should review the course outline, know the topic of each class lecture, and do the reading from your text in advance.As you read, highlight or underline key topics. Make note of particular concepts that you do not understand.

Prepare questions for class. Realize as you read that the lecture may help explain things to you. Even so, prepare some questions in case you remain confused.
 Calculus is a complicated subject, and you cannot expect to learn it completely on your own. In lectures, the teacher may give you added tips or hints for solving particular problem types. You may also get insights into what the teacher believes is most important for testing., The best way to learn any subject - particularly in math - is to use it repeatedly for solving problems. Between classes, you should complete all assigned homework. If you really want to do well, seek out additional work.For example, some teachers may make a practice of assigning only the even numbered homework problems. If you really want to learn the material well, go beyond the assignment and do all the problems.

Check your work carefully and look for errors before turning in your homework.
 Advanced subjects like calculus lend themselves well to study groups. Find some other students in your class and suggest working together. Working in a group, you can help each other understand difficult concepts. You can also check each other’s homework and review ideas.Make sure that your study group is productive and spends the time working.

Hold each member of the group responsible for doing his or her own work. If someone is not meeting expectations, you may want to ask that person to leave the group.

Productive group sizes are about four to six students.
 Before you go into any exam, make sure you know what it will cover. Usually this is just a matter of reviewing your course syllabus. However, if you have any questions, you should check with your professor or teaching assistant. Carefully study all the issues that will be covered on the exam.