 Ask yourself what kind of life you want to live, and make a plan that will help you get there. Prioritize your own goals and values instead of trying to please other people.Don’t confuse fulfillment with getting lots of attention from the person you’re emotionally dependent on. Think about what would make you happy even if they weren’t in your life.
Create and pursue your own goals, rather than trying to meet other people’s expectations.
 Plan your schedule based on your own needs and wishes. Incorporate time for self-care and activities you enjoy, like visiting friends or going out to the movies. Don’t let other people’s plans dictate your life.For instance, if your significant other goes home to visit their family, don’t mope about being alone. Find fun or productive things to do with your free time instead.
 Avoid becoming overly dependent on anyone by spending time with lots of different people. Stay in touch with your family, and make plans to see your friends regularly. If your social circle is small, you can meet new people through work, classes, or social clubs., When you help other people, you’ll feel dependable, not dependent. Reach out to your family and friends when they need some extra support, or look for volunteer opportunities in your area.Help other people simply for the sake of helping them. If you expect something in return, you’re still in a dependent mindset.
 If you feel like you are becoming too focused on other people, step back and focus on your own goals for a while. This might mean doing something as simple as finishing a household task (like painting your room), or it could mean taking steps toward a major life goal (like applying to go back to school)., Dependency isn’t healthy, but neither is emotional isolation. As you break free of your old habits, seek out emotionally healthy people to spend time with. Cultivate relationships based on mutual respect, honesty and empathy, not neediness.For example, try to brainstorm some solutions to your personal problems a bit before running to others for advice. This helps you learn how to problem-solve while also taking into consideration that others might have practical advice, too.
If you are really feeling stuck, seek help from a therapist.

