 Exfoliating is essential to any skin care regimen and should be done once or twice a week to remove dead skin and grime from your face. Failing to exfoliate can cause dead skin cells to clog pores, which can result in acne. There are multiple different homemade scrubs that you can test out:Baking soda and Coconut Oil scrub: removes dirt and dead skin and leaves your skin feeling soft. You will need ½ cup of organic coconut oil (melted or very soft) and a ¼ cup of baking soda. Mix them together until they are completely blended and form a frosting-like consistency. Store in a jar at room temperature with a tight fitted lid. Rub a tablespoon of the mixture onto your face. Then rinse off with warm water and pat your face dry.Lemon and sugar scrub: acts as an astringent that tightens pores and brightens complexion. You will need ½ a lemon (juice), ½ cup of granulated sugar, tablespoon of olive oil, and a tablespoon of honey. Mix the lemon juice and olive oil in a bowl. Add the honey and whisk until combined to form a medium-to-thick consistency, then add the sugar and mix. Gently rub a dollop of the mixture onto your face. It will help clean pores and heal acne scars for people with oily skin., Many people think that moisturizer is unnecessary if you have oily skin, but that is actually not true. You can have oily skin, but still need hydration. For example, a moisturizer that contains lavender will soothe and hydrate your skin. Try out this very simple recipe to make your own moisturizer:Mix together a ½ a cup of coconut oil, 1 teaspoon of liquid vitamin E, and and 5-7 drops of lavender essential oil. Store in a jar and use on your face twice daily to help keep your skin moist and healthy., Jojoba oil is a waxy substance that seals moisture into the skin and protects it from external threats such as dirt and grime. Oily skin can easily gather dust and dirt from the surrounding environment, so protect your pores with jojoba oils while keeping your skin moist.Apply jojoba oils after you wash your face. Simply rub drops of jojoba onto your palms and apply evenly to your face. This will leave your face feeling soft and smooth.
Alternatively, you can mix jojoba oil with other oils to make a moisturizer. For example, mix together 2/3 jojoba oil, 1/3 tamanu oil, and 4 to 7 drops of lavender or peppermint essential oil.

