 Be creative with your design, but keep in mind that you will be traveling with your laptop. Therefore, you do not want it to become too bulky or to include items that will easily fall off and be left behind.


You can use paint, stickers, photos, glitter, sequins, rhinestones, ribbons or fabric to get a laptop cover that is totally unique.
Decide if you want to keep the base color the same.
Use a piece of paper to sketch out your design.
 After you have decided on a design, make sure that you have everything you need.


Some specialized decals and stickers can be purchased directly either in stores or online. You can explore this option too.
Otherwise, most common materials can be purchased at any craft store.
Lay down newspaper or an old tablecloth to work on to ensure you keep your workspace clean.
 This way, you can confirm that you know where everything will go. Move everything around until you are happy with it.


Try several different options before settling on one. After you glue things down it is very difficult, if not impossible, to remove them again without damaging the cover.
 Stickers can simply be stuck onto the cover. However, much of your design will require glue to permanently attach.


Choose a glue that is appropriate for your cover. If you are using a hard plastic cover, use an epoxy. Epoxies work best when gluing to plastic., This will help stop any part of the design from falling off and give a nice finish. Once again, make sure the solvent won't damage the material your cover is made from. If you have painted your laptop cover, use a varnish designed for acrylic paint. Varnish is available in liquid and spray forms.


The most common and easier varnish is polyurethane.
Polyurethane spray can be purchased in craft stores and is much easier than trying to paint the varnish onto a decorated surface.
 After you have finished your layer of varnish, make sure to allow your laptop cover to dry thoroughly before attaching it back to your laptop.


Allowing your varnish to dry will help keep everything attached, and prevent any of the glue from getting on the laptop.

