 Set a stand mixer on your counter. Measure 3 3/4 cups (525 g) of bread flour, 1 1/2 teaspoons of granulated sugar, 1 envelope (2 1/2 teaspoons or 7 g) of active dry yeast, and 2 teaspoons of salt into the mixing bowl. Whisk the dry ingredients, so the yeast is incorporated., Put the dough hook attachment on the mixer and turn the mixer on to low. Beat in 1 1/2 cups (350 ml) of warm water and 2 tablespoons of the olive oil on low speed. Keep beating the dough on low speed until it gathers into a ball.You can add an extra tablespoon or two of flour, if the dough is very sticky.
If the dough is too dry, add a tablespoon of warm water.
 Sprinkle a little flour on the counter and scrape the dough onto it. Use the palms of your hand to knead the dough for a few minutes. It should become smooth and elastic. Spread the remaining 2 teaspoons of oil into a large bowl and set the dough ball in it. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it prove for 1 1/2 hours. It should double in volume.Let the dough prove, or rest, in a warm place. This will help the yeast activate and make the dough rise.
 Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and scoop the dough onto it. Cut the dough into 2 large pieces and set them aside to rest for 10 minutes. Then take one of the pieces and cut it into 8 pieces. Repeat this with the other dough piece, so you end up with a total of 16 pieces.You may need to sprinkle the knife with a little flour to keep it from sticking to the dough.
 Sprinkle a little flour on each of the dough pieces and roll each piece between your palms to make individual balls. Roll each ball out to a rope. Twist each rope into a knot shape and put the knots on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper.If you don't have parchment paper, you can spray the sheets with cooking spray.
 Cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap and let the knots prove for 30 minutes. They should get a little larger in size as they rest. Turn the oven on to 450 degrees F (230 C)., Remove the plastic wrap from the baking sheet and put the sheet in the preheated oven. Bake the knots for 20 minutes, so they become golden brown. Carefully remove them from the oven and let them cool a little while you make the garlic butter coating., Place 1 stick (113 g) of unsalted butter and 6 minced cloves of garlic into a small sauce pan. Turn the heat on to medium-low, so the butter melts. Simmer the garlic and butter for a few minutes and stir in 1/2 cup (15 g) of fresh minced parsley and 1 1/2 teaspoons of garlic salt. Turn off the heat., Dip a pastry brush in garlic butter mixture and brush it over the warm knots. Grate 1/4 cup (25 g) of Parmesan cheese and sprinkle it over the warm garlic knots.Serve the knots immediately or store them in an airtight container once they've cooled.

