 The dolphin pose is a beginner-level inversion that allows you to get used to being upside-down from a relatively stable position. In addition to stretching and strengthening your arms and legs, the pose also calms your brain and relieves stress.








Since the dolphin plank pose is a modification of the dolphin pose, it may make sense to you to start in dolphin and move into the dolphin plank.
Begin dolphin pose on all fours, with your knees directly below your hips and your shoulders directly over your wrists.
Lower your forearms to the floor, firmly pressing your palms and forearms down into the floor. Keep your back and neck long and neutral.
 On exhale, curl your toes under your feet and raise your knees up from the floor. Focus on lifting up with your pelvis and hips, lengthening your back and legs.








Keep your heels lifted away from the floor slightly and your knees slightly bent. With each breath, think of pushing the floor away with your palms and forearms while you pull towards it with your heels and try to straighten your legs.
Open up your shoulders, widening them away from your spine and drawing them towards your tailbone.
Control your head, holding it actively with a straight neck between your arms rather than letting it hang or lean against the floor.
Stay in dolphin pose for 30 seconds to a minute before releasing to your knees, or moving straight into dolphin plank.
 To move into dolphin plank, slowly walk your feet backwards, keeping your palms and forearms firm on the floor. Stop when your elbows are directly under your shoulders and your body is parallel to the floor.








Firm up your shoulders and press through your heels to help lift yourself up as you engage the core.
Keep your palms and forearms pressed firmly into the floor, as though you are trying to push the floor away from you.
Your body should create a straight, diagonal line from your heels to your head, with your elbow at a right angle and your upper arms perpendicular to the floor.
 Hold the dolphin plank pose for 30 seconds to a minute, inhaling deeply through your nose and exhaling strongly through your mouth. Keep your buttocks and the back of your legs firm and engage your core.








When you're ready to come out of the pose, slowly lower your knees to the floor on exhale, keeping your back neutral. Take a couple of deep breaths before transitioning to your next pose.

