 A Pell Grant is a need-based grant that you will not need to repay. Getting a Pell Grant is determined by your financial need, which is calculated with the FAFSA. It has nothing to do with merit or your grades. If you do get a Pell Grant, you need to remember to re-apply each year to make sure you keep getting the money, and make sure you graduate in six years.If you are currently incarcerated in a federal or state institution, you cannot get a Federal Pell Grant or federal student loans. However, you will not be considered incarcerated if you are in a halfway house, home detention, if you serve only on weekends, or if you are confined to a correctional institution while awaiting trial.Therefore, if you are not considered incarcerated, you may be eligible for federal student aid.
 There are hundreds of scholarships available for people of all backgrounds and for all types of programs. In most cases, being a convicted felon will not bar you from applying or receiving these scholarships. Look for scholarships that are designed to help someone like you, which may include references to your religion, family status, or personal background.You can consult colleges, libraries, online databases, or the Federal Student Aid website for lists of scholarships. Consider searching for scholarships that are meant for felons.Your felony conviction may make a powerful story if your scholarship requires an essay. If you decide to talk about your conviction, make sure you indicate how you have grown from the experience, and how it will make you a better college student.
 If you are a military veteran, or dependent of a veteran, you may be eligible for other academic assistance. Get your DD214 form to confirm your discharge in order to apply for benefits. Fill out a VA Form 22-1990, “Application for VA Education Benefits,” to see what you are eligible to get from the VA.It is important that your discharge from the military was an honorable one. If you are discharged for any other reason, you may not be eligible for other benefits.In terms of your conviction, it needs to have come from a civilian court, not a court martial. Court martial convictions may be considered felonies, though you should consult a lawyer to see if that is the case in your state., Once you have exhausted your options for federal and state aid, look into getting a loan from a bank or other financial institution. Make sure you look at the bank’s requirements to make sure you will qualify for their loans.There are many options out there for student loans. Before applying, make sure you will be able to get the amount of money you need, and that you will be able to pay it back. There are several websites out there to help you compare loan options, which you should look at before applying for one.As a felon, you probably will not have great credit, meaning you are a risk to a financial institution making a loan. To help your cause, you will need a cosigner, who is agreeing to assume responsibility if you cannot pay the debt. Cosigners are usually close relatives, like parents or siblings, but they can be any adult that you trust and has strong enough credit for the bank.Keep in mind that cosigners will be liable for your debts and will be responsible for paying them if you default. If you fail to pay your loans, your cosigner will be on the hook and it will most likely cause rifts in your relationship.

