 It's important to recognize the symptoms of pancreatitis, so that you can seek help sooner. The sooner the problem is dealt with, the easier it will be to solve. If you have any of the following symptoms that persist for several days or that cause you serious discomfort, call your doctor:


Pain in your upper abdomen, which can radiate toward your back. This pain will usually be worse after eating. Your abdomen may also be tender. Nausea and vomiting.
Oily, greasy-looking stools.
Weight loss without apparent cause.;
, These same symptoms may be from other sources. You may not have pancreatitis, but instead have some other problem. However, these problems can still be very serious, so it's important to still seek treatment. Other possible sources of the problem include:


Ulcers - black or bloody stool is one of the major symptomatic differences between ulcers and pancreatitis
Gallstones - fever and skin discoloration are some indicators of gallstones over pancreatitis but many of the symptoms are exactly the same
Liver disease - skin yellowing or discoloration is a common indicator of liver problems instead of pancreatitis
Heart attacks - tingling in the arms is one clear indicator that you're having heart problems and not pancreatitis

, Alcoholism, cystic fibrosis, hyperparathyroidism, infection, and cancer are some of the causes of pancreatitis. These are serious conditions that have lots of other negative impacts on your health and well-being, so it's important to be sure that they are being treated.


Alcoholism is one of the most common causes of pancreatitis and is very closely associated with the disease. Even though you may not think you have a problem, it's a good idea to consider it.
 Because the causes of pancreatitis are often very serious and because the treatment you'll need is more than what you can do at home, you're going to have to go to a hospital. Either immediately see your own doctor, who will probably have you admitted to the hospital, or go to the emergency room if you don't have a general doctor to make sure that pancreatitis is really your problem.
 If you live in places like the US, it is possible that you do not have access to health insurance. This should not keep you from seeking treatment, however. There are programs in place to help you and treatment centers across the country that you can go to. See the official listings to find out the closest location to you.
 Ignoring pancreatitis may lead to severe weight loss, diabetes, debilitating pain, lung failure, or even death. Death isn't good! Seek immediate help if you suspect that you have pancreatitis and don't assume that the problem will just go away. Many cases of pancreatitis may not require medicine, but they do require healthcare procedures that you can't do at home!

, You may need to undergo some tests to find out if you have pancreatitis. Blood tests, stool tests, CT scans and ultrasounds are the most common tests to find out the source of your health problems when pancreatitis is suspected.
 For 75% of patients, basic hospital care will be all that is needed to recover.However, this is still complex enough care that it will need to be done at a hospital and home remedies are not usually an option. Your doctor should be able to explain your situation.


Expect to fast. Eating no food for up to several days, and instead being switched to feeding tubes, special diets, and other alternatives is generally the main basic treatment for pancreatitis. This is because eating makes the problem worse and makes you unable to heal.
Get IV fluids. Severe dehydration is a major part of pancreas problems, so expect to be given a large amount of fluids to combat this. This will most likely come in the form of IV fluids, but you may also be asked to drink more water.
You will probably be given some medication. Pancreatitis causes significant and constant pain and your doctor should give you painkillers to help alleviate the pain. Meperidine or Demerol are the most commonly prescribed painkillers for patients with pancreatitis.Take antibiotics should your doctor prescribe them. They may be given to prevent possible infection or to treat an existing one.
 For basic or mild cases, the underlying cause may be very easy to treat (such as a change in medications). However, more severe cases or chronic cases may require more serious treatment.


Surgery is the most likely option if you have a severe problem. What kind of surgery will depend on what the underlying cause is, however. Some options include gall bladder removal, surgery to repair or remove parts of the pancreas, or surgery to remove bile duct obstructions.
Treatment for alcohol dependency will be recommended if it is determined that this is the source of the problem. For your own happiness and well being, it is recommended that you comply with your doctor's wishes in this area, even if you don't think you have a problem.
There are enzyme supplements which you may be asked to take if your problem is hereditary or cannot be fixed in another way. These supplements are in the form of a simple tablet and aid with digestion, keeping the pressure off of your pancreas.
 If you have only a mild case of pancreatitis, you may want to take some precautions so that you don't get pancreatitis again in the future. One of the best things that you can do is to eat healthy and exercise in order to lose weight. Pancreatitis can develop due to high triglycerides or diabetes. Keeping yourself healthy may help relieve pancreatitis symptoms. This means eating a diet low in sugar and rich in vegetables and protein.


Eat fewer carbs (like pasta and chips) and cut foods with lots of sugar out of your diet. Eat more vegetables than fruits (which contain lots of sugar) and bid goodbye to soda! Lean proteins are also great, so eat lots of fish and chicken.
You can also get some help with exercise, if you need it. You'd be surprised how easy it is to fit exercise into your day.
 Drinking alcoholic beverages on a regular basis can cause pancreatitis. If you have been diagnosed with pancreatitis or seem to be prone to pancreas problems, stop drinking alcoholic beverages.


If you want to still fit in and socialize with your friends, quietly order an apple juice or a water in a martini or whiskey glass. Both of these look like booze but aren't actually alcoholic.
 Smoking also causes pancreas problems and may cause or make your pancreatitis worse. Smoking also has lots of other negative health effects, so you're better off trying to quit. There are lots of great methods these days for helping you quit, so don't sweat it and just give it a try.
 Talk to your doctor about medications. Some medications may cause pancreatitis. Your doctor should recognize this on their own, but you may want to bring it up if you feel it may not have been considered. This is especially important if you are with a new doctor who may not know your medical history.

