 Tropical colors tend to be very bright. Pinks, reds, oranges, and bright blues work great for a tropical-themed wedding. Choose one or two colors to define your wedding's color scheme and stick to it throughout your ceremony and reception.;
, If you're carrying a bouquet, or if you use them on pews or seats, there are plenty of ways to add a tropical twist. Rather than sticking to traditional colors and flowers, opt for bright, tropical plants to highlight the theme of the wedding.Go for bright tropical colors. Think about flowers that come in bright pink or red shades, for example.
Instead of using flowers, use seashells. Seashells arranged into a bouquet shape can be a great way to bring out the tropical theme.
Have starfish placed in the flowers or attach mini starfish or shells to the bouquet's binding.
 If you want a tropical wedding, be bold with your wedding colors. Go for shades like bright pinks, oranges, blues, and other bold shades that will make things feel tropical. Avoid light shades, like pastels.You can also have tropical outfits. For example, opt for cufflinks decorated with shells or dresses with floral patterns.
 If you're using wedding programs, give them a tropical twist. You can hand out programs printed on papers shaped like seashells or starfish. You can also hand out small bottles with the programs inside, creating a tropical message in a bottle theme., If you're using a wedding arch, opt for a bamboo one. In addition to using a bamboo arch, decorate the arch with tropical decorations.For example, you can hang grass skirts from the bamboo arch or something like bright, tropical flowers.
 Shells and starfish really bring the tropical vibe to a wedding. When planning a tropical wedding, use stars and seashells as decorations throughout the reception.For centerpieces, use candleholders decorated with shells or starfish.
You can have placeholders for tables set in shells.
Sprinkle starfish or shells along table runners at the reception.
 If you have a seating chart, have fun with the table names. Write things like "The Bahamas" or "Bermuda Triangle" on the tables. Have a list of where each guest will be sitting. It can be a fun twist to have each table be a different tropical destination.You can also decorate each table with flowers, plants, and other decorations specific to that particular destination.
 There are many options for centerpieces that reflect a tropical theme. At each table, opt for a bright and tropical centerpiece that will remind guests of your dreamy, beach-like wedding theme. Try some of the following:Seashells set in glass jars with sand on the bottom
Tropical flower arrangements using bright colors
Bouquets decorated with starfish

, People often associate the tropics with fresh fruit. When handing out party favors, opt for things like oranges or starfruit. This can remind guests of the tropical theme as they leave your reception.To really make the tropical theme apparent, wrap fruit in cloths or ribbon decorated with things like coral, starfish, bright flowers, or other tropical themes.
 Invest in some coral printed fabric or wrapping paper. Coral-printed paper is paper with a coral design. It should have patterns that resemble the structure of a coral reef. When preparing party favors, wrap favors up in coral-patterned paper or fabric. Have these set out on a table for guests to grab on their way out of a party., Sea urchins can be used to prop up long, thin candles. These can be used as a centerpiece for tables or decorations to leave on buffets throughout the party.For an extra tropical touch, set the sea urchins on dishes full of sand. This will create a nice tropical vibe.
You can also opt for bright candles in vibrant tropical colors.
 Instead of providing generic table salt at your reception, have sea salt to reflect the tropical theme. Place your sea salt in sea shells with a small spoon. Guests can add salt to their dishes by spooning it out of seashells., When serving cocktails, place swizzle sticks with a tropical twist in them. Cut cardboard into the shape of suns, seashells, tropical plants, or other tropical designs and decorate them with colorful paper. Tape or glue these to the end of swizzle sticks and place them in drinks.You can also serve bright colored cocktails to reflect the tropical theme.
 At the buffet table, use seashells to hold food. You can even have small seashells as plates for guests to serve themselves snacks., Madeleines are shell-shaped cookies. You can arrange them into the shape of pineapple, a classic tropical fruit. Use foam in the rough shape of a pineapple as the foundation and use wooden skewers to attach rows of madeleines around the foam. When you're done, it should look like a pineapple., Candy rocks in bright colors can help reflect your tropical theme. You can set candy rocks out in seashells. You can also wrap them in bright paper and hand them out as wedding favors.