 Frequent use of marijuana (weed, pot) has been linked to causing episodes of CVS.Stop using marijuana altogether and you may be able to decrease your symptoms. This is especially true for adolescents and young adults.Though marijuana is sometimes used to ease nausea for medical conditions, this is not the case with CVS. Frequent use of marijuana can cause CVS and should be avoided.
 Colds, allergies, and other sinus problems may trigger episodes of CVS. Treat symptoms of sinus problems as soon as possible to minimize your risk of triggering an episode. Ask your pharmacist for the best medicine for you – decongestants or antihistamines may help., Allergies can trigger an episode of CVS. See a doctor about treating seasonal or food allergies. If you are uncertain what causes your allergies, you may want to get a blood test so that you can treat it., Stress and anxiety can trigger episodes.Try to reduce stress during symptom-free times. Try yoga, meditation, deep breathing, taking a walk – anything that helps you relax. If you have a stressful lifestyle due to work or family, practice mindfulness meditation or learn stress management skills.

If your child with CVS suffers from anxiety, consider seeking professional counseling.
Biofeedback training may help you or your child learn to manage stress and reduce symptoms.Excitement, like stress, can also trigger episodes. Try to lower your expectations of future events., Eat three small meals and three snacks a day instead of eating large meals. Try to eat small snacks with plenty of carbs between meals, before exercise, and at bedtime.Avoid eating commonly triggering foods like chocolate and cheese.
 Hot weather is a trigger for some people.Wear loose, light-colored clothing in hot weather. Wear a wide-brimmed hat to keep sun off your face and head. Limit the time you spend outdoors in the hottest part of the day – between noon and 3pm., Physical exhaustion can trigger an episode.Rest often when exercising. Make sure you get enough sleep – aim for a minimum of 7-9 hours of sleep a night. If you start to feel run down, take a day to do calm activities like reading and napping., Motion sickness can commonly cause nausea and vomiting, and has been known to trigger episodes of CVS. Take action while traveling to prevent motion sickness, such as sitting facing the direction the vehicle is moving (this is important on trains), and focusing your gaze on a distant object. Take Dramamine or another medication to prevent motion sickness., Your period can trigger an episode of CVS.If you know when your period is due, you can be prepared with your CVS medications. Write down what day your period starts each month and count how many days are between the starts of two periods. Take the average of three months – this is about how often your period comes.