 Sit or stand with your back straight and your hands at your sides to do basic deep breathing. If you're sitting in a chair, keep your back away from the back of the chair. You should feel comfortable and able to relax.Double breathing is the basis of many of the energizing exercises because it increases the oxygen in your blood. It may also detoxify your blood.;
, You should breathe in through your nostrils with a short, sharp intake of air. Immediately after this short breath, take a long, stronger breath through your nostrils.The long breath should completely fill your lungs. As you inhale, your diaphragm should drop down so that your belly and abdomen expand.
 Once your lungs have completely filled, exhale through your mouth and nose. You should first breathe out with a short exhalation and then slowly exhale so that the breathe is released gradually.#*Your breath (not your voice) should make a huh-huhhhuhh sound as you breathe out. Repeat the double breathing exercise 8 to 10 times., Raise your arms to shoulder height while you double inhale. Double exhale as you bring the palms of your hands together and bend your knees slightly. Bring your arms up to shoulder height while making fists. As you double inhale, tighten up your entire body. Double exhale again, bringing your fists together, slightly bending your knees.To finish the breathing exercise, relax your body as you bring your hands back to your sides. You can practice this cycle 3 to 5 times.
 Sit comfortably with your legs crossed. Hold onto your shins or ankles with the palms of your hands. Double inhale and breathe out slowly while you round your spine. You should be touching your chin to your chest at the same time. Do a few cycles of this slowly before picking up the pace. Practice the spinal flex pose for 3 minutes.Doing the spinal flex pose can bring movement and energy back to your spine.
 Sit on your heels or with your legs comfortably crossed. Curl your fingers towards your palms and leave your thumbs pointing outward. Double inhale slowly while you bring your arms up to a 60 degree above your head. Your arms should make a wide-V shape. Release your breath in short, hard pants. Hold your arms up for one or two minutes and bring them to your knees. Relax and repeat this 4 to 5 times.Avoid arching your spine or bending your elbows when doing the ego eradicator pose. The stretch should be coming from your shoulders., Sit comfortably with your legs under you. Fold your hands so your fingers are interlaced and your palms are facing up towards you. Your hands should rest on your thighs. Breathe in and bring your arms directly up over your head while your hands are still folded. Hold your breath for 15 seconds and stretch while you hold. Exhale while you bring your folded hands down to your thighs.Try to do arm pumps for 3 minutes when you start out. You can build up to 7 minutes with practice.
 Lie down on the floor so that your pelvis presses into the floor. Keep your upper body raised up on your elbows so that your back is arched. Pull your head back, but keep looking forward. At the same time, press your pelvis into the floor so that you can raise your upper body up even higher. Hold this for 2 to 6 full breaths.To release this pose, exhale and drop your chest and head down to the floor. Repeat the pose 2 or 3 times.
 Lie down on your belly and press your pelvis into the floor. Your palms should be under your shoulders and flat against the ground. Breathe in deeply while you lift your upper body off of the floor and lift your chest up. Keep your shoulder blades pressed together. You shouldn't press your ribs forward or you'll increase the pressure on your back. Hold the position for 15 to 30 seconds.To release, exhale slowly and lower your upper body to the floor. Repeat this pose 2 or 3 times.

