 As with any writing, spend time up front brainstorming ideas and outlining your ideas. In a classification essay, you must take a group of people, things or ideas and logically divide them up. You often think of this in terms of types or categories. Therefore, by way of an example, look at all the teachers in colleges. You could divide them in to different kinds according to their teaching styles. For example, three types might be "the Hippie" with a laid-back, anything-goes approach, "the Snape" with an overly strict and oppressive style, and "the Mother Goose" with a nurturing and parental approach to teaching.

Imagine you want to classify hockey fans. How many types of fans are there at a hockey game? How could they be divided?;
, After that, you can easily create an outline that develops supporting ideas and examples for the classifications you have developed., The thesis is in the first paragraph of an essay and gives the reader an idea of what your essay will be about. It is important that the thesis describes the essay as a classification and that it identifies the key idea. For example, the teachers in a college program could be divided into three main teaching styles: The Snape, the Hippie and the Mother Goose. Words that denote classification are:

divide
separate
classify
sort.
 It is important to make sure the classifications are logical and use a similar basis for classification. Clear examples and details must be given in the body paragraphs to clearly illustrate to the reader what each classification is. For example, you may write this:

"The Snape is a dreaded type of teacher that exists in many classrooms. They derive pleasure in asking questions to the unprepared, giving brutally difficult tests and tormenting the students in general. All students know the type described here. The agony of sitting in the Snape type's class is even worse when they take a disliking to you and watch your every move. The goal, of course, is to catch you doing something undesirable and single you out in front of everyone. Luckily for us, these types are quite rare in our school."

, Be sure to summarize your key points from your body paragraphs and to end with a strong memorable statement. That is it; you have written a classification essay.