 When you are recovering from your hip surgery, you need to start a walking program within a few days of returning home. It may be somewhat painful at first, but it is critically important that you do this. Make sure you start slowly by walking with your walker or crutches from one side of a room to another. Slowly increase either the length of the walk or how frequently you do the walk.


Once you get more comfortable with walking, start going outside for short walks and start using stairs.
Always ask your doctor before increasing any exercise length or frequency, including walking or other exercises. You may have specific limitations depending on how well you are healing, how extensive your hip replacement was, and your personal health.;
, For the first few days after your surgery, you will need to keep your blood flowing in your legs and feet to prevent any blood clots. You can do some ankle pumps to help. Sit or lie down on your back. Slowly raise your foot up towards your head and point your toes up. Lower your foot.


Repeat these exercises at least 10 to 15 times every hour.Although these exercises are important for the leg that underwent surgery, it is a good practice to do them on both to keep your blood flowing in your non-injured leg as well.
 Another exercise to help blood flow is ankle rotation. You can either sit or lie down on your back. Rotate your foot in a circular fashion four or five times, then repeat the circles in the other direction.


Repeat at least 10 to 15 times every hour.
You can combine ankle rotations with ankle pumps in a routine., You also need to make sure your muscles and blood keep flowing in your hip and buttock area. To help this, tighten your buttock muscles and hold for five counts. Then, release your buttock muscles. Repeat this exercise 10 times.


Do these exercises at least three to four times throughout the day., Another exercise you can do to help leg circulation is a knee bend. Sit with your legs out in front of you on your bed or couch. Keeping one leg flat, slide your other foot along the bed as you bend your knee toward the ceiling as far as is comfortable. Then, lower your leg. Repeat on the other side.


Repeat 10 repetitions on each side at least three to four times a day., You can also do straight leg raises to help leg and hip circulation. Sit with your legs out in front of you on the bed or couch. Keeping your leg as straight as you can, lift your leg up off the bed. Hold for five counts, then slowly lower it. Repeat this on your other leg.


Repeat 10 repetitions on each leg and do the whole cycle three to four times a day.