 When you’re in a relationship it should be beneficial for both involved. However, some toxic relationships leave one of the parties feeling depleted and even exposed. If this sounds familiar, you could be in a draining relationship.


Energy-draining people in relationships often start out as fun, flashy, exciting, and charismatic. But over time, you may see that they like to gossip or use people—even you. They might even use you as their scape goat and set you up to take the fall. If your gut tells you this person has ulterior motives, you are probably right.;
, If you’re still undecided about if you’re in a draining relationship, write it out. Compose a list of the good things and bad things about that person. Also, taking a look at the characteristics of the party in question may open your eyes about their intentions.


Make sure you include the way the person makes you feel. Chances are, if there are more “cons” than “pros,” you’re in a draining relationship. Additionally, write a pros and cons list about ending the relationship. If the pros are longer than the cons, it may be time to cut things off., Some relationships just aren’t worth saving, including those that are draining. If you aren’t able to be yourself in the relationship and it’s not worth the effort that you’re putting into it, consider cutting ties. Staying in a relationship with a draining person prevents you from being happy, both physically and emotionally.


When you end the relationship, make sure you are committed to doing so. Often, even spending just a little amount of time with the person who is draining you can cause anguish and despair. If possible, walk away completely and don’t look back.Keep in mind that this is harder if you are living together or married.
 Some relationships just can’t be severed completely. Sometimes, you still have to maintain some kind of communication with certain people, such as co-workers and family members. By distancing yourself, however, you can reduce the strain you feel.


Relationships with co-workers and family members are tricky because you often still have to spend time with them no matter what. However, you can reduce your time together by skipping after work activities you would typically participate in together and not calling or texting anymore.
You may have to directly address the person if they question why you are pulling away. If you want to be honest, you can tell them, “I feel like our relationship has taken a turn for the worst. I think it’s best to limit our time together.” You may experience some pushback and anger, but hopefully, it will settle down over time.