;
,

With the nail, punch a hole in the center of one of the enchilada cans.






In the other enchilada can, punch a hole in the side of the can 1 inch (2.5 cm) up from the closed end.






Use a medium size Phillips screwdriver 1/4" to enlarge the holes, so they are 1/4".
 This requires a mandrel to roll the tube on.


Make the mandrel by taping the two enchilada cans together end to end using the masking tape.


Score the fold with your fingernail then fold it the other way and do the same.






Cut along the fold and use one piece of the 8/5" X 5.5" as a template to mark a centerline to cut on when you place it on 3 more sheets of 8.5" X 11".






After marking, use the scissors to cut the cardstock so you end with 8 pieces 8.5" X 5.5"







, Use the masking tape to tape the pieces together.
 Yes, tape the cardstock to the mandrel with just this one piece of tape.


Start rolling the tube tightly against the mandrel. If the roll gets crooked, give a little twist against the direction you're rolling to loosen the roll, and straighten the roll and then continue until you get to the end.






Tape the seam using three 1" strips of masking tape.
 You want a snug fit here. If too tight, pull off the strips of masking tape and cut some cardstock and re-tape then try the fit again.
 Get a small jar with a screw top and pour in about 1/4" alcohol.


From this bottle, pour some alcohol into the can with the center hole while tilting the can so the alcohol does not run out. You just want to cover the bottom of the can. Hold the can over the jar and rock it back and forth then pour out all the alcohol in to the other enchilada can and when the bottom is covered pour the remaining alcohol into the jar and close the jar. This fueling should be done outside.
 This is more of a demo and requires caution because you're shooting the bean can straight up in the air and when it comes down it will break bones or your head.

Wear a helmet and be sure there are no people around that can get hurt by the flying can. The can will go up about 125 feet (38.1 m).






Put the cans in the tube starting with the center hole can first.






Insert it with the open end first into the tube followed by the side hole can with its open end resting against the center hole can. Both cans should stick out on each side of the tube.






Place the bean can over the open end of the center hole can then set the tube down on a flat surface and use the barbecue lighter to ignite the fuel at the side hole.






The bean can takes all the high pressure when the alcohol explodes and this bean can is and should be mounted in to a rocket body that you can construct similar to the tube you just rolled for the enchilada cans.



