 Wheat flour is not allowed on the paleo diet, but you can swap it with a gluten-free and grain-free alternative. Try swapping regular flour for coconut flour, almond flour, or almond meal.Just be aware that you will need to adjust the recipe, as you cannot swap coconut or almond flour 1:1 with wheat flour.


Coconut flour and wheat flour are not equivalent and, if you are using a recipe that calls for wheat flour, you will need to make some adjustments. For example, if the recipe calls for 1 cup of regular flour then you will need to use 1/4 to 1/3 cup of coconut flour. You may also need to add more eggs — for every 1 cup of coconut flour, you will need to add six beaten eggs and 1 cup of liquid, like coconut milk.It is generally a better idea to follow recipes that specifically use coconut or almond flour instead of experimenting and trying to swap them in for wheat flour. Try making some paleo coconut flour brownies.
 Rice is not allowed on the paleo diet, so you will need to replace it if you want to make a paleo swap for rice. Grated cauliflower makes a nice substitute because it resembles rice.Grate a head of fresh, raw cauliflower using a box grater. Then, cook it as desired or enjoy it raw.

Swapping vegetables for grains is a popular paleo strategy that you can try even if you are not following the paleo diet.
 Pasta is a great comfort food, but it is not allowed on the paleo diet. However, you can easily swap it for vegetable noodles made from zucchini, beets, carrots, or sweet potatoes.


If you have a spiralizer, then use it to turn your vegetable into noodles.
If you don’t have a spiralizer, then you can also use a vegetable peeler to create the noodles. Just wash and peel the vegetable and then use the peeler to continue shaving long strips off of it. Collect these strips in a bowl and cook them as desired.
 Breakfast can be a challenge if you are used to eating cereal in the morning. To make a paleo swap for cereal, you can opt for some muesli or granola.


Check the ingredients and look for a granola or muesli that has little to no added sugar in it.

