 Call, text, or email the person just to say that you’re thinking about them. Send a hand-written letter, silly cartoon, or cute photo to them in the mail; so few people use snail mail nowadays that getting it is a real treat. Pick the person a flower, help them carry their groceries, or offer to do something big like help them move.


Being kind just for the sake of kindness will bring you good karma and will make the rest of your day better, too.
Look around you. If you see someone who looks particularly in need of a smile or kindness, direct your attention to that person — as long as you make sure you’re not imposing.
 Laughter relieves tension and is wonderfully contagious. Just making an effort at making witty banter as you’re buying your groceries or waiting in line for a movie ticket can bring a smile to a person’s face. If you aren’t feeling inspired, find something funny online and email it to them. The most important thing is that you show that you don’t take yourself too seriously and that you’re willing to go out of your way to make people laugh.


People don’t get nearly enough laughter in their lives. You can make the rest of a person’s day more enjoyable just by making him laugh once or twice.
You can also do something silly like pick a dandelion or blade of grass and give it to them, saying, “I got this especially for you!” or "I picked this weed just for you!"

, This is a small and simple way to make a difference in a person’s life. Just the act of making eye contact with a person can make him or her feel valued, and saying hello can brighten up any person’s day. You never know what’s going on in someone’s mind, and saying hello and making them feel special just for a moment may be the boost of happiness they need to get through the day.


You might be the only person to smile at this other person all day. Think about what a difference that makes.
 Another way to make a person happy is to donate the clothes, dishware, or other items you no longer need in order to help the people who could really use them. You won’t know how big of a difference your old clothes or plates can make in the life of a person who really needs them, and donating your things is a guarantee that you’ll be making someone somewhere out there smile, even if you can’t see it.


If you’re hanging on to clothes that you haven’t worn once in more than a year, it’s time to donate them to people who could put them to good use.
Though it’s easy to be sentimental about old things you no longer use, think about how much more value and happiness someone else can get out of them.
 You can make a person smile and feel happier just by giving a simple compliment. As long as your compliment is sincere and kind, you’ll be making someone’s life a little bit better. All you have to do is tell a person that you like her necklace, that she has a great smile, or that you love the funky pants he’s wearing. As long as you don’t step out of line or make people uncomfortable, giving nice compliments can help make people happier instantly.


Don’t compliment the figure of a person you don’t know. Stick to commenting on clothes, jewelry, or something else that won’t be taken the wrong way.
Just look the person in the eye and say something like, “Cool sweater.” Don’t put too much pressure on yourself to say the perfect thing.
 Another way to make someone happy is simply to be happy yourself and to spread your positive energy and joy to the people around you. Have a smile on your face, talk about the things you love, make positive comments about your surroundings, and make other people feel good about themselves. Happiness is contagious, and if you work on spreading good cheer to the people around you, they’ll pick it up pretty fast.


Even if you’re not feeling super positive, just making the effort to smile can actually make you feel happier and can bring joy to those around you.If you catch yourself making a negative comment, try to counteract it with two positive comments.
 You can make a person happy just by helping him or her carry something heavy. Whether you’re helping an older lady carry groceries to her car or helping a guy at the post office get a heavy package to his car, you’ll be making a difference in a person’s life by lightening the load just a little. If you have a neighbor who is doing some heavy lifting, ask if you can help out, too, and you’ll be making another person happier.


You’ll instantly make someone happier by doing this because you’ll be making his or her life easier.
Of course, don’t get into any dangerous situations where you’re helping a person you don’t know carry something into a van or a house. As long as you’re helping out in a safe, public place, you’ll be making a difference.
 These days, most people use Facebook for ranting or complaining about something annoying that happened to them that day, or even for sharing a depressing article about how the entire world is going down the drain. While this may feel true, sometimes, you can work to make people happier by posting a positive news story (yes, they do exist!), a cute video of cats, a funny comic or story from the Onion, or really anything at all that will make people smile. You’ll be making people happier without even realizing it.Of course, there are many awful things going on in the world, but you can leave it to your other 1,000 Facebook friends to remind us about that. Why not post something positive and give your online friends a breath of fresh air?

