 Obvious? See tips. Wear shoes that won't slip on the pedals.;
, This is since the pedal's axis (the wheel axle here) is higher and you pedal directly above that axis and not behind it. Deal with your fear of falling. If you happen to fall, your feet will not be all that high off the ground. Practise jumping forwards and backwards off an object half a metre high. Your feet will be closer to the ground than that! (Unless it's a giraffe or 36"er you're trying to get onto.) There are only two things that could happen: either the wheel could kick forward or backward out of control, leaving you on your feet, or the wheel could twist and you'd most likely fall to the side away from your support.
 The surface below the wheel should be level and free of obstacles. Ideally, you should have support on both sides. This support could be a doorway, a narrow corridor, two stacks of chairs or a livestock crush pen. Where support from only one side is available, try to move something there to provide the other side support, eg. a clothes horse, stepladder, vehicle or an assistant with a rigid shoulder. The height of the support should be from about your belt height to your shoulder height.
 Interchange "left" and "right" you're left footed. Put the unicycle in your crotch with the wheel in front of you. Viewed from the right hand side, that pedal's crank must be in the seven o'clock position when you put your foot on it. (See picture.) For left footer, the pedals in the five o'clock position viewed from the left. Do not try to climb on with this pedal high! The other pedal will whack your shin and you'll remember it for some time!

, All that remains is to move the other foot from the ground to a pedal. Well, there's a little more involved. What you're aiming at is to have the pedals level, where you have maximum control. The lower pedal should move higher as you climb on and the wheel roll slightly forward. Hold your support on either side as you climb on but do not pull on it. If you're trying with support on only one side use both hands or have one hand on the seat. You have one foot on the ground and one on a pedal. Push equally hard on the pedal and on the ground as you move up. The rear pedal should not move down much. Get both pedals level as soon as possible. Your instinct will be to stand on the pedals but try to transfer your weight to the seat. Hold the position as you gain control and enjoy the view!

, These instructions would be incomplete without a word on how to get down again. It's simple: grab the seat with your right hand and lift your left (front) foot off the pedal. That's it. Your equilibrium is shifted behind the axle and you'll find yourself stepping off the uni onto the ground. Practise climbing on and off till you can do it with confidence.

