 Stalkers often feel as though they are in a relationship with their victims, and any contact the victims make with them is perceived as validation of their “relationship,” which is nonexistent. If you are being stalked, do not call, write to, or speak to your stalker in person if you can avoid it at all.
 Sometimes stalking victims yell at or talk to their stalkers, but even overt rudeness can be misconstrued by stalkers (who are frequently mentally disturbed) as communication of affection or interest.


If you are being stalked online, do not respond in any way to any messages, regardless of how angry you become. Just print them for evidence and leave the computer.
 If a stalker does not have personal information about you such as your phone number, home address, or email address, do not let him find it.Do not give your home phone number aloud to anyone in public places. If you find that you must provide a phone number, try using a work phone instead, or writing the number down then shredding it.
Avoid putting your home address in writing. In cases of extreme stalking, you may want to get a PO Box for your mailing address so that it’s less likely that you will need to provide anyone with your home address.
Do not share your home address or place of work online or on social media. This may give an online stalker the opportunity to find you in person.
 In cases of repeated stalking or stalkers with a history of violence, you may be able to get an order of protection which legally requires the stalker to stay away from you. Be aware, however, that this could potentially anger the stalker and push him to violence.
 In very extreme cases of potentially violent stalking, you may decide to move to a new place. If you do so, you may want to consult an organization such as a battered women’s shelter for tips about how to make yourself truly disappear.


Do not have your mail forwarded directly to your new home.
Be careful when registering to vote in a new place. You can request anonymous registration.
If you purchase property, your name may be on the public record as the land’s owner. Sometimes these records are tied to searchable databases, so you may want to rent to remain more anonymous.

