 You can choose an informal route by asking a friend, student or young adult to be a house sitter. Companies like House Sitters America and Trusted House Sitters provide a database by which you can find a house sitter in your area.


On TrustedHouseSitters.com you can search based on sitters that don't require payment and others that do. Although the majority will house sit free of charge in return for a free retreat. This provides a win-win for both parties and as no money is changing hands then it is seem more as someone helping you out, so they are not there to do a job but do of course have a responsibility to care for your home and pets.;
, List all the things that need to be looked after. These can include things like pets, fish, lawn care, cleaning, gardening, houseplants, mail pick up and returning messages. Keep in mind that the more the house sitter needs to do, the more they should be compensated.
 If the house sitter must commute to your house to take care of plants, mail or pets, then pay them for an hour or so per visit. Figure out a fair hourly wage, such as $15 to $25 per visit.
 For some young renters or young people, house sitting may allow them to live rent-free for a short time. In which case, you may not need to pay since it is a fair exchange of services.


Many house sitting agencies arrange services for the mutual benefit of the person watching the house and the house owners. They do not ask for extra compensation beyond the house and utilities. For example, if you plan to leave for a long period of time, then utilities could be paid in exchange for housing and simple house chores.
 The more responsibility, the more they should be compensated. The following things should affect how much you plan to compensate a house sitter:


Taking care of a pet should be seen as 2 jobs. Pets are often much happier staying at home and being cared for by someone they know. Settle on a fair daily wage for watching pets, or a few hundred dollars for watching over weeks or months.
Intensive cleaning of the house or grounds should be considered as a job. While routine cleaning is usual with any house guest, if you have hired a house sitter to live in and maintain a vacation home and they have to deep clean or stock the kitchen regularly for guests, then they should be paid an hourly wage for that time.
Fixing up the house should be considered an hourly job, unless you are giving someone a place to rent for a long period of time.
 They may have expectations of the position. Create a contract, or agreement, if you are hiring a house sitter you have never met before.
 Arrange with the utility companies before you leave, so they don't have to pay large bills.
 Send a check at regular intervals, if someone is providing care for a vacation home.
 Consider something they already like, such as wine, food or a gift from your travels.

