 If you didn’t empty out the ash and burnt logs from last season, now is a good time to do that.;
, Start shoveling the leftover ash into a bucket. You can avoid a cloud of ash by spraying it down with a little bit of water first.
 Once you have cleaned out the fireplace, you can inspect the interior of the firebox for cracked bricks or missing mortar. You might have to clear soot stains with a simple soap and water mixture to really get a good look at it.


If you find your firebox needs repair, it is best to consult a professional for a fireplace and chimney inspection.
 The flue allows smoke to move through the chimney and the damper is the opening you can adjust to control the intact of air and temperature of your fire.
 It should move quite easily and should be free of ash and debris.
 Open it as widely as possible and get in there with a stiff bristle brush, focusing on the edges. It might be hard to see, so have someone hold a flashlight up for you and put a mirror on the bottom of the firebox to help you see the hard-to-reach places.
 If you use your wood burning fireplace often, it is recommended that you have it swept out at least once a year at the beginning of winter.


Hiring a chimney sweep is the easiest and safest way to remove soot and debris from inside the chimney that could potentially cause a fire. Sweeping the chimney should be left to a professional, as having the appropriate tools and knowledge is necessary.
 Go outside and give your chimney an exterior inspection. Make sure that the chimney cap is in good shape. Check the following:


There’s no bird nest or debris buildup on the cap.
There are no tree limbs above or near the chimney.
The mortar and bricks on the chimney aren’t crumbling or missing.
The chimney rises at least 2 feet above where it exits the roof.
The chimney crown — the sloping cement shoulders at the top of the chimney — is beveled, which helps air flow.
The flue liner is visible above the chimney crown.
The chimney is plumb and not leaning to one side or the other.
The roof flashing is tight against the chimney.
 Gas fireplaces are less maintenance, but they still need an annual inspection to ensure they’re running safely and efficiently.
 If you have a glass door, make sure it latches and seals properly.
 Fire it up and check for any clogged log holes. You can clean those out with a needle.
 If you find them, it might mean the ceramic logs will have to be cleaned.

