 Wire crates tend to have plastic trays on the bottom. Slide it out, and clean it separately from the rest of the crate. Removing the tray will help make cleaning easier.


Some crate designs do not have a removable tray. If yours does not, you will have to bend or crawl inside the crate to make sure that it is fully cleaned.
 Fold several paper towels together, and press them down on the wet spot to absorb any loose fluids, such as urine or diarrhea. Let them rest for a minute. Throw away the towels. Repeat if necessary with clean paper towels.If your dog had an accident, you may need to scrub to get rid of any marks. Soak a rag in bleach solution, and wring out the excess water. Scrub the stain with the rag, making sure to rinse the cloth every few minutes.
 If you have access to a hose, you can also blast off stains and fluids with a hose. Direct the hose both inside and outside of the crate. Focus the water on encrusted or stained material. After you have rinsed it out, wipe it down with a dry cloth. Make sure to dump out any excess water from the tray or the inside of the shell.


If you do not have a hose, you can fill a bucket with water and rinse off the cage by pouring small amounts of water over the soap. You can also use a wet rag to wipe away soap suds.
 Make sure that you spray the tray, the walls, and the roof of the crate. Let it sit for ten to twenty minutes to kill off any bacteria. If you have removed the bottom tray, you should spray it separately off to the side.


If you have a wire crate, you may not be able to spray the sides efficiently. Dampen a rag with your cleaning solution, and wipe down the sides instead.
 Use a dry paper towel to remove any extra water and cleaning solution from the crate. This will quicken the drying process and prevent wire crates from rusting. Leave the crate outside to dry.


If you are worried about chemicals from the cleaning solution, you can wipe down the crate with a damp paper towel before wiping it down again with a dry one.
If you are unable to put it outside, keep it in a well-ventilated room. Do not let your dog inside until it is completely dry.

