 Some people get nervous when talking to a baby--don't worry, there's not necessarily a right or wrong way. But there are several things you can do to make your conversation enjoyable and effective for both of you. One of the best ways to talk to your baby is to simply repeat what she says.Imitating a baby tells her that what she is trying to say matters to you.
Simply repeat the sounds your baby makes. For example, if she says, "Ki ki!", you can say "Ki ki!" right back. Use different inflections in your voice to make it feel more like a conversation.
When you repeat the baby's sounds, offer additional encouragement in the form of smiles and a positive tone of voice.;
, When you are talking to a baby, show enthusiasm. Respond in an upbeat tone to whatever noises she makes. If your baby is crying, respond to her vocally. Try saying, "What's wrong? Are you hungry?"Babies can tell when you are paying attention to them. When your baby is "talking" to you, respond.
If your baby is not being vocal, but is looking around or trying to grab for something, you can respond to those cues, too. For example, say, "Are you looking at your brother? That's your brother, Steve. He's coloring right now."

, Your baby can interpret your tone of voice, so make it encouraging. When talking to a baby, try to demonstrate enthusiasm. This shows your interest, and that you are engaged with what she's doing.Try offering an exclamation when your baby does something. For instance, you can say, "Wow, what a big smile! That makes my day!"
Offer encouraging statements to show your enthusiasm. Try "I'm so glad to be home from work! I'm excited for time with you!" She might not understand the words, but she will pick up on the sentiment.
 Your baby might not understand everything you do, but the best way for her to learn is by show and tell. Throughout the day, describe your actions to your baby. Say, "Let's get you dressed and then go eat breakfast!" After hearing these types of things repeatedly, the meaning will start to sink in.Use descriptive words. You could say, "It's a good thing we put your hat on. It is cold today. Brrr!"
Experts have not found that baby talk impedes a baby's ability to learn. So feel free to mix in a silly tone or a wacky phrase you like into your narration. Do what feels natural to you, while mixing in adult phrases and words.
 Research shows that babies can detect rhythmic patterns when they are only one day old. That means from almost the moment they are born, music can be an important part of a baby's life. Try singing to your baby to connect with her.Singing and music are comforting to your baby, so try a simple melody if she is fussing.
Singing has also been shown to be beneficial for the language development of a baby. Choose an old favorite like Twinkle Twinkle Little Star, or introduce her to your favorite Adele song.

