 Chunky yarn is only one term commonly used to identify yarn types within the broader "bulky yarn" category.


Many yarn brands will label the yarn as "chunky yarn," but there are a few synonymous terms that other brands may use to describe the yarn. These terms include "craft" and "rug" yarn.
A better way to identify chunky yarn is by knowing its yarn weight symbol. The symbol for chunky yarn and all other forms of bulky yarn is "5."Note that the only thicker yarn category is category 6, "super bulky." Some yarns in this category might be called "super chunky." Super chunky yarn and chunky yarn are not quite the same, so you should keep that in mind when making your yarn selection.;
, The right crochet hook to use can vary by project, but when no hook size is specified, you should choose a hook size that falls within the standard recommended range.


Larger hooks tend to be best for chunky yarn. In U.S. sizes, look for a hook between K-10-1/2 and M-13. In metric sizes, look for a hook between 6.5 and 9 mm.
If you end up picking a super chunky yarn, the recommended hook size is M-13 and up in U.S. sizes or 9 mm and up in metric sizes., When working with single crochet, a 4-inch (10-cm) square made with chunky yarn will typically consist of 8 to 11 stitches.


For super chunky yarns, a 4-inch (10 cm) square of single crochet would consist of 5 to 9 stitches.
Gauge refers to the number of stitches needed to form a 4-inch by 4-inch (10-cm by 10-cm) square using a certain type of yarn. For simple projects, like scarves and blankets, precise gauge measurements are not as important to note. For more advanced projects, like sweaters and socks, you will need to know the gauge of your yarn to prevent the final piece from being too small or too large to fit properly.
 Figure out what it is that you want to make with chunky yarn. If you're still a novice, it would be best to find an actual pattern to work from. More advanced crocheters can devise their own patterns and work from there.


You can adapt a pattern that uses another type of yarn for use with chunky yarn, but doing so can be a bit difficult. Compare the two yarn gauges and determine how many more or fewer stitches you'll need to make when switching. You'll also need to use a hook that differs in size from the one recommended in the pattern instructions.
 Yarns can be made from different fibers, even yarns of a single thickness. Each fiber will have a different texture and appearance. Experiment with different fibers until you find one that you like.


As a general tip, consider the intended use of the project when picking out a fiber material. A blanket or scarf will need a softer yarn fiber than a rug or handbag would probably need.
Acrylic wool is a mix of natural and synthetic fibers.It tends to be inexpensive and durable, making it ideal for projects like rugs and purses. It can also be used for sweaters and scarves but may not be soft enough for those with sensitive skin.
Cotton wool is soft, durable, and natural. It is generally preferred for sweaters and scarves but may still be too rough for those with very sensitive skin, like infants and toddlers.
The softest wools are cashmere, silk, mohair, lambs, and alpaca. Cashmere and silk wools are typically used for scarves, shawls, and wraps, but they are more delicate and require more care. Mohair, lambswool, and alpaca wool tend to be used for blankets and sweaters, but they also require special care.
 This step applies to any yarn you shop for, and chunky yarn is no exception. You'll need to figure out which color or color you want to use for your project.


Once you figure it out, buy the full number of skeins you will need. It's better to have too many than too few. The dye can be slightly different from batch to batch, so buying the same hue by name at two different times can result in having too slightly different shades. You can avoid this problem if you buy the yarn all at once.
To be on the safe side, you should also check the "lot" or "dye lot" number on the back label of each skein. Make sure that the dye lot number on each skein is the same before you buy them. Otherwise, you may still end up with different shades.To determine which color is best, ask yourself about the project. Consider picking your favorite color if the project is for yourself, or your friend's favorite color if the project is for a friend.
Also ask yourself which colors would match well with the intended use of the piece. For instance, choose a color that matches your coat if you plan on making yourself a scarf or a color that matches your bedroom if you plan on making yourself a blanket.
 Attach the yarn to the top of your crochet hook with a slipknot, leaving only a small tail.


If you are using chunky yarn, use a size L-11 (8 mm) hook for this project.
If you decide to use super chunky yarn, use a size N-15 (10 mm) hook, instead.
You will only need two skeins of yarn if you want to create a cowl. For a longer infinity scarf, you may need up to four skeins.
To make a slipknot:

Cross the attached end of the yarn over the loose end in a loop.
Pull the attached side through the loop, drawing up a second loop. Tighten the first loop around the second.
Tighten the second loop onto the hook.
 Determine how wide you want the scarf to be, then make a series of chain stitches from the loop on your hook to match that width.


For a cowl, you'll need to make a foundation chain of about 26 stitches with chunky yarn or 31 stitches with super chunky yarn.
For a longer infinity scarf, the chain should have about 36 stitches with chunky yarn or 41 stitches with super chunky yarn.To make a chain stitch:

Wrap the yarn halfway around the hook from the back.
Pull this yarn-over through the previous loop on the hook. This completes one chain stitch.
 Count the stitches in your foundation chain, stopping once you reach the sixth one from the hook. Work one double crochet into that sixth stitch.


For this project, you should work each double crochet into the single loop at the back side of its respective stitch. Do not crochet into the front side loops.
To double crochet:

Wrap the yarn once over the hook.
Insert the hook into the indicated stitch.
Yarn over the hook from the back of the stitch.
Pull the yarn back through the stitch and to the front of the work.
Wrap the yarn over the hook again. Draw this yarn-over through the first two loops on the hook.
Wrap the yarn over the hook once more. Draw this yarn-over through the last two loops on the hook.
 Work two chain stitches from the loop currently on your hook.
 Work one more double crochet into the exact same spot you worked the previous double crochet in.


The first double crochet, the two chain stitches, and this second double crochet all combine to form one V-stitch.
You'll be repeating the V-stitch all throughout the project.
 Skip over two stitches in your foundation chain, then work another V-stitch into the stitch after that. Skip over another two stitches, then work another V-stitch into the stitch that follows. Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the foundation chain.


For each V-stitch:

Double crochet once into the correct stitch.
Chain two.
Double crochet once more into the same stitch.


You should finish the row by working one double crochet into the last stitch of your foundation chain.
 Flip the work over so that the hook is on your dominant side again, then work a turning chain of three chain stitches.


This turning chain brings the height of the next row up to the correct stitch height. Without the turning chain, the width of the scarf will be uneven.
 Work one double crochet into the first of the chain-two spaces created in your previous row.


This is the beginning of your first V-stitch for this row.
Make sure that you crochet into the first chain-two space. If there is another space before it, you should skip over it and work directly with the chain-two space. Otherwise, the final width of the piece might be uneven.
 Work two chain stitches from the loop on your hook.
 Work one more double crochet into the same space as the first double crochet of the row.


This step completes the first V-stitch of this row.
 Work one V-stitch into each chain-two space created in your previous row. Continue until you reach the end of this row.


End the row by working one double crochet into the second loop of the last double crochet of the row below.
 Each row should be worked in the same way as the previous row. Make as many rows as desired until you reach your ideal length.


Chain three at the end of each row.
Work one V-stitch into each chain-two space of the previous row.
Work one double crochet into the second loop of the last double crochet at the end of each row.
A cowl will only need to be long enough to fit around your head and neck, or about 18 inches (46 cm). An infinity scarf will need to be two to three times longer, or about 48 inches (122 cm).
 Fold the scarf in half crosswise, halving the length. Make sure that both edges are evenly aligned and all four corners meet.
 Work one single crochet into the first stitch of the top layer and the first stitch of the bottom layer at the same time.


Repeat this process, working one single crochet into each set of stitches from both layers, until you reach the bottom corners of the scarf.
This creates a neat, barely visible seam along the back of your scarf or cowl.
To make a single crochet:

Insert the hook into the indicated stitch.
Yarn over the hook from the back.
Pull the hook back through to the front of the stitch.
Wrap the yarn over the hook once more.
Pull this final yarn-over through both loops on your hook.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 3-inch (7.6-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the final loop on your hook. Weave any excess yarn into the back side of your scarf to hide and secure the remaining tail.


This step completes the project.

