 Different types of insulin could be covered differently through your insurer. Either call your insurer or have your medical office look into the coverage and out of pocket expense to you for different products.


Knowing that another product might be cheaper for you will not mean that you automatically can switch to that product. However, it does mean that you can discuss this option with your doctor.
 While your doctor may have you on a specific product for a therapeutic reason, discuss whether a cheaper product would serve your needs just as well. For instance, if you are on basic insulin therapy using an analog insulin, discuss the possibility of switching to human insulin, which is less expensive in general.You may need to educate your doctor a little bit about what you pay for insulin. Many doctors do not know how much medications actually cost patients. If you tell them how much you pay for insulin, and how that impacts you financially, they may be more open to finding alternatives.
 If you cannot get assistance on your insulin costs from pharmaceutical companies, you may want to consider getting medical insurance or changing insurance policies so that your out of pocket cost is reduced. In order to do this, you will need to figure out if it will be more cost effective to pay more for insurance or if the added cost for better insurance will be more than the coverage on insulin it offers.


If you have health insurance through your employer, you may not have the option of increasing your coverage or changing programs. Discuss your options with your human resources personnel at work or with a representative from your health insurance.
Even if you cannot get health insurance through your employer and you don't qualify for a public program, it may be in your financial interest to get an individual health plan., For instance, if you are 65 years old or older in the United States, you may qualify for Medicare or Medicaid, which could cover some of your prescription drug costs. Additionally, under the Affordable Care Act, you could qualify for government assistance no matter what age you are, if you are below the poverty line.Medicaid is a state health insurance program that is partially funded by the federal government for those with low incomes.


The prescription coverage under Medicare is called "Medicare Part D." This coverage requires that you pay a premium. However, if you are below the poverty line, there may be assistance programs that cover the premium costs.

