 Most dial meters have four or five separate dials. On the simplest meters, these dials are lined up straight in a row, but some meters may have them grouped together in a cluster.


Most meters have four dials, but a decent amount do have five.
Dial meters are older and more common than digital meters.
Note that adjacent dials spin in opposite directions. Usually, the first and third dials turns counter-clockwise while the second and fourth dials turn clockwise. When the meter has a fifth dial, that one also turns counter-clockwise.
You should ignore any red dials or any dials marked "100 per rev." Similarly, if one dial is notably larger than the rest in a cluster, do not take a reading from that dial.;
, The digit you should read is whichever digit the dial hand hovers over. Write down the digits side by side as you read them off.


When writing the reading down, line the numbers up directly in a row without separating them.
For instance, if the first dial reads "2," the second reads "5," the third reads "7," and the fourth reads "1," the correct meter reading for that meter would be "2571."

, If the dial hand rests between two digits, take the lower of the two digits.


For example, if the hand is between "3" and "4" on one of the dials, you should read that dial as "3" instead of "4."
When the dial hand is between "9" and "0," however, you should read the dial as "9" instead of "0." Since the dial numbers range from "0" to "9," the number "0" marks the beginning of another rotation while the "9" still belongs to the previous rotation, technically making it lower in value.
The dial hand must reach the tick mark of the next highest digit to be recorded as such. For instance, even if the hand is closer to "5" than it is to "4," you must still record it as "4" since the hand has not passed the "5" tick mark.
 When the hand of one dial appears to rest precisely on top of one digit, check the dial to the right of it. If that hand of that second dial has passed the digit “0,” take the digit that the hand of your first dial appears to rest on.


Conversely, if the hand on the dial to the right is not past the "0" mark, you should use the number directly below the digit your left-hand dial hand seems to hover over.
For example, if the hand of the second dial appears to rest on the number “3,” look at the hand of the third dial. If that third dial is between “9” and “0,” you can read the second dial as “3.” If the hand of the third dial is positioned anywhere else, though, you should still read the second dial as “2” since the hand is likely resting just before the digit's tick mark instead of directly over it.

