 The benefit of this type of coat is that it generally doesn't mat. Brushing it too much can actually be a problem because the action can be destructive to the coat. Try brushing the cat just when the cat is shedding more, such as during seasonal changes., This particular type of cat often gets a greasiness to its coat, due to the type of hair it has. Therefore, it's a good idea to bathe the cat regularly. Bathe it when you start noticing the coat is getting greasy, as often as twice a month.Make sure to use a cat-specific shampoo when bathing your cat, as it is better for its fur. You can also try wearing the cat out by playing with it before bath time to help it feel more calm.
Bathing the cat will also help with the sensitive skin that some Wirehairs are prone to., Bath time is also a good time to clean out your cat's ears. That doesn't mean spraying water in them. Rather, use cotton balls or swabs to gently swab the inside of their ears.If necessary, you can use an ear-cleaning mixture meant for cats, which you can buy. Ask your vet for a suggestion as to what kind., Like any cat, this cat will need its nails trimmed. Start with the cat in your lap with its head facing outward. Gently grasp a paw, and press on one of the pads. The nail should extend so you can trim it. Look for the pink quick on the inside of the nail, and avoid cutting it, as it's painful for the cat. Cut the nails about twice a month.It can help to get your cat accustomed to the sound of the clippers first. Try using them on spaghetti near the cat, so they can hear what it sounds like.
Some cats do better if you try to clip the nails while they are already relaxed or sleepy. If they're sleeping nearby, you may be able to clip a few nails, especially if you have a sound sleeper.
Some cats will not let you trim all their claws at once. Do a few at a time if you need to.
 All cats need their teeth brushed regularly, but few pet owners actually do it. The key is to get your cat used to the idea first. Start by just working with your cat's gums. Lift up the lip several times a day, and use your finger, a cotton swab, or some gauze to rub the cat's gums. This step is to get your cat accustomed to the action; it doesn't actually clean them. Once your cat is okay with that, you can move on to brushing.Use a vet-approved toothbrush and toothpaste. Cat toothpaste comes in flavors your cat will like.
Let the cat try the toothpaste, then gently rub it into the teeth on both sides with the toothbrush, getting the teeth all the way back. You may need to brush your cat's teeth in parts, as your cat may decide it's had enough in the middle.

