 Take a clean, wet cotton cloth or dish sponge and wipe down the interior of the sink. Try to get as much debris and grime as you can.









Make sure to wipe around the drain.
If your sink is especially dirty, you may need to switch out for a fresh cloth.
In many cases, it is best to wipe the sink down when it is dry, so you’ll be able to remove hair, grime, and other debris easily.
Wipe down the sink on a daily basis, if needed.;
, Make sure to rinse the sink before you use a bathroom cleaning product. If you don’t rinse the sink, you’ll have to contend with a lot of dirt when you spray the sink down.









Turn on the faucet and run hot water into the sink. Hot water will loosen soap scum, grime, and dirt.
Splash the water around the surface – including the sides – of the sink.
You may need to use a clean cotton cloth to wipe down the sides of the sink with hot water., Choose a bathroom cleaner of your choice and liberally spray the sink. Make sure to get all parts of the sink, including the faucet and behind the faucet.









Most bathroom cleaners are formulated to clean bathroom sinks. You may be able to use a tub and tile cleaner or a cleaner formulated for the type of material you sink is made of. In most cases, this is porcelain.
Make sure the cleaner is a disinfectant. This is important as bathroom sinks can potentially accumulate a variety of germs., After spraying your cleaner, take a clean cloth and wipe down the entire surface of your sink. Pay special attention to especially dirty areas and apply pressure when you need.









You may need to use several clean cloths.
If you need to spray more cleaner while you’re wiping the sink down, do so., If your bathroom sink is still dirty after you’ve done a light clean, you should sprinkle baking all over the sink. Cover as much of the surface as you can. The abrasive force of the baking soda will help remove tough stains.









Make sure the sink is dry before you sprinkle the baking soda.
Use as much baking soda as you need to cover the surface area of the sink. Take care to sprinkle some baking soda into the grout ring around the drain., Take a clean cloth and scrub the sink down. You may have to apply a lot of pressure in areas that are particularly dirty. Without scrubbing your baking soda into the sink, you won’t be able to remove all stains.









Swirl your cloth around in circles while you rub the baking soda into the surface of the sink.
Consider using a regular cotton cloth. Microfiber may not have the abrasive power you need to remove some stains.
In some instances, you may need to use a mildly abrasive dish sponge., After you’ve scrubbed the sink, you need to thoroughly rinse it to remove all leftover baking soda. If you don’t rinse it immediately, some of the stains may re-set and all your work will be wasted.









Make sure to run the water until all the baking soda has washed down the drain.
If your sink doesn’t drain properly, you may need to wipe the baking soda out with cloth rags or paper towels., By rinsing the sink after every use, you’ll make sure that dirt and soap residue are washed out of the basin into the drain. This is important, as the dirt in your sink accumulates on a day-to-day basis.









Run the water after you brush your teeth, otherwise toothpaste and toothpaste residue will build up in your sink.
Make sure you use enough water to wash soap and soap residue down the drain after you wash your hands.
If you notice any grime in your sink after you use it, run the water., One of the easiest ways to keep a bathroom sink clean is to avoid washing hair shavings down it. Hair shavings not only dirty your sink, but they can partially clog your pipes. As a result, normal dirt and grime will build up in the basin.









If you shave in front of the sink, put a towel over the sink so your hair falls into the towel.
If you do wash hair down the drain of the sink, your sink will eventually clog up. When this happens, you’ll have to remove the accumulated hair with a coat hanger, or use a chemical clog removing product., One of the toughest stains to get out of a sink, especially porcelain bathroom sinks, are rust stains. As a result, don’t lay any metal in your sink. Because of the presence of moisture, metal will quickly rust and leave a stain.


If you have a rust stain, take an old eraser and wipe it against the stain.
If the rust stain won’t come out with baking soda or an eraser, you may need to use an abrasive cleaner like Comet cleaning powder. However, make sure whatever product you use is safe on the material your sink is made of.