 While many people are rightfully wary of signing up for more credit cards as a means to make money(since too many credit card applications can negatively impact your credit score), if you're savvy about selecting offers, it can be a valuable investment.


How high of a bonus are you looking for? Is $50 enough to entice you to sign up or are you looking for something in the $100 to $150 range? Decide how much money is worth the risk of signing up, taking your credit history and financial situation into account.Read the fine print. Some cards require you to spend a certain amount of money in a certain time frame to get the bonus. If you're not willing to charge $500 to a card to get a $100 bonus, don't bother signing up for that card.What kind of reward do you want? Many people are looking for straight cash, but some cards instead offer frequent flyer miles or points that can be redeemed for certain purchases. If you're planning a trip or a big purchase, these kinds of rewards can help you earn money simply by not spending what you anticipated., It's easy to get swindled by missing the fine print. Understand the terms of the offer going in and follow them exactly.


Cards often require you to spend a certain amount the first month to reap the bonus. Make sure you make a spending schedule for yourself to stay on task if this is the case. Use the card for purchases you would have made anyway, like gas and groceries, and pay the balance in full each month.Another point people often miss is added fees. Oftentimes, a fee is waived for the first 6 months or the first year. Know what fees there are, and when you can expect to be charged., The old adage "high risk, high return" applies when trying to make money off credit cards. The easier the bonuses are to obtain, the smaller they are. If you want a higher bonus, you need to be willing to take a bigger risk.


Many credit card companies require you to keep your contract and use your card for a certain time period to earn a sign up bonus. A $700 bonus might mean putting $5,000 on your card over a 3 or 4 month period, for example.While taking risks can lead to a big pay-off, you should not overspend to earn the rewards. You're not really making money if you're spending money on items you do not need or want. You should only attempt to get a big bonus if you anticipate spending the money you would charge to the card anyway.