 Plug in your machine and place it somewhere that will allow you to enough space to move your project around freely. Program your machine so that it will produce the size and shape monogram you want.


In order to create a monogram with a sewing machine, it will need to be one that has an embroidery function. Many modern sewing machines have integrated advanced electronics that allow you to embroider preset designs, most of which include monogram motifs.
Follow your machines instructions on how to choose which design you will use and how big it will be.
Don't forget to thread your sewing machine with the color thread that you would like to use. The color should go nicely with the color of the fabric you are monogramming.
 Mark the center point of where your monogram will go with tailor's chalk or any fabric marking tool. It is best to make a vertical line and a horizontal line coming out of the center point of where your design will go. This will allow you to line up your embroidery hoop in the correct position.


Remember that you will need enough room around your design so that your machine's embroidery hoop will fit around it, with your design in the center. If you are worried about space, measure your hoop or place it on the fabric when deciding where your design will go. In many cases, the position of the design will be determined by where the hoop will fit.
 Make sure the center lines you drew on your fabric are lined up with the center marks on your machine's embroidery hoop. This will make sure that the machine embroiders your monogram in the right spot.


You will need to place a piece of stabilizer under your fabric inside the hoop. The piece should be a bit larger than the hoop, so that it covers the whole underside of your fabric. Stabilizer supports your fabric while being sew by your machine, making it sturdy enough to withstand machine embroidery.Don't worry, once your monogram in sewn the stabilizer can easily be cut, washed, or torn away (depending on the type of stabilizer you use)!

, Your machine's embroidery hoop should snap in place, so that it will move freely as the machine moves it during embroidering. Be sure to follow your machine's instructions when attaching the hoop to the machine. Once the hoop is secured in place, start your embroidery program and watch your machine do all the work!


Make sure that your hands and any other items are away from the machine while it is operating! The hoop, with your fabric attached, needs to be clear of obstacles so that it can all move freely.
 Trim away any excess thread left by the machine. All you need to do now is remove any excess stabilizer from the back of your fabric. Follow the instructions that came with the stabilizer, whether it be to cut any excess off, rip the excess off, or wash the excess off. Now your monogram is finished!

