 Keep in mind that it is not possible to burn fat in one area of your body. In fact, full-body exercise is the best way to lose weight in all areas of your body, including your chin and neck.That being said, doing chin exercises can stretch the muscles in your jaw, neck, and throat and help with your posture.Do chin lifts. Stand or sit with your spine straight. Tilt your head towards the ceiling. Squeeze your lips together as you look towards the ceiling. Only engage your lips and relax your other facial muscles. Keep your lips puckered for a count of five, then release. Repeat this exercise five to ten times. These can be surprisingly effective in strengthening and toning the neck muscles.
Do neck rolls. This exercise is great for releasing tension in your shoulders and neck. Stand or sit with your spine straight. Inhale and turn your head to the right. Let your chin touch your shoulder. Look towards the right. Exhale and roll your head towards your chest. Keep your spine straight and your shoulders squared to the front. Inhale and lift your head so it touches your left shoulder. Look towards the left. Repeat five to 10 times for each side.
 Lose weight in your entire body to help reduce the fat around your neck and chin. Most exercise plans recommend 30 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity five days of the week, or 150 minutes each week. Depending on your current fitness level, you may want to commit to doing light exercise every day or more intense exercise every other day. Rather than overdo your workouts, focus on being consistent and sticking to an exercise plan that is realistic and specific to the needs of your body.Create a workout schedule so you are exercising at the same time every day. This could be every morning at the gym before work, every other day during lunch, or every night several hours before bed. Look at your schedule for the week and pencil in workout time so it is part of your day and you cannot miss it or forget about it.
Always start every workout with light cardio to prevent stretching or putting stress on cold muscles. Do a light five to ten minute jog in place or use a jump rope and jump in place for five minutes.
Start out slow and build on your intensity and timing especially if you are severely out of shape and condition. Check with a doctor if you are older and make sure your heart is healthy enough for physical activity.
 Many people develop a double chin due to weight gain from an unhealthy diet.Adjust your calorie intake so you are not overeating or eating empty calories. Most dietitians will recommend that you stick to a 1,800–2,000 calorie a day diet if you are trying to lose weight. Determine your calorie intake per day and try to maintain a diet that gives you enough energy to do exercise. Never go below 1,200 calories a day.


Consume more vegetables, healthy fats, and lean protein. Shape your meals so they contain one protein source, one low fat source and one low carb vegetable source. Your carb intake should be in the recommended range of 20–50 grams per a day.Cut out carbs, sugars, and animal fats. Foods high in carbs and sugars cause your body to secrete insulin, which is a main fat storage hormone in your body. When your insulin levels go down, your body can start to burn fat. It also helps your kidneys shed excess sodium and water, which will help you reduce any water weight.Avoid foods high in starch and carbs like potato chips, french fries, and white breads. You should also avoid consuming foods high in sugar like soft drinks, candy, cakes, and other junk food.
 This meal plan should include three main meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner), scheduled at the same time of day, as well as two small snacks (between breakfast and lunch, and lunch and dinner), also scheduled at the same time of day. This will ensure you eat at a consistent time for all seven days and do not skip or miss a meal. Eating fewer calories each day, combined with daily exercise, can lead to healthy weight loss.Make a grocery list based on your meal plan and go food shopping for the week on Sunday. Stock your fridge with all the necessary ingredients to make your meals for the week so you can prepare each meal easily and quickly.Try using an app like MyFitnessPal to track your calories and make sure you stick to your allotted calories for the day.
 Water will help your immune system stay healthy, keep your skin looking great, and keep you hydrated during your daily workout.Replace sugary drinks like soda and sports drinks with water flavored with slices of lemon or lime or zero-calorie drinks.
Unsweetened green tea is another good substitute for sugary drinks. Green tea contains a good amount of antioxidants, meaning that it helps your body fight against free radicals, which enhance signs of aging in humans.