 It is important that candidates leave the interview room in a positive frame of mind. Whilst they know they could have said something or other to improve their chances of success, they can't start back over again and how you behave in the face of adversity can be reflected in the interviewer's final decisions.;
, It may seem obvious, but you will know when the interview is over when the interviewer tells you that they have concluded the interview.
 This is your opportunity to maintain the same poise and control as when you began the interview. If you are offered the interviewers hand end with a firm, confident handshake (ensure you don’t grip too hard) and a self-assured smile. Even if you feel you could have improved on some aspects of the interview, a self-confident exit can go a long way to salvaging the interview for you. Whether you think it or not you will convey this confidence to the interviewer and you will leave a positive lasting impression.
 Thank the interviewer for the time that they have afforded to you, say goodbye in a friendly manner and leave the room.
 Whether or not you feel that the interview was a success or not, it's important that you put it completely out of your mind when you leave the room and only reflect on your performance at a later date. Many candidates do this. When you occupy your mind too much on what you said or could have said it can have a destructive impact on any job interviews you may have in the future. At the very least you should be confident that it has provided you with tremendous experience for the next one. Like all interviews, you must prepare in exactly the same way for any further interviews to follow.
 It is suggested that you go back and reflect on the interview a few days later to determine how you performed on the day. Run over the particular areas where you felt you mentioned the wrong thing, gave an incomplete answer or there were things you wished you had said but left out.
 Many people do this after the interview and needlessly beat themselves up and overanalyze every aspect of what was said, or what wasn’t. Remember you may have mentioned numerous valid, relevant points and hit on the main acceptable answers and these are the positive aspects that you should dwell upon. Just take a note of the plus points of your interview, for example, how well you prepared, your interview technique, positive answers you delivered and how you could improve in the future. By doing this you have reflected this on paper and ensures that you don’t forget these aspects for any future interviews.

