 A career as a child advocate can be very rewarding. It is fulfilling to know that you are making a positive difference in society. Take some time to reflect on your career goals to find the path towards employment that is right for you.Think about your strengths. Do you want to make a difference by working with individual children? Or would you rather take a leadership role and manage volunteers?
Consider your personal timeline. How much time are you willing to commit to furthering your education? You should also think about the financial resources you are willing to commit.
Write down your goals. Figure out what type of work will be fulfilling. List the steps you will need to take to make those goals happen.;
, There are several different routes to becoming a child advocate. Most of them require a specific degree. However, there are several different paths you can take to fulfill the educational requirements.Research Human Services degrees. A degree in Human Services will offer an interdisciplinary approach.
When you pursue a Bachelor's degree in Human Services, you will take classes in topics such as criminal justice and sociology. If you choose to pursue a Master's Degree, you will then choose a specialization.
Look into a Social Work degree. This academic path will provide you with the opportunity to specialize in working with children.
A degree in psychology is also a common choice for child advocates. You will be able to choose your specialization early on.
You can also pursue a law degree. You can choose to become an attorney who specializes in child advocacy.
 Once you have determined which degree you want to pursue, it is time to find the right school. Make a list of schools that offer the program that you are interested in. Then spend some time doing research so that you can make an informed decision.Ask about the application process. You can call or e-mail the school's admissions office for information. Ask if there are pre-requisites or entrance exams that you need to be aware of.
Choose the right location. You want to go to a school that fits your needs, but you also need to make sure that it is convenient. Visit the schools near you to get a sense of what your commute will be like.
Consider the time commitment. Are you interested in stopping after your Bachelor's degree? Or will you be pursuing an MA, JD, or PhD?
Ask if the school offers any joint or combined programs. These can help expedite the amount of time you spend in school.
Talk to current students. Ask about their overall experience, the interaction with faculty, and their satisfaction with the program in general.
 After you have completed your education, you can begin your job search. Ideally, your university will have several programs in place to help you begin your career. Make sure to take advantage of all of the resources available to you.Visit the Career Placement office. Most colleges have counselors devoted to helping you to find a job. Ask them for the best way to begin applying for jobs.
Utilize your network. Reach out to everyone you know in your chosen field.
Contact former professors and ask if they know of any job openings. You can also ask if they will be willing to serve as a reference.
Update your resume and cover letter. The career services office at your university can also help you with this. Spend time polishing your materials and asking for feedback.
Apply for multiple jobs. When you are beginning your job search, it is a good idea to cast a wide net. Submit your materials to several places to enhance your chances of getting a job.
 Once you have found a job, you can continually work to become a more effective child advocate. This field changes frequently, and often fluctuates depending on state laws and budgets. Stay informed about the changes in your field.Pursue continuing education. You can attend conferences, workshops, and seminars with other professional child advocates.
Do pro Bono work. If you are an attorney, consider donating some hours each month to understaffed programs.
Stay active in your professional network. Subscribe to publications such as newsletters and journals so that you stay current on information. These outlets will also tell you about networking opportunities.

