 There are dance classes for every style of dancing from hip-hop to ballet, break dancing to salsa. Search online for the classes in your area. Whatever style of dance you're interested in, you could probably benefit from a ballroom dancing class as the steps of many other dance styles have their roots in some ballroom basics.


When you are being taught a routine, look at what the teacher is doing. Try to copy it exactly. If it doesn't work, watch the teacher again and look for the little things he or she does that make it easier. Go ahead and and ask your instructor for tips; experienced instructors have worked with hundreds of students and have ideas that can help you overcome whatever it is you're finding to be difficult.
Even a few hours of class time can help you learn the basics and build your confidence.
 A flash mob is a spontaneous public performance--usually a dance--that appears seemingly out of nowhere and then disappears just as quickly. While these dance performances may seem spontaneous, the truth is that they're usually fairly well rehearsed in advance. You can find flash mobs online, join them for a several-week rehearsal period as the group learns a dance and then perform with the mob in public. Flash mobs welcome people of all skill levels; their focus is on having fun and creating a joyful scene, so the more people who participate, the better. You'll also learn some great dance moves and connect with people who also enjoy dancing.
 Dancing is a wildly popular activity, and you can get plenty of exposure to it just by watching TV. Tune into reality television dance-competition shows. Focusing on the steps might be a bit challenging. Instead, pay attention to how loose the dancers are, how much confidence they display and how much fun it looks like they're having on the dance floor.
 There are so many dance movies to choose from; see as many as you can or pick and choose those that speak to your particular interests.


Developing confidence. Check out "Dirty Dancing" or "Shall We Dance" to watch two dance novices develop confidence and grace and learn to perform with pizzazz.
Finding your inner dance rebel. Watch "Footloose" or "Flashdance" to see the power of dance as a form of defiance against uptight authority figures and personal circumstances.
Moving with grace--Rent anything starring Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. They are the embodiment of grace and elegance not to mention great role models for how to move with a partner.
Developing an attitude. Look no further than John Travolta's performance in "Saturday Night Fever" for dance floor confidence that wins the girl and the admiration of the crowd. You might want to do a Travolta movie marathon and pick up "Grease," or "Staying Alive" .
Coming into your own. When Tom Cruise slides across the floor in an oxford shirt and gym socks in "Risky Business," he kicks off a song-and-dance number that's a carefree celebration of how good it feels to move to the music. Let it inspire you to lose yourself in a great tune and make up some dance moves that just feel good to you.
 Ballroom dancing competition, officially known as DanceSport, are held all over the world. Check online for a competition near you. Check out websites such as the International Grand Ball, United States Dance Championships and the Access Dance Network to name just a few.

