 Two important factors of starting any business are knowing your product and knowing your competition. Ideally, you should choose a location that doesn't already offer too many boot camps and has a good supply of active people between the ages of 18 and 50.;
, Create a business plan, invest in equipment and create at least a 5-year plan for your business. If you do not have any experience running a business, enroll in business management, marketing and bookkeeping courses in advance.
 This is especially important if there are a number of fitness options already available. Decide what the features of your product will be and how they will benefit your client.


For example, you should offer low group sizes, personalized help and special classes to cater to age groups or injuries, if there are a large number of boot camp classes at gyms in the area. These features allow clients to burn more calories and avoid injury while feeling better about their workout.
 If you offer discounts or packages without a superior class design, you will be unlikely to keep your customers. Most gyms can offer better package prices with boot camps than privately run classes.


Consider rest periods, set length, class progression and standards of achievement.
 Share the features and benefits with your area. Come up with a message and call to action and communicate it through flyers, radio ads, television ads, online coupons and service partnerships.
 You are likely to need yoga mats, small hand weights, jump ropes, suspension ropes, towels and water. These should be included in your original business plan, along with plans to increase equipment when you start to profit.
 You can start your boot camp with a single group and expand as you receive referrals. Many fitness boot camps take place outside in parks. During the winter, you may be able to run it in a collective space or another fitness business for a small fee.
 You may not need to offer courses all day long. Boot camps are generally offered in the early morning, lunch time and after work to allow people with busy schedules to make it. If you have a lot of stay-at-home mothers and fathers, you can consider offering mid-day classes and day care.
 People become repeat customers to fitness boot camps when they feel supported and encouraged while they get fit. Structure short competitions and team-based tasks that will be positive and never degrading.
 Adjust the itinerary for the people and the day. Most customers cannot get this kind of personalized treatment in a gym, so get creative. Do anything to avoid the "one size fits all" approach.
 Running a good fitness boot camp requires you to be social. You should request information about injuries and ask questions in a friendly way before, during and after class.
 This is an exceptional way to do targeted marketing.
 Any successful fitness business must adjust schedules, hire instructors and change with the demographics in the area. Review your classes, staff, equipment and client feedback monthly, quarterly and yearly.

