 To start making your edible motte and bailey, you'll need to find something roughly mound-shaped and edible for your cake. There's no "right" food to use, but one easy and delicious way to do this is to bake a small cake in the shape of a half-sphere. This isn't difficult even if you don't have a half-sphere baking mold, as you can use most metal bowls for this purpose. One good guide to making a half-sphere cake is available here.If you're going for realism, you may want to bake a chocolate cake to replicate the brown color of dirt. However, your hill will eventually be covered with frosting, so it doesn't matter much which type of cake you choose.
Make sure to butter and flower the inside of the bowl or mold you use. This will make it easier to remove the finished product once it cools — the last thing you want is a hill with a big chunk taken out of it.
 Another easy way to make your hill is to simply make a jello mold in a round-sided bowl. Carefully turn the bowl upside-down once the jello has completely set to form the hill. If you're having a hard time getting the jello out, it can help to tap the top of the bowl while it's upside-down.


To learn how to make jello, consult the instructions on the back of the packet or read our jello article.
 To make room for the bailey (the lower courtyard portion of the castle), put the hill you've just created at one end of a large, clean serving platter. Once again, there's no "right" platter to use — if you happen to have a flat, rectangular platter that's suitable, feel free to use it. However, if you don't, you can improvise one from one of the following materials:


Cardboard
Plastic lunch/dinner tray
Metal baking sheet
Whatever you're using, it's a good idea to lay down a layer of plastic wrap or wax paper on top of your platter to keep your edible ingredients clean.
 Now that you have a hill and a surface to work on, you'll want create a grassy landscape for your castle. One easy way to do this is to simply cover the hill and the area around it with green frosting. You can buy frosting from the store or make your own (simply add green food coloring to a white frosting recipe.) You may also want to use brown frosting for dirt paths, ditches, and so on.


See our frosting article for several different frosting recipes that can work well for this project. Fondant is a little harder to make and has a different taste than frosting, but it can still work well. See our fondant article for recipes.
If you're working with a jello hill, you may want to simply make a flat, shallow mold of the same green jello you used for your hill instead and transfer your hill to this to make your landscape — the alternative, using frosting on jello, is a little gross.
 The most important structure in a motte and bailey is the keep (the mini-castle at the top of the hill.) An easy way to represent the keep is to put a cupcake (storebought or homemade) on top of your edible "hill." You can either leave the cupcake as-is or decorate it to make it look a little more like an actual keep — it's up to you.


One easy way to make the cupcake "keep" a little more realistic is to leave the muffin wrapper on the bottom, then carefully paint it with brown or grey frosting to give it a "wood" or "stone" finish.
 Another way to make a keep is to stick an ice cream cone on top of the hill. For this method, you'll specifically want a cake-style cone — these are the short, round ones, not the long, pointed ones made from a wrapped waffle. If you like, you can frost the outside with brown or grey frosting or, alternatively, decorate it with edible markers.
 You can also build a keep by sticking sugar cubes together. This will give the cube a boxy appearance — perfect for stone keeps. Once again, frosting or edible markers can be used to decorate the outside.


Getting sugar cubes to stick together can be a little tricky. One good trick is to use a substance called sugar glue which is made from confectioner's sugar and egg whites or meringue powder — a good recipe is available here., To make the wall, stick wafer cookies in a large circular pattern extending outward from the hill, then up the sides of the hill and around the back of the keep. To keep the cookies in place, either plant them firmly in the frosting/fondant landscape, use toothpicks, or stick them down with the sugar glue mentioned above. Any flavor of cookie will do, but if you're going for a realistic wooden wall, chocolate cookies are often preferable for their brown color.


Other good options include rolled wafers (e.g., pirouettes, piroulines, etc.), ladyfingers, or wafer candies like Kit Kats.
 There are many different ways to make edible versions of the barracks, armories, and other structures in the lower bailey courtyard. For example, mini gingerbread houses look great. If you don't want to go to the trouble of making gingerbread, you can use graham crackers in more or less the same way.


See our gingerbread house article and our graham cracker house article on this subject for more information.
 Adding edible trees and bushes is easy if you have the right sorts of candy handy. For trees, you can use small lollipops (preferably green ones), painting each one's stick with brown frosting or edible marker if desired. In addition, tufts of green cotton candy make great bushes.


Other types of candy can make creative additions as well. For example, scattered Nerd candies or rock candy fragments can serve as rocks or pebbles.
 Certain parts of the model castle described in the section above, like tiny soldiers, weapons, animals, and so on, are tricky to make from edible ingredients. If you want to populate your castle with these sorts of things, you can certainly consider using inedible pieces (e.g., Lego figures, etc.) However, if you plan on eating your castle, make sure that these pieces are clearly visible so that they aren't accidentally swallowed. It's also a good idea to have a bowl or another receptacle handy so that people eating the castle can put the pieces there.


If you plan on serving your edible castle somewhere that young children are likely to be, do not include any non-edible pieces.

