 Laser removal for tattoos is usually a lengthy and expensive process, and one that’s not guaranteed to work.Depending on the location, type of ink, and depth of the tattoo, it may not be possible to remove it completely.
 Laser removal won’t work for everyone, so be sure you’re a good candidate before you sign on. Set up a consultation before committing.


If your tattoo has been previously treated with other tattoo-removal procedures that have resulted in scarring, laser removal may only cause more scarring.If, however, your tattoo has been treated before with minimal scarring, it may respond well to laser treatment., Make sure that the person who would be performing the removal has an established track record of strong work with minimal side effects.Ask your family doctor or dermatologist to refer you to someone who specializes in tattoo removal and whose work they know and trust.
 Be sure to research exactly what a laser treatment does before committing to laser removal.


Laser treatments use pulsed Q-switched lasers to break the ink particles apart so they can be absorbed by the body’s immune system. Once the ink particles have been broken up, they’ll go to the lymph nodes, where they’ll remain.
It generally takes between 5-10 treatments over a span of many weeks to remove a tattoo. Costs vary, but on average will run about $200 per session. Most insurance companies won’t cover the cost of tattoo removal unless it’s medically necessary., Be sure you know not only what the technology is, but what the actual procedure will be so there won’t be any unfortunate surprises after you’ve committed to it.


In general, a laser tattoo removal session will run as follows:You’ll be given protective eye shields, and the doctor may administer either topical anesthesia or painkiller injections before beginning.
The doctor will use hand-held device will up against your skin to direct the laser. You can expect each pulse of the laser to feel something like being snapped with a rubber band or spattered with hot grease.
After the laser has been applied to the entire area, the doctor will likely apply ice or a cold compress before covering the area with a bandage.
The doctor may give then you a topical cream to apply periodically to the site.
 Though laser removal is generally a safe procedure, there are certain risks for side effects, includingInfection: If not treated properly, the tattoo site can be subject to infection.
Scarring: There is a small chance that the treatment could leave you with permanent scarring.
Hypo- or hyperpigmentation: There’s a risk that the skin in the treated area will either become lighter or darker than the surrounding skin.

