 It might be as simple as not looking. If you're guilty of deliberately peering through the bushes or over the fence, then you're not helping yourself. Unless it's totally unavoidable, avert your eyes from those peeping spots!;
, If it is impossible to avert your eyes, move yourself. Sit, stand, sunbathe, mow the lawn, etc. from a different place than from where your line of sight falls upon your naked neighbors.
 If the birthday suit patrolling in your neighbor's yard or garden is continual, then use fences, bushes, trellises, an already well-grown tree transplant, a new outside shed, etc. to block the view.


Install mirrors reflecting back into their yard. That way they'll get the message that you can see what they're gazing upon in those reflections.
 If you've tried to block the visual impact but it's still really bothering you, let them know. Provided they're reasonable and open-minded, they'll listen and perhaps suggest compromises that you can all reach. They might even be prepared to put up higher visual barriers at their expense or to only go naked after dark. And you could offer to remove your telescope from the second floor that focuses on their back yard. You get the drift...


Yes, talking to them about this will be embarrassing. Put on a friendly face and be charming. Ranting or yelling is far less effective than courtesy and a show of embarrassment.
Try simply popping your head over the fence and saying something like "Er, I hope you don't mind, this is somewhat awkward for me but I and my family can all see you guys wandering around without clothes on." Your neighbors might be shocked to find out you're actually able to see them.
 They're on private land but there may be laws relevant to decency should your neighbors parade their nudity in full view of the street or where it can be reasonably presumed that they're likely to be seen publicly.
 Lighten up, chill out and let them be. Perhaps they can't stand your noise levels, your bad exterior decorating or your long-winded discussions over the fence. Who knows but nobody's perfect and the human body is something we all share.

