 Sports stores or bulk sellers like Target or Walmart are great for getting good-quality t-shirts in bulk. Cotton is the easiest fabric to work with, but try polyester and blends as well.;
, Cotton shirts will shrink in the wash, and it may ruin your design when it gets smaller, so pre-wash your shirts to make sure you get the design you want.
 This will prevent ink, paint, or dye from bleeding through to the back of the shirt.
 Transfer sheets are sold for both white and dark colored tees, and you can buy specialty paper at your local art store to make iron-ons. Simply print your image on the special paper using a home printer and iron the image onto your shirt.


Try on your shirt and mark lightly where you want the image to fall. After that, pin your tee to an ironing board or a sturdy surface so that the image goes exactly where you want it. , If you want to draw or write on your t-shirt, sharpies are fine too. Craft stores sell fabric paint and fabric markers, and you can also buy t-shirt dyes, decorative patches, studs, and rhinestones to add to your shirt.


If you use sharpie, wash the shirt separately the first time to prevent ink stains on your other clothes. , No matter what you use to decorate the shirt, resist the temptation to wear the shirt immediately. If you are using fabric glue and glitter, don't shake the glitter off the shirt until it's dry. Leaving a shirt in the sun or carefully hanging it may speed up the process.


Not all glitters are created equal—use glitters specifically made for fabric.
 There are a lot of different ways to make you own t-shirt unique. Try out new ways to design your shirt, including:


Tie-Dye
Distressing
Inking

, There are many websites that will take an image or picture file and print your a custom t-shirt, for a price. Perform an internet search for "Custom T-Shirt printing" and check prices and options, including the ability to design your own shirt through the website.


The more t-shirts you order, the cheaper each shirt will be.
Usually, you'll have to pay per color of ink.
Most of the sites have design capabilities: allowing you to add colors, words, or simple designs to your shirt. 