 Disclosing sensitive information to a friend is distressing enough. Avoid doing it right away or when you are still angry. Wait until you have calmed down and decided what you will say. Choose a time when you and your friend are alone.Instead of breaking the news in a public place such as a restaurant that may feel like a fishbowl to your friend, go somewhere private like a park bench or a quiet courtyard.
 You might ease into the topic by asking your friend how the relationship is going. Starting here may also give you an opening to bring up the infidelity.


For example, you might say, “How are things with you and Brittany?” Use your friend’s response to determine how you approach the subject.
If they believe things are good, you might say, “Hmm…Well, maybe I misread the situation…”
If they admit things have been rocky, you might say, “I’m sorry to hear that, but that’s why I wanted to talk to you…”

, Be forthright and considerate when you divulge that your friend’s partner is cheating. Use a soft, caring tone. You may also take your friend’s hand or rub their shoulder as you share the news.


It may be appropriate to say something like, “This is really hard for me to do, but I felt a duty to share this with you. I saw Hank with another woman the other day. They were having lunch in the city.”

, Don’t automatically assume your friend wants to see proof. They may need to process the news before being forced to see pictures or watch a video. Let them know that you have it, if they’d like to see it.You might say, “I couldn’t believe what I was seeing so I took a picture. I have it, if you’d like to see.”

, Your friend may be overcome by a lot of emotions once you share the news about the cheating. They may associate these feelings with you and try to get distance. It may be smart to go ahead and call out what you think they might do and ask them not to.For example, you might say, “We’ve been friends for years, so this was really hard for me to do. I don’t want to see you hurt, but it wouldn’t feel right to keep this from you. I know you might want to push me away or “shoot the messenger.” Please, don’t. Whatever you decide to do with this information, it’s up to you. But, please let me be here for you.”

