 A bacterial skin infection can occur on any part of the cat’s body, including its face and nose. Thoroughly check your cat’s whole body by running your hands over its fur as if you are petting it. Feel and examine the skin for itchy, red skin lesions, pustules (pimples), hair loss, open draining sores, and epidermal collarettes, i.e., a circular lesion with a circular rim containing scales or peeling edges.Skin folds can develop bacterial skin infections as well. If your cat has skin folds, make sure to look under the skin folds for lesions, pustules, and sores.
Bites and scratches from other animals can also cause skin infections and abscesses. Monitor these closely.;
, Try to determine if your cat began itching before or after the infection developed. If your cat began itching before the infection developed, then the cause of the infection is most likely environmental. If your cat began itching the affected area after it developed, then the cause of the infection is most likely due to internal factors., Cats who have deep pyoderma, a severe skin infection, may have open draining sores and a fever. Signs of a fever in cats are a loss of appetite, as well as depressed, lethargic, quiet, and withdrawn behavior. A cat with a fever may or may not feel warm to the touch.Other symptoms include vomiting, diarrhea, pale gums, and weakness.
 Because it is difficult to differentiate between a bacterial and fungal infection, you will need to take your cat to the vet once a problem is identified. Your vet will also be able to test whether the infection is caused by environmental factors or internal factors. The vet is not able to prescribe medication until they have performed an examination. The tests may include:A microscopic examination of the pustules and/or discharge.
Antibiotic sensitivity and culture tests to pinpoint the bacteria causing the infection. This can include skin scrapings and fungal cultures to rule out fungal infections and microscopic parasites.
Food trials and allergy testing to exclude food allergies as the cause.
The use of a flea comb to examine the skin and hair for lice and fleas.
Blood tests to identify any internal causes.

