 Start by examining your china to determine if it can withstand the dishwasher. Fine china can be classified into two types: porcelain china and bone china. Both types are kiln fired at high temperatures, so they are pretty durable and non-porous, meaning they may be able to withstand the occasional run in the dishwasher.Fine china that has been made recently, within 10-15 years, may be able to withstand the dishwasher. Some fine china makers will also note on the bottom of the china if it is dishwasher safe.
If the china has a delicate gold or platinum gilding, you may not want to run them through the dishwasher, as these decorations can fade or react badly to high heat.
Most china that is twenty years old or more are too delicate for the dishwasher or have patterns on them that are considered vintage. You may not want to risk damaging them by washing them in the dishwasher. As well, if the china is a family heirloom, you may want to consider hand washing the china instead.;
, Many high-end dishwashers will have a special wash cycle for fine china or a delicate cycle. Look to see if your dishwasher has a delicate cycle or a gentle setting.You should also think about how forgiving your dishwasher is on normal plates and dishware. If it tends to be more punishing on everyday dishware, it may not be all that gentle on fine china either.
 Look for a mild liquid detergent as a powder detergent can be too grainy and abrasive on the china.Never use regular non-dishwasher detergent inside your dishwasher; otherwise it'll break the dishwasher, as well as leave unremovable stains inside the remainder of the dishwasher and the dishes themselves.


Avoid liquid detergents that are lemon-scented or contain bleach, as the acids in these ingredients can be harsh on the surface of the fine china., It is important that you never let food particles sit on the fine china for a long period of time, as the acid in the food particles can eat away at the glaze on the china. Rinse the china with warm water if you don’t have time to wash them right away, or try to wash off the food particles as soon as you can.


Do not use utensils to scrape the food particles off the china as this can scratch or damage the china. Instead, use warm water and a rubber spatula to gently remove the food particles from the china., Space them out evenly in the dishwasher so they will not bump against each other when the dishwasher is turned on. Make sure each plate and cup is secure in the dishwasher so they will not bump or move around. A loose china plate can clank against another dish, leading to chipping and other damage.You should also avoid cleaning smaller items like utensils in the same cycle with the fine china. If possible, keep other dishes and utensils separate from the fine china in the dishwasher or wash them in a separate cycle.
 This will prevent the china from getting too hot during the wash cycle. Depending on your dishwasher, you may need to stop the washer before it goes into the drying cycle. This will prevent water deposits from forming on your china and protect the china from heat.You should then remove the china from the dishwasher and towel dry the china by hand. This will prevent the china from being damaged by heat.
 Try not to let the fine china sit with food particles on its surface for a long period of time, as the acid in the food particles can damage the china. You should also avoid soaking the fine china overnight in warm water as this can weaken the china. Instead, roll up your sleeves and commit to cleaning the fine china as soon as it is no longer in use. This will ensure the food particles come off the fine china easily and the fine china is not in danger of being damaged., Start by taking off any rings or bracelets that could clank or hit the fine china as you wash it.You may also want to lay a thick towel or a rubber mat at the bottom of your sink to protect the fine china from getting nicked or chipped during the wash.
Push the tap out to one side or to the other sink, if you have two sinks, so there is no risk of you hitting the fine china on the tap.
 Go for a soft sponge and a plastic brush or a rubber spatula that will be gentle on the fine china.Avoid metal cleaning tools like steel wool or sponges that have a rough and scratchy surface. Never scrape the surface of the fine china with metal utensils, as this can damage the fine china.
 Rather than stacking the fine china on top of one another, lay them all out flat on the kitchen counter and wash each piece individually. Use warm water and a mild detergent that does not contain lemon or bleach.


Take your time as you wash each piece of china. Rub the surface of the china carefully and gently to avoid scratching the china.
 If the china has stains from coffee or tea, you can use a gentle scrubbing agent to spot clean these stains. You can also use baking soda and water to gently remove the stains.You can also remove water deposits on your china, which tend to develop when china is run through a dishwasher or water is left to sit on the china for too long, using apple cider vinegar diluted in water.
 As you wash each piece of china, place them upright in a wooden or plastic drying rack so they can air dry. You can also have someone help you dry them using a soft towel.Once your fine china is completely dry, store it by placing cloth napkins, paper doilies, or coffee filters between each place and saucer. This will prevent scratching and chipping. Do not stack or hang fine china tea cups.
If you use your fine china less than once a year, you should wash the fine china annually to preserve the glaze and the paint on the fine china.

