 To determine how best to order your priorities and manage your time, it is important to figure out what your values are first. Try taking some time to examine what matters to you and what you want to achieve over the course of your life. Some questions you might ask yourself include:What makes me happy?
What are my natural skills and abilities?
What do I want out of my life?
What do people say I am good at?
What might I regret if I go my whole life without trying?
What do I have strong beliefs about?
What do I value most in my life?;
, Consider the things in your life that keep you so busy. Think about which of these things are the most important and which could be cleared out of your life as excess clutter.Try writing down all the things you do in one day to give yourself some perspective on what is making your life so busy.
For example, if you get coffee on your way to work every day, this might be a thing that just adds to your sense of busyness in your life. Consider making coffee at home every day so that you can feel like you have a little more down time.
 When you have a busy life, it is important to fill what little free time you have with things that make you happy. One of the best ways to do this is to spend time with people who are important to you.Try to make the most of your time together by dedicating yourself to the quality time. Don’t try to answer emails while you spend time with your family or friends. Do that later. Be present in the moment.
Even though it might be hard to carve out the time, try to prioritize this.
Try scheduling a fun activity that everyone will enjoy. Make dinner plans with your parents or take your kids to the park. Go to a movie with your friends or schedule a night out with your favorite colleagues.
 Incorporate things you are passionate about into your life. If you have to lead a busy life, it should be filled with things you are passionate about whenever possible. Go after a job you love or engage in hobbies that make you happy.Being passionate about what you do will make your busy life seem much more fulfilling.
A good way to do this is to choose something you are passionate about that you have to practice daily. If you love playing golf, incorporate that into your life as your relaxation activity. If you love reading, join a book club or become a teacher. That way, you might be busy reading, but it’ll be doing something you love.
 When your life is busy, you always feel like you have a million things to do. In order to love your busy life, you need to figure out how to prioritize the things that matter the most so that you always complete the most essential tasks.This is especially important when you’re feeling overwhelmed. Focus on one task at a time, starting with the most important. Then just work your way down the list.
If you feel like you have too many things to accomplish on a daily basis, you should write down your “to do” list with the most important things at the top. For example, you could list unavoidable work commitments first, followed by family functions and social obligations, and list everything else after. This will help you put your to do list into perspective so you can see where certain things might be able to be cut out.
 Many people fill their lives with things – cars, homes, furniture, clothes, etc. – because they think it will make them happy. But usually these things just end up being empty possessions. If your life is busy because you are working too much so that you can afford more things, consider simplifying your life so that you can focus more on things that truly make you happy – like spending time with people you love or going on new adventures.Instead of buying a new car, spend that money on a vacation with your family. Creating memories with people you love is a better way to enjoy your busy life than spending money on something you don’t necessarily need.
Try to minimize your desire for possessions and downsize the possessions you already have. If you have a closet full of clothes you rarely wear, donate some of them to charity. Sell or donate all your kids toys or clothes they’ve outgrown.
 If you are having trouble enjoying your life because it has gotten so busy and hectic, then you might need to schedule in some time for yourself to just relax. Try to treat relaxation and self-care as necessary things that you need to fit into your everyday life. Some things that you can do to relax and take care of yourself include:


Practicing a relaxation technique such as yoga, meditation, deep breathing, or progressive muscle relaxation for 15 minutes every day.
Making plenty of time for self-care, such as taking a bath, getting your hair done, giving yourself a manicure, or preparing a healthy meal for yourself.
Doing things that you enjoy such as knitting, watching a favorite TV show, reading a book, or playing with your pet.
 While being so busy with our work, we often forget to enjoy our beautiful lives. It isn't that hard to embrace the life you have. Just live in the moment, live for today, and focus on the small things (at least some of the time) like laughing at the jokes you hear while doing your work. These things will help you to enjoy every bit of your life, even when you have a busy one.
This means not holding on to grudges or staying upset about something that happened yesterday. Forget about how mad you are at your mother and move forward. Call her and smooth things over.
Appreciate things as they happen to you. Recognize when good things happen and be grateful instead of taking them for granted.
 This can also be called "me time." Take a few quiet minutes with yourself away from your busy schedule. Contemplate the things that make your life so busy and whether or not they are really necessary. Reflect on what’s really important and consider whether or not you can cut out some of the things that make you so busy.Being busy means that your life is full of things and people you have chosen. So, even though your busy life can often be stressful, it is also a blessing.
 Spending dedicated time with your friends and family will definitely keep you happy and make you appreciate your life even if it is a busy one. Besides, this way, it won't bother you to have a busy life because you’ll be enjoying it with people you love when you’re able to.If you have to get some work done while you’re away with your family, dedicate a specific window of time to this task rather than just working constantly off and on all day.
 When our lives get busy, it’s easy to focus on what we don’t have because we feel like we are working so hard. You might find yourself thinking things like, "Oh! I don't have this" or "Oh! I don't have that." Stop complaining about what you may not have or haven't done yet. This kind of negative attitude won’t help you enjoy your life more.Take a breath and be contented with what you have, or with what you have done so far. Remember that you might complain about your busy life while others might be so jealous of the life you lead. Keeping this kind of perspective will make help you be more satisfied with yourself, as well as your life.
 Besides "me time," make a habit of reminding yourself to be grateful at least three times a day. When you wake up, be thankful for being able to live for another day. When you notice yourself thinking negatively, pause for a moment to take stock of your life and think about what you have to be grateful for. Consider all the things you take for granted on a daily basis.During your lunch break, be grateful for having a job while others are in need of one. At night, be thankful for each of the tasks you completed. This will bring a huge change in life.
 Having a busy life probably means that you are busy working towards a goal of some sort. Whether your goal is planning for retirement, getting your kids through college, or working toward the life of your dreams, it’s important to keep the end goal in mind so that you can stay focused and on the right track. This will help you love your busy life.Set realistic, positive goals for yourself and plan out how to achieve them. This is a step-by-step process that takes time. But working toward your goals will lead to more satisfaction with your busy life.