 It is important to arrive on time to all appointments. If you must miss an appointment, give your evaluator plenty of notice; usually 24 hours is sufficient. It is critical to cooperate and your assistance will help to move the process along at a good pace lessening the anxiety for all involved, including your children.
 It may be a grating fact, but appearances do matter. You want to demonstrate to the evaluator that you can care for yourself as well as your children. It is not necessary to dress formally for every meeting, but wear clean, pressed clothes that fit you properly. The same goes if you dress your children for meetings.


Try wearing business casual clothing, such as khaki pants and a button down shirt or a nice skirt and blouse. Your clothing can show the evaluator that you take the meeting seriously.
 Go into the interviews with the goal of being as honest as possible. Don’t attempt to sway or manipulate the evaluator with exaggerations or false claims. They have seen this before and it will be pretty obvious to them and it could reflect negatively on your case.


Be aware that you may need to repeat some information that you may have already presented to your attorney or the court. Your evaluator will only receive certain documents beforehand and will likely want the entire story directly from you in person., Your evaluator will expect you to be emotional. The key is to not let your emotions interfere with your ability to be articulate. Avoid shouting, losing control, or crying to the point of being inconsolable. If this happens, take a few deep breaths, close your eyes, and force yourself to calm down before speaking again.It may be helpful to participate in some stress relieving activities during the evaluation period. Keep up your workout schedule, go get a massage, or take relaxing baths in the evening.
 Answer the question that is asked, not the question that you want to be asked. Some questions are simply designed to add basic details and responding overly aggressively can be viewed as a lack of personal control on your part. If you are confused about the question itself, ask for a clarification. Feel free to take your time answering. The evaluator would prefer that you carefully consider your responses.Don’t be alarmed if your evaluator asks a ton of questions. It is their job. It is part of the process and generally disconnected from whether or not they believe you., It may be very easy to fall into a pattern of listing all of the various faults of your former partner. Instead, put the focus on you and your positive parental contributions. Also, try to be evenhanded and acknowledge the strengths of the other parent to a limited extent. This will show maturity on your part., Your evaluator will ask for various documents and the sooner that you can provide these items the better. Many of the documents will likely relate to your child’s status in school, your employment, etc. This is a critical aspect of cooperating and showing that you have nothing to hide.


It is especially important to provide your evaluator with copies of all restraining or protective orders. Do this right away. In cases involving domestic violence you may be able to request that interviews take place separately, etc., It is a good idea to be open to any help that your evaluator offers. They may suggest particular education classes or even certain books. They may direct you toward additional counseling. Carefully consider all of these pieces of advice as coming from a professional.