 You can learn to use relaxing sleep routines at home before going to a friend's house for a sleepover. Any routine that helps your body relax will help you go to sleep. An example of a relaxation routine used before bed is progressive body relaxation. This means thinking about every individual part of your body, first tensing, and then relaxing it.Start at your toes, and work your way, one body part at a time, all the way to the top of your head and the tips of your fingers.
Don't feel like you have to complete the entire exercise. You may find yourself asleep before you finish.
Notice any sensations that appear in your body as you move through. This will help you stay focused and relaxed.;
, There are lots of good sleep apps that you can download to your phone or tablet. Some apps are guided meditations, while others just provide "white noise" to help block out the other sounds. Some are quiet "environmental" sounds like waterfalls, ocean surf, or crickets.If you're not sure what will help you get to sleep, try downloading some free apps first.
One of the most popular apps is called iSleepEasy. It contains a variety of short guided meditations to help you get to sleep.The disadvantage of using sleep apps at a sleepover is that you'll have to be comfortable falling asleep wearing headphones or ear buds.
 Listening to an audio book that you're not very interested in, or listening to poetry on your phone or tablet, can be a good way to fall asleep. A good choice for an audio book for sleeping might be a book you've already read. It will be interesting, but it won't keep you awake to see what happens because you already know what happens.Remember not to listen to scary stories when you're trying to fall asleep.
If you're too interested in the book, it might keep you awake. The best nighttime audio books might be a little dull. Maybe an academic subject, like science or history, would work best.
 This is one of the simplest methods to fall asleep. Start at 100, and mentally count backwards one number at a time: 100, 99, 98, 97...etc. If you get all the way back to 0, start the counting again. Or start at 300. Or 500. You can start at any number you like, as long as you stick to your counting method that you've begun.If you like, visualize the numbers being written, slowly, by a calligrapher.
You can try variations on this by counting backwards in other patterns. For example, count backwards by 2 (100, 98, 96, 94...) or by 3 (100, 97, 94, 91...)
Use your imagination to create other scenarios. For example, visualize each number descending an ornate staircase. Or falling from a tree, like autumn leaves. Use whatever visual image helps you relax and fall asleep.

