 Put an object inside of a box, and seal it shut. Hand the box to the child, and ask them to guess the contents without looking inside. Encourage the child to hold, shake, and listen to the box. See if they can predict what is inside.Small objects work well for this activity. You can put marbles, coins, beans, or dice in the box. A small ticking watch or a wind-up car might also work well.
You can prepare multiple boxes with different objects inside. Ask the child to note the differences between each box. Is one heavier than another? Do they sound different when you shake them? What do they think is in each box?

, Print or clip out images from a magazine, newspaper, or website. These might be images where the subject is actively participating in an activity such as driving, eating, or running. Ask the child what they think will happen next, and make them point out clues in the image that support their prediction.For example, show a child an advertisement with a spilled cup of coffee. Ask them, “What do you think will happen next?” They might say that someone has to clean up the mess or that they need another cup of coffee.
Advertisements and news stories are a good source for images to use in this activity.
 Collect a few different objects with various textures—such as soft, rough, coarse, bumpy, and smooth. Show each to the child. Ask them to tell you what they think it will feel like without touching it themselves.

For example, you might ask them to look at a coconut, a stuffed animal, sandpaper, a raincoat, an ice cube, and a brush.
For each object, you can ask, “What do you think this will feel like?” If they are unsure, try giving them a few options. You can say, “Bumpy? Prickly? Smooth? Cold? Warm?”

, Imagination is an important part of prediction. To help encourage a healthy imagination, pose “what if” questions to your child, and see if they can predict what might happen. Follow these questions up with more specific details to get them to think about different consequences.You can ask them:

“What if I put salt instead of sugar in your tea? What would it taste like?”
“What if the sun didn’t rise? Would it be warm or cold? Dark or light?”
“What if everything you touched turned into candy? What if you touched your friend?”
“What if we went to the moon? What would you see there?”

