 Most people spend the majority of their time working, and if you're unhappy with that aspect of your life, chances are it's affecting the way you look at yourself, your world, and your capabilities. Here are some ways to improve how you think about your job:


Focus on the positive aspects of your profession. Sure, some of your work may be frustrating or even boring, but pick a few things you love about your job, whether it's interacting with clients or customers, learning new things, or having the opportunity to travel occasionally.
Love your coworkers. Take the time to get to know and appreciate the people you work with. You may feel like you have nothing in common, but if you make the extra effort to be friendly, it will make you much more eager to wake up to go to work.
Appreciate what your job can do for you. On hard days, remember that your job allows you to put food on the table--and to get health care and paid vacations, if you're lucky.
 It's important to be happy with your job since it may consume a lot of your time, but it's equally important to have hobbies or interests to pursue outside of work so you have something to look forward to and so you can be a more well-rounded and interesting person. Here are some ways to do it:


Develop your artistic side. Try your hand at writing a poem, a song, or painting. You don't have to be great at it, but you can have fun in the process.
Learn a new language. This will make you feel more cultured and it can help you find a great job.
Be involved in a team sport. Not only will you get a great workout, but you can make amazing friends.
Read the news. Knowing what's going on in the world can help you gain perspective, and will also help you make interesting conversation.
 You may love your job and hobbies, but if you're struggling to find a balance between work and play or just don't know how to organize your daily life, it'll be hard to be happy with what you're doing. Here are some ways to be happy with what you do on a daily basis:


Don't rush around in the morning. Give yourself enough time to eat a healthy breakfast, read the paper, and drive to work to arrive a few minutes early. Nothing will ruin your day than rushing around frantically to find your work shirt, forgetting important paperwork at home, or being stuck in traffic because you left so late.
Carve out some "me time" every day. Even if your day is super-packed, make some time for yourself. Whether you're reading a great book during your lunch break, watching your favorite show before you go to bed, or waking up early enough to mediate, making that time for yourself can help you feel centered.
Get plenty of rest. Go to bed at around the same time every day so your body develops a routine. Go to bed early enough for you to get enough rest to start the next day on the right foot.
 If you absolutely hate your job or even your old favorite hobbies, you may be better off moving on. Here are some signs that you won't be happy with what you do until you make a major change in your life:


If you hate your job so much that you cry on the drive home, feel a pit in your stomach every time you drive to work, or feel abused in the workplace, it may be time to find a new job.
Remember that no amount of money is worth a job that makes you hate your life. You may be making millions of dollars, but they will be worth nothing if you can't enjoy your life because you work eighty hour weeks and can't stand what you do.
If your old favorite hobby is no longer working for you, move on. Maybe you loved training for marathons for the past decade, but suddenly you dread all of your training runs. Spice things up by finding a new way to work out or spend your time. You're not being a quitter--you're just listening to your mind and body.

