 Most granite countertops do not require a sealant, but they may benefit from a quality sealer product. The sealant will give your countertops extra protection against spills by making a moisture-resistant surface even more moisture resistant.Make sure your surface is not already sealed. If your countertops are a part of a newly built home, the builder probably already sealed them.;
, The sealer product should last ten to fifteen years and be oleophobic (resistant to water and oil or fat based stains). Find one that will penetrate the granite to seal any grooves or spaces in the stone, instead of sitting on the surface. Do not use lower-priced, lower-quality sealants that are less than ten dollars., Make sure your work area is well ventilated before you seal the countertop. Open windows, doors, and turn a fan on.
 Wipe the granite down with a damp, soft cloth and a bit of dish soap, or multipurpose cleaner. Dry the surface with a dry, soft cloth and buff it as much as you can. If you don't know your countertop's history, like if it's used, consider using a commercial degreaser product first.
 Your countertops must be bone dry, before you apply a sealant. Let them sit for 24 hours after you wipe them down and clean them. Use a fan to cut down on the drying time. The colors in granite should look less deep after it’s completely dry.
 After you purchase a high-quality sealant, make sure you follow their directions. Every manufacturer will have slightly different instructions for sealing the surface of granite.
 Spread the sealer over the counter top with a paper towel, foam brush or rag. Allow the sealer to penetrate 5 to 10 minutes; if the sealer is completely absorbed in 5 minutes, add more. After 5 to 10 minutes, blot any remaining sealer.
 Use a clean, dry terry cloth to buff the sealer left on the surface off. Wipe the stone using small, circular motions. Use a cordless, orbital buffer if you have one and want to get the job done quicker.
 Don’t use harsh cleansers or scrubbers. While granite is very durable, acidic cleansers and sponges that can scratch will wear down a sealant. Use ph neutral soap to clean your countertops and steer clear of windex or vinegar. Stone cleaner works as well as simple dish soap., Keeping the surface free of dirt and grime will help preserve granite. Clean your countertop regularly with warm water and a few drops of dish or antibacterial detergent using a soft cloth. Rinse the surface thoroughly with clean water and dry with a soft cloth.
 If you spill something on the surface, blot with a paper towel or soft cloth right away. Do not wipe spilled liquids, like juice or milk, because this can spread them around your countertop.
 Granite countertops and properly sealed stone will repel most stains if the spills are cleaned promptly. Use a dry, dishcloth to dry your granite after any spills, so moisture does not seep into the pores of the stone.
 Hot cooking pots will not damage the surface and granite can withstand high temperatures, but extreme or constant temperature changes can harm your stone. For instance, avoid leaving hot pans sitting on granite in a chilly room., Protect your granite from moisture absorption by using coasters under anything filled with liquid. Be especially careful with dark colored liquids, like red wine or juice., If your granite countertops are properly sealed and maintained, you only need to wipe them down thoroughly with water, a rag and a gentle cleaner.
 If you spill oil-based liquids on your granite, like milk or grease, you may need to remove some stains. Make a paste out of baking soda and water, slather it on the oil marks, cover it and let it sit for several hours or overnight. , Coffee, juice and wine may leave marks if it’s not cleaned up immediately and penetrates the stone. Add just enough hydrogen peroxide to baking soda to make a paste. Apply it to any water-based stains or marks, cover it and let it sit overnight.
 Granite naturally repels bacteria, but if you want to disinfect your countertops more than what soap and water can, use water and 91% isopropyl alcohol. Mix the solution up with a 50/50 ratio, spray it on the countertops, and let it sit for three to five minutes. Rinse with water and dry with a soft dishcloth.

