 Positive self-acceptance is highly correlated with a sense of well-being.However, if you are too confident you may seem arrogant to others.


Know your positive characteristics. Make a list of what you like about yourself, and remind yourself of these positive things regularly.
Be confident, but not smug or arrogant. This means feeling confident, but not boasting. For example, if something positive happens to you, tell people about it, but don't repeat it over and over and dwell on it. This can be annoying to other people and cause them to be envious.
Don’t downplay your competence, but don’t over-emphasize it either. Be both warm and competent.Use positive-self talk on the inside such as saying to yourself, “I am awesome. I did a great job.” Don’t flaunt it or say out-loud how great you are.
Pay attention to your achievements.Perhaps you did a great job on an essay or school project. Congratulate yourself but don’t tell everyone about it if they did not do as well as you.;
, Everyone has room for growth. If you accept this, then you can feel more positive and interact with others in an authentic and honest way.


Own your flaws and mistakes. Admit when you have made a mistake. Even if you don’t think you did anything wrong, it can be helpful to apologize. You could say, “I'm sorry I hurt your feelings."
Do not think you are better than other people. Sometimes people can get stuck in this kind of negative thinking in order to make yourself feel better. However, this can cause you to come off as pretentious.
Be humble. Practicing humility is about constantly trying to improve yourself, instead of thinking you are already the best you can be.
Be open to learning from other people.
 Don’t take complete credit for something. For example, if you completed a project at work and your boss congratulates you, make sure you let her know if other people helped you. People will respect your positivity more if you make sure to include them.


Gratitude is a strong indicator of well-being.Show your gratitude to others for their help by thanking them. This is another way you can share the credit. You could say something like, “Thank you so much for helping me complete the project. I really appreciate how you stepped in and took some of the pressure off of me. You did a great job.”

