 Use kitchen shears to trim off the dry tip from each stem of cilantro. Take this time to also remove any damaged or dying leaves, as well.


To keep the end fresher and cause less shock to the plant, trim the stems under cool, running water.;
, Place the cilantro in a dish and cover the stems with cool water. Let them soak for five to ten minutes.


Soaking the cilantro removes all dirt and debris from the leaves. Since the leaves and stems will be moist when you use this method, cleaning the leaves beforehand is not an issue. If you were using a method that required the leaves to remain dry, however, you would wait until you were ready to use the herb before cleaning it.
 Remove the cilantro from the water and transfer the bunch into a salad spinner. Use this device to spin the wet herbs until they feel relatively dry to the touch.


You can also pat the cilantro dry in between layers of clean, dry paper towels or a with a clean kitchen towel. Make sure that the leaves are almost completely dry, at least to the point that no noticeable drops of water can be spotted dripping off.
You do not need to air dry the cilantro extensively for this method, though. Since you will end up wrapping the herb in damp paper towels later on, it will be exposed to a little moisture, anyway.
 Spread the cilantro out onto a sheet of mildly moist, clean paper towel. Carefully wrap the herb bunch in the paper towel so that all sides are covered.The paper towel should only be a little damp. Do not make the paper towel dripping wet.
 Transfer the wrapped cilantro to a plastic bag or plastic container with an airtight seal. Close the container and label it with the current date and contents.


If placing the cilantro in a plastic bag, close the top seal, leaving only 1 inch (2.5 cm) of open space. Gently squeeze out all the air before you finish sealing the bag.
If placing the cilantro into an airtight container, make sure that the lid snaps on securely and leaves no space for air to slip in or out.
 Store the container of cilantro in your refrigerator for a week or so.


Cilantro is a fairly delicate herb. As such, using this method to store fresh cilantro may not be as effective as other methods. While a damp paper towel and plastic bag work well for hardier herbs, like mint and parsley, cilantro wilts faster. According to the experiences of many home cooks, methods that allow the leaves to remain dry can actually prolong the freshness of the herb longer.
Note, however, that this method is very effective if you only want to keep the cilantro fresh for five days or so. The combination of moisture and cool temperatures can keep the cilantro at optimum freshness and crispness for a few days, but if you need to keep it fresh for a longer period of time, you would be better off with another method.

