 The Wiccan Rede is an ancient poem passed down through generations of Wiccans that details the spiritual ideals of Wiccans. This poem can be found online or on the first few pages of most Wiccan literature. There are two basic tenants: harm none, and the rule of threes.To “harm none,” avoid doing harm to other people, animals, nature, and yourself.
The rule of threes refers to witchcraft and spiritual energy. Whatever you put out into the world, you receive threefold.
Some Wiccans memorize the Wiccan Rede. However, many find this unnecessary and choose to internalize the teachings instead.
 There are many contemporary Wiccans that have written excellent books about becoming a practicing Wiccan. These books often include meditation tips, spells, and potion recipes. Additionally, reading a book about Wiccan practices will help you determine if Wiccan Paganism is right for you. Popular Wiccan books include:


“Wicca: A Guide for the Solitary Practitioner” by Scott Cunningham
“To Ride A Silver Broomstick: New Generation Witchcraft” by Silver RavenWolf
“Power of the Witch: The Earth, the Moon, and the Magical Path to Enlightenment” by Laurie Cabot

, Covens are groups of witches that practice their craft together. Covens are great places for new Wiccans to learn about spell casting, meditation, and potion making. Find covens in your area by doing an online search or talking to an experienced Wiccan. However, you can also become an independent witch if you don’t like the idea of joining a coven.


Many covens require any aspiring Wiccans to complete a training period before they can officially join. The training varies greatly between each coven.
When looking for a coven, look for groups with a belief system that is similar to your own., If you join a coven, you will perform a dedication ritual when your training has finished. If you’re an independent witch, you can perform the ritual whenever you feel ready. Dedication rituals can be found in most Wiccan books and spell manuals.You can also create your own dedication ritual. For example:


Begin with a spoken promise to the God and Goddess to live ethically and “harm none.”
Give the deities an offering, such as a glass of wine or a plate of food.
Finish the ritual by performing ritual purification. For example, burn sage incense while you pray to the god and goddess.
 Also called a Grimoire, this book is an integral part of your spiritual journey. You can either buy a large blank journal online or make your own book. If you buy a book, make sure you feel a sense of attachment to it before purchasing it. In this book you can record:


Spells you’ve learned
Rituals
Notes about your spiritual journey
Potion recipes, Spell and potion recipes can be found online or in published Wiccan literature. These spells are always positive in nature and usually call for healings and blessings. Hexes and curses are referred to as Dark Magic and are not performed by Wiccans.Examples of Wiccan magic include:


A spell for fertility
A potion for healing and good health
A charm that brings wealth to the carrier

