 Scaffold can be rented, or purchased if you will be able to use it for numerous projects. The basic parts of a scaffold system include these items:

Scaffold jacks
Stacking pins
Leveling legs or base plates
Braces
Access ladders
Scaffold boards
Outriggers
Various clamps and pins for assembly.;
, There are a number of specialty rental companies that engineer and even assemble and disassemble scaffolding for projects. Having skilled workers erect the scaffolding is critical for safety and productivity, not to mention avoiding a possible fine by safety authorities like the OSHA (USA) or similar safety regulators., The ground or surface it will be erected on should be as level as possible, and soils should be compacted and have sufficient drainage to support the scaffold, even in wet weather., Installing the first level of scaffolding correctly will make completing the scaffold easier, and ensure the finished scaffold system will provide a safe, stable work platform when it is finished., Ladders should be furnished for access to each scaffold level, and workers should be provided with personal safety equipment such as gloves, safety glasses, and fall protection during the erection process., You may find you are able to install scaffold jacks with a minimal number of boards at each level, but since in normal masonry work there will be work to be performed from each level, having a complete deck will make stocking materials and accessing the work area safer and easier. Some things to consider when installing scaffold boards are:

Use appropriate boards. Usually, scaffold boards are 2X10 (5x25cm) planks either grade-stamped number 1, laminated veneer lumber, or pinned scaffold boards.
Lap scaffold planks 6 inches (15.24 cm) on each side crossing the top rail of the jacks. Standard jacks are spaced 7 feet (2.1 meters) on center, so 8 foot (2.4 meters) or 16 foot (5.33 meters) boards are standard.
Cleat or nail boards together if necessary, to ensure they do not shift or slip during use.
Discard any split, rotted, or damaged scaffold boards.
Fit scaffold boards as tightly together as possible so that the materials will not fall through cracks to lower scaffold levels during use.
 Handrails, toe-boards, and access gates should be installed before workers are allowed to work without fall protection, and materials are stocked on the scaffold deck., Depending on your location and work situation, government regulations may require scaffolds to be braced or supported before use. In the United States, the OSHA requires such bracing when a scaffold's height to width ratio 4 to 1 or greater. For example, a scaffold that is 5 feet (1.5 meters) wide has to be secured if it is 20 feet (6.09 meters) tall, or higher., Tags should be affixed at access locations and should include a daily inspection log that is signed and dated each day. Here are a few of the items which should be checked daily:

Check the scaffold support sills for erosion, undermining, and other deterioration.
Look for braces and support members which are damaged or have been removed during the previous shift.
Check the condition of the scaffold planks, handrails, and toe boards.
Make sure the work areas are clean and clear of debris.
Look for any other obvious signs of damage or broken clamps, braces, or pins.
 This will allow the workers to adjust the working height between each level, and enable them to work more efficiently., Large projects, and projects where large amounts of materials will be loaded at intervals, should have an access tower attached to the main scaffold system so that the weight of these materials will not be a hazard, and access for workers can be maintained on the scaffold deck. Avoid overloading scaffold decks. As a rule of thumb, any time the scaffold boards sag more than an inch (2.5 cm) or so, it is likely that they are overloaded.,, This is generally done in the reverse order of the assembly, and care should be taken to manage all materials so that they can be lowered safely to the ground. Cleaning loose debris and using buckets or bags to contain the small parts will help prevent items from being dropped where they may be damaged or lost, or workers could be injured., Rented scaffold should be counted and returned to the company it was rented from, and any damaged or missing items should be reported.