 It's just a locker room, and it isn't going to kill you. Everyone will probably be as scared as you are about changing in front of others.;
, If you're allowed to choose where your locker is, that is. It's a lot easier to change in front of someone you know and trust than to change in front of a complete stranger. Try to also keep your locker away from untrustworthy people.
 Struggling too hard to get some really tight pants on or off will only draw attention to yourself. Wear shoes that are easy to slip on and off, like flats. Skinny jeans on a gym day is a bad idea. If your pants or skirt is very loose, you can wear your gym shoes during the day and just put on your pants and tee shirt for gym.
 Usually, people will come in later so they can have longer breaks in between periods and at snack and lunch, which means there will be virtually no one in the locker room early on. Plus, if there actually is anyone there, they'll probably be more spread out across the room.
 This reduces the off-chance that someone will accidentally glance over at you when you're in a particularly revealing spot.


Change one item of clothing at a time. For example, change your shirt and then change your pants, or vice versa. That way, you'll never be completely naked.
 If you don't want others barging in on you when you're half-naked, how do you think others will feel when you do it to them? If you need to, let others nearby dress first to give them some extra space.
 If someone's giving you a hard time, tell them that you don't find it as funny as they do. If necessary, go to a teacher and tell them that someone's being mean to you.
 If someone yells "I'm naked!" they're really just trying to see who will look so they can give them a hard time.
 Everyone else is half-naked too. Plus, no one will look.
 Try hiding kind of behind your locker door. If it is a half locker, then bend down and change.
 clothes under your school clothes. That way you can just take your pants off and your P.E. shorts will be underneath. It works.
 Wear your gym t-shirt under a cute hoodie, and zip it up. Then during gym, take off your hoodie and you're halfway changed. Just bring an extra tank top or t-shirt to wear under your hoodie after gym.

