 Organizations seeking to support emotional health in gifted children have developed evaluation guides that parents can use to determine if their child is gifted.You can often find these guides on the organizations' websites. You can do an internet search for “Gifted children evaluation guide.”
This is merely a guide; always seek professional experience and guidance to make a successful diagnosis.
 If you notice your child exhibiting signs of being gifted, talk to her pediatrician or school counselor.It is always best to consult a professional.


Often, public schools have professional counselors who can assess whether or not your child is gifted.
Almost all gifted children are diagnosed at the state and local level. Therefore, your school district will have unique assessments to identify if your child is gifted.
Unfortunately, these tests, as well as accommodations, vary widely due to budget allocations.If your child is gifted in a particular subject, talk to your child's teacher. S/he may resources to help your child or know who to contact for further assistance.
 As each state varies on how they identify a gifted student, there is no standard test or evaluation. Each state should list its evaluation criteria on the Department of Education website.


For example, Ohio has a “Student Growth Measures FAQs” which discusses its implementation of gifted program assessments.Another example is Florida’s Department of Education website which includes definitions of gifted students, contacts, state regulations, and laws.Check with your state’s Department of Education to find regulations and state standards.
 Your school district may take a number of paths to help your gifted child. They might:


Provide a unique curriculum more appropriate for your child’s level.
Consider grade advancement (for example, skipping from 5th grade to 7th grade).
Pair your student with a tutor or teacher for additional learning
Give you the resources to supplement your gifted child’s education outside the classroom.
Provide accommodations in a regular classroom.