 We humans tend to focus on the negative instead of the positive. Our minds give more importance to the negative aspects of most situations. If you don’t believe it, think about this: a person is complimented six times in a day and criticized once, what does this person think about the most in the following days? Yes, the negative, apparently. Most people are like this: it is a survival mechanism. To change this, make it a habit to feel the positive things in your life; the smile of your child, the taste of food, the melody of a song you love, kind words from others towards you. Take your time to savor these moments and think about them for 30 second periods during the day. Remember to wear a smile on your face all the time.;
, Happy people believe the Universe is friendly. If things go wrong, they try to identify the lesson and gift in the situation instead of feeling like victims. So, when something not so good comes along, reflect on it and ask: What is the higher purpose behind this happening?

, Make it a habit to focus your life on love. Love for your family, friends, and strangers. Feel how everyone is in the same situation and bless or wish them well them while in a traffic jam, in line at the bank or supermarket or just when walking next to them. Just by wishing others good you will boost it in your life.
 Your brain is in charge of producing the endorphins, serotonin, oxytocin and dopamine which are essential natural chemicals that thrust happiness into your system if you are a healthy individual. Your eating, exercising, resting and even, expression habits can greatly influence the way these chemicals spread through your body. So, again, smile all you can to get the ball rolling inside you and, if you feel kind of imbalanced somehow, get some help, there are excellent natural balancing procedures like the bio-identical hormone replacement therapy, check it out. Do not stop taking prescribed medication without consulting your GP or medical specialist.
 The energies of other people affect us directly, so select your friends and acquaintances well. Get close to people who are happiness magnets and keep your distance with people who like to be doomed. Meet regularly with friends who cheer you up and make you have great hope.

