 To write a young adult novel, you need to feel excited about the opportunities of writing in this category. Here are some things to keep in mind:The field of young adult fiction is expanding.
Authors often find that they face fewer restrictions about what they write about because young adults celebrate creativity and imagination.
Young adults can also be a more open-minded and supportive audience.
People outside the young adult range will likely read and enjoy your book.
As an author of young adult novels, you have the opportunity to write a book that makes an impact on someone and influences how he or she looks at the world.
 If you want to write young adult books, reading successful young adult novels is an excellent way to start.Pay close attention to the structure, dialogue, plot, and character development.
Make notes about any ideas you come up with for your novel while reading other books.
 Interesting and engaging characters are essential for a young adult novel. Spend time thinking about and developing your characters before you sit down to write or move on to other parts of the novel such as the plot or setting.For each character you create, make a list of his or her history, background, hobbies, relationships, tastes, and personality traits. Although not all of these details will make it in to the book, you will develop well-rounded, and three-dimensional characters that young adults can relate to.
Don't neglect the villains or minor characters in your story. You never know what details you might need or the changes you will make to your plot.
 Now that you’ve developed a full cast of characters, you probably have a better idea of where and when your story will take place. Spend time thinking about the setting of your novel and conduct any research on the time period or location that inspires you.Remember, you are not limited to present-day or real-world locations. Many successful young adult novels take place in the genres of fantasy and science fiction. There is also a healthy market for historical fiction.
 The characters in every novel confront some kind of conflict, and this holds true for young adult books. While the specific conflict will be shaped by your characters, setting, and genre, the characters need to confront issues that your audience can relate to.With young adults, conflicts and struggles often arise over love, relationships, personal freedom, peer or family pressure, a search for identity, taking on new roles and responsibilities, and dealing with high school, college, and career choices.
 While young adults can be voracious readers, you will lose some potential audience members if your book is too long. Although many young adult novels exceed this limit, most books in this category are between 50,000 to 70,000 words.The pacing in young adult novels is often fast, with lots of dialogue. Some people think they resemble extended screenplays as opposed to a longer, slower, adult novel.Remember, if the book or story you are crafting seems much longer than this, you can always contemplate breaking it up into separate books and creating a series.
 You want your book to be as successful as possible and appeal to the intended audience, so it’s a smart move to ask young adults to provide feedback on your work.If you are no longer a young adult, but are writing a young adult novel, this exercise can help you gain insight into the language, feelings, and concerns of your audience. You will also be better able to recall what it feels like to be a teenager.

