

For those who are more specifically interested in streaming videos, the mode will do much more than suffice. It ensures users get access to unlimited streaming from anywhere around the globe. But most importantly, they can do so without having to worry about being tracked or monitored.;
,

The mode in particular will appeal to those who wish to access multiple sites, this includes that are restricted as well. Instead of having to go through the hassle of changing the mode each and every time, 'Internet Freedom' will allow users to do exactly what they want to do on the internet with ease.


There are quite a few platforms out there that actually allow anonymous file sharing. Fortunately, the app is one of the few that allows users to do just that. Additionally, its anonymous file sharing feature ensures only the sender and receiver have access to whatever is being sent or received.


For those concerned about their security, especially their data, they should select the following mode instead. What it does is that it ensures that a user's security is at an all time high, which in turn improves data privacy. In other words, once the mode kicks in, it will make it impossible for hackers to gain access to confidential information or files.


There are certain regions which allow access to exclusive content, not only does this mode ensure users are able to access that region's content, but they can greatly enhance their online security at the same time. Users can at any time choose a dedicated IP, and this freedom in turn has countless applications that benefit individuals and businesses alike.


Users are not necessarily restricted to the aforementioned five modes, and can in fact take advantage of other features like being able to choose their purpose for online freedom. Depending on a user's requirement, they can choose an appropriate purpose, like 'Online Gaming' for instance, in which case the app will automatically trigger the required VPN protocols to cater to those requirements.


Some Content is made available earlier in some regions before others, and in this case the following option can be of great use to users who wish to get access to said content with ease. Furthermore, there are instances when exclusive content is not made available to other regions, in which case the app's said feature can allow users to access restricted content without any hassles whatsoever.


When it comes to browsing speed and security, users are mostly restricted to what is available to them. However, with the app users can choose an appropriate VPN protocol that best fits their requirements. Not only will this enhance speed and security, but users are free to choose how said app works for them as they have complete control over each and every feature available.


Depending on what you need to do , select the appropriate mode. The mode screen is presented when PureVPN is installed for the very first time, but it can be accessed later on by clicking on the menu icon on the top right hand side of the PureVPN's app. Choose from any of the five modes available to further enhance your browsing experience.


After selecting the appropriate mode, there are plenty of ways to go about improving your online experience. To make this possible, you should make better use of the PureVPN app's dashboard. If you wish to access content for a specific region, you can choose it from 'Select Location'. To simplify things even more, you can choose 'Select Purpose', that is if you are clear about what needs to be done or accessed online.


PureVPN's app has been designed to give users more control over its core functions. Keeping this in mind, there is no harm in tweaking its settings to better suit your purpose. These Settings can be accessed by clicking the menu, after which users can select the appropriate protocols, change their credentials and enable/disable other settings like launch the app on system startup, enable/disable tips, redial automatically when the connection drops and syncing favorites. Users can further tweak the app by selecting 'Advanced Options', which includes features like:
Split Tunneling
Switch to secure DNS
VPN Connection Reminders
Internet Kill Switch
IPv6 Leak Protection and
Advanced Encryption Modes

