 Although you may be an impulsive person who is willing to leave your experience up to fate, Disney World is not the place to avoid planning for. Don't worry, there will not be any magic spoiled by taking some time before your vacation and select some interesting attractions. Planning tips can be found in many travel guide books and websites.;
, You don't have to go up to every character, though. Try it at least once to see if you like it.
 If there's someone else with you who wants to go on rides that you don't like, try to make an agreement. Take turns in choosing what to go on so both of you will enjoy your experience.
 If you have the chance to go, then why not? You don't have to go to all of them, but try to visit as many as you can. It's fine to skip one or to miss some rides. Remember that it's about the quality, not the quantity.
 Don't sleep in. By the time you wake up, the whole world will be on its feet at the line-up of your favorite ride. Go to sleep early and wake up early to have lots of time and avoid stress. However it is okay to have one night of late partying, but try to get to bed by at least 11 pm or midnight. Note: Some parks allow one hour early entry for guests staying at Walt Disney World resorts., Try new rides, activities, food, etc. Let the experience be unique and refreshing.
 Find out when it starts and arrive a few minutes early. Disney World is known for it's great fireworks, so make it a family activity. If your hotel is near the Magic Kingdom, you may be able to see the fireworks from your hotel room, especially if you have a balcony.
 Don't always jump from ride to ride to ride. The 'Imagineers' have worked on details in every corner. Some of these are missed if you spend your time running from one attraction to another. From talking trees and trashcans to hilarious tombstones, you will find beauty and humor all over the 'World'. This is very important to a good vacation. A fun thing for kids to do is try to find 'Hidden Mickeys'. There are hundreds of Mickey heads around the World, try to find them all!

