 Their intense flavor makes kumquat a good pairing for bitter or peppery greens, such as endive or arugula. Slice into thin rounds with a sharp knife. Remove the seeds, then layer the slices on top of the salad to show off the color.
 Kumquat marmalade is much sweeter and less bitter than regular marmalade. The recipe is similar to most marmalades or jams.


Since the kumquat seeds contain pectin, you can boil them along with the fruit to thicken your preserves. Keep the seeds in a cheesecloth bag while boiling, so they don't end up in your jar., Pickling takes at least three days, but the result is quite unique. This particular recipe keeps some of the kumquat's sweet flavor.
 The acidic kumquat adds a nice flavor to lamb and poultry dishes. Add it 30 minutes before the meat is done braising or simmering.Seafood pairs especially well with kumquat, but it doesn't need to marinate in it. Add the fruit at the last minute instead, either as a garnish or blended in a vinaigrette.
 Wash plenty of kumquats and cut them in half — at least 10 fruits per cup (240mL) of vodka.Cover with vodka and let sit in a cool, dark place, shaking once a day. It should pick up a faint taste after a couple days, a strong taste after a week or two, and steadily continue to infuse for many weeks or months.


If you enjoy sweet liquor, add some sugar as well, up to ¼ cup (25g) sugar per cup (240mL) of vodka., In the United States, the first appearance of kumquats coincides with Thanksgiving preparations. Take advantage of this to add pizazz to your holiday cranberry sauce, or use the same basic approach to make chutneys and desserts:


Slice 1½ cups (360mL) kumquats. Discard the seeds and stem.
Simmer in a covered saucepan with ¼ cup (60mL) water, until the kumquats soften.Add one of the following:

A can of cranberry sauce

Or dried cherries, grated ginger, black pepper, and cinnamonOr ¾ to 1 cup (150–200g) sugar to make candied kumquats



Simmer uncovered for 10–15 minutes, until chutneys become a little translucent. Add more water whenever the pan starts to look dry.
 Cut large kumquats in half horizontally. Scoop out the sour, juicy flesh with a narrow teaspoon or grapefruit spoon, and add it to smoothies, fruit salad or ice cream. Freeze the hollow rinds in airtight containers, then use the rinds to hold sorbet or other desserts.


Alternatively, leave the flesh in the cut kumquats. Dip the ends in a beaten mix of egg white and honey, then in a mixture of raw sugar and cinnamon. Freeze and eat as a fancy dessert.,