 After soap and water, dab a little bit of rubbing alcohol on the mosquito bites, drying them out and helping the itch to subside., Both of these treatments can reduce itching. Calamine lotion is an anti-pruritic with zinc oxide and ferric oxide that is used the world over to treat itching.OTC hydrocortisone has small amounts of steroids (1% of the entire solution) that helps relieve itching.It is also widely used.
 With its anti-itch and anti-inflammatory properties, witch hazel is a plant that was widely used by the American Indians before it was marketed as an astringent.


Deodorant contains aluminum chloride, which is effective in stopping the pain and swelling associated with mosquito bites., Epsom salts are made of magnesium and sulfate, and offer a go-to remedy for many health ailments in addition to relaxing the mind. Magnesium helps regulate the activity of numerous enzymes, as well as raising serotonin levels in the brain. There are several ways to relieve mosquito bites with Epsom salts:


Take an Epsom salt bath. Fill bathtub with Epsom salts as directed on the package. Soak for 30 minutes to an hour.
Create an Epsom salt compress by mixing just enough Epsom salts to water to make a thin paste. Apply the paste to mosquito bites. Take a very hot washcloth (almost too hot to touch) and cover the wound tightly for 10 minutes. Repeat as necessary., To specifically curb inflammation, use the following tricks:


Fill a baggie or cold pack with crushed ice. Apply the ice pack to the bite to curb itching, pain and swelling.
Take an oral or natural antihistamine. An antihistamine will help to reduce swelling and itching. Natural antihistamines include:

Stinging nettle. Some doctors recommend taking a freeze-dried preparation of stinging nettle, which is known for its ability to reduce the amount of histamine the body produces.Coldsfoot may be effective as a natural antihistamine. Europeans have a long history of using the plant to cure skin conditions. The leaves can either be ground up into a paste or coldsfoot extract can be ingested in pill form.
Basil may also work as a natural antihistamine. Heat a couple sprigs of basil leaves up under some steam and apply gently to the hives. Basil may help reassure the body that the foreign agent causing the hives is not something it should be fighting.