 Before you take your new dog across the street to meet your elderly neighbors, you should make sure your neighbors are interested in this interaction. While many people welcome interactions with dogs, not everyone is going to be excited about meeting the newest addition to your family. Before you show up on their doorstep with your dog, walk over and ask them if they’re interested in meeting your pooch.


Try saying, “Donald, our family just got a new dog. Would you like to meet him?”;
, Since many dogs are territorial, it is important that the introduction does not happen in your dog’s territory. For example, you should not introduce your dog to your neighbor in your yard or house. Instead, choose to introduce them in your neighbor’s yard, or in a more neutral space, like the neighborhood park.
 It is crucial that your dog understands basic commands like sit, stay, and down before you introduce them to your elderly neighbors. This will ensure that you remain in control of the interaction and that your dog will respond to you should something go awry. If you are having trouble teaching your dog basic commands, consider taking them to obedience school before you introduce them to your elderly neighbor.Dogs that are well-behaved at home may not respond to commands consistently in unfamiliar territory. You should practice with your dog in a park or other location outside of your home so that you can be confident they will respond to your commands when your neighbors are around.
 Before you introduce your dog to anyone or any dog, you must make sure your dog is up to date on all of their vaccinations. Schedule a check-up with your veterinarian and go over your dog’s vaccination records. If your dog is due for new vaccinations or boosters, make sure these take place before introducing your dog to your elderly neighbors., Before your dog meets your elderly neighbors, it is important that you understand you are legally and morally responsible for your dog’s behavior. For example, if your dog bites or injures your elderly neighbors, you will likely be responsible for paying any costs associated with your neighbors’ injuries. Likewise, if your new dog destroys your neighbors’ property, chances are you will have to bear responsibility for your dog’s transgressions.