 Most cities and even smaller towns have a comic book store. These stores carry comics of varying condition but also allow the ability to back order old and new comics through trusted sellers.;
, In the world of comics, trade volumes are an entire season of comics bound into 1 soft cover book. They tend to cost around the price of a novel, but they are not seen as collectible comics.


If your desire is to read the Buffy comics from the beginning, and not collect, then you should choose trade volumes. Your local comic book store may be able to order you the whole set of trade volumes from the first season to the last.
If you do not want to read every comic in a season, but you would like to read the best comics, you can choose to invest in the Buffy Omnibus'. These Omnibus trade paperback editions include selected comics from that series. The story is not continuous so they can be confusing for the occasional Buffy reader.
 Although you may only be collecting for personal enjoyment, you will want to buy enough cardboard backing and plastic coverings for each of your individual comics. You may want to buy scotch tape to tape back the flap of the plastic protector.


Use a hard, protective crate in which to place your collectible Buffy comics. You may also want to create cardboard dividers between seasons. This is only necessary if you intend to collect individual comics and you want to ensure they will survive storage conditions.
 These series are entitled Tales of the Slayers and Tales of the Vampires. Although they are part of the "Buffyverse," they were created after the series began, and they take place between the ancient times and 1995 in a number of different countries.
 Many Buffy comics were created with 2 types of covers. One cover features a more realistic drawing of Buffy as played by Sarah Michelle Gellar and the other cover is a more traditional comic rendition of Buffy and the other characters.
 This season will be seen as more costly to an individual comic collector. Choose wisely based on the condition and price of each comic.


Season 1 takes place in and around Los Angeles between the summers of 1996 and 1997. There are 4 graphic novels attributed to this time.
Season 2 takes place between fall 1997 and the summer of 1998. Buffy moves to Sunnydale, where the majority of the comics and television shows are set. Approximately 6 graphic novels were published, although they were not all canonical.
Season 3 takes place mostly in 1998. Approximately 12 books were published, although not all were canonical.
Season 4 takes place in 1999 and 2000. It is also the first year that the Angel spin-off comic was published. The 2 series take place in the same time period after Angel's departure from the Buffy television show. There are approximately 6 novels.
Season 5 takes place in Sunnydale in 2000 and 2001. It is also the year of the Angel Series Season 2. There are approximately 7 books.
Season 6 takes place in Sunnydale in 2001 and 2002. It is also the year of Angel's Series Season 3. There are approximately 6 books, including a prequel.
Season 7 was a shorter series of prequel books that coincided with Angel's Series Season 4. These were Tales of the Vampires.
Season 8 takes place in 2004 to 2005 and directly follows the aftermath of the end of the Buffy the Vampire Slayer's TV series. There are approximately 9 books that follow similar story paths.
Season 9 deputed in the fall of 2010, continuing the plot as started in Season 8.
 You can download free applications on tablets or phones. Then you can choose to buy the comics for approximately the same price as you would from a newsstand.
 These can be bought from comic book stores or off the newsstand.
 You may be able to buy large quantities of Buffy comics that are not in mint condition.

