 Before you can see your wish come true, you need to give yourself full permission to believe in the possibility of it coming true. Hope can be difficult to muster in certain circumstances, but try to remember that “optimism” and “realism” are not necessarily opposites.


There's a direct link between optimism and success. Those who are more optimistic about life are more likely to perceive greater opportunities and pursue those opportunities than those who spend their lives in doubt.Simply put, a wish is a beginning. Making and believing in a wish encourages you to take action, and the action you take increases the likelihood of your wish coming true.;
, If you want your wish to come true overnight, you'll need to invest as much thought and action into that one wish as possible. Spending energy on multiple wishes at once will prevent you from giving any one wish your full attention, thereby decreasing the likelihood of any wish coming true.
 You need to have a clear understanding of your true wish before making it come true. Articulate what you think your wish is, then stop and think about how you feel. If something seems unsatisfactory about the words you spoke, you may need to redefine your wish in more honest terms.


After telling yourself your wish, you should feel pleasant feelings like joy or hope. The idea of seeing your wish come true must be a happy thing. If it isn't, the wish doesn't express your true feelings and you won't be able to devote yourself to pursuing it.
For instance, if you're currently suffering from unrequited love and state a wish that your feelings will end, you may feel unhappy afterward. In actuality, you probably want your feelings to be returned. This may not always be possible, of course, but you would ultimately be better off forming wishes around this true desire than you would be if you denied the truth completely.
 Fulfilling a wish—especially within a short amount of time—requires a considerable amount of positive energy. If you wish for something negative, you'll inevitably cut down the amount of positive thought and action surrounding that wish, making it harder to fulfill.


Wishes motivated by jealousy are often the ones most at odds with this principle. For example, you might be tempted to wish that your rival will lose the game, promotion, relationship, etc., that you feel envy over, but that wouldn't be a good wish to make. A better wish would be for something equally good to happen in your own life.
 You need to wish for something that you actually have some power to fulfill or pursue. The wish may involve other people, but if it depends entirely on someone else or on some force outside anyone's control, there's nothing you can do to ensure that it'll come true.


You can only control your own thoughts and actions, so wishes that depend on others to act on your behalf generally don't come true.
You can, however, wish for the ability to influence others toward some type of action. For example, wishing that the object of your unrequited love will return your feelings generally won't accomplish anything, but wishing for the courage and opportunity to interact with that individual usually accomplishes more.
Similarly, your wish shouldn't depend on natural or supernatural forces for fulfillment. In other words, a wish for school or work to get canceled due to bad weather usually won't come true, and if it does, it'll probably be a coincidence more than anything else.
 There's nothing you can do to change the past, so unfortunately, there's no use in wishing to change something that already happened. Instead, your wish should focus on something you want to see happen within the next 24 hours or near future.


If your deepest desire is somehow connected to a past event, you still need to reframe your wish so that it looks forward. Wish for a different perspective on a past hurt or for the ability to avoid repeating a past mistake.
 Enormous wishes probably won't come true overnight, even if you do everything in your power to make them come true. If you have one large wish you want to fulfill, the best way to make it happen is to break it up into smaller wishes. Focus on making those small wishes come true overnight so that you can gradually fulfill your true, final wish over time.


For example, your ultimate wish might be to develop a relationship with the object of your unrequited love. Relationships don't happen overnight, though, so you'll need to choose an immediate wish to focus on. This wish might be for something as simple as the opportunity or courage to speak to that individual.
 Wish fulfillment requires positive thought, action, and energy. Spend a few moments to eliminate negative feelings and inclinations from your mind. This includes all feelings related to your wish and all those that aren't.Negative feelings that relate directly to your wish may include fear, doubt, or pessimism toward the possibility of fulfillment.
Unrelated negative feelings that could still act as roadblocks include anger toward those around you, jealousy, or apathy. These feelings have a tendency to consume your energy, which can prevent you from devoting the amount of energy you need toward making your wish come true.
 Take some time to actually visualize your wish coming true. The picture should be so clear in your “mind's eye” that it nearly seems tangible. Imagining your wish with this level of vividness can give you the energy to chase after it.


Relax. Go to a quiet spot, get comfortable, and close your eyes. Keep your mind as calm and peaceful as possible.
Once you feel thoroughly relaxed, think of something that makes you undeniably happy. This can be something related to your wish, but it doesn't have to be. Allow the positive feeling surrounding this thought to sink in.
As soon as you feel positive, switch your mind over to your wish. Imagine that it has already come true, and let yourself feel joy over it. Remain in this state for several minutes so that you associate your wish with overflowing sense of positivity.
 Unfortunately, merely thinking about your wish won't make it come true. You need to put forth some tangible effort toward your wish to push it along.View the act of making your wish as a starting point and the fulfillment of your wish as an end point. The space in between is a path you'll need to travel. Even when you want to make your wish come true overnight, you'll still need to spend time between now and tomorrow walking that path.
Return to the unrequited love example mentioned previously. Instead of merely wishing for the opportunity to speak with that individual, you should look for ways to create an opportunity. Arrange your schedule for the following day so that you can cross paths. Brainstorm possible topics of conversation for when you do meet up.
 Tell other people about your wish and emphasize that you want to make your wish come true overnight. Depending on the circumstances, those you tell can become allies and may directly or indirectly help you to make that wish come true.


Others may offer indirect help you by providing advice or encouragement. They can offer direct help by taking some type of action on your behalf.
If you tell your best friend that you wish you could converse with the object of your affection tomorrow, he or she might help you brainstorm ways of making it happen and boost your confidence with affirming words of encouragement. If your friend knows the other person involved, he or she may even help set things up so that you'll actually have the opportunity to talk.
 You can only actively pursue your wish while you're awake. In order to make your wish come true overnight, you'll need to set things in motion so that they can continue even while you sleep.


This may not always be possible, of course, depending on the specific circumstances. Simply examine the issue and determine if there's anything you can do to help your wish grow while you continue on with the rest of your life.
With regards to the unrequited love example, if you're already friends with the person involved, or if he or she is part of a friend group you have some connection to, you might consider extending an invitation toward the individual or group via text or social media. That invitation may help you fulfill your wish by providing an opportunity to talk the next day, but you'll need to wait things out and allow the person in question to check and respond to that invitation first.
 As a general rule, you should be wary of any object or source that promises indirect fulfillment of your wish without personal action. Charms should be used only as reminders that you need to take action; avoid relying on the mere existence of charms to answer your wish.


When used appropriately, though, charms can actually be somewhat helpful:

Writing about your wish as though it's already happened can help you visualize it and imagine it as a strong enough possibility to pursue.Wishing on a shooting star, the first star you see at night, the new moon, or the full moon can secure the wish in your thoughts overnight, making it easier to pursue when you wake up in the morning.
Adorning a bracelet or key chain with charms that represent your wish can serve as a constant reminder to pursue that desire throughout the day and night.Folding a thousand origami paper cranes can give you time to mediate on your wish and brainstorm ways of making it come true.
 Even if you make a realistic wish and do everything you can to make it come true by the following day, life is hard to predict, and things can happen that may prevent your wish from immediate fulfillment. Don't let this discourage you, however. Keep wishing and pursuing your wishes even after your initial time limit runs out.


Too often, the disappointment that results from failing to obtain your wish can introduce doubt or cause you to make excuses. Both doubt and excuses can prevent you from taking action toward the same wish or other wishes in the future. Avoid this downward spiral by immediately turning your attention toward positive thought and action, rather than allowing yourself to dwell on the feeling of disappointment.

