 Acquaint yourself with moth behavior before you begin catching the insects. This may help you more effectively catch a moth or moths.


Moths are generally nocturnal, which means they mostly fly at night.However, some species, like the buck moth, that are diurnal, meaning they fly both day and night.Moths prefer warm, humid and overcast nights to cooler, clear nights.There are thousands of species of moths and butterflies. Some eat plants, while others may eat wool and items of clothing.Contact your local county extension to help identify any moths you may have in or around your home.;
, You’ll need a few items to most effectively catch a moth. By gathering the following materials before you start, you may be able to catch one—or many—moths:


An outdoor light bulb bright enough to attract moths at night.Moth “food” to attract insects.A butterfly/ moth net.A homemade net or other container, such as a jar or box, with holes so the moth can breathe.
 “Baiting”, which is also called “sugaring” is a technique you can use to attract moths you want to catch. Baiting involves making “moth food” and putting in places to attract moths.Make bait by mixing one can of beer or apple cider, 1.5 cups sugar, ¼- ½ cup molasses, four over-ripe bananas or other fruit such as apples or peaches in a blender. You can also add a spoonful of cornmeal and some brewer’s yeast if you like, too.Place fermenting fruits like spoiled watermelon as another form of bait.Remember that moths are also attracted to any kind of light, so you can seek them near outdoor or indoor lights if you wish.Apply an approximately 20-30cm patch of bait to tree trunks with a brush just before sunset.Find trees with smooth bark or plates of smooth bark such as pine, hickory, cherry, or birch.Fill a small bowl or your container with bait if you want to catch the moth in your home.
Be aware that bait can attract more than moths. Bears, mice, skunks, and foxes may like your bait in addition to the moths you want to catch., In order to effectively catch your moth or moths, you need to check the bait or light sources.Check the bait every 30 minutes to see what you’ve lured in to your bait.Decide whether you want to catch individual moths or groups when you check the bait.
 Wait until the moth or moths are at rest or not moving before you catch them. Once you’ve observed them, approach them slowly so that you don’t startle them away.Avoid sudden movements, which may startle moths into flight.Approach the moth from behind if you can.
 Take out your net or container and sweep it forward quickly. This can help you effectively capture the moth in your container without releasing it.Make secure to quickly secure the container over the moth so that it can’t escape.Ensure that the moth is at the deep or far end of your container to minimize the risk of it escaping., Once you’ve captured the moth, seal your net or container. This can help you transport the moth so that you can release it or observe it.If you’re using a net, collapse the end of it with your fingers. Leave enough space at the end of the net to minimize the risk of damage to the moth.If you’re using a jar, box, or another container, slowly thread a piece of paper or a lid under it. Make sure to not lift the container up too high so that the moth doesn’t escape.
 After you’ve caught the moth and observed it if you want, release it into the outdoors or someplace outside your home where it won’t bother you any longer. This is a more humane way to deal with a moth than killing it.
 Set up regular inspections and clean sessions of spaces that attract moths. This can help you nip problems in the bud before they become infestations and kill larvae.Check closets, human and pet bedding, behind furniture, in curtains, behind radiators or heaters, in air ducts and vents, and along baseboards.Wipe down and vacuum areas attractive to moths at least once a week.Clean your clothes regularly as well. Moths are attracted to garments soiled by food, drinks, sweat, and urine., If you are concerned about clothing, fabric, or other material getting infested by moths, store them in airtight containers. This may kill any moths current residing in your belongings and prevent them from reproducing.Store your items below 40 degrees Fahrenheit if possible., Distribute mothballs in places that currently have a moth infestation or where you’d like to deter them. You may want to consider this as a last resort before professional extermination because mothballs come with an unpleasant smell and can have health side effects.Inhaling the vapors from mothballs over a longer period of time can have health consequences.These include: anemia, liver damage, neurological damage, and cataracts.Ensure that spaces where you place mothballs are airtight to help prevent you from inhaling the vapors., There is some evidence that lavender repels moths. Mixing a lavender spray may help you keep any moth infestations at bay.Mix 30-40 drops of lavender essential oil with 1.5 ounces of distilled water. Use a clean spray bottle.The stronger you want the spray, the more oil you will mix with water.Boil 3-4 cups of distilled water and 3-4 tablespoons of dried lavender to make a spray with lavender you purchase or grow at home. Strain leaves from the mixture and allow it to cool before using it. Spray the mixture wherever you want to repel moths. Avoid dousing material, which may promote the growth of mold., Add some lavender plants in and around your home. It can help not only repel moths from your spaces, but it will also leave a pleasant scent., There is some evidence that other natural herbs, such as cloves, may repel moths from your home. Set a small amount of these herbs in places where you have moths.Use a jar of cloves or a handful of cinnamon sticks in areas infested or frequented by moths.Be aware that if you place cloves or cinnamon near clothing or other fabric, that you may end up smelling “Christmas-y.”, Studies have shown that using a bug zappers in conjunction with a pheromone lure may help kill moths.Consider buying a zapper and pheromone lure if you have a moth problem outside.


Get a high voltage electronic black light.Purchase a pheromone lure at a home or hardware store.
Use these items in conjunction with one another for optimal results. There is some evidence that a pheromone lure may not work effectively on its own., There is some evidence that burning citronella candles may control insect infestations.Burn citronella candles in areas where you want to repel moths.


Make sure the concentration of citronella in your candle is 5-10% for the best results.Burn the candle when you are outside.