 Often, the risky behavior is related to not meeting work deadlines or missing important appointments. Impulsiveness can also be a problem. To help with this, get organized with a schedule that can help you keep important meetings and appointments.Use a calendar app or buy a planner. Put every important meeting in the calendar. If you use an app, you can set multiple reminders on your phone to help you not lose track of what you need to do. Look a week ahead so you can start working on projects well before they are due. This will help to ensure that important projects get done even if you become distracted by other things.
Set a routine by planning for activities at the same time each day. For example, you can set a consistent time to go to bed, eat meals, answer emails, or workout. Put it in your calendar to remind yourself.
To help curb impulsive spending, determine a day of the week to do your shopping. Keep a list with you so you only buy what’s on the list. You can also withdraw the amount of cash you will need to make purchases and leave credit and debit cards at home to prevent yourself from buying extra items.;
, Adult ADHD causes you to sometimes get distracted from your tasks. This can cause problems, especially with work. To help keep you from getting too distracted, try breaking tasks into smaller, shorter parts.For example, if you have a large project due for work, finishing it in one go that takes hours may be too much for you. Instead, break it down into manageable 30 minute chunks. After half an hour, take a short break. Then start the next 30 minute chunk. During these chunks of time, make sure to eliminate distractions such as by shutting off your phone, shutting your blinds, and closing your email.
Approaching tasks like this can help you avoid getting distracted by other things, like the internet or social media.
 Some impulsive behavior can have severe negative consequences. To help prevent this behavior, find a way to block risky behavior. This will make it harder for you to be impulsive since you will have to consciously do it.For example, if you impulse shop, place your credit card somewhere you cannot get to it easily when you’re online. If you have to go to the store, take a set amount of cash so you don’t overspend. You can also reduce your urge to impulse shop by going to a regular grocery store to buy your groceries rather than going to a big store that also sells clothes, camping gear, and kitchen appliances.
Consider putting your car on cruise control to eliminate speeding and dangerous driving.

