 Place the butter and olive oil in a large, heavy saucepan and warm them on the stove over medium heat. Add the sliced onions once the butter melts and Sauté until soft and brown.Sliced onion will take about 15 to 20 minutes to cook. You will need to stir the onions occasionally to prevent them from burning or sticking to the pan.
If you want to distribute the onion flavor more evenly throughout the dish, you could use chopped onion instead of onion slices. Note that chopped onions will only take 7 to 12 minutes to cook.
 Place the uncooked freekeh grains in a medium bowl and fill the bowl with cold water. Let soak for 5 minutes.


It is recommended that you do this while the onions are cooking to minimize the amount of time it takes to prepare the dish overall.
 Pour the freekeh and water through a sieve and rinse well under cold, running water. Let drain completely.


The purpose of soaking, draining, rinsing, and re-draining is to help clean the grains.
Make sure that the holes in the sieve are very small to prevent the loss of grains.
 Toss the freekeh, cinnamon, and allspice into the saucepan with the onions. Stir well to combine.
 Pour the vegetable stock into the saucepan and sprinkle with a pinch each of salt and black pepper. Stir to mix and bring to a boil.


Stir the contents of the saucepan periodically as they reach a boiling point to prevent uneven cooking.
 Once the liquid begins to boil, reduce the heat to low and let it all simmer gently for 15 minutes.


Cover the saucepan as the freekeh cooks to avoid losing water through evaporation. Losing too much water can cause the freekeh to be hard and undercooked.
 Once the freekeh seems tender, remove the saucepan from the stove and let it stand for 5 minutes covered and 5 more minutes uncovered.


Letting the freekeh stand while covered allows the grains to finish absorbing the water.
Letting it stand uncovered lets the freekeh cool down slightly.
 In a small, separate bowl, whisk together the three ingredients until smooth and evenly distributed.


Add a sprinkle of salt, if desired, to draw out more of the flavors.
Save time by doing this step as you wait for the freekeh to cool.
 Once the pilaf is warm instead of hot, stir in the parsley, mint, and coriander until evenly distributed throughout the pilaf.


Taste the pilaf and adjust the seasonings as needed.
 Scoop the freekeh pilaf into individual serving dishes and garnish each portion with a spoonful of the yogurt mix. Garnish with pine nuts.


The pine nuts accentuate the nutty flavor of the freekeh.
You can also garnish with additional parsley or a drizzle of olive oil.

