 A relatively empty, quiet room with adequate lighting is always a good choice. If possible, choose a closed-off area to prevent escape. If this is not feasible, at least try to pick a place away from noisy appliances, so your guinea pigs aren't startled by the sound.;
, Cover or move any electrical cords so your pets don't chew them, and cover any places your guinea pigs might run and hide in, such as underneath sofas or behind dressers. It may take some extra time, but preparing ahead of time will help keep your piggies safe.
 You could choose newspaper, old towels, or anything else that you won't mind getting soiled. This layer of absorbency will keep your floor clean in case of an accident, and give your pigs somewhere to sit in between photos.
 Try having your guinea pigs pose with some stuffed animals, or put up a colorful background. Whatever you're using, be sure to set it all up before you bring in the pigs.
 It's a good idea to keep some treats in the photo-taking area, so you don't have to run and grab them later. Avoid treats bought at pet stores, as often commercial treats and pellets are full of sugar, alfalfa, or choking hazards such as nuts or seeds. Instead, opt for some healthy fresh fruit or veggies.
 Carefully carry them into your photography location or studio one at a time. carefully, and carry them into the room one at a time. Try to be gentle so as not to startle them. To pick up your guinea pig, use one hand to hold them under the chest and your remaining hand to support their rump.
 The goal is to keep them as calm as possible so they don't squirm, so be sure to let them chill in the shade every once in a while. You may wish to bring in their travel cage so they're better contained while you prepare for the next photo.
 You may think that you can keep an eye on them and prevent them from mating, but they can do so in the blink of an eye, and you might not be able to stop it. Play it safe, and keep sexes separate unless they're neutered.


The exception to this rule is if you're photographing baby guinea pigs. Pups can reach sexual maturity at as young as 4 weeks, so you can keep both sexes together if they're 3 weeks or younger.
 Be careful with the costumes, so as not to hurt your guinea pigs or choke them. Keep an eye out for chewing of costumes or other supplies.
 Guinea pigs are easily overwhelmed, so it's a good idea to let them have some food and relax every so often.
 You may need to bribe the pigs with treats in order to get them in the right place or face the right way.
 These types of pictures tend to add a personal touch. Additionally, since you have more control over the pigs, these photos are easier to take, and are well-suited to beginners.
 Let the pigs wander around, take a nap, interact with one another or the camera, and just be themselves. They are curious animals, and it's always fun to take a picture of them exploring the area or sniffing the camera.
 Don't be afraid to try out new ideas, props, or settings. Experiment with taking photos outside as well, allowing your pets to play in the grass (in an enclosed area, of course), or include them in family photos. Don't forget to show off your amazing new photos!

