 This may seem obvious, and often it is, but since there are many similar pieces of equipment, and information may vary from one piece to another, check your manual to be sure you are using the right one. An example of similarly titled manuals might be: A Case 580C tractor is very different from a Case 580K, as is a 580K and a 580 Super K.;
, Here are some you may find in common equipment:


Lubrication. This section will describe the lubricating locations on the machine, the types of lubricants to use, and the capacities, if applicable, for each lubricant.
Inspection. Here you will find instructions for inspecting the equipment or machine. This may include electrical wiring inspections for damage or broken parts, corroded connectors, or blown fuses. You may find details regarding inspecting bearings, belts, hoses, or other items, depending on the equipment in question.
Scheduled maintenance. Here you will find a calendar-type schedule for regular maintenance. On heavy equipment it may include changing the oil, oil filters, or air filters, etc. On a smaller machine (like a sewing machine) there may be periodic, scheduled maintenance for lubricated, moving parts. Other equipment like air-conditioning systems have belts, bearings, filters, and coils which require routine, scheduled maintenance.
Troubleshooting tips. Most maintenance manuals have a section covering troubleshooting tips, which are helpful in diagnosing mechanical problems in almost any machine. Rather than randomly replacing parts to correct a problem, you can scan the tips for a description of the problem you are experiencing, which will be accompanied by a list of possible causes.
Specifications. This section, if your manual includes it, will give you facts about the machine's capabilities, performance, and capacities and may include a description of its size, weight, power and fuel requirements.
 On an automobile, for instance, the Owner's Manual (which may contain a very basic maintenance manual) will have topics such as "Optional Equipment" and "Vehicle Care."

,, This will help you understand what is involved and what tools you'll need to have on hand.
 Working on a machine with an internal combustion engine or equipment which uses compressed gases or other hazardous material requires caution and awareness of dangers and risks involved.
 Some of these are specific to only one type or (occasionally) model of machine. If you use the machine regularly, it may be worthwhile to invest in any tools or equipment used in servicing and repairing it.
 Many manuals include toll-free phone numbers and web addresses.
 These include parts manuals, service manuals, and publications covering diagnostics and specifications. These are sometimes available on CDs or DVDs from the manufacturer, and some websites specialize in selling downloadable copies at greatly reduced cost.
 Recheck your work, and test it if possible.
