 Make sure to only choose one fandom; you don't want to be not loyal. Some popular Twitter fandoms consist of popular musicians, YouTubers, TV shows, or celebrities that are well-known and liked by young teenagers.;
, Make a clever username that will make people want to follow and interact with you. Try to keep numbers and underscores out of your username and try not to use capital letters as it makes your account looks gross. Make sure the username corresponds to your fandom. Some clever usernames can include pretty & meaningful words along with your idol's first name, last name or initials .
 Making your bio appealing will draw in followers. You may think putting all kinds of fancy fonts in your bio will make it look cooler, but it will just make your bio look messy and unprofessional. Avoid fonts at all costs. Go with something simple; an inspirational quote or song lyric is best but don't make your bio too long.
 Make sure your Twitter header and icon match. There are many apps that you can use to create matching layouts like Superimpose & PicsArt for common pixel/ 8bit layouts. But, if you are not very good at matching layouts, go with a simple single shade of black and white or sepia for both.
 Don't be inactive, but don't tweet every 2 seconds. Your followers don't want their timelines full of only your tweets. Unless your favorite celebrity is doing a follow or tweet spree, you should only be tweeting up to 50-200 times a day. That may seem like a lot, but when you're really into Twitter, it will get hard to keep within this limit.
 Remember, followers don't matter if they never talk to you. If you have over 10,000 followers, you should at least get anywhere from 10-100 favorites and/or 1-11 retweets minimum on most of your tweets. You do not need to interact with all of your followers, but become good friends with at least a few of them by having close mutuals (people who you follow and they follow you back) and or being in lots of group chats .



stan = people or things you idolize
user = username
mutuals = people that you follow and they follow you back
layout = header and icon
ratio = a comparison of your following & follower counts
threads = a collection of tweets you keep as usually your pinned tweet so you can keep your account organized
unf = unfollow
indirect = when someone mentions you without directly @ing you, usually just by saying the person's name
rt = retweet
fav= favorite
timeline= Twitter feed
tl = timeline
dm = direct message.

