 Talk to your parents about how having a dog will make you spend more time around the house, and therefore, more time with them. Tell them that having a dog can be fun for the whole family—you can go for walks in the park together, or have a family barbecue in the backyard while throwing a Frisbee to the dog.Ask them to picture how nice it will be to have a family dinner with the dog by your side, or to have a family movie night with the dog sitting at your feet.;
, Are your parents tired of all the time you spend alone in your dark room, staring at your computer or playing video games? Are they always telling you to go outside and enjoy the sunshine? If so, tell them that having a dog will make you spend more time in the park, in the sunlight, and more time getting physical exercise instead of texting your friends or eating junk food.Tell them that having a dog will help you to unplug and have a simpler adolescence or childhood outside with your furry pal.
 Having a dog is therapeutic and people who own dogs have been known to live longer and to be happier. A dog knows when you're upset and can comfort you in times of stress. Dogs are intuitive creatures that know exactly how to cheer up their owners. If your parents spend a lot of time at work, then tell them that having a dog in the house will not only be soothing for everyone but that a dog can keep you company while they're away., Dogs are protectors of their pack, and will take any means necessary to ensure the safety of those they regard as their family. You will feel more secure with a dog around in your house. With some careful training, your dog can learn who is and who isn’t welcome in your home.Homes that have dogs visible inside are much less likely to be robbed. Show your parents that a dog, once trained, will not only be your lifelong companion, but will also be your protector. If you're old enough for your parents to go on vacation without you, tell them how much more secure you'd feel if there was a dog by your side.
 Though you should show your parents that you're capable of having a dog by being responsible, you can also tell them that having a dog will make you an even more responsible and careful person. Here's why:


Having a dog will teach you to follow a routine. You'll have to feed, walk, and play with the dog at certain times.
Having a dog will make you go to bed earlier and wake up earlier so you can walk it. No more staying up until three in the morning staring at your computer or TV screen.
Having a dog will teach you the value of being responsible for another being.
 Do a bit of research to figure out what kind of dog you want and why. Whether you want a small breed dog, like a miniature schnauzer, or a large dog, like a Labrador, explain your reasons for wanting a particular breed of dog. This will show your parents that you have put time and effort into thinking about getting a dog. When you talk with your parents about the type of dog you want, you may also want to:


Tell them about the strong suits and features of a particular breed of dog. Is it known for being easy to train, fiercely loyal, or just really cute?
Explain what works best for training this breed of dog. Show them that you already know what to do to house train and teach the dog basic commands like "sit" and "stay."
Show them a picture of the dog or dog breed. Showing a picture of the dog to your parents may help to make them much more sympathetic. Who can resist a picture of a cute dog?

