 Place your hand or a handkerchief over your mouth as you speak. The obstacle should be directly against your mouth to produce a more dramatic effect.


Your voice, like any sound, travels through various mediums in the form of sound waves. The way that those waves are transmitted through air differs from the way those waves sound when traveled through a different medium, like a solid. By placing a solid obstacle in front of your mouth as you speak, you force the sound waves through that obstacle, thereby changing the way that others' ears hear and interpret the sound.
 When you speak, do so in a quieter tone and open your mouth less as you pronounce words.


Mumbling changes both word formation and the manner in which your voice carries.
When you mumble, you keep your mouth more closed than usual. Certain sounds are pronounced while the mouth is only slightly opened, and those will not be affected much. On the other hand, sounds that naturally require you to open your mouth significantly more will be greatly altered.
Consider the difference in sound when saying something as simple as “oh.” First, say “oh” while opening your mouth wide open. Then, repeat the “oh” syllable while keeping your lips just barely parted. If you listen carefully, you should notice the difference in sound.
Mumbling also causes you to speak softer. Clear, middle sounds may come through well enough when you speak softly, but softer sounds and end sounds tend to be obscured.
Consider the difference in sound when repeating a simple phrase like “got it.” Repeat the phrase forcefully in your normal tone. You will likely be able to pick up on the ending “t” sounds, even if the “t” at the end of “got” blends into the next word. Then, try repeating the phrase weakly in a quiet tone. The two vowel sounds will likely be audible, but the “t” sounds should have weakened significantly.
 Most people naturally speak with some degree of emotion. Focus on maintaining a flat, consistent tone of voice as you speak. The less emotion you use while speaking, the more different your voice will sound.


The easiest way to notice the difference is by asking a question in monotone. When asking a question, the vast majority of people will end with a higher intonation. The same question can sound much different when spoken in a flat voice, without that final shift in tone.
Alternatively, if people tend to say that you have a flat voice, practice speaking with more enthusiasm or emotion. Think carefully about what you say and change your intonation as you speak accordingly. A good way to practice is with a simple phrase like “Yeah.” When someone says “yeah” in a hurt way, there should be a downward shift in intonation. On the other hand, an enthusiastic “yeah” will have a strong tone with a somewhat high pitch from start to finish.
 Try speaking while smiling or speaking while scowling, regardless of what you actually say.


Expression can affect the emotion with which words are spoken, but expression also changes the formation of your words because your mouth is held in a different position.
For instance, consider how the word “oh” sounds when you smile versus how it sounds when your face remains loose. A loose “oh” is more rounded, while an “oh” spoken through a smile will sound shorter in comparison and may even resemble the “ah” sound.
 A quick way to dramatically alter the sound of your voice is to block your nasal passages, and the easiest way to do this is to grasp your nose on either side and close off the nostrils.


You can also accomplish a similar effect by simply blocking breath from entering your nose through the mouth.
As you speak, airflow naturally travels through both your mouth and nose. Blocking off your nose restricts the amount of air that escapes through your nasal passages and causes more air to be trapped deeper in your throat and mouth. This change in amount and pressure causes your vocal cords to vibrate differently, which changes the way your voice sounds.
 Each accent is a little different, so you will need to thoroughly familiarize yourself with the quirks of each individual accent before you can speak in that accent convincingly.


Non-rhoticity is a common feature of several accents, including the Boston accent and many British accents. Non-rhoticity refers to the practice of dropping the final "r" sound from a word. For example, "later" would sound like "lata" or "butter" would sound like "butta."

The "broad A" is another common feature of many accents, including many British accents, Boston accents, and accents found in English-speaking countries in the Southern Hemisphere, including New Zealand, Australia, and South Africa. This practice involves lengthening the short "a" sound.

