 Your friends and family love "you," not straight you or gay you, they love you. Your happiness is important to them; it's not selfish to feel as if you're bombarding them with your problems. Talk about it. Use them to lean on. That's what they're there for!


That being said, don't feel obligated to come out to people for this purpose. If you're not ready, you're not ready. There's no harm in that. Your friends and family don't have to know to still be there for you.
 Coming out of the closet is the boldest step in accepting your sexual orientation, but now that you are able to live "out," it does not mean that you have to change who you are or what you like. Don't go trying to change yourself or wishing that you were like the other people in your life to cater to the comfort levels of others. There are over 6.7 billion people in the world, and you can't please everyone; those who care about you will still love you for who you are.


If someone can't accept the one small fact of who you are that is your sexuality, and can't still respect you for the person that you are, then they aren't worth your time or letting it bother you, because it's not your fault that the person can't accept it.
 If your preferred way of doing something strays from the mainstream, whatever it may be, then be proud of it -- you are the one and only you. It takes all kinds -- or this world would be such a boring, monotonous place!



Understand that a person who is gay is no different from any other person. Like everyone else, gay people have dreams and goals, and want companionship and love just like anyone else you know. Strive every day to be the best person you can be, and remind yourself of the positive qualities and attributes that make you uniquely who you are.
 You are in a unique position to leave an impression on others. Others, often younger than you, will need guidance. If you can show them there are points of light on the horizon, you can make their progress that much easier.


If you are unaccepting of certain races, religions, or other characteristics, why should others be accepting of you? Your own actions need to echo how you want to be treated. Hopefully, others will take a cue from your behaviors. When it comes to love, take every opportunity to pay it forward, whether it's loving yourself or loving someone else.
 It's important to find support for your mental health and so you know you're not alone with someone to turn or to talk to. There is support available in face-to-face or in cyberspace. If you want support in person, find friends or people who are on the LGBT+ spectrum or are allies. If you are in the USA, there is the Gay Straight Alliance. If you prefer to stay behind a computer screen, there are many supportive websites for LGBT+ people. There is a Wikipedia list for LGBT+ support.

