 Make sure you have a place where your tapers can hang, undisturbed, for at least 24 hours. This will allow them time to fully set.

10 to 13 inch wicking
1 pound of beeswax
Nuts or some other small objects to weight the tapers
1 coat hanger

, For this project, a large stock pot will work well as the main vessel on the double boiler. This will be your dipping vat. Use a candy thermometer to watch the temperature. Once the wax has reached 165 °F (73.9 °C), it’s ready to use.

You will need to maintain this temperature throughout the procedure., Each piece of 16 inch (40.6 cm) wick will create 2 tapers. Tie the nuts onto each end of the wick pieces, since the tapers will need to be weighted during the curing process. These weights will hold the wick taut.

About halfway through the process you will cut these weights off.
Initially the tapers need to be weighted in order to form correctly.
 Use coat hanger wire and pliers to create a rig that will allow you to dip the tapers into the wax. If you don’t have the wire, you can use anything you have around that will allow you to drape one piece of wicking over it, with one weighted nut hanging down on each side.Each side will be dipped at the same time, so the tapers will be made in pairs.
Your rig needs to be wide enough (at least 2 inches) to keep the tapers separated from each other during the dipping and curing process.
 Don’t try to make your tapers any taller than your dipping vat. Allow at least 2 inches of undipped wick at the top, near the rig. Carefully lower your first wick into the melted wax using your rig, dipping the two sides of the string simultaneously. Make sure your motions are smooth and continuous. Dip and then pull out without pausing. Allow several minutes of cooling. Then dip again.Repeat this several more times.
Be sure to wait several minutes between dips to allow the wax time to cool enough.
If you don’t, the wax will start falling off the wick.
 After you’ve reached a substantial thickness and the wick doesn’t need a weight to be held taut, snip the nuts off. Repeat the dipping and cooling process 2 to 3 more times after removing the weights. This will seal the bottoms of the tapers.If you need a specific thickness to fit a particular taper holder, use a ruler to measure the holder.
Then dip the taper accordingly, until you reach the desired thickness.
 After you’ve reached your desired thickness, hang the tapers in a place where they won’t be disturbed and allow them to set. Give them at least 24 hours before trying to use them. When they’ve cured completely, snip the wicks to separate the two tapers and trim each wick to be ¼ inch.

Your tapers are now ready to light.If you won’t be using your tapers right away, leave them hanging in pairs, just as they are, until you’re ready to use them.
This will help them remain perfectly straight.

