 Some newspapers and media outlets have a reputation for giving a particular slant on the news. Take note of the newspaper’s typical audience and the issues they usually support. However, don’t allow this research to keep you from reading each article critically. If we assume that something’s biased, we’ll believe that it is before we even read it!Check out websites such as Wikipedia and Snopes to see if the newspaper is known to have a particular bias.
 Sometimes, the website itself can give you a clue about whether your article is biased or even made up. A weirdly named outlet that you’ve never heard of may not be reliable. If the URL ends in .co, this could be a sign that you’ve found an illegitimate outlet posing as a real source of news.You should also be suspicious of weird language and typing in either the URL or the article. Anything that has lots of typos, all CAPS, or exclamation points needs a super close read. It could easily be biased or made up.
 Reputable news outlets will give you this kind of information. It should let you know who supports or owns the website or newspaper. If you can’t find this section, it could be a sign that the news outlet is trying to hide a sketchy source of income or information., Placement of stories tell you what the newspaper thinks matters and doesn’t matter in the world today. In a paper newspaper, the front page contains the big-deal stories, while the ones in the back are considered less important. In a digital newspaper, the articles the editors think are most important will be near the top of the front page or on a sidebar.What topics are covered in the most important and least important stories, based on placement? What does this coverage tell you about the newspaper’s priorities?

, Newspapers and news outlets need money to keep them running. Ads provide that money. Check where the majority of ads are coming from, and determine the category of the organization or company represented in the ads. This will let you know who the newspaper doesn’t want to make angry through their reporting.If one company or industry comes up in lots of ads, this could be a problem. It’ll be difficult for a newspaper to provide unbiased coverage if they’re trying to keep someone happy and out of the news.
 The more you read, the more you’ll discover about individual newspapers and the types of articles they write. Keep a journal of the articles you read, the newspapers they come from, and any biases you find. Be sure to note what the bias was in favor of or against.

