 You may be harboring feelings of resentment, guilt, or frustration about your recent break-up. It's important to face those feelings rather than mask them with a new relationship. A break-up can feel like a deep loss. Give yourself time to mourn the past. A process of self-reflection can help with healing. Be willing to look inward, and not just outward, about how to cope with the end of a relationship. The beginning of a new relationship may seem outwardly like you've moved on, but it's important to address how you're really feeling.
If you're still in love and thinking about your ex, jumping into a relationship or having sex out of spite might be harmful to you in the long run.
Don't use or abuse another guy just to get back at your ex.;
, Expressing yourself through words can help you with the healing process. It can be scary when you're alone or don't have a significant other. But it's far worse to hurt a new guy's feelings or pretend that you're over someone. Let out your feelings through writing so that you can move on in a real and honest way. Consider writing in a journal every day to process your feelings. Use this only for your private thoughts. Avoid sharing it in public spaces such as an online blog or other social media.
Writing can be cathartic or a form of emotional release. It helps you to understand what you're feeling rather than pushing away or masking your feelings.
Though writing can be helpful, avoid spending too much time on venting. Thirty minutes of writing a day should suffice.
 If you're starting to date again, but still hung up on the previous ex, then it's important to ask yourself what you're feeling. Find out more about what your intentions are and why you're acting this way. This is helpful to understand whether you're really into a guy, or just trying to forget your ex for a little while. Ask yourself:Are you seeking out this new guy because you feel lonely or because you enjoy his company?
Are you afraid of being single?
When you allow yourself to think about the break up, what do you feel? (Sad, mad, heartbroken, sick, etc.).
Do you fantasize often about running into your ex with your new date?
Are you dating to seemingly show off that you've moved on? Are you more focused on what others think rather than who you're actually dating?
When you think about your ex are you able to wish him well despite what you've been through?
Do you always talk about your ex with your new guy?
Are you focused on making comparisons between your new guy and your ex?
Do you still feel lonely or sad even when you are with your new guy?

, Before you try to figure out if the new guy is your next best thing, talk with people that you trust. Get their advice about what they've been through after a relationship ends. They may help you to understand the situation better.Learn to let go and find support. Don't feel like you're worthless or unlovable just because of this break-up. Everyone has had some kind of loss before. You're not alone.
Make an active choice to find true friends rather than just another relationship. Avoid clinging onto someone new to make you feel better about yourself. Friends who care about you will be more reliable and supportive during a difficult time.

