 Use a formal letterhead if you have one. Otherwise, type your full name and the address of your company or institution at the center top of your cover page.


Include your phone number and your fax number beneath your name and address.
Leave at least two blank lines below this header and the rest of the document.
 The contact information for both you and the receiver should be indicated toward the top of the page. These columns should be double-spaced.


It's a good idea to save your document as a template for future fax use, since the general format will remain the same.
The most important quality to your fax cover sheet is that it be clear and easy to read.
 Each piece of information should be labeled, and each label should be in all capital letters and followed by a colon.


Label the date with "DATE," the receiver's name with "TO," your name with "FROM," and your phone number with "PHONE."
In the United States, the date will be written in "Month, Day, Year," while in most other countries, it will be written "Day, Month, Year."

, Each piece of information should be labeled, and each label should be in all capital letters and followed by a colon.


Label the time with "TIME," the receiver's fax number with "FAX," your fax number with "FAX," and your e-mail address with "EMAIL."
Note that the receiver's name and fax number should be placed on the same horizontal line. Likewise, your name and fax number should be placed on a shared horizontal line of their own.
 Directly below the information in your left column, state the number of pages contained in the fax.


Introduce this information with something like, "Number of pages including cover sheet:"
Note that this line does not need to be in all capital letters.
 The message does not need to be more than a few lines. Clearly state the sort of document being faxed and why you are faxing it to the receiver.If you had previous contact with the receiver concerning this fax, state that information.
Introduce your message with the label "MESSAGE:"
Below your message, ask the receiver to verify the receipt of the document by calling the phone number provided or using the e-mail address provided.
 If the information is confidential, clearly state that it is for the use of the intended receiver only and that use by another receiver is strictly prohibited.

Include the request that you be contacted should the full fax not be received, or if the fax has been received accidentally, i.e. you sent it to the wrong fax number.
Specific privacy guidelines for transmission of protected confidential information may vary. If you work for a health provider, you may need to follow additional guidelines to protect the privacy of your client.

