 If you have an older puppy or a dog which was poorly socialized as a puppy you will have to work with the dog to get it to be an acceptable canine citizen. Dogs that were raised as “puppy mill” breeding dogs, those which had poor puppy socialization, or who were raised from birth away from other dogs often become poorly socialized adult dogs.


Before you try to socialize an adult dog, you should seek the advice of an animal behaviorist or a veterinarian with training in dog socialization. Your local humane society may have an animal behaviorist on staff or a college of veterinary medicine will have trained behaviorists.If your dog shows any tendency to bite or be aggressive with another dog, do not attempt to socialize him on your own. Contact a professional. It is better to admit that you need help with your dog than to have him injure, maim, or kill another animal or even a human.
Do not attempt to socialize your dog unless you are capable of maintaining absolute physical control of your dog at all times. If you are unable or unwilling to do so, do not attempt to socialize your dog.
 To prevent your dog from biting another dog or a human, use muzzle and a head halter or gentle leader. The muzzle covers your dog’s mouth and the head collar attaches to the muzzle to help you control him better. The head collar fits around the muzzle and behind the ears of the dog. It applies gentle pressure and allows you to have control over the dog with subtle leash control.


Consider getting a basket muzzle instead of a nylon muzzle. A basket muzzle will allow your dog to pant, which is how dogs stay cool. He can also drink water while wearing a basket muzzle.Get your dog used to wearing the muzzle and head halter within the confines of your house before you bring the dog outside wearing these items. Follow the directions that come with your particular head halter.
You can also fit your dog with a harness so that you can also use that if needed to control your dog.
 You will need to have both dogs on leashes and kept about 10 feet away from each other, so it is necessary to have two people on hand to make the introduction. Only attempt to introduce your dog to a dog that is friendly to other dogs and that is under the control of an owner that you know well., Do not try to introduce your dogs in your house or in your back yard. These spaces are your existing dog’s territory and he is more likely to be aggressive when he is in them. Choose a neutral space like a friend’s backyard (not the dog owner friend’s backyard) or a nearby dog park., Walk up to your friend, with your dog next to you (on his leash). Do not allow your dogs to get too close. Stand so that you and your friend are between them. If your dog growls, turn around and walk away. Make your dog sit with his back to the other dog until he calms down. When he does calm down, reward him with a quiet “good boy.”


Depending on the dog, this process may need to be repeated for a few days to a few weeks.
Keep both dogs on leashes and separated from each other during this process. Make sure that your friend keeps his dog on its leash and stands about 10 feet away from you in the beginning and after any aggressive reactions. Increase the distance if necessary., Watch both dogs to see what they do when they are introduced, but pay special attention to your dog. If you notice that your dog looks relaxed and happy, then you should be able to bring him closer as long as your friend’s dog also seems relaxed and happy. If one or both dogs is displaying signs of aggression (baring teeth, growling, tense posture), then you should move them further apart.Watch for signs, such as play bows (putting out the front paws and lowering the head and shoulders) and a relaxed stance. These signs indicate that he is feeling playful rather than aggressive.
 If your dog becomes aggressive, stop the introduction by moving the dogs away from each other and distracting the dogs with a treat. Talk to your dog in a soothing voice and try to calm him down. Do not allow the dogs to get closer to each other if either one seems aggressive.If the first attempt resulted in aggressive behavior from one or both dogs, increase the distance between the dogs and try to introduce the dogs again.
If your dog does not have a positive reaction by the time you have attempted to introduce him to another dog for 15 minutes, stop and try again another day. You may have to do this several times before your dog has a positive reaction to the other dog.
 If your dog does not show any signs of acceptance after several attempts to introduce him to another dog or if his aggression is severe (lunging, growling, barking, etc.), contact an animal behaviorist or certified professional dog trainer.