 Countries around the world (including the United States) continue to spend money they don’t have, creating unstable economies. Gold bullion is the only true hedge against this kind of instability.



Term of Investment: For the long term, even if the economy picks up, inflation will follow close behind. Which asset resists inflation? Gold.

Nature of Investment: It's low-risk. Experts agree that the investment-allocation pyramid is built on a low-risk base that includes gold bullion.

Profile of Investor: Gold is a perfect component for a new investor's portfolio.
 You have a choice of gold coins, gold bars, and gold jewelry.



Gold coins: Historic (pre-1933) gold coins tend to retain the most value, as these have numismatic value in addition to their gold content.

Examples of historic gold coins that do not sell at an excessive premium over the gold price because they contain only 90 percent gold are the British sovereign, British guinea, Spanish escudo, French 20 and 40 francs, Swiss 20 francs, and American Gold Eagles ($10 face value), Half-Eagles ($5 face value) and Double Eagles ($20 face value).
The British sovereign and the American Eagle gold coin are notable exceptions with 91.66 percent gold content (or 22 karat). Other gold bullion coins include the Canadian Maple Leaf, the Australian Kangaroo, and the South African Krugerrand (which sparked the entire gold-coin-investment industry), and the 24 karat Austrian Philharmonic.



Gold bars: Gold is also sold in bars that are usually 99.5 to 99.99 percent fine (that is, pure gold). Popular gold refineries include PAMP, Credit Suisse, Johnson Matthey, and Metalor. You’ll see the names of these refineries stamped on the bars they process.

Gold jewelry: The problem with buying gold jewelry as an investment is that you pay a premium for the craftsmanship and the desirability of the design. Any piece of jewelry marked 14 karat or less will be below investment quality, and any resale for the sake of investing will be impacted by the need to refine the gold. On the other hand, it is possible to pick up antique or vintage gold for very little at estate sales and similar auctions where a seller may not recognize the true value of the metal content or if people simply aren't in the mood to bid much for it. Older pieces can carry more value due to their unique craftsmanship, so this can be a lucrative and enjoyable way to collect gold. , Clearly, the greater the weight, the greater the price. Something else to keep in mind is your ability to store the metal safely.


The American Eagle gold coin and the other coins listed above are made in four weights: 1 oz., 0.5 oz., 0.25 oz. and 0.10 oz.
Gold bullion bars are generally sold by the ounce and include 1 oz., 10 oz. and 100 oz. bars.
 Often dealers, brokerage houses and banks will sell both coins and bars. When assessing a dealer, see how long they've been in business, whether they're certified with an industry or government body and in what investment activities they specialize. In the United States the national mint provides a list of authorized sellers that you can check. See Buy Gold Online for details on how to invest in gold through online marketplaces.
Jewelers sell gold jewelry, but if you decide to go this route, be sure to choose a reputable store that has been in business for a long time.
Auctions can be another source of gold jewelry, but be aware that auctioned items are sold “as is." It’s up to you to ascertain their value.
 There are many sites online that will give you the current spot price for gold and other precious metals. Kitco is one such site.
 Most dealers have purchase minimums, charge for shipping and handling, and offer quantity discounts.


Get receipts for all purchases and get a confirmation of delivery date before you pay for the bullion.
If purchasing jewelry, retain all receipts in a safe place. If purchasing at an auction, remember to add on a buyer's premium and any sales tax.
 This is a very important aspect of investing in gold, because your investment strategy is only as safe as your storage strategy. Invest in high-quality security mechanisms, or pay a company to store the metal for you. 