 Once you have applied your product and scrunched your hair, you can add extra defined curls by clipping your hair up while it naturally air dries. Using butterfly clips, gather small sections up to your roots and clip them in place. If you don’t have butterfly clips, you can make small messy buns in your hair and secure with bobby pins or hair ties.









You can do as many bunches or buns as you like. Fewer buns will create larger, looser waves, while many buns will give you smaller, tighter curls.
You can also experiment with twisting each section of hair tightly before clipping, rather than collecting it in bunches. It will still curl the hair, but will give you a slightly different look.
If you want to achieve a messier, "bed-head" look, try clipping up different size sections of hair at random. This will make your curls less-uniform and more spontaneous-looking!

, With the clips still in your hair, spray all over your head with a strong-hold hairspray. This will help to set your curls as your hair dries. After spraying, let your hair sit in the clips for about a half an hour - or until your hair dries - for maximum effect. In the meantime, you can do your makeup or enjoy a cup (or two!) of morning coffee.


If you are in a hurry, you can help the process along by using a hairdryer to finish drying off your clipped hair.
Some hairsprays can be sticky or cause your hair to feel "crunchy", so it may be worth investing in a good brand-name hairspray that will hold your curls in place, while still leaving your hair feeling soft.
 Once your hair is almost or fully dry, take out the clips and let your hair fall down, gently scrunching each section to separate the curls. Then you can turn your head upside down and use your fingers to fluff up your hair, giving it volume and shape.









Whatever you do, do not brush your hair out with a hairbrush or comb. This will undo the curls and cause your hair to look frizzy.
If your hair is a little knotty, just use your fingers to comb through the tangles and separate the strands of hair. Again, scrunched hair is not meant to be perfect - it's meant to look a little wild and spontaneous!
If you're not 100% happy with how the curls turned out, it's okay to cheat a little and use a curling tongs to give a little extra definition. Shhh...nobody needs to know!

, The last step is to apply a dime-sized amount of hair gel or serum to the ends and mid-lengths of your hair. Make sure to work it evenly into the hair, using a gentle scrunching motion. This will help keep frizz at bay and add extra shine to your hair.


Again, remember to avoid the roots when applying gel or serum, as they can weigh your hair down or cause your roots to look greasy.
Look for gels or serums specifically geared towards frizz control or curl definition - there are plenty available at drug stores and hair salons.

