 Working at a call center can become mentally exhausting. Arriving to work refreshed can have a big impact on your performance.


The average customer service representative will take between 60-80 calls on a daily basis. Most call centers implement performance metrics that measure how long a representative is on a call, which can become stressful.
Arriving well rested and mentally prepared will ensure that you will be ready to take on the day.;
, Knowing how to summarize information can be the most essential part of speeding up your call.


The majority of customers do not like to stay on the phone for long periods of time. We all have priorities and obligations in life and spending time over the telephone can cause people to become upset. The faster you can assist your customer, the better.
Over explaining yourself can confuse a customer and open an opportunity for them to ask more questions. Don't allow yourself to explain more than you have to, this will open up opportunities for  customers to ask "what if" and "why". Your customer will state their questions and concerns at the beginning of the call.
 If you aren't sure about a question a customer has, place them on hold and ask your supervisor. Guessing will cause you to become stressed out and will confuse you. You want to sound confident over the phone, this will allow the customer to trust you.
 Doing this will ensure that you can execute all of the customers questions efficiently. Irate customers will jump from subject to subject because they're angry. Focus on one subject at a time, don't allow a customer to confuse you, remember, you are the support.
 Controlling the call is by far the most important part of speeding up your call. Being able to take control will help you get your information across faster. However, keep in mind that too much control may result in bad feedback. you don't want to raise the tone of your voice when the customer does. Remaining calm at all times will help de escalate an argument.
 These words can sound unprofessional and make you sound confused.
 This may sound absurd, but the majority of the time, the customer is disappointed about something they are responsible for. Showing too much empathy will allow your customer to want more and gain control.
 Every customer service agent has heard this before. It's a very important rule to go by, but it may not be that easy. When you're dealing with irate customers, that negative energy can follow you on to the next call. Take a deep breath, have a drink of water, or even stand up and stretch. Staying seated all day can be harmful on the body, especially when hypertension in the body is high. Holding in all of that stress can make your day worse. Stress can have harmful effects on your cognitive functioning. It can cause you to become mentally drained and worn out, don't allow this to happen. Learn to smile and laugh, a great sense of humor goes far.
 Bringing the stress home with you will cause you to start the next day unmotivated. It's just a job, your happiness depends on the way you perceive things. So don't carry on extra baggage.
 Learning from your mistakes will help you avoid errors or inaccuracies in the future. It'll also help you become more proficient and diligent when handling business with others.  Working in customer service may be difficult but it'll teach you to have patients and respect. Learning how to negotiate and come to terms with another person is something we all should be good at. Take your experience and use it to your advantage.

