 As you age, the importance of staying both physically and socially engaged cannot be understated. While both your mental and physical health can benefit from social, active interaction, it can also be harder to find opportunities you’re interested in. That said, make sure to incorporate a few activities into your week that get you moving around and interacting with other people.In short, you are less likely to suffer from certain diseases, more likely to live longer, will be happier, and will keep your mind sharper the more you participate in activities that include both a physical and an social component.
 Going out to any sort of event is good way both to get your body moving and to spend time with other people. Even if you’re only going down the hall or to the community center down the block, meeting a group of friends for cards can keep you feeling healthier and happier.Take the opportunity to see a show or go out for a meal when it arises too.
There are often travel opportunities for specific age groups that will be especially accommodating of any logistical considerations you may have. These include both day trips and overnight trips to those faraway places you’ve always dreamed of visiting.
 You’re never too old to learn something new. Whatever it is you already enjoy - you can further advance your corresponding knowledge or skill. Enroll in a class associated with one of your hobbies, for instance, such as knitting or painting. Simply getting together with other folks who share your interests can be deeply rewarding.Art, cooking, and computer classes are other options to keep you active and engaged.
Best of all, enroll in a class that will keep you physically active in a more literal sense. Yoga and tai chi are not only physically healthy exercises, they can also have positive impacts on your mental health.
 Another way to stay engaged both physically and socially is by volunteering with a local organization you favor. The opportunities are extensive: you can serve meals, send care packages, care for animals, or provide advice on your area of expertise.The benefits of volunteering are multi-fold. Not only will you be getting out and seeing people regularly, you’ll also meet new people, and wind up attending different sorts of events as well.
 Simply getting outside is a great way to work a bit of physical activity into your day. You’re also likely to be able to find someone to join you. For instance, ask friends if they’d like to garden for a while, or simply go out for a walk.When family visits, opt to sit outside together. You may even find yourself recruited for a bit of family competition. Just make sure you’re on the right side if someone mentions tug-of-rope.

