 Make sure to cut off any skin that may be on the fish first. Once this is done, begin to slice the fish into thin, even strips. A simple way to make finger-sized sticks is to cut the fish into strips about one inch (2.5 cm) wide then cut across them to make them about three inches (7.6 cm) wide.White fish, including cod, halibut, and tilapia, are commonly used for fish sticks and are available, healthy options.;
, For this recipe, you’ll need three bowls. They all need to be wide enough to fit one piece of cut fish at a time. Start by filling the first bowl with ½ cup (120 mL) all-purpose or whole wheat flour.While some fish sticks are made without flour, the flour helps the breading stick.
 In your second bowl, crack open two eggs. Add a tablespoon of lemon juice, then stir the mixture with a whisk or spoon until the eggs are beaten.
 Retrieve the third fresh bowl. Add ½ cup (120 mL) dried breadcrumbs, ¼ cup (60 mL) grated parmesan cheese, ½ teaspoon salt, ½ teaspoon paprika, and ¼ teaspoon black pepper. Mix the ingredients together with a spoon or other implement.Change the breading ingredients to achieve your personal taste. For example, you can remove the cheese, substitute in lemon-pepper seasoning, or use a packaged seafood seasoning.
 Before you begin working with the fish, prepare a tray to contain the breaded pieces. Use a stick of butter or butter-flavored cooking spray to lubricate the pan so the fish doesn’t stick. Coat generously.If you want to avoid butter, try spraying a little olive oil cooking spray on the breaded fish. With a spray, you control how much oil you use and won’t add much fat to the recipe.
 Take one strip only. Put it in the bowl, then roll it around so that all the sides are evenly coated with flour., Once the piece of fish is coated with flour, move it to the egg bowl and repeat the process. Place it in the bowl and roll it around until the entire piece is coated with the egg mixture., Move the floured, egged strip to the bowl containing the breading ingredients. Like with the other stations, press the fish into the breading. Move it around until all sides are coated.
 Lubricate the pan with butter or cooking spray if you haven’t yet. Lay the coated stick on the pan, then repeat the above steps with more of your fish strips. Move the finished ones to the pan, laying them so they don’t touch.
 Set your oven to a temperature between 400 and 450 degrees F (204-232 degrees C). Depending on the strength of your oven and the size of your fish sticks, cooking time will vary., Leave the tray to sit in the oven for 10-15 minutes. The longer you leave the sticks in, the more golden and solidified the breading will be. When the fish is opaque, flaky, and cooked through, it is done cooking.


You can also fry the fish in oil on a stovetop, but the oil makes it less healthy than baking.
 Once the fish looks cooked and the breading browned to your preference, the sticks are ready to eat. They can be dipped in a ketchup, tartar sauce, or a homemade sauce. Leftover sticks can be sealed in foil or a plastic bag and stored for up to four days.