 Even if you are not romantically involved with your roommate, legal counsel or help from a women's shelter can help you determine if your relationship falls under the category of domestic violence. In order to benefit from extended protection to victims of domestic violence, check with local law enforcement or a women's shelter regarding state laws applicable to your situation. Some laws that may apply include the following:Anti-discrimination status and eviction protection. In many states, it is illegal to discriminate against someone who is a victim of domestic violence. So, a landlord cannot refuse to rent (or terminate) solely because the person is a victim of domestic violence.  
Early termination rights. Usually, a victim of domestic violence can end a lease with notice (often 30 days). States typically require that the tenant provide proof (such as a protective order) of her status as a domestic violence victim.  
Limits on rental clauses. In some states, landlords cannot include clauses that provide for termination, should a tenant call the police in the face of domestic violence, nor can landlords make tenants pay for the cost of such calls.  
Section 8 tenants. Domestic violence victims may circumvent regular relocation requirements if they have otherwise complied with other Section 8 requirements, have moved in order to protect someone who is or has been a domestic violence victim, and “reasonably believed” that they were imminently threatened by harm from further violence.
 If the roommate has threatened or engaged in real physical violence against you, you can get a Domestic Violence Temporary Restraining Order from court that asks for a residence exclusion order. This order will require your roommate to leave the apartment immediately.
 Make a few copies of the letter that you can put in different places (like the mailbox, his/her door, on the refrigerator) to ensure that your roommate gets and reads it. Provide the reasons why you want your roommate out, and clearly state that you do not wish to discuss the situation. Use language that is professional and direct so that he/she does not sense that there is room for negotiation.


It can be helpful to display your knowledge of your legal rights so that your roommate sees that you are not afraid to take legal action immediately, should cause arise to do so.
State the specific type(s) of legal recourse you will take if he/she refuses to leave or confronts you about the situation face to face.
If you feel more comfortable using an official template, see a sample eviction notice. Even though you may not have the authority to evict your roommate, this template may provide a valuable jumping off point for using to-the-point language when writing the letter.
 The trickiest part about dealing with a dangerous roommate is that things that you want to happen immediately take a long time. The safest option would be for you to stop staying at your shared place from the time that you deliver a letter of notice until your roommate moves out. Even if this much precaution is not possible, try to line up at least two different places where you can stay if you feel uncomfortable at home.


Try asking trusted friends, family members, or co-workers. In the event that staying with others proves difficult, call local domestic abuse shelters and explain your situation.
 In case your roommate becomes enraged or vengeful, make sure that you and your valuables are secure by putting a lock on your bedroom door. You may need to take extra precautions, like installing heightened security systems, changing locks, or replacing wooden frames with metal if you’re concerned that your roommate could come back to retaliate after the move out.


If you still fear that theft will be a problem, ask a friend that your roommate does not know to watch your valuables for you.
 If you fear that the law will not be on your side dealing with your roommate, a good course of action is always to cut your losses and move out yourself. Pack up covertly, and plan a quick, efficient moving day when you know your roommate will be out of the house.


Be sure to enlist lots of help from friends or professional movers so that you can move quickly with others present (in the case that you and your roommate have an altercation).
 Trouble at home is especially taxing since your problems literally live with you. Make sure that throughout this stressful process you are keeping as close as possible to your regular routines. As much as possible, get regular sleep and maintain a healthy diet. Be sure to surround yourself with a support system that includes friends and loved ones who can help you cope with the situation.

