 Each state administers its own workers’ compensation program. The purpose behind workers’ compensation insurance is to give injured or ill workers immediate financial relief for at least a portion of their wages while they are unable to work. As a general rule, any business that hires employees who are not also owners of the business must obtain workers’ compensation insurance.There may be severe penalties for businesses or employers who fail to maintain workers’ compensation insurance for their employees as required. In some states, failing to do so is a criminal offense. In other states, employees may file lawsuits against their employers concerning work-related injuries, which can be financially damaging.
Texas and New Jersey are among the few states that do not require employers to purchase workers’ compensation insurance. However, employers still may be financial responsible for any injuries to their workers.;
, These benefits are only available for qualifying work-related injuries and illnesses. The worker also must meet certain threshold eligibility requirements in order to qualify for benefits.In order to be covered under workers' compensation laws, the employee must have sustained a work-related injury or illness. This means an injury that occurs while the employee was engaged in job-related activities. However, the injury could occur either at the workplace or at another location, even, for example, while driving a company truck.
Some states do not require that certain classes of workers have access to workers’ compensation benefits. For instance, Idaho and Wyoming do not require employers to provide benefits for undocumented workers.
Domestic workers, such as housekeepers and babysitters, as well as agricultural and seasonal workers, may not be eligible to workers' compensation coverage, depending on your state's laws. Independent contractors and railroad workers also may not be eligible for coverage under state law.
 In addition to wage replacement for injured employees who are unable to work, eligible employees also may receive medical services for their injuries. In some cases, temporary or short-term disability benefits are paid to the employee. In other cases, disability benefits may be long-term or even permanent. Vocational rehabilitation also may be an option under some workers’ compensation programs.Some workers’ compensation insurance policies also provide employers with legal representation in the event that an issue related to a workers’ compensation claim results in litigation.
 It is essential that you check with your state’s workers’ compensation agency in order to ensure that you are meeting these requirements as an employer. Employees also should ensure that they are receiving all workers’ compensation benefits to which they are entitled. You can find a list of individual state workers’ compensation agencies by clicking here.
 You should check with the human resources department of your employer to see if workers' compensation insurance is available to you should you sustain a work-related injury. However, depending on state law, your employer may not be required to provide workers' compensation, particularly if you work for a very small company. There are also exempt classes of workers for which employers need not provide coverage.


If workers' compensation insurance is not available through your employer, you may be entitled to benefits for work-related injuries. For instance, federal employees are covered by the Federal Employees' Compensation Act. Railroad workers may have coverage under the Federal Employment Liability Act for injuries sustained as a result of an employer's negligence.
 Many insurance brokers provide workers’ compensation insurance policies. You also may contact insurance carriers directly, such as Liberty Mutual or State Farm, which provide workers’ compensation policies.


Insurance brokers will want to see proof of financial stability, business knowledge, and a history of workers’ compensation claims in order for you to apply for workers’ compensation insurance. You can accomplish some of this proof by providing the carrier with financial reports dating back two or three years, if your company has been in existence for that long.
If you have not previously had insurance and have had an insurance claim(s), you will need to document each claim that happened prior to the coverage that you are seeking. Details should include the type of injury, name of injured employee, medical expenses for that injury, and the current status of that injured employee.
 In five states and two U.S. territories, employers must purchase workers’ compensation insurance through state workers’ compensation insurance funds. In some other states, such as California, employers are not required to purchase workers’ compensation insurance through a state insurance fund. However, employers do have the option of purchasing insurance through a state-administered program.


North Dakota, Washington, West Virginia, Wyoming, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands all require employers to purchase their workers’ compensation insurance through their state insurance funds.
 An employer who becomes self-insured bears the financial risks of providing workers’ compensation benefits on its own. The business is responsible for paying out any workers’ compensation benefits to employees as claims occur. However, employers have to meet certain requirements in order to qualify to become self-insured.


For instance, in Texas, employers must provide the Texas Department of Insurance with information about their profitability, number of employees, and previous workers’ compensation claims.
Employers who want to be self-insured also have to meet very strict financial requirements. In Texas, employers must make a minimum security deposit with the Texas Department of Insurance of $300,000 or 125% of its existing workers’ compensation liabilities, whichever is greater.
Because the requirements to become self-insured differ substantially from state to state, it is essential for employers to contact their state’s workers’ compensation board to ensure that they meet all requirements.
 Ideally, you should make the report in writing. Always make a copy of any written injury report and keep it for your records.Your injury report should detail the circumstances that led to your injury. It also should give the basics about the incident, including your name, position, location, time, and date. You might also include the names of anyone who contributed to, was involved in, or witnessed the incident.
 Especially if you have suffered a serious injury, you need to ensure that you receive timely medical assistance. Request that your employer arrange for you to have immediate medical treatment., Your employer is required to offer you a claim form for a potential workers’ compensation claim. You also can request a claim form. It is essential that you complete the claim form and return it to your employer as quickly as possible. Once your employer receives the form, it has to contact its workers’ compensation insurance carrier and provide medical assistance for your injury. This is your first step to filing a workers’ compensation claim.Until you complete this claim form, you have no entitlement to workers’ compensation benefits.
 Although the claims process can seem simple at first, it can quickly get complicated. Particularly if you are denied benefits or are having difficulty getting medical assistance for your injuries, you should consult a workers’ compensation attorney and ensure that you are being treated fairly and getting the benefits to which you are entitled.


You can also contact your state’s workers’ compensation office for advice and information if a dispute arises concerning your workers’ compensation claim.

