 One of the greatest challenges of keeping kids active during the school year is balancing their many obligations. The best way to do this is to create a schedule for your kids, so they’ll be able to reserve time for everything they need to do.


Divide up after school time between all their obligations. In addition, create a flexible schedule for weekends. For instance, your kids may have trips or sports events to attend that will take a lot of time.
Plan homework time. Depending on what works best for them, you may want to reserve the first hour or two after school for completing homework. You may need to shift this if they have extracurricular activities they need to attend.
Take extracurricular activities and non-school related obligations into account.
Include time for playing outside or with friends.
Include “free time.” During this time, kids should be able to do whatever they want., For many kids, video games take the place of playing outside in the neighborhood. By limiting the time your kids spend playing video games, you’ll compel them to be more physically active.


Consider restricting video games to weekends and holidays.
On days you do allow your kids to play video games, limit their time to less than 1 or 2 hours.
Avoid purchasing new game consoles, video games, and paying for subscriptions like XBOX live., The television serves as one of the greatest time drains for kids today. However, by limiting the amount of time your kids watch TV, you’ll force them to find other uses for their time – like being physically active.


Limit your kids to 1 to 2 hours of screen time per day, including TV and video games.
Allow them to watch TV as a reward for completing their homework.
Tell your kids they are only allowed to watch TV at night, when they can’t participate in organized sports or play in the neighborhood., While you may have a good plan for limiting your kids' time on the television or computer, they may be able to skirt your rules if they have electronics in their bedrooms. In the end, the only way to make sure your kids limit their time with electronics is to make sure they can only use them in public areas of the house.


Make your kids use a computer that is in a public area of the house. This way, you’ll better be able to monitor their usage.
Don’t purchase a TV for your kids' bedrooms.
Instruct your kids to leave smartphones and tablets in public areas of the house.
Set your wireless router to block your kid’s electronic devices during certain hours. For instance, block all usage after 9 PM, for teens. In addition, block all times (like the time between the end of the school day and dinner) that you want to encourage your kids to be physically active.