 Natural lighting refers to the ambient light that comes from the sun. If you have windows or transparent doors in your basement, do not cover them up with opaque materials, such as curtains and drapes. If you do cover them up, make sure that you have the options to draw them to the sides to allow natural light to enter the room. Natural basement lighting is a great way to fill the room with a lot of gentle, bright light.

If parts of your basement are above ground, consider adding more windows. More windows will allow more light to filter into the basement, resulting in a brighter and more lively ambiance.



 


To amplify the effect of natural lighting, the furniture and carpeting in the basement should be light in color. Lighter and neutral colors--such as white, sky blue and beige--reflect more of the natural light, creating a brighter atmosphere.





;
, Overall lighting typically comes from ceiling fixtures and wall sconces which are often connected to wall switches. Overall basement lighting is useful because it fills the entire basement with light. Make sure that your basement has enough light so that it can be fully lit during the night. However, overall lighting has a tendency to be strong and harsh, so if your eyes feel strained due to excess lighting or if your basement simply feels too bright for you, feel free to reduce the amount of overall lighting.
 A basement with nothing more than overall lighting can feel very artificial and empty due to the harshness of the lights. Lamps can improve a harshly lit environment by introducing soft, ambient lighting. This type of lighting works by accenting certain zones of the room. For example, a lamp on a table by a couch can make the area around the couch feel more lively. Where to place accent lighting is up to your personal preference, but in most cases you would want to place them in areas that you want to emphasize, such as a desk or a media corner.
 You may require a specific type of light in certain areas of the room for certain tasks. You'll need task lighting for under cabinets or in storage closets. If you have a workstation in a corner of the basement, you'll need a desk lamp. A drawing board may need a strong overhead light. If an area isn't getting enough light, add more task lighting until you can see clearly without straining your eyes.
 When it comes to lighting, there are 4 bulb types that are most used in the basement setting: incandescent, fluorescent, light-emitting diodes and halogen.


Incandescent bulbs are very popular because they produce a bright, warm light that helps with creating a comfortable, cozy atmosphere. However, in recent years, they've been proven to be energy inefficient and often short-lived. These types of bulbs work best in areas where the lights will be turned on and off frequently, or in areas that have lights with dimmers. If you have concerns about long-term cost or environmental friendliness, forego the incandescent bulbs for more energy-efficient alternatives. Incandescent light bulbs are also being phased out across the world for more efficient alternatives.
Fluorescent bulbs are quickly becoming the standard in energy efficiency, particularly because they last almost 10 times longer than the popular incandescent bulbs while requiring a third less energy. The main drawback to using fluorescent bulbs is that they give off a harsh white light reminiscent of warehouses and office buildings.
Light-emitting diodes, or LED lights, are clusters of tiny bulbs with each bulb emitting a strong, beam-type light. LED lights can last over 10 times longer than fluorescent bulbs, but the initial investment is much higher, far more than both fluorescent and incandescent bulbs. This is offset by the high efficiency and low operating cost of LED bulbs.
Halogen lights are more efficient than incandescent bulbs but not as efficient as fluorescent bulbs. However, halogen lighting produces some of the warmest and most radiant light out of the 4 bulb types. The disadvantage of halogen lighting is that it is limited in application; it works best for track lights and task lighting. If you are going to use halogen lights, it is recommended that you complement them with other types of bulbs.

