 Locate the app on your device and tap on it. The app icon has the HP logo on it with a colorful border.;
, All the added HP printers currently in the same Wifi network as your iOS device will be displayed.
 The selected printer will be displayed, with all its ink levels properly stacked by color on the bottom. You can immediately see which inks are running low.
 The inks running low will automatically have a checkmark on them. If you would like to manually add ink cartridges to your order, tap on the ink color.
 All inks with a checkmark will be added to your shopping cart.
 The Shopping Cart will be displayed for you to review and finalize your order. The first section is for the store selection. Tap the store icon to view all the stores currently serving your area, and then tap the store where you want to buy your inks from.
 The next section of your Shopping Cart displays all the inks you’ve selected for ordering. The quantities and prices are displayed right beside each item.


If you will like to increase the number of inks to be ordered per item, tap on the number right above the price. A window with a list of numbers will be displayed. Tap on the number corresponding to the quantity you’d like to get. You can choose from 1 to 5.
 The current subtotal for your inks will be displayed at the bottom of the Shopping Cart. This is just an estimated total, as it doesn’t include tax and shipping fees, if any, yet. If you’re good with your order, tap the “Buy” button at the bottom of the Shopping Cart.


After tapping “Buy,” your browser will automatically load, bringing you to the selected store’s website.
 The order you made from the SureSupply app will be reflected on the store’s cart. Review the details again. The format of your shopping cart varies, depending on the store’s website.
 Refer to the store’s online checkout and payment process for the specific steps on how to complete your order and pay for it. The SureSupply app makes it easy for you to create your order, but the actual processing of your order is handled by third-party resellers and not necessarily by HP.

