 As a superhero, it is extremely important that you hide your identity from potential enemies. Make a mask of some sort to disguise your face and prevent being discovered. There are several methods for making a mask at home.
 Hold up a piece of sturdy cardstock to your face and have a friend mark two dots where the outside edges of your eyes are, and one dot where the tip of your nose is (you can also use a paper plate).


Draw the mask out on the piece of paper, using the dots as reference points for how big your mask needs to be.
Cut out the shape of your mask and poke two holes in each side near where your ears will be.
Attach a ribbon or string to each hole so that you can tie the mask behind your head.
Decorate the outline with colored markers, paint, sequins, feathers, glitter, or any other embellishments that suit your superpower.
 Stack three sheets of aluminum foil together and press the stack on your face to create an impression in the tin foil.


Outline where your eyes and any other openings will be with a marker. Use scissors to cut around the edges of the mask, the eyes, the mouth, and any other openings you outlined.
Poke a hole in each side of the mask near where your ears will be and attach a string or ribbon to hold the mask on your face.
Making sure to keep the mold firm, cover the mask in strong clear tape such as packing tape.
Decorate with acrylic paint and any other embellishments such as feathers or sequins.
 Blow up a balloon to about the size of your head. Lay newspaper flat on a table or the floor to use as a working surface.


Tear strips of newspaper or cut strips of thin cloth into long strips.
Combine 2 cups flour and 1 cup water in a mixing bowl. You can use 2 cups of white glue in place of flour if you don't have any flour handy.
Dip the strips of paper or cloth into the mixture completely and begin to lay them on the balloon until the entire balloon is covered. Be sure to place the strips at random, intersecting angles.
Allow it to dry completely and then take a needle and pop the balloon. Cut the globe in half using strong scissors starting at the base of the balloon where it was tied and cutting up over the peak of the globe.
Shape the mask to fit your face, cut out any openings for your eyes or mouth, and finally, decorate it with paint and any other decorations you choose!

