 As your triplets grow older, you will face new challenges. Since they are the same age, many people who don't know them will tend to view them as a unit, or even one interchangeable person. It's important for family members to treat each triplet as an individual.Help your triplets develop different interests. Let them try a variety of activities to find out what interests them.
Don't try to make them all conform to the same activities. For example, if one triplet loves soccer, that does not mean that the other two need to play on the team, too.
One of your triplets might be very musical. You can foster than interest without forcing the others to learn to play an instrument.
 Each of your triplets needs some individual attention from you. Find time to spend with each child individually. Group activities are fun, but make sure to do other things, too.Parents should spend one on one time with each child. Make that a priority in your weekly routine.
You don't always have to plan major excursions. Taking just one child to the grocery store with you can count as having one on one time.
Celebrate individual birthdays. Give each child their own cake, or special meal or activity.
 It is important to help your triplets develop individual personalities. Like all children, they need to learn to speak and think for themselves. Take care to place them in an educational environment where this can happen.When your triplets reach elementary school, think about placing them in different classrooms. For example, if the school offers multiple sections of first grade ask that each of your children be given a different teacher.
Your triplets might prefer to stay together and offer up some protest. Try to explain your reasoning to them.
You can say, "You might enjoy having some time apart during the day. That way, you can all make new friends, and then you'll all know lots of new people."

, Raising kids is expensive. Triplets can cause extra financial headaches since they will all reach the same milestones at the same time. Start a college fund early. It's a good idea to start setting money aside in individual accounts when your kids are young.
Think about health care. Look for an insurance plan that can offer good coverage for all of your kids.
Plan for the unexpected. For example, you might find out that all of your triplets need glasses. Try to have funds set aside for all sorts of costs.
 As a parent, you will naturally be very influential in your children's life. However, it is important to realize that triplets share a unique bond. Try to be respectful of the relationships that your triplets share with each other.Triplets might turn to one another for help making important decisions. For example, when they are trying to decide where to go to college, your opinion might not matter to them as much as their siblings' opinions.
Try not to take it personally if you sometimes feel left out. It is normal for triplets to bond with each other more than they do with others, even their parents.

