 That way, it won't get messed up. Put your deodorant on too, so that it doesn't get on your uniform.


Try not to get food on your pretty uniform, it doesn't look good.
If you accidentally get a stain, no sweat! Just take a bit of "Oxy Clean" and water and place it on the spot. Dry and rinse it once more, the stain should come off.;
, If you need to use perfume, spray on a scent that your team won't mind since they have to be with you the whole day.
 Feeling good can help you to perform better. Take a shower the night before and shave. When you wake up, wash your face, then try the following:


Do your hair and take pride in it. You don't want a ponytail that is bumpy and will get loose. Maybe tease your bangs a bit and smooth over with mousse.
Wear your hair and makeup in the same style that your cheer squad is wearing theirs. Decide beforehand what hairstyle you're doing.






Do your makeup. Take care to not pack on the make-up, or leave it unblended and unsymmetrical. Use pretty skin type pinks on your face. Use some glitter too. Pluck or wax your eyebrows.
Before you put on that special shade of lipstick, try this tip: Take a damp washcloth and rub it back and forth on you lips. This takes off any dead skin and freshens up your skin. Do not rub too hard though, as that can make you lips sore.
Brush your teeth; cheerleaders need to smile, therefore, they need clean teeth. If you want you teeth whiter, try baking soda or whitening strips.
Make sure that your nails are not painted and are clean cut.
 Use a Mr. Clean Magic Eraser or a soft foam nail file; these work well well on shoes to clean off dirt and other marks. Or, try putting the shoes in the dryer or washer. Bleach can also work but it is a risky this to work with.


Tuck your shoelaces in, especially if you have long ones.
 While you compete, you can't wear any jewelry that your team doesn't. It can also be dangerous if it gets caught or scratches someone. And your team gets judged on how they look, matching wise, and that would get points off your routine.
