 Talk to your primary care physician about any hormonal medication changes and creams you can try for melasma before going to see a dermatologist. Treatment for melasma may be considered elective and it may not be covered by your insurance. Find out the costs of any treatments and procedures before you schedule them.;
, Certain medications, like birth control pills and hormone replacement therapy, can affect your hormones and induce melasma. Talk to your doctor about stopping these medications.Even though pregnancy is the condition most commonly associated with melasma, melasma has also been known to occur with medications and conditions that impact your hormones. Oral contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy are the next two most common causes of melasma, after pregnancy. You can stop use or try switching to a different product to determine if your melasma will fade naturally afterward.
 Often, it is impossible to stop a hormone replacement therapy. Consider why you are on hormone replacement therapy to determine if you may be able to stop or adjust the dosage. However, there are ways that you can change your therapy so that it is less likely to cause melasma. Consult with your doctor before making any changes.


Begin taking hormone replacements at night. If you take the hormone replacement in the morning, it will be at its peak potency when the sun is out, maximizing the risk of melasma. Shifting your regimen to the night can help alleviate the problem.
Creams and patches might be slightly less inclined to cause melasma than oral versions of the treatment.
Ask your doctor to administer the lowest dose feasible., While some treatments containing this ingredient can be purchased over-the-counter, your dermatologist or primary care physician can prescribe a stronger version that will be more effective at lightening the skin.


Hydroquinone comes as a cream, lotion, gel, or liquid. It works by blocking the natural chemical process in your skin responsible for creating melanin, and since melanin produces dark skin pigmentation, the amount of dark pigmentation related to melasma will also be reduced.
Prescription hydroquinone typically has a concentration of 4 percent. Concentrations of hydroquinone higher than 4 percent are unlikely to be prescribed in the United States and can be dangerous. They can cause ochronosis, a permanent form of skin discoloration. , While hydroquinone is used as a first treatment in many cases, your dermatologist might be willing to prescribe a secondary skin lightener that can help enhance the effect.Tretinoins and corticosteroids are among the most frequently used secondary treatments. Both are used to speed up the body's process of shedding and replacing skin cells. Some dermatologists may even prescribe "triple creams," which contain tretinoin, a corticosteroid, and hydroquinone in one formula.
Other options include azelaic acid or kojic acid, which slow down the production of skin-darkening pigment.

