 Spy software is installed on smartphone without the user's knowledge. It can then send back GPS location, phone conversations, text messages and more. It is incredibly unlikely that your phone has spy software installed on it by a malicious party, but these steps will help you make sure.
 Is your phone acting oddly? Is it lighting up when you're not using it, shutting down randomly, or making beeping noises? All phones will act oddly sometimes, but if this behavior is consistent then you may have spy software installed.
 Many spy programs will increase the drain on your battery. It can be difficult to notice, especially since your phone's battery will naturally become less efficient over time. Look for dramatic shifts in battery life, as these will be more indicative of a program draining it.
 A lot of times, background noise is a natural by-product of low-quality cellular service, but if you consistently hear static, clicking, and beeping noises during conversations they could potentially be signs of recording software. This is because some call recording software acts like a conference call.
 Many spy programs are controlled remotely via coded texts. When the program is not functioning properly, these texts may appear in your inbox. If you are receiving texts with random collections of letters and numbers, your phone may be infected with spy software.
 Many spy programs, especially cheaper ones, will use your service's data plan to send out the information that it collected. Use a data management app to track what apps are using data and how much they are using. If you are sending out data that you cannot account for, you may have spy software installed.
 If you are using an iPhone, the only way to have spy software installed is if your phone has been jailbroken. Look for the Installer, Cydia, or Icy apps on your Home screens. If you see any of these apps, or apps that were installed from sources other than the Apple App Store, then your phone has been jailbroken and spy software may have been installed.You can easily revert a jailbreak by restoring your iPhone. This will remove all apps that rely on the phone being jailbroken, which means all spy programs will be disabled. See this guide for detailed instructions on restoring your iPhone.
 If you feel like your conversations are being monitored by someone you know, one way to trap them is to deliberately spread misinformation. Call a trusted friend and tell them something believable but false, either about your schedule, your life, or anything else. If you later discover that people you know have come into this information, you'll know that someone was listening in.