 Many people use alcohol to help them relax or de-stress. Stress can increase the likelihood of cravings for alcohol.If you are used to having a few drinks after a hard day of work or after an argument with a loved one, it might be difficult to stop the cravings when those situations occur. Relaxation techniques are useful ways to calm you down and can serve as a coping resource for cravings and a replacement for alcohol use.


If you learn to ease your tension you will not only be less likely to drink impulsively, you would also have better chances of becoming happier and more stable. An added bonus is that there are literally thousands of relaxation techniques out there and you can find the one that works best for you.One very popular technique, progressive muscle relaxation, is to sit down in a calm and comfortable place and close your eyes. Next, concentrate on each single part of your body, starting from your toes and finishing at the top of your head. Concentrate on a single part at a time, tense it up and then release – repeat a few times. This technique might really help in situations when you are feeling angry or frustrated.
However, you should keep in mind that relaxation methods are not something that can magically cure your cravings for alcohol. You need to be persistent and continue to practice.
 The visual powers of your brain are incredibly strong and can really help you deal with cravings, if you use them correctly.Seeing something, or imagining something very vividly, stays with you for much longer than simply thinking or hearing something. That is why your imagination can be huge help when fighting cravings. There are many ways to use your imagination, and even though at first they might seem silly or difficult to do, with time your brain will get used to the idea and employing the right images will become increasingly effortless.


If you find yourself imagining or thinking about drinking, immediately imagine a different scenario. Simply imagining drinking can lead to increased cravings for alcohol.One thing you can do when you get a craving is imagine a huge, bright and pulsating stop sign. Concentrate on that image, while telling yourself that you will ride out the craving.
 Urge surfing is a tried and true technique to manage cravings and reduce problematic drinking.It is based on mindfulness - being aware of the present moment, including your feelings, thoughts, behaviors, and environment. By urge surfing you can learn to understand and tolerate your cravings. Some people experience a reduction in the craving after urge surfing.

Start by being in a comfortable position. Focus on the experience of craving alcohol. Where do you experience it in your body? Perhaps you first experience stress, which you feel through tenseness in your muscles and a headache. Your stress may trigger your craving for alcohol. Then perhaps you feel your craving in your mouth, throat, and chest. Notice any bodily sensations and how they change while you are experiencing your craving. Be aware of your thoughts about the craving.
 You don’t have to be a professional author to explore the power of the written word. Writing messages to yourself can be a very strong tool in dealing with cravings.It is important to write those memos when you are feeling well and happy, so that you will be reminded of these positive feelings when cravings flood in. This technique is very helpful, because, as we already mentioned above, having things written down, makes you subconsciously believe they have more value.
One way to do that is by taking large and small pieces of paper and recording your achievements on them. You can write anything you want, especially things that make you feel proud or make you laugh. For instance, it can be something along the lines of “Things are going so great with my partner, we really understand each other much better now that I am not drinking” or “Exercising is going great now! I can do 15 more sit-ups.”
You can also write down things which you would like to do in the future - learn a dance, get a promotion, travel to a certain place. Generally speaking, anything that is motivating to you and that you know you wouldn’t be able to do if you give in to the cravings. Stick those pieces of paper where you can easily see them – places like the wall across from your bed, the refrigerator door, the bathroom mirror, etc.

