 You're going to be applying what artists call a resist to the surface of your glass bottle. A resist is covering that will prevent the acid from etching your glass, so by applying it to your bottle artistically, you can form patterns of etched glass in the places you didn't use your resist. In all, you'll need:


Apron
Bamboo skewer
Clean rag (or paper towel)
Cotton wool
Distilled water
Glass water bottle
Hydrofluoric acid
Magnesium hydroxide
Plastic container (x2; thick, sturdy plastic preferred)
Protective goggles
Resist (wax, adhesive vinyl, or bitumen)
Rubber gloves
Tongs
Utility or craft knifeDepending on your country and local laws, hydrofluoric acid may only be available from specialized chemical companies. This substance can be very dangerous if improperly handled.
 There are many different kinds of resist you can use in your acid etching, and each will yield a different effect. The three most common resists when etching glass are adhesive vinyl, bitumen, and wax. Of these three resists:



Adhesive vinyl is best suited for creating sharp lines and shapes. You can easily use this resist to create linear and precise designs.

Bitumen is generally sponged or painted onto the surface of your glass. It creates an etched effect that has a painted appearance.

Wax allows some of the acid to creep under its edges. This creates soft, free lines in your etching.

A wax mixture you might try on your own: combine equal parts beeswax, tallow, and paraffin wax., Choose a flat, level, sturdy work surface equipped with a fume hood.Hydrofluoric acid is very dangerous, and should be treated with extreme caution. Then, you'll need to clean your water bottle. Dirt, grime, and oil on the surface of your bottle can hurt the end result of your etching.


For light to moderately dirty bottles, simply rinse it in warm water with a mild soap. Then wipe off excess moisture with a clean rag or paper towel and allow it to air dry.
Dirty bottles might first need to be doused and wiped with rubbing alcohol. Then rinse the glass with mild soap and warm water and allow it to air dry.
To prevent accidentally leaving behind fingerprints after cleaning your bottle, you may want to wear your gloves from this point on.
 Depending on the kind of resist, your method of application will vary. Wherever you apply your resist will not be etched by the acid you'll be putting on your glass. In this way, you can form designs by leaving gaps in your resist application to form etched shapes, designs, and patterns.


You can draw or trace and transfer closed shaped designs on adhesive vinyl beforehand. Then, cut these out with a utility knife to create gaps in the vinyl where the acid will etch, pull free the adhesive backing, and apply the vinyl.
Wax can sometimes harden very quickly when it comes in contact with your glass. You can give yourself more time to work with the wax by warming your glass first, like you could under a lightbox, for example., A dibbler is a kind of applicator that you can use to put your acid onto your glass water bottle. To make your own dibbler, all you need to do is tie clean cotton wool to a bamboo skewer firmly.


In some cases, your acid may have come with an applicator. Feel free to use this in place of a dibbler.
You may be able to create a sufficient dibbler by folding your cotton wool in half and skewering it on the pointed end of your bamboo skewer., Acid can be very dangerous, so you should always use extreme caution when handling it. However, hydrofluoric acid can be neutralized with a magnesium hydroxide heavily diluted with distilled water.



Never attempt to neutralize hydrofluoric acid with potassium carbonate (soda ash), potassium hydroxide, or sodium hydroxide. These create a dangerous reaction with hydrofluoric acid.Magnesium hydroxide can be found in many over the counter supplements at your local pharmacy or drug store., Always follow the usage directions that came with your acid, but generally you can expect an ideal hydrofluoric acid solution for etching to be in a 3:1 ratio. This means for every three parts acid, you add one part distilled water.


For example, since you're only etching a water bottle, it isn't likely you'll need much solution. In this case, you might only use 1 cup of acid diluted with 1/3 cup distilled water.
Prioritize plastic containers that are sturdy and safe to use with your acid. Otherwise, the corrosive effect of the acid may eat through the container., With your hands still gloved, eyes goggled, and while under the fume hood, take your dibbler by the end opposite the one that has the cotton wool attached.Lower your dibbler into the acid until the cotton wool is submerged. Then:


Remove the dibbler and allow excess acid to drip back into the acid filled container. When the dripping ceases, apply a thin film of acid to the glass with the dibbler.
Reinsert your dibbler into the acid as necessary and cover all surfaces on your bottle that don't have a resist coating., After waiting some time, take your bottle and dip it in your neutralizing solution. Alternatively, you could use a brush to paint liberal amounts of neutralizer onto where you've applied acid to your glass, or you could dribble neutralizer onto your bottle with a spoon or ladle.


Once the acid on your bottle has been neutralized, rinse the bottle with water and allow it to air dry.
The acid will begin etching immediately after its application. Waiting only a short time will result in light etching, longer wait times in prominent etching., Generally, the company you bought your hydrofluoric acid from will also indicate the best disposal practices for your region. Generally, all used/wasted hydrofluoric acid should be:


Placed in a chemically compatible container that won't be eaten away by the acid over time. It should be clearly labeled with a Hazardous Waste tag.
Taken to an approved, local hazardous waste disposal site. These can often be found with an online keyword search for, "hazardous waste disposal near me."