 Just be sure you have enough room: you’ll need at least 8 in (20 cm) of depth, 1 in (2.5 cm) between each plant, and 6 in (15 cm) between rows.Planting in containers can help keep critters from getting to your carrots.;
, It takes carrots 70-80 days to reach maturity, and they are best harvested just after being touched by frost. In the United States, the first fall frost typically takes place between September and October. For more specific information, see the frost dates by U.S. and Canadian city., You can find several varieties online, such as “little finger carrots”or “Parisian round carrots.”, Baby carrots grow best in heavier soils, such as clay, because they are heavy-rooted. The soil should be a fine, loamy texture with a mix of nutrients, including lime. Adding compost can also help improve your soil quality, particularly if it has earthworm castings.Dig up the area where you intend to plant and loosen the soil up to 8 in (20 cm) deep. Break up the sticky clumps of dirt.
Remove as many rocks as possible from the soil, as they may impede the growing process.
 They should be 0.25 in (0.64 cm) deep, about 1 in (2.5 cm) apart, in rows 6 in (15 cm) apart. Cover the seeds gently with soil after planting. You can also plant radishes in between the rows to improve the harvest and break the soil for the carrots.
 Water gently so you don’t dislodge the seeds. Be sure to keep the seeds moist for about 2 to 3 weeks or until the sprouts have their first set of true leaves. Seeds may be slow to germinate but as long as you keep them moist they should sprout.


Maintain a constant moisture for the carrots. This will prevent splitting and flavor loss as well as allow your carrots to mature fully.
 Once the tops of the carrots reach 2 in (5 cm) tall, you may pull every other carrot to leave the remaining carrots 2 in (5 cm) apart. If the carrots are too close together, they will grow crooked. Make sure they have enough space between them.If you see any crowns popping up out of the soil cover them with a bit of mulch or soil to keep them from turning green or bitter., Carrots should be fertilized once they reach 3 in (7.6 cm) tall. Choose a fertilizer with potassium and phosphate, but little nitrogen. This is because phosphate and potassium encourage root development and carrots are a root vegetable. Nitrogen encourages foliage production., This will prevent other plant species from taking up space meant for your carrots. Carrots don’t compete well with weeds, and may be overtaken by them if the area is not weeded properly. Other plant species also attract root flies, which can ruin your crop., This is when the carrots will be at their sweetest. The taste of carrots improves as they mature, but don’t leave mature carrots in the ground longer than necessary as many animals like to eat them., Gently dig around the top of the carrot to loosen the soil. Pull the carrots out of the ground and cut off the leaves, leaving a little stem remaining. Gently brush off the dirt then rinse the carrots thoroughly with water.
 Carrots can be used in a variety of dishes. Miniature carrots have a sweeter taste than some other varieties. They are delicious raw, roasted or in carrot cake.
 Don’t wash them first, just brush off the clumps of dirt. You can store extras by placing them in a box of slightly moist peat or sand. Store them in a dark and cool, but frost-free, area. They will keep for a few months.

