 Store it in the freezer in a sealable container. Alternately, buy animal fat from your local butcher or grocery store.


If you don’t want to render suet, you can buy ready-made suet from many pet stores. However, birds tend to prefer homemade suet.Do not use pan drippings or fat from cooking. This fat has been contaminated by the meat it cooked with, and tends to smear on the birds’ feathers.Do not substitute vegetable oil, polyunsaturated margarine, or vegetable shortening for animal fat.These have a low energy content relative to animal fat.
Do not use turkey fat. Birds dislike it, and it might coat their feathers, negatively affecting their flight capabilities.Be careful with beef fat. It turns rancid quickly in temperatures above 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius).;
, If you do not have a meat grinder, chop the fat into tiny pieces. Try to chop it into cubes of about a quarter centimeter on all sides.
 Place the fat in a large skillet or pan on low heat.Your goal is to liquefy the fat. It will take several hours to liquefy.After about three hours, begin checking the fat every thirty minutes for signs it is done. When you stop seeing bubbles coming up from the fat, you’ll know it is ready.


Even though the fat is white, the liquid should be a yellowish color. If the color is darker, you might have burned it.
Put a thermometer in the fat. Don’t let the temperature rise beyond 225 degrees Fahrenheit (107 degrees Celsius).
 Have a friend hold the cheesecloth over another pan, then pour the pan with the liquefied fat slowly into the cheesecloth. This will filter out any fatty chunks that may not have broken up properly. Discard these fatty chunks and allow the liquid fat to cool.


At this point, some people let the fat cool and harden, then heat it to a liquid again, and run it through the cheesecloth one more time. This is not necessary, but it might improve the quality of the suet if it is heated again.
 You could choose seeds, nuts, wheat flour, rolled oats, corn meal, or cracked corn.Alternately, you could simply use bird seed. Your dry mix doesn’t need to be composed of just a single ingredient. Mixing bird seed and chopped nuts, for instance, results in a yummy treat for birds of all sorts.
 Birds will enjoy suet with a sweet taste, and the sugar gives them needed energy. You could add a teaspoon or two of sugar or honey directly. Include fruit for a more natural sweetener. Dried, frozen, or freshly chopped fruit -- especially apples and berries -- are all acceptable in suet.A handful of raisins, likewise, adds some sweetness and fiber to the suet ball.You could also add a small amount of crushed, sweet breakfast cereals., For instance, you could combine two cups of dry mix with one cup of fat. Carefully place the appropriate amount of the dry ingredients into the pan with the liquid fat. Use a stiff wooden spoon to mix the ingredients until they are thoroughly incorporated.


You could add a spoonful of extra add-ins like peanut butter at this stage, too.
There’s no real wrong way to make suet. As long as the fat and dry ingredients stay combined, birds will be happy to eat your tasty suet balls.If you’re having trouble getting the dry and wet ingredients to stick together into a solid mass, add a few more spoonfuls of dry ingredients.
If your suet mix is too dry and crumbly, add a bit more liquefied fat or water and mix again.
If you don’t want to use your mixture right away, you could place it in the fridge.It should stay good for several weeks.
 Bird lovers have developed some tried-and-true suet combinations. If you’re interested in developing a great suet mix, check for recipes and inspiration online. Try a variety of recipes and see what your birds like best.


Create a tropical suet.This recipe uses peanut butter to partially replace the fat. Add one cup of fat, one cup of peanut butter, 2-1/3 cups of oats, 2-1/3 cups of cornmeal, 1/3 cup of coconut, then one cup of raisins or birdseed.
Make a fruity suet.Mix 1.5 cups of fat with 3/4 cup of safflower (or other) seeds, 3/4 cup of dried raisins or cranberries, 3/4 cup millet, and 1/2 cup of cracked corn. Add a tablespoon of honey if you wish.
 If you feel heat radiating from the suet when you place your hand above it, it needs more time to cool.


When you’re ready to make suet balls, put a disposable glove on and pick up a small bit of the mix. If it’s too stiff, or if you’re working with refrigerated suet, place the amount you want to work with in a bowl and microwave it for ten seconds.
 Cup the mix in both your hands, rolling it gently with your palms. Work it between your palms to shape it into a sphere. Place your suet ball in a suet cage (available online or at your local gardening store) and hang the cage at an elevation of about seven or eight feet off the ground.
 A grapevine ball is a rustic decorative element popular on Christmas trees and in countrified homes. You can obtain grapevine balls from most craft stores.


Cut a small hole in the ball about one to two centimeters in diameter.
Push a bent wire (a bent and broken wire coat hanger is a good choice) into the hole and through the bottom of the grapevine ball. Curve the top end (the end coming out the hole) into a semicircle. Bend the other end of the wire (the part sticking out the bottom of the grapevine ball) up and around the arm of the semicircle.
Wrap plastic wrap around the entire ball, except for the hole. Use a rubber band to keep it in place, if necessary.
Scoop or pour your suet mixture into the hole. Fill the grapevine ball, with the wrap still surrounding it, and place it in the freezer once it is full.
After an hour or so, remove the ball, attach a string to the top of the metal wire sticking out the top of the ball, and hang it from a tree branch so that it hangs about seven or eight feet off the ground.
 Remove the fruit. Fill the hollowed-out peel with suet mixture and let it cool in the freezer for about an hour.


Cut two lengths of twine, each a foot long. With the empty fruit peel in front of you and its round side facing down, use a sharp pencil to poke four small holes into the peel. Each hole should be about one centimeter from the top edge, and each should be equidistant from the others. In other words, the four holes should located along a horizontal plane at 90 degree angles from each other.
Work the twine into one hole and tie a knot at one end. Pull the string so that the knot is snug against the peel.
Loop the other end of the twine into the hole directly across from its corresponding knot (180 degrees around the other side of the peel). Pull a few inches of twine through the hole on this side and knot it.
Take your second piece of twine and affix each end to one of the other two holes you poked along the horizontal plane of the peel.
Hang the suet half-ball from a tree branch where it will be readily accessible by birds.

