 Open the box of Pomona's Pectin powder and take out the small packet of calcium powder. Dump the 1/2 teaspoon of the calcium powder into a small mason jar and pour in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of water. Screw the lid onto the jar and shake it until the powder dissolves. You'll only need 4 1/2 teaspoons of calcium water for the black tea jelly.You can store the rest of the calcium water in the refrigerator for other recipes.;
, Wash 5 half-pint canning jars, lids and screw bands. Set the clean bands on a cloth and put the jars into a water bath canner or large pot with a rack on the bottom. Fill the pot with water (leaving the top third empty). Bring the water to a boil over high heat for 10 minutes. Turn the heat off and let the jars stay in the water while you make the jelly.Put the lids in a small pot with water. Keep them simmering gently until you're ready to process.
If you live over sea level, add 1 extra minute of sterilizing time for each 1000 feet (300 meters).
 Measure 6 tablespoons of loose black tea leaves into a tea pot or bowl. Bring 4 1/4 cups (1 liter) of water to a boil and pour it over the tea leaves. Steep the tea for 10 minutes and then pour it through a fine-mesh strainer. You can discard the tea leaves.Consider using a strong, black tea (like Irish or English Breakfast).
If you don't have a fine-mesh strainer, you can lay cheesecloth in another container to catch the tea leaves.
 Measure 4 cups (almost 1 liter) of the black tea and pour it into a large saucepan. If you don't have 4 cups (1 liter) of tea, add enough water to make 4 cups (1 liter). Stir in 1/4 cup (60 ml) of fresh lemon juice and 4 1/2 teaspoons of the prepared calcium water. Bring the liquid to a boil over high heat.The lemon juice will help to preserve the black tea jelly and the calcium powder will help the jelly set up.
 Stir 1 cup (200 g) of sugar with 4½ teaspoons of Pomona’s Pectin powder in a small bowl. Stir the sugar and pectin mixture into the boiling liquid. Continue to cook the jelly liquid for 1 to 2 minutes while you constantly stir it. This will help to dissolve the pectin. Remove the jelly from heat once the jelly begins to boil again.Ensure that your saucepan is large, so the jelly won't foam up too high.

