 Some people may be afraid that they will not find a medication that will work for them. They may be afraid that they will experience too many negative side effects or feel nothing at all. This is why it is important to work with your doctor to find the right antidepressant for you.This means you may try two to three antidepressants before your doctor believes you have found the right one.
Never stop taking an antidepressant without your doctor’s recommendation. Talk to them about how to gradually stop.
Keep in mind that many antidepressants take time to start working. It may take up to 4-6 weeks before you start to notice any improvement in your symptoms. Don’t give up if you don’t notice an immediate change in your condition.
 Many people don’t want to take antidepressants because they are scared it will make them gain weight. This is a common side effect of antidepressants. Some may affect you more than others. If you are worried about this, work with your doctor to find ways to stop or slow the weight gain.For example, your doctor may suggest more physical activity or a different eating plan.
Adding in additional physical activity each day can help boost your mood and maintain a healthy weight.
 Depression is a medical condition. Having depression does not make you weak, and treating depression does not make you weak. Depression can be treated medically with medication, just like many other conditions. Treating your depression is a sign of strength, not weakness.Just like you wouldn’t be weak for taking medication for high blood pressure, you are not weak for taking antidepressants.
 If you are afraid to take antidepressants because you are afraid of what others will think, you should keep your decision private. Your doctor and those you choose to tell are the only ones who have to know. You may want to tell your partner or people you live with, but that is your choice. You are in control of who knows about your depression treatment.Keeping it private may help you if you feel ashamed. It may also help if you feel like people will judge you or think you are weak. It may also help if you are worried that you will have a stigma for taking antidepressants. None of these things are true of you if you take antidepressants, but that fear is very real for people.
Remember to put your treatment first and push what other people might say out of your mind.
 Some people are scared to take antidepressants because they are afraid of an increased risk of suicide. Studies have found that suicide risk is greater in children, adolescents, and young adults. For those over 25, the studies found no increased suicide risk.However, if you are having suicidal thoughts, you should call your doctor or a suicide hotline. You can call the suicide hotline at 1-800-273-8255.

