 It is a branch of organic chemistry that is of relatively recent age that dates back to only few decades. This area of chemistry lies at the interface between organic chemistry and inorganic chemistry of the metals in all its types.

The need for the development of this area of chemistry stemmed from the fact that many organic reactions are unable to proceed under normal conditions of reactions in the organic laboratory.



 

;
, This is so due to the use by the transition metals of extra 5-d orbitals when bonding with the other elements.
 They are useful as catalysts for these organic reactions that otherwise would not proceed to completion.

There are many potential applications to industrial processes for the synthesis of important compounds, such as the synthesis of organic polymers.
 Analogous terminology to this phenomenon are the chemical reactions that occur in the body of humans and animals which proceed mostly under the catalysis of special type of proteins in the body that are called enzymes.
 They usually work by lowering the value of the free energy of Gibbs for the reactions that they catalyze. Organometallic compounds are very useful reagents that are able to catalyze organic reactions through a specific cycle of reactions that involve the central metal that is usually a transition metal.

This cycle usually involves well known steps such as oxidative addition to the metal and a process of migratory insertion and ends with reductive elimination to give the final product
These processes have been extensively from the kinetic point of view by labeling procedures using isotopes of hydrogen such as deuterium and other isotopes.
 The organic chemistry that is involved with lithium and magnesium groups is an ionic chemistry. This gives the organic functional group a nucleophilic character in its reactions, due to the large difference in electronegativity between the metal and the organic functional group.,

A well known example of an organometallic compound of this type is the Grignard reagent which is an organomagnesium reagent that is used extensively in the organic laboratory as an alkylating agent. Gringard reagents are usually prepared from alkyl bromides by the process of oxidative addition on neutral magnesium metal.






Another similar type of reagent that uses different metal is the Reformatsky reagent. This reagent is an organo-zinc compound that is also a nucleophile in its chemical behavior that is used as an alkylating reagent. Organo-zinc compounds are prepared in a similar fashion to Grignard reagents from alkyl bromides by the process of oxidative addition on the zinc metal.



Gringard reagents are much more stable thermodynamically than organolithium compounds. Therefore they are more nucleophilic and more selective also.
Organometallic reagents usually are very sensitive compounds to the environment that they are located in. They are very sensitive to water and oxygen. Therefore usually reactions that involve organometallic compounds are performed under inert atmosphere that require special laboratory techniques such as working in a glove box for example.
 Organo-transition-metals chemistry is a very important type of chemistry due to its potential application in catalyzing organic reactions. This topic in chemistry is called homogeneous catalysis by organometallic reagents., Some authorities place this area of chemistry to inorganic chemistry but others include it in the area of organic chemistry and call it applications of transition metals in organic synthesis.
 Numerous industrial processes have been designed to use these special type of organometallic reagents for the process of catalyzing organic reactions, such as the Ziegler-Natta process, which is an important industrial process in chemistry., This refers to the reductive elimination which restores the metal to its original oxidation state.
 The organometallic reagents that are used to catalyze organic reactions are usually used in one of two ways. These two ways are: stoichiometric and catalytic amounts of the organometallic reagent.

The choice of which one of these two possibilities to use will depend on whether the reagent is consumed in the reaction or whether it is regenerated.
 The search for new catalysts in this area of chemistry is pursued vigorously due to their potential uses in industry and in chemical research.

