 Chop into fine pieces.
 Cut into small cubes about 1cm/ 1/2 inch in size., Slice thinly.,, Fry the onion for about 5 minutes, over low heat. Stir frequently., Place a lid or cover over the pan and fry gently. Fry for about 10-15 minutes, checking occasionally and stirring to prevent sticking., Add the soy sauce/tamari and water. Season with salt and pepper to taste.,, Add a pinch of salt., Rub it through the flour using your fingertips. The mixture is ready when it looks like fine breadcrumbs., Add in small, gradual amounts and mix through until it forms a soft and pliable dough., Knead lightly., It needs to fit the pudding basin. Pick it up carefully and line the basin with it, covering as much as possible.

Press down well.
If there are any tears, gently smooth them together and rejoin.
 This will form the top of the pudding.,, Smooth at the edges to join it to the rest of the pudding dough. Trim off any excess around the edges.,, Cover again with a piece of kitchen foil. Smooth down and tuck over the basin's edges to keep the two cover pieces firmly in place., Capture the foil cover to help it stay down., Slip this around the bowl when adding it to the steaming set-up, to enable easy lifting of the bowl., Pour boiling water into the outer pan to fill halfway up the sides of the pudding basin., Bring to the boil then reduce to a simmer. Allow to steam gently for 1 1/2 hours.

Check to see if the water needs topping up every quarter hour or so. If it needs more, always add boiling water. Take care not to get scalded by the steam.
 Use the string to help lift it out.

It is a good idea to wear oven mitts that can be easily manipulated, to avoid steam scalding and heat.
 A steamed pudding should await you within., This will help to loosen the pudding from the sides of the basin., Try to do this smoothly and carefully.

Warm the serving plate before adding the pudding to it. This will help maintain the temperature of the pudding.
 Add a few sprigs of parsley and take straight to the table.