 In order for you to become a Weapon Taker, your Raven character must already have a base level of 15; otherwise, the quest for the Taker path won't appear in your Quest Log.


This chain quest is a requirement to open the next leg of the class advancement where you get to choose Weapon Taker. If you have done the Taker chain quest already, see part 2; if not, proceed to the next step.;
, There are different buttons at the lower-right side of the screen, all with different features. Click the button with exclamation point (!) as an icon. A window will appear showing the list of On-going and Available Quests.


The Quest Log can also be opened by pressing Q on your keyboard.
It is recommended that you're in a city or town when opening the Quest Log to avoid being attacked by monsters.
 Just click on the quest name to accept and begin the quest.
 These monsters are found in the Suburbs of Wally's Castle. Just enter the dungeon and kill 9 of them.


You can enter the dungeon on any mode. The quest can be done with or without party members, and there is no time limit.
If you're unable to kill 9 Jangos in one dungeon run, you can enter the dungeon again to kill the rest.
To enter a dungeon, simply press the “Dungeon” tab found on your screen. This will open a window showing you the available dungeons for your level. Click on the dungeon you want to enter and then press “Start Dungeon,” or hit F8 on your keyboard. This will automatically assign you to a party, but if you're already in a party, choose “Start with current members” instead.
To change dungeon difficulty or mode, after choosing a dungeon you want to enter, look to the right of the menu. Here you can choose the dungeon difficulty: Normal, Hard, and Very Hard. Keep in mind that the higher the difficulty you choose, the more stamina is consumed per run, and this also requires a full party to clear the dungeon, depending on the dungeon level.
 After completing your first quest, head back to the Elder Village and meet Echo the Alchemist. Echo is the white-haired girl found at the upper-right part of the map; she is standing a little to the left of the Blacksmith.


Echo will explain something to you regarding your next set of quests. Accept the quest, and then head out to enter another dungeon for two more tasks.
 To finish this quest, you must clear the Suburb of Wally's Castle under Very Hard difficulty. The Secret Letter is dropped by the dungeon boss after you kill it, and along the way to the boss, you must kill at least 18 Bomber Mongs.


There are chances that you won't be able to complete the quest in one dungeon run, so keep on entering the same dungeon under the same difficulty.
You can complete this task while within a party, which is far more easier than doing solo.
 Right after you have obtained the Secret Letter and killed 18 Bomber Mongs, return to Elder Village and report to Echo. She will reward you and change Raven's class to Taker.
 After you have completed your Taker chain quest, open your Quest Log by pressing Q on your keyboard. With the completed Taker quest, you are now allowed to select which class advancement you want Raven to have.


Raven can become Over Taker, Sword Taker, or Weapon Taker. Choose Weapon Taker to begin the quest to become one.
 Lenphad is the muscular-looking man with blond hair standing at the upper-right corner of Elder Village. He's also known as the Equipment Shop Owner, the NPC where you get to repair your equipment or purchase weaponry and armor.


Talk to Lenphad to bring up a menu; select “Quest” from the options, and he will give you a set of quests to complete.
 This item is a drop from the boss of the Suburbs of Wally's Castle, William Phoru. To begin, enter the dungeon under Very Hard difficulty, clear up the monsters on each floor quickly, then kill the boss.


The drop rate for this quest item is pretty low, so you might have to a couple of dungeon reruns until William Phoru drops Blueprint.
You may skip a few floors and go straight to the boss.
 After obtaining the Blueprint, your next objective is to complete Wally’s Castle under Very Hard mode and defeat the final boss, Wally 8, to obtain his Mechanism Core.


Being in a party is much preferred to complete the quest quickly.
There's no time limit for this quest, and it's much advisable to clear every floor of the dungeon to get a higher chance of picking up rare weapons and equipment.
 After you have completed Wally’s Castle, return to Lenphad to hand in the items and he will then change your class to Weapon Taker.


If for some reason your character didn't change to Weapon Taker after handing in the quest items, log off then log in again. There are times that the server lags due to the high volume of players playing the game. Entering a dungeon or exiting the city works as well.
 The unique ability for a Weapon Taker is the Overheat state, which can only be triggered when the same action button is pressed 5 times. For the Overheat Barrage, press X repeatedly to execute a combo where Raven fires bullets to his enemy. Rather than pressing five times before unleashing his Overheat state, the combo will trigger at the third X you press ( X, X, X, X, X).


Continuing pressing X will increase the damage, plus the bonus damage coming from the overheat state.
Keep in mind that while under Overheat, your character HP decreases.
 To execute, simply press the directional arrow twice (toward the enemy), then Up to jump, followed by Z, and X twice; Raven will slash then release an explosive magic to inflict damage (Left, Left or Right, Right, Up, Z, X, X).
 This combo can be done two different ways:


First, after pressing Z three times, you can execute using two Xs, which will unleash a magic attack after taking a step away from the enemy (Z, Z, Z, X, X).
Second, press a directional arrow towards the enemy, followed by two Xs to roll towards the opponent then grab him, which will inflict high physical damage (directional arrow towards enemy, X, X).
The second way is useful for tricking enemies into believing that you're taking a step backward, forcing them to go after you. Instead, they will be grabbed and then received damage.

