 When you purchase store bought treats, be sure to go for varieties marked specifically for dogs. Check labels to see if they have any added nutrients or dental benefits.Most dog foods completely meet dietary needs, but you should ask the vet about offering treats with added nutrients if your dog has a dull or brittle coat, dry skin, shifts in weight, or a low energy level.Regularly offering harder chew treats that remove plaque will help prevent tartar buildup and oral disease., Try switching up the types of treat you offer your dog. Observe its reaction to various treats so you can identify its favorites. You can use the highest value treats in locations where there are lots of distracting sights and smells.Try taking notes to record your observations. That way, it'll be easier to remember which treats your dog prefers.
 In addition to store bought treats, you can make easy treats for your dog at home. When you make homemade treats and food, it’s always a good idea to check with your dog’s vet to rule out potential allergies and other complications.Try simmering chicken and water in a slow cooker on low for eight hours. Shred large pieces and stir the pot, then ladle the mixture into cups or an ice cube tray. Freeze overnight to create a hydrating summertime treat.
Combine two parts apple pulp, one part peanut butter, one part brown sugar, and a spoonful of ground flax in a mixing bowl. Knead and add water to form dough, three spoonfuls or so. Portion out treat-sized bits, place them on a cookie sheet, and bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius) for 20 minutes.
 If your dog is a power chewer, you should offer it rawhide or pork hide treats to prevent it from chewing your belongings. Go for knotted varieties over flat rawhides. Knotted rawhides will keep your dog’s attention (and keep from becoming a soggy, disgusting mess!) longer than flat ones., If you have any questions or concerns about offering your dog a treat, talk to your dog’s vet. Your vet can let you know how much your dog weighs and its daily caloric needs. This information will help you better estimate the right amount of calories from treats to offer your dog daily.Ask your vet, "How many calories does my dog need every day? Does the food I give it provide all of its nutritional needs? Do you suggest any nutritional supplements?"
The vet can also help you rule out any food allergies your dog might have. Say, for example, "I made my dog a treat at home last night, and chicken was an ingredient. He liked it, but seems to be itchy and have irritated skin. I know dogs can be allergic to chicken, so would you recommend an allergy test?"

