 From the moment you bring your eight-week old Dalmatian puppy home, he is starting to learn. He is soaking up information about his environment, so it's important you start establishing ground rules from the first day. Dalmatians have a reputation for being stubborn, so start training at the earliest opportunity.For example, if you do not intend to allow the dog on the couch but let him up as a puppy, intending to enforce the rules when you start training in a month or two, the poor dog will be very confused. If you want to keep your dog off the couch, start training him not to get on the couch from the moment you bring him home.;
, Though your Dalmatian might be a puppy when you bring him home, start house training him immediately. This helps your puppy avoid developing any bad habits to begin with. Show your Dalmatian where the toilet spot it.When your dog relieves himself in the correct place, immediately praise him. This is called positive reinforcement. Your praise tells him that what he did is good, and this makes him more likely to repeat the behavior.
To toilet train your Dalmatian you need to supervise him indoors at all time. Keep him on a leash on your wrist, or if you can't be with him, put him in his crate for short periods of time. Every hour, take your dog to the toilet spot and praise him when he relieves himself or offer a treat. Pretty soon he'll get the idea he can get treats for free just by eliminating outside.
Simply letting the dog relieve himself without giving feedback in the form of praise is an opportunity wasted.
 At your puppy’s young age, you are teaching him to trust you. You want your Dalmatian to want to please you when you start serious training. This means being gentle with him and using positive reinforcement. Refrain from smacking the dog, and instead praise good behavior.When your Dalmatian puppy misbehaves, which he will do frequently, aim to redirect his behavior onto something more appropriate. For example, if he plays tug with your pants, distract his attention onto a tug toy and then praise him for playing with that.
It is fine to give your puppy guidance that he is wrong for tugging on the trouser with a brief, curt "No!" Then, redirect him onto the tug toy with a happy, "Good!" This uses positive reinforcement and helps him to make judgement calls about what he's going wrong and right.
 Getting your Dalmatian used to people and other dogs can help prevent some behavior problems later in life. Take your Dalmatian to puppy socialization classes or dog parks so that he is confident around other dogs. This also gives your dog a chance to read other dogs' body language and learn how to react around them.Make sure to get all your dog’s shots before taking him to public places around other dogs.

