 Puggles have short coats that require little grooming, but brushing your puggle once per week will help to prevent his short, sharp hairs from getting on furniture and in carpets.Use a natural bristle or rubber hand brush to brush your puggle’s coat once per week.


Use swift, firm strokes to brush your puggle’s back, sides, stomach, and chest.
As you groom your puggle, remember to check for fleas, ticks, lumps, bumps, scabs, and any other skin conditions. If you notice something unusual, then have your puggle checked by your veterinarian.
 It is important not to bathe your puggle too often or he may develop dry skin. Giving your puggle a bath about once per month is enough to keep his coat clean and soft.You can take your puggle to a groomer for a bath or do it yourself. If you decide to bathe your puggle yourself, then you will need to:



Purchase a special dog shampoo and conditioner. Never use human shampoo or conditioner on a dog. Some of the ingredients in human shampoos and conditioners may be harmful to your puggle. Instead, purchase a special shampoo and conditioner meant just for dogs.

Avoid your puggle’s ears, eyes, and nose. Getting shampoo in your puggle’s ears, eyes, or nose could hurt him and cause him to dislike baths. If his face is dirty, then just use a damp washcloth to wipe away any dirt or debris from his face.

Rinse your puggle well after shampooing his fur. After giving your puggle a bath, you will need to rinse him well to ensure that all of the shampoo has been removed. A handheld showerhead works best for rinsing your puggle, but a pitcher filled with water will also work well.
 Make sure that you check your puggle’s ears and clean them once per week as well. To clean your dog’s ears, take a piece of damp (not wet) gauze and wrap it around one of your fingers. Then, use the gauze to gently wipe the inside of your puggle’s ears and earflaps.If you notice any discharge, wax buildup, or other problems with your puggle’s ears, then take him to see a veterinarian as soon as possible.
 You will also need to keep your puggle’s nails trimmed down to keep them from cracking or causing him discomfort. To trim your puggle’s nails, use a guillotine style nail clipper and trim away a small sliver of nail at a time.


As you trim, be careful not to hit the quick, which is a sensitive blood vessel inside of your puggle’s nails. Trim only a small sliver of nail at a time and check the surface after each snip. If you start to notice a circle on the top of the trimmed nail, then you are nearing the quick. Do not trim any further., Keeping your puggle’s teeth clean will help to maintain his overall health. You can brush your puggle’s teeth with a special dog toothbrush or using a piece of clean cotton gauze. Make sure that you only use a special dog toothpaste to brush your puggle’s teeth. Human toothpaste will make your puggle sick.

