 One of the best ways to show your support is by letting your friend know that you are ready to listen. Tell her that you understand that she may not want to talk about her illness, but that when she does, you'll be there. Don't assume that your friend already knows this. It's always welcome to hear that someone is ready to be there for you.Be an active listener. Don't just listen, participate in the conversation. Indicate that you are engaged by responding with nods of the head, maintaining eye contact, and making appropriate facial expressions.
Ask questions. Don't interrupt your friend, but at appropriate pauses, ask questions to indicate that you are listening. Try saying something like, "So, you'll be going for treatment three days a week, right? Will you have a set schedule, or will it vary?";
, Receiving a cancer diagnosis is clearly a very emotional experience. Make it clear to your friend that you understand that they will be going through a range of feelings. Don't try to project your own feelings onto her, and don't try to neglect their emotions.Your friend might tell you that she is scared. For many people, it is a natural response to say something like, "Don't worry, you'll be fine." Try to avoid brushing aside your friend's feelings, even though you mean well.
Acknowledge their feelings by paraphrasing. For example, you can say, "I hear you saying that you're scared that you won't be around to see your kids grow up. That must be a terrifying feeling. How can I help?"

, Try to be flexible when making plans with your friend. Be aware that they will probably need some extra support. Let them know that you are available to keep them company whenever they want. But you should also be careful not to overstay your welcome. They will likely tire easily, so be aware that while your visits might be more frequent, they might also be shorter.Be available, but also be normal. Try to treat your friend as you always have. Their health might have changed, but she's still the same person. For example, if the two off you have typically joked and teased each other a lot, don't stop.
Try to keep doing activities that are typical. Maybe the two of you used to have a standing date to go see a movie each weekend. Your friend might not be up for that, but you can still over to come over for a Netflix and popcorn night.
 It is natural that you will also be upset by your friend's diagnosis. It's totally okay to cry together and let them know that you are upset. Just don't let that be all you do. Remember, you are there to support her.Try to find some positive things to discuss with your friend. You don't have to provide false cheer or optimism, but you also shouldn't be afraid to tell them that you scored a big promotion or had a great first date.

