 They won't like you and you'll probably only have a few friends if any. This includes cyberspace. Never post mean or unkind things online, even if someone is doing so to you. Learn how to deal with Cyber Bullying to help you. Also, when other girls are saying unkind things about another, change the subject. Others might not find you as "cool", but you're doing the right thing.


Be nice! Lend a helping hand to those who need it, crack jokes, help teachers by not getting in trouble, anything to be a good person. You don't have to be a goody-goody, Girl Scout though. Just be sure to seek things that are nice.;
, If you want respect you have to treat others with it. So do your chores and don't talk in class...at least not too much, and even though the teacher can be really annoying, remember to be nice, they are only trying to help you.
 Don't care what people think about your clothes or how you look. Honestly,it does not matter how they see you. All that matters is how you see yourself. If anyone makes fun of you, just remember to ignore it.
 When talking to people try to avoid awkward silences and don't be afraid to share you're opinions! Be yourself!

, A lot of people think you have to be a girly princess to be a popular girl, but if you are girly, so be it. Be who you are!!!! Be edgy or girly, maybe even tomboy!

, It will expand your wardrobe, making you more stylish.
 This is completely optional, you don't have to because it only matters what's on the inside. Sadly, people will judge the way you dress, the key factor is to dress for success! Follow the trends this year! You might really like them.
 If you stink or have garlic in your teeth, people aren't going to rush to be your friend. Try to avoid gum, especially when you have braces.
 Be sure to wash your hair at least 5/7 days a week.
 You will find that less people will hang out with you when your armpits are sweaty. Be sure to bring an extra one to school, just in case.
 This does not mean going to the nail spa ten times a month, it means taking care of your nails. Clip them, don't let them grow too long, etc.


It's always fun to paint your nails.
 Keep it soft and shiny. Do not straighten/curl/crimp your hair too much or your hair will be damaged. Shampoo it up and use conditioner. Leave it in your hair for 2-5 minutes and wash out. Get a cute cut that flatters your face. You may want to ask a hairdresser about your face shape and cut. A style that fits all face shapes are side bangs. You should should get side bangs or normal if you have a large forehead.



Style your hair everyday!

, Middle school is about the time to start shaving. Ask your mom if you think you need to shave.If you haven't developed hair then don't shave.
 Acne can have a pretty bad affect on you, it's best that you try your best to get rid of it.
 No body likes dry flaky skin, so pump up the lotion!

,


You're in middle school, not college. You're still very young, and you don't need to wear makeup if you don't want to. If you choose to wear eyeliner, please, try your best to apply it right and not use too much. You can wear eye shadow, but only a natural, non-sparkle kind. If you apply makeup poorly people will think you are really immature!

, Middle schoolers are too young to be wearing lipstick. Instead, try lip gloss. Light pink works well.
, Try talking to someone you wouldn't normally talk to, and be nice about it!

,,