 Add 1 cup (237 ml) of whole milk, 1 cup (237 ml) of heavy cream, ¾ cup (150 g) of sugar, and ⅛ teaspoon (1 g) of salt to a small saucepan. Place it on the stove, and heat it over medium heat until the sugar dissolves, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.Make sure to stir the mixture frequently as it heats to ensure that the sugar doesn’t stick to the pan and dissolves more easily.
 After the sugar has dissolved, remove the mixture from the heat and transfer to a bowl. Place the mixture in the refrigerator, and allow it to chill for at least 4 hours.Be sure to cover the mixture with plastic wrap before placing it in the refrigerator.
You can prepare the milk base the day before and chill it overnight if you prefer.
 Place 6 ounces (180 g) of fresh raspberries in a food processor, and process them until they are smooth. Next, pour the raspberry puree through a fine mesh strainer to remove the seeds. Set aside for the moment.If you don’t have a food processor, you can process the berries in a blender.
If you want to prepare the raspberries ahead of time, make sure to cover them with plastic wrap and keep them chilled in the refrigerator.
 When you’re ready to make the sherbet, pour the milk base into your ice cream maker. Churn the mixture according to the manufacturer’s instructions., After you’ve mixed the milk base in the ice cream maker, move it to a freezer-safe container. Place it in the freezer for an hour to firm it up.Any type of metal baking pan will work well for freezing the ice cream.
Make sure to cover the container with a lid or plastic wrap before you place it in the refrigerator.
 When the milk base has chilled properly in the freezer, remove the container. Separate it in three equal parts, and place each in a separate bowl., To one part of the semi-frozen milk base, mix in ½ cup (118 ml) of orange juice and a few drops of orange food coloring. To another part of the milk base, add ⅓ cup (79 ml) of lime juice and a few drops of green food coloring. To the final part of the milk base, fold in the raspberry puree that you prepared earlier.For the best tasting sherbet, use freshly squeezed orange and lime juice.
 After you’ve thoroughly mixed each flavor of sherbet, place them in large, individual piping bags. Place the bags in the freezer, and chill for 30 to 35 minutes or until the sherbet reaches the consistency of soft-serve.If you don’t have piping bags, place the sherbet in large, sealable plastic bags. Make sure to squeeze all the air out before sealing them. After the sherbet is frozen, you can snip off a corner of the bags for the next step.
 Once the sherbet flavors are chilled to the consistency of soft serve, use the piping bags to swirl the flavors into a single freezer-safe container for a rainbow effect. Return the sherbet to the freezer, and chill until it is firm enough to scoop.