;
, Keep your skin soft and glowing, trim your nails and your hair. People see in your grooming your opinion of yourself. Make an effort always to be at your most attractive but be careful of becoming a slave to looks. Appearance, despite what we are told, is not the most important thing. Think about the people you love most dearly; is it their physical beauty you treasure or the beauty of who they are?

, Eat well, do not overindulge and make your health a priority. Find an activity that you enjoy that will also help you keep supple and strong. There is a crushing pressure to be a certain shape but do not give in to it. Let your body settle into its natural curves and cherish them--believe me when I say that there is beauty in every natural body shape. However, if you know that you are truly obese or underweight, take steps to bring your body to its healthiest weight.
 Express your personality through your clothing and never allow fashion to dictate your wardrobe. In the same way, wear makeup that reveals your face, that does not mask it. Do not project a you that screams for attention or tries to seduce. Beauty used as a weapon loses its power. Simply let your beauty shine and those with eyes will see it.
 Walk with a straight back and let your own grace show through the way you move. Keep your head high--but not too high. Do not be afraid to give a good, firm handshake.
 Take the time to ask how people are. Smile with genuine warmth always and welcome everyone with your eyes. Grow in empathy, learn to feel with people, to simply be with them.
 Surround yourself with people who understand you and are devoted to you. At all times be the friend you would wish others would be to you. While you seek out faithful friends, don't exclude others who you might find hard to bear, or even disapprove of. You may never become close friends but you should still show kindness.
 Forgive all wrongs. This doesn't mean what was done to you was right. If you choose to be bitter, you'll be a slave to what someone else thought, said, did.
 Choose to feel strongly, even when it hurts. Take courage and live passionately. Be wise in what you do but be willing to take risks in love. Be alive! Be alive! Be alive!

, Don't take yourself too seriously but do know that are some things that should never be laughed at.
 Pursue your deepest interests, pour time into your worthiest dreams. Offer a kind word every day. Always tell the people closest to you that you love them.
 Infinitely. Do not use people.Love them. Do not judge people. Love them. If someone wanders off the path, help them. Be merciful to everyone and be humble. We are all weak.
 You need love. Seek it but don't pin your life on the approval of others. Simply be the best that you can be.Strength is not measured in hardness. The truly courageous woman faces her deepest hurts and fears. To reveal your beauty, to believe it you must be strong. You must be strong to be vulnerable, to be soft and to weep.
 Speak the truth. Live the truth. The truth is absolute, not subjective.
 Pain comes with most of the best things in life.
 It is a strange but infallible truth that the one who gives her life finds it.
 Seek what is beautiful and give yourself the opportunity to just soak it all in. Look at art, listen to music.
 Real adventure not the substitutes. Always check your motives--why are you doing what you are?

, Let them grow. Help them. You might have to speak the hard truth sometimes but always do so out of genuine love.
, Always.
 Always try learn and share what you have discovered and what means most to you fearlessly.
 Simply rest in who you are. Do not be static. Do not accept wrong, but do be merciful--to yourself.

