
Set it up by pressing "Start" when the Top Right-Hand corner says to.
You will find yourself at the "Main Menu" where it will say "QuickPlay" (Or something like that, it will be the first one) and press "X"
Choose your teams. You can choose your team and the team your going Head2Head with.
By pressing "Select" you can choose: your Stadium, The Stadium Weather and the time. Plus you can choose the wind strength and other stuff.
Go back by pressing "Triangle" kind of looks like this "/_\"
Press "X" to go to the mode where you put your controllers to the team you want by pressing "Right" or "Left". Press "X" After that.;
,


The Coin Toss: The Opposing team will select "Heads" or "Tails" (If you were the Away team, you will pick "Heads" or "Tails"
If you win, You will pick to Defend (or protect) "<<", Then, You can "Receive" or "Kick" Finally, "Defend >>". If you lost you will select "Defend <<" or "Defend >>".
Kick-Off: If you picked "Receive" or the other team picked "Kick" you will be getting the kick. You will have to position you guy to be in the center of the "Yellow Target", Then you will receive the kick, run and try to get around the people. If you are lucky, you will find the hole and get the touchdown. If you picked "Kick" or the other team picked "Receive", to kick, Use the "Left Analog" to position the ball. To kick, pull the "Right Analog" Down. In the Bottom Left-Hand Corner, Pull it up when the bar goes Deep Orange or Red. Finally, Run and try to tackle their guy with the ball.
Offense: If you caught the ball, Pick a formation, and a play by pressing "X". You can see what play does by looking at the picture. When it has, "Square" "Triangle" "R1" "L1" or "O" it is a pass play. if you see a name that says "HB", it is a running play.

Defense: If you Kicked the ball, you will play Defense. Pick your play determining the play.


If you get a touchdown or you are close but on 4th down. You can kick a field goal. Same way as the kickoff.

If you are to far away and on 4th down, and not feeling luck, you can punt it to get it down the field. Or if you are 4th and 2 and below you can "Do a Direct Snap RB" You can fake the snap, hut it to the Running Back and try to get it over the 10 yard (9.1 m) line.


Penalties: Offside is going over the line of scrimmage, always be behind the line. Roughing the Passer and other stuff might kill your team.
If you think the play was called wrong. Pause the game by pressing "Start" and go to challenge play and press "Yes"

