 Connect it to your Mac with a USB cable that attaches from the printer’s port to the back or side of your Mac.


Alternatively, you can use a wireless-enabled printer or scanner through your local Wi-Fi connection.
If you prefer to communicate with the scanner wirelessly, go through the setup procedure on your scanner. Make sure it is connected to the same strong wireless network as your Mac.;
, Select “System Preferences.” Choose “Print & Fax” in the Hardware menu. , If it does not, click the plus (+) sign to prompt your computer to recognize the scanner. Click “Add.”

, If you are using a scanner with a feeder, place the object in the front of the feeder.
 You have several choices of applications that are installed on Mac computers automatically. Choose 1 of the following apps:


Use Preview. If this is on your desktop, opening the Preview icon will be the fastest way to scan.
Use Image Capture. If you are using devices in a network, you can easily choose from cameras, shared devices and devices dedicated to your Mac.
Use the scanner’s icon. Once the device is installed you can place it on your dock. Then, when you want to print or scan, click on the device’s icon and select “Scanner” in the upper right corner.
You can also open the device’s icon by going to the “Print & Fax” preferences window under “System Preferences.” Click on “Scanner,” and then click “Open Scanner.”

,


If you are using Preview, click “File” and “Import From Scanner.”
If you are using Image Capture, simply double click on the application in your dock or in your Applications folder.
If you are using the scanner icon, simply click on “Scanner” in the upper right corner.
 Your scanner may have additional options for different types of scans, such as transparencies.
 It will give you an overview of the scan so you can adjust it. If it scans automatically, you can return to the scan menu to adjust it before you scan again.
 This is the dotted line around the object. You can drag each corner inward or outward to change the scan area.
 Choose standard letter or legal sizes.
 You can choose your Desktop, Documents or Pictures folders.


If you are using Image Capture, you can also choose to open it in Preview, Mail or iPhoto.
 If you are scanning something with both text and images, you will want to deselect this. If you are separating items on a scan, it can help you isolate different pictures. , You can even edit an image with brightness and tint. , Click the Scan button. You will be able to access your scan in the file location you previously specified.

