 You need emergency responders, especially first-aid, to be there as soon as humanly possible. If you need to be with someone and they won't let you call, try to get someone else to call. If someone is on a bridge, holding a weapon, or otherwise threatening their own life, your first move needs to be to 911. You should never try and handle this on your own.


Mental health professionals, such as therapists or counselors, should be notified as soon as possible.
If someone is adamant that you don't call the police, call the National Suicide Hotline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255).;
, You will not be "putting the thought inside their heads." Suicide is everywhere in modern media and news, and mentioning it will not be the spark that makes them decide to take their life. You need to be direct, open, and honest with the person if you want them to be direct with you.Ask if they have a specific suicide plan. Is this a recent thought or have the formulated a plan? If they have, do not leave them alone under any circumstances., The most important thing you can do to prevent suicide is to just listen to the person's problems. You do not have the skills or knowledge needed to "fix" someone with suicidal tendencies, so don't try. Just let them talk about their feelings, their desire to kill themselves, and their issues. Ask simple, kind questions: "What's wrong?" "Why do you feel like this?" "How long have you been thinking about this?" "Tell me about your thoughts."Never argue with someone or try and convince them not to kill themselves. You just need to listen and validate their distress.
Don't tell someone, "You have so much to live for." Someone contemplating suicide has already rejected this idea, deciding they don't have much to live for, and this will only reinforce the thought., It doesn't matter how angry or upset they are, a suicidal person cannot be left to themselves, even for a moment. If you cannot physically be with them, make sure there is someone who is. Now is not the time to worry about what they think—your continued presence will often prevent them from doing anything drastic, and they will appreciate your love and care later., This is likely the hardest, most painful decision and moment in a person's life. They do not want to hear that "it will all get better" or that "this would crush your family." He/she needs to hear that you are there for them. Let them know that you know "things must be really awful right now," and that you are there to support them. You can admit that you don't have any answers, but still be there for them to rely on. Remember, your job is just to listen and be a friend, not "fix" them.
 In the worst-case scenario, it may feel like you made a mistake or failed in some way. Do not blame yourself for their death, or feel like you "should have stopped them." Ultimately, suicide is a personal decision, and if that person decided to kill themselves, there was little that could be done to stop them. There are millions of factors that likely led to their decision, and you cannot think that you were the tipping point—you were not.

