 You want to find a place that is quiet, somewhat secluded, and easily accessible. Most importantly, do it in a location where you feel relaxed and confident. The better you feel about things, the more relaxed and assured you will be when you finally ask her out.


Make sure she is in a good mood as well -- if she had a terrible day or seems cross, wait until she is in a better mood.
Whenever possible, ask her out in person. It may be harder and more nerve-wracking, but you're more likely to succeed and can gauge her response in person.
 Movies and TV have conditioned many people to think that the only way to get the girl is a big, expressive moment. But that couldn't be farther from the truth in the real world. Simply pulling her aside after class or work, catching her on her way out the door, or sitting next to each other on the bus is enough. It is not what you do that really matters here, it is what you say.
 Don't try and over-rehearse the conversation, as you cannot predict what she is going to say. However, practice keeping it brief and saying what you want to say quickly and easily. 1-2 sentences should suffice. Some ideas include:


"I've really enjoyed spending time together, and I'd love to take you on a date."
"Would you want to go out with me on a date this weekend?"
"Let's grab dinner sometime, just the two of us?"
"I really enjoy your friendship, and I'd like to try taking things a step further."

, At the very least, be ready to offer one or two days that work for you. Asking with specifics is a much better way to gauge her answer. If she wants to go on a date, have a suggestion ready:


"Great! How about dinner on Thursday?" or "There is a great play Saturday at 8 I was interested in, want to join me?"
Have at least one back-up date in case she is busy, or ask her when a good time is if that fails too.
 And the end of the day, you just have to blurt it out. It is not easy, but it is the only way to do it. Keep it short and to the point. "I really like you, and I'd love to go out on a date sometime," should suffice. Remember why you want to talk to her, and know that any answer is better than sitting and waiting for one.


Count to 3 and make yourself ask when you get to zero.
Avoid talking too much beforehand. Say hello, ask how she is doing, then get right to the point. The longer you wait, the colder your feet are going to get.
Once you know you want to ask her out, you need to go ahead and do it.
 If she is going to ditch you because of a little initial awkwardness, is she worth dating? Just be yourself and put yourself out there, even if you are nervous, awkward, weird, or uncomfortable. Do you best to launch into the conversation.


"I'm a bit nervous to say this, but..."
"I know I seem kind of awkward, but I want you to know how I feel."

, Take as much time progressing the "dating" relationship as you did progressing the 'friend' relationship. You don't need to dive into anything.

