 It can be difficult to tell whether or not someone is being rude over email, especially since you can’t see their facial expressions or hear the tone of their voice to help you decide. Before your react to an email that seems rude to you, consider whether the rudeness might be a miscommunication.


Try asking the person directly what they meant by talking with them face-to-face or over the phone. This may help to head off a problem due to a simple miscommunication.;
, Though it can be tempting to immediately begin stringing together a slew of mean or hurtful words in response to this email, avoid doing so at all costs. You will likely regret it later. Instead, step away from the email, close your browser, and take a few moments to collect your thoughts.Take a walk for a few minutes until you feel calm.
Take a few deep breaths and drink some water.
 Another way to get out some negative energy constructively is to draft an email to the person, but don’t send it. That way, you can begin collecting your initial thoughts, no matter how intense, while also giving yourself time to later refine, hone, and add to them.Pull up a separate email and type a response without ever having inputted a recipient so you don’t accidentally send it out. Or you can list your own email as the recipient.
Think of all the times that you have reacted to something immediately and then later regretted all of the clever or thought-provoking things you could have said. This will give you time to develop such and prevent regret.
 In reading the email, you might have construed it as rude because part of it is true, and the truth can hurt. Though this does not relieve them of their guilt in the situation, it does give you some space for self-improvement and for honesty, both with yourself and with the email sender.For instance, perhaps your boss sent you a rude email about being late for work. Though the wording did not need to be rude, you should acknowledge and rectify your lateness.
 When someone is rude to you, it can be all too tempting to return the favor. Again, refrain from responding negatively, but also refrain from passive aggressive or rude behavior should you see them in person before you respond. Don’t give them dirty glances or ignore them if they speak to you.Instead, practice kindness. Say hello to them and keep walking.
Don’t spend time around them unless necessary but don’t actively avoid them, either.
 Sometimes, a rude email has very little to do with you or the circumstances surrounding it. Lashing out at someone is never okay, but sometimes the person who sent the email might be going through a bit more than they can handle and could have sent you that out of frustrations that don’t involve you. They may not even realize they have been rude. This does not excuse them, but understanding a person’s current state and motivations can help in taking steps forward.For instance, if they are having marital problems or if someone in their family has recently died, this could explain their rudeness.
It is also possible that they are just having a bad day.
 Friends or coworkers can be particularly helpful in helping you craft a response to a rude or nasty email, and they can also provide a second opinion on the situation. During this time, refrain from asking your friends who are hotheaded to assist; reach out to those instead who are calm, clever and solution-focused.If possible, ask to see any past responses to rude emails that they have sent.
 When you are drafting your email, it will be necessary for you to acknowledge how rude they were. It could be that they were unaware that their words would come off as callous, but regardless, you should bring attention to it.Say something like “before I begin with a response, I do want to acknowledge the rudeness displayed in your email, particularly surrounding your accusatory and insulting remarks.”
Being direct is helpful for you and for the other person and it can help to prevent a reoccurrence of the same situation.
 Though their email was rude, perhaps their frustration was coming from a very real place. If so, acknowledge that frustration and express understanding, if only marginal. This will allow them to feel less of a you vs. them mentality and move you both towards potential peace-making.Say something like “Your email indicated that you are frustrated.”
Be sure to focus on what their email said and not them personally.
 Sometimes, however, you may be completely clueless as to why someone has decided to send you such an email after much self-reflection and consultation of others. In this event, you should ask the sender a simple ‘why’ so that you can gain understanding and better address the issue.You might say “I have thought carefully about your email and am still a bit confused at your rationale in sending it, so I would like to know what prompted it.”

, Once you have addressed some of your preliminary concerns and points in the email, you should begin seeking solutions and responding to their concerns, if those are present. Let them know what you are willing to do, explore areas for compromise, and express your willingness to work through this.Setting up a meeting could be beneficial as well. People tend to be kinder in person than when hiding behind a computer screen.
You might say something like “you expressed anger that I came back from lunch 15 minutes late yesterday, but I had to pick up my sick daughter from school. Though I can certainly try to make it back on time in the future, there will be times like this that are unavoidable.”

, After you have successfully offered solutions, it is now time to establish some ground rules for any continued conversation. Let them know that you will not tolerate such rudeness in the future and doing such will make it very difficult if not impossible to continue to work together cooperatively.Tell them you will not accept insults or inappropriate accusations.
Ask them to come to you with concerns and with kindness before jumping the gun.
 You might find that you read and reread the email over and over and are getting caught up in negative feelings about it. However, this will not help you to move forward and will likely only make you more mad and frustrated. If absolutely necessary, delete the email from your inbox so that you don’t have access to it.If you think you might need the email again in the future, then send it to someone you trust but delete it from your own inbox.
 Though this email may seemingly have ruined your day, do all within your power to disallow that. Continue on with your routine, make a to-do list, and complete all necessary tasks. Don’t let one blip derail your day or your progress.Keeping yourself busy will help you to stay focused on what is important to you and avoid ruminating on one email.
 In keeping your routine, set small, achievable goals that you can commit to that day. Completing them will help you feel more accomplished and subsequently less affected by the rude email that you received.Consider setting goals like “respond to all other emails” or “go to the gym.”

, Sometimes, in order to move forward from something, you need a bit of distraction. Take a break to listen to music, have lunch, or call a friend to chat about something other than the email. Getting your mind off of things can give you a very necessary and cathartic break.
 At the end of the day, sometimes the best way to move forward is to handle the issue permanently. If the email contained any threats or any insults that could be considered as hate speech, then report this person to the right people, which could be the HR Department at your job or Student Conduct at your school. You can also block them from sending you emails in the future.


Report them to the authorities if they are making physical threats against you.

