 Unfortunately, it'll be hard to keep hooking up with your ex without having one of you develop feelings for the other person again. As soon as that happens, you'll have to push the eject button on the non-relationship, or things will only get worse from there. Unless you're still really in love with your ex and are using your hook up moves to win back her heart -- incidentally, a terrible idea -- you should cease and desist the second you or she shows signs of having feelings.


If you start getting that achy feeling in your heart and start musing about what a great relationship you had while knowing it can never work, then it's time to leave.
If your ex tells you she misses you, sends you sweet (not sexy) texts, or says she wishes you could do some couple-y things together, then it's time to bow out.
If you have to end the "relationship" for this reason, explain yourself first. You shouldn't be a jerk just because it's over.
 If one of you starts developing feelings for someone else, even if you haven't pursued that person, you should end up the hook-up period. Hooking up with your ex is something to do when you both want to get some action and are bored because there are few romantic prospects in your lives. But if one of you does start liking someone else, it's time to stop hooking up so you have room to explore those feelings.


If you know your ex has a crush on someone else, you're doing her a disservice by continuing to hook up with her and taking up her time.
If you start liking another girl, she won't want anything to do with you if she knows that you're hooking up with an ex-girlfriend.
 Hooking up with your ex should last a month or two at most before things start to get more serious. Even if you're both trying as hard as you can to keep things casual, if you've fallen into a rhythm, basically feel like you're dating, and know exactly when you'll see each other next, then it's time to stop hooking up. If you know when you'll see your ex next, and you stop feeling a thrill at the prospect of hooking up, then the fun is over.


You can't expect the hook up to last more than a month or two without it leading to something more. Be realistic.
 As soon as you start fighting again, you should end the relationship. If you're not actually dating, then you shouldn't be fighting. It's that simple. If you hear her say, "Where is this taking us?" or "What does all of this mean?" Then she's already back in relationship mode, and your hook up sessions have gone too far. You shouldn't be fighting about anything one of you is doing wrong, because you should only be hooking up, right?


It may be tempting to fight with your ex again if you're used to it, but remember that it won't lead you anywhere except back where you were -- a bad relationship.
 The whole point of hooking up with your ex is so that both of you can enjoy yourselves, get some sexual pleasure, and have fun without any strings attached. If you're not feeling the hook up anymore, if you feel like you're only in it out of obligation, or if you're hooking up with your ex just because you're bored, then it's time to start looking for someone new. You weren't having fun before and that's why the relationship ended.


Be honest about ending the hook-up session. Don't just start avoiding or ignoring your ex. Let her know it's time to move on.

