 If you disagree or have significant problems with the conclusions reached by the employee's treating physician, you do have the right to require the employee to see another healthcare professional of your choosing.ADA regulations also provides a procedure for confirming an employee's diagnosis or requesting additional medical certification.
However, the procedures for requesting a second or third opinion relate solely to an employee's disability-related FMLA request.
If you want a second opinion of the employee's certification or need to take the time off they've requested, you must pay any associated medical bills.
For example, suppose the employee's medical certification comes from a general practitioner who you don't believe is qualified to diagnose that condition.
You want the employee to visit a specialist in that particular condition to assess the time off the employee needs, or whether a particular treatment regimen is necessary.
You can require the employee to visit the specialist, but you must pay for this examination and treatment.
 Once the employee is examined by the doctor you chose, the doctor will submit their opinion regarding the employee's disability and the necessity of their FMLA request.You have an advantage in verifying the doctor's certification when you require a second opinion, because you get to choose the doctor. You can choose someone you trust and respect.
You can use the FMLA form available on the DOL's website to get medical certification from this second healthcare provider.
If the second doctor agrees with the first, you generally must comply with the employee's FMLA request. If you still have problems with the request and are reluctant to grant it, you may want to speak to an experienced FMLA attorney.
Make sure any attorney with whom you speak has experience representing employers who have denied FMLA requests. They will be best suited to identify problems with the employee's documentation of their disability for purposes of the FMLA.
 If the doctor you chose disagreed with the first doctor's assessment, you can't simply choose that doctor's opinion over the other. A third opinion serves as a tie-breaker to determine which opinion can be relied upon.Just as you paid for the second opinion, you also must pay for the third. You can request the third doctor complete the same FMLA certification form.
Unlike the second opinion, both you and your employee must agree on the doctor chosen for the third opinion.
Keep in mind that whichever opinion the third doctor agrees with is the one that is controlling in regard to the employee's FMLA request.
You do not have the right to continue seeking fourth, or fifth, or further medical opinions – even if you pay for them.
 If the second doctor's opinion substantially agrees with the first opinion, you cannot delay in granting the employee's FMLA request. Even when you've sought a third opinion, you still need to avoid delays in making a decision on the employee's request.Generally, you must provide the employee with written notice that they are eligible for FMLA leave within five days of their request.
You can use this notice to request certification, or to notify the employee that certification provided was incomplete or insufficient to justify their request.
After medical certification that complies with FMLA requirements is complete, you must make your decision regarding the employee's request as soon as possible.
If you plan to deny the employee's request, make sure you've hired an attorney who supports and is ready to stand by your decision. Expect the employee to file a complaint against you with the DOL.

