 Commercial whitening kits aren't cheap; for a cheaper solution, you might like to consider whitening your teeth at home using hydrogen peroxide for a similar effect. Bleaching teeth with hydrogen peroxide is acknowledged as a safe practice by the American Dental Association.
 Hydrogen peroxide is commonly used to treat skin wounds, but its antiseptic properties are also good for oral hygiene. Hydrogen peroxide is typically packaged in a brown bottle. The opaque packaging keeps light from altering the makeup of the solution. Buy a 3% solution, which is safe for oral use and weak enough so it won’t cause sensitivity.
 Use it daily before you brush your teeth to whiten your teeth naturally. Make sure to mix it in a 50/50 solution with water. Here's how you should do it:


Pour about 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of the antiseptic into your mouth, and swish it around for 1 minute. The solution will begin to foam; this is how you know it is working. The hydrogen peroxide combined with oral bacteria cause bubbles to form in your mouth, but this will not taste good. Some people dislike this method because of the bad taste.
Spit out the solution, and rinse your mouth with water.
Brush your teeth as you normally would.
 This mixture will help keep your teeth looking white and clean. Here's how you can make it:Pour 2 teaspoons (10ml) of hydrogen peroxide into 3 teaspoons (15ml) of baking soda. Mix these together until a paste forms. Play with these measurements until you find a consistency that you like. The paste should be similar in thickness to toothpaste.
Add a tiny bit of mint toothpaste to your homemade paste to give it a fresh flavor. You can also add a drop of peppermint extract.
Mix in a dash of salt. The salt will exfoliate your teeth as you brush. However, salt is quite abrasive, so don't use it too often and always use a soft toothbrush.
Dollop the paste mixture onto your toothbrush.
Brush the paste onto your teeth in small, circular motions. Once all teeth are covered, let the mixture sit on your teeth for 2 minutes.
Rinse the solution off your teeth by swishing with water from the bathroom sink.
Brush your teeth with toothpaste to rid your mouth of any remnants of the hydrogen peroxide mixture.

