 A right handed person typically holds the neck of the guitar with their left hand. A left handed person holds the neck with their right hand. However, it could be that he/she wants to strum with the non-dominant hand so it is easier to operate the fretboard with the dominant hand, so let him/her experiment with the preference.If a person is left handed there is a neat little test that can help determine whether buying a lefty guitar or a righty guitar will be best for them.First have the person clap their hands as they normally would and watch. How do they clap their hands is their right hand mostly still while the left hand does most of the clapping? If this is so then a lefty guitar would suit this left-hander best. If both hands are doing equal clapping then it should be up to the left-hander to decide.;
, Typically electric guitar strings aren't as rough on a child's fingers the way that an acoustic guitar can be. If you go the electric route they probably will want an amp too. By all means go cheap and small. Make sure the amp has a headphone jack that mutes the speaker when connected. Some amps are in the headphone itself which just plugs into the guitar.


Some brands make smaller versions of their full size models. Think of the guitars that Hendrix or Clapton usually played on because you can easily find a cheap child sized one like that. The benefit is that scale is shorter, easier to reach with smaller hands. The string tension will will be lower than the full scale model (the strings won't be so stiff or hard to press on) and this makes it easier for weaker fingers to build strength.
 You may find that the guitar is poorly set up. That means that it will be hard to play and to tune correctly., Bring along a friend who is more experienced- He or she can weed out the damaged or unplayable guitars. Hint: The best deal is a middle priced guitar owned by an adult. It is much less likely that a mature person, who has spent his/her own money, will abuse their guitar. Often they look brand new. The other advantage to buying used is, if you should decide to stop playing and sell your used guitar, you will likely be able to sell it for about what you paid. Absolutely do not buy from a teenager, the vast majority do not know how to take care of a guitar. (Sorry teens)

,, Look online for prices, but buy in a local music store. Sometimes local music stores will compete with online store pricing. So don't be afraid to ask if you see the same instrument in a store that was cheaper online. Shipping will be a factor due to size and weight, but shouldn't be much. Buy locally, the store employees can be a big help when buying and after you bought as well. .

