 Knowing people in your community is a great way to start learning what you can do to help. In order to get to know a community even better, start building your network by getting out and meeting people. Go to local events, frequent local coffee shops, and get to know your neighbors. The more people you know in your community, the better.


To break the ice with your neighbors, bake some muffins or cookies and wrap them up. Then take them door to door and introduce yourself. This will make it easier to strike up a conversation with a neighbor or invite them to your home for dinner.
 Before you can help your community, you should take time to do a bit of research and find out what the community needs. This step is especially important if you are new to the community or if you have not been very involved in the past. Maybe there's a river flowing through your city that's so polluted no one can swim there. Maybe the schools in your community need more resources to buy books and computer equipment. Maybe the homeless population in your community needs assistance. Whatever it is, figure out what needs to be addressed where you live.


Use the internet to run some basic searches to find out what your community needs. Try pairing the name of your city with key terms like “community needs,” “volunteer opportunities,” and “problems.” Try other keyword searches to find out more.
Read the local newspaper every day. The local newspaper will help you to get to know the community and learn what people are doing to address problems.
Talk to people who have lived in the community for a long time. Ask questions, such as, “What is the biggest problem facing this community? How are people addressing that problem?”Try not to get overwhelmed by the size and scope of the problems your community is facing. Pick one thing that you care about changing, one thing that ignites your passion, and go from there.
See if anyone else feels the same way you do. Is there an organization addressing this need? Do you know anyone who's as passionate as you are about creating change?

, Find out as much as you can about local non-profit organizations and charities. Visit their webpages and find out what they do, who they serve, why they do it, how they are funded, and what types of volunteer opportunities they have available. Keep track of organizations that you’d like to get involved with at some point. Websites like Idealist, Volunteer Match, and Serve.gov can also help you to find out about organizations that are looking for volunteers.
 Once you have taken time to learn about your community, start identifying ways that you can help. Think back to what you have learned about the community, your interactions with people, and the needs organizations in the community. Male sure to ask yourself some questions before you get started.


What community issue are you the most passionate about?
What can you do to help that will best use your talents?
What sort of time commitment are you able and willing to make?
What do you need to do in order to start helping?

