 You will want to go here to chat with a Customer Care representative. They will have the authority to make the changes you need or provide alternative instructions where necessary.
 Most web pages have a series of links at the bottom of the page such as "About us" or "Careers". Within this series of links (almost like fine print) you will find a "Contact us" link. This link will provide you with the most up to date methods of contacting Western Union.


If you are using a cell phone or tablet the webpage may be different. If you cannot find a "Contact us" link, try viewing the full version of the website on a desktop. You may see a link at the bottom reading "View full site".
 When you call, you will be able to speak with a Customer Care agent in your area. There may be a queue and you may need to wait for an available representative. Be sure to have everything you used to process your money transfer and the receipt. This will speed up processing the request.


If the phone number looks odd, it may not be appropriate for your country. You may need to check that the Western Union website is the website the company uses for your country by inspecting the internet address (e.g., in the UK, ".com" is replaced by ".co.uk").
 This is a security feature. If you do not remember the number, refer back to your receipt. If you no longer have access to that number, you will not be able to update your money transfer over the phone. You will have to do so in person.
 Most likely they will want to know your full name, email address, telephone number, recipient's name, and the Money Transfer Control Number (MTCN). Most of this will already be on your receipt or copy of the transfer form.
 After authenticating your identity, you may ask them to change your money transfer request. Certain elements may not be changed depending on their security protocols. You may need to ask for a refund and create a new money transfer. If they are not accepting money transfer requests over the phone, you may need to go online or to a local agency to complete the request.


Contact the recipient of the money transfer. Let them know changes are being made. These changes may tie up the money transfer for a short time while systems are updated.

