 Before you start inking stamps with markers, select the right markers for your needs. The type of markers you use depend on what kind of image you're trying to create.If you're trying for a water colored effect, go for water-based markers. These will fade together slightly, creating a blurred water color effect.
If you're trying layer, or create a permanent effect on a variety of surfaces, go for alcohol and solvent based colors.
Embossing markers work very well for coloring stamps. They come out very bright, but do take a long time to dry.;
, Before you begin stamping, especially if you're using brand new stamps, you should prepare your stamps for inking. Take a sanding block and very gently scrub it across the stamp. This will rough up the edges of the stamp slightly so it will better take the ink., In addition to using water-based markers, spritzing your stamps lightly before inking them can help with the water colored effect. If you want a strong water color effect, take a small spray bottle filled with water. Spritz your stamps lightly before you get to work on inking them., You should use markers with a brush tip on one end. Using light, swiping motions, color directly on the stamp with the brush tip.Color in the parts of the stamp you want to show up on the paper. If you, for example, don't want the outlines of the image to show up, avoid coloring them.
Keep your hands steady, especially if you're using more than one color, so colors do not bleed together.
 Multiple colors can make for a striking stamped image. Switch up colors as needed to create the desired effect. For example, say you're coloring in a flower. You can use green on the leaves and then white on the petals.Again, you want to keep your hands as steady as possible. You want the separate to be distinct when you use your stamp.
 As markers are not as moist as conventional ink, you'll need to breathe on the stamp slightly to moisten the ink so it sticks on the page. Hold the stamp a little away from your mouth and huff on it several times., Take the paper or object where you're stamping the image. Press the stamp down on the surface, using a little force. Gently pull the stamp away. Your image should be transferred to your chosen surface., You're unlikely to get the exact shape you want the first time. As with anything, it takes a little experimentation. If you don't like the image you produced, gently wash off the stamp in water. Allow it to dry and experiment with other marker types and colors., Marker can dry much faster than ink. Therefore, work as quickly as you can while still keeping steady. You want to make sure the marker ink remains wet so you can successfully transfer your image to a page.As it takes awhile to get a hang of coloring your stamps, you may smudge your colors the first few times as you try to work fast. You may have to experiment several times before you get the precise image you want, so be patient.
 Once you've stamped your chosen surface, allow it to dry. Do not touch the image until the marker ink has dried. Times will vary depending on the type of markers you use., You should never use permanent markers on stamps. This can affect their color long term, preventing you from reusing your stamps in the future.