 Therefore, it's best that you don't get too serious during those weeks. If you ever do see the girl again, it probably won't be for another year unless if special arrangements are made. Remember that asking a girl at camp to be your "girl friend" can be not only considered immature, but foolish and perhaps a little offensive. Developing a good connection with this girl and taking things slowly is more probable, reasonable, and mature. After all, it's best that you find out as much as you can about her over a long period of time rather than getting her basic information in order to accelerate the process of her becoming your girlfriend. Not only is it less likely she will agree if you move quickly, but it will also cause a distant relationship of not knowing her very well other than surface details. Don't walk into camp with the mindset that being speedy will get you further.;
, Make sure she has similar interests to you and that you think you will be able to carry on a good conversation with her one on one.
 Try to join conversations that discuss the girl you've chosen and find out as much as possible about her using the information you overhear, but don't eavesdrop. If you happen to overhear a private conversation. Listen politely and subtly, but stop listening at the appropriate times. Although people might not be aware that someone else is listening into their conversation, you know what you're doing, and you should respect their privacy, no matter how juicy the gossip may be.
 If you catch any of them glancing at you often, but they suddenly look away when you make eye contact, make a note to yourself about a possible match. This means she may be physically attracted to you, although she doesn't know you yet. It could be a sign of a possible relationship with her if you take the right steps in the right direction with this.


Never automatically assume that you'll have an easy time building relationships. Relationships may have their own struggles getting started, and they have the tendency to be delicate and easily fragile. Take things slowly while remembering that you only have till the end of summer camp to nurture this relationship till it blooms successfully.
 Go through each one's personality and pick at least five girls that may make a good match. Once you've selected your five, dig a little deeper and obtain a little more information about them by either asking around, politely listening into conversations at appropriate times (ex: during lunch), or personally talking to them. Then, you can compare all those personalities and bits of information to narrow it down to one girl you'll be focusing on till the end of summer camp.


If you're bold and confident in conversations with girls, talk to the girls yourself. This gives you an advantage because you'll be able to obtain your information from a reliable source - the girl herself - and you'll be able to ask additional questions that may help you narrow the choices down to one. Also, by starting a friendly conversation with the girls, you will have planted the seed for a relationship, and you won't be stuck with the troubles of introducing yourself while trying not to sound awkward.
If you're on the shy side with little or no confidence in conversations with girls, don't feel forced to talk to the girls yourself. Although your sources may be a little unsteady, gain information by asking other people who may know the girls. You can listen to conversations that happen to pass by you when you're around, and you may gain some valuable information. By doing this, you'll avoid talking to all the girls personally, and you may save some time, depending on how long it takes you to get enough information for you to decide which girl you want to be your girlfriend.
 Start as many friendly conversations with her as you like without being too annoying or clingy. Obtain as much information about her as possible during those conversations while nurturing your new friendship with her. Once you two have grown comfortable with each other and are close enough friends, flirt a little with her. However, keep it to an appropriate and low level - nothing too serious yet - or you may scare her off. The appropriate level of flirting will demonstrate that you have an attraction to her, and it also may confirm that she is attracted to you as well.


Keep an eye on her body language during your conversations with her. If she appears comfortable, eager to continue the conversation, and/or very responsive, those may be signs that she likes you. However, if she appears to be uncomfortable, eager to get away, and/or unresponsive, those may be signs that she doesn't like you.

Keep in mind that body language is not entirely stable enough for you to use as evidence to prove whether she likes you or not. Use it to help you a little, but you should never completely use it.


Make note of any times that she touches you for no reason or makes up excuses to touch you (ex: She touches your arm while laughing at a joke you just cracked). Also, watch her posture. Arms crossed across her chest may mean she doesn't like you, but remember it could also just be a habit of hers.

Keep in mind that her posture and the direction her feet are pointing in are not reliable enough for you to figure out whether she likes you or not. While they may be bonus points/extra information you could extract, they are not complete evidence.


Listen carefully to her responses towards your questions and/or contributions towards a conversation. If she answers willingly and her voice reveals eagerness and has no hints of boredom or disgust in it, those may be signs that she enjoys your company. However, if her answers are vague, and she seems reluctant to continue the conversation with you, those may be signs that she doesn't enjoy your company.
 This will hint to her that you're pleased with her and you have a possible attraction towards her. Also, it shows that you're open for a conversation with her. Bonus points for you if she smiles back and/or blushes. If she doesn't smile or blush, don't worry about it - she may be shy.
 Note whether most of the information is positive or not. If most of it falls on the positive side, you have a chance. If not, you may not have a chance. However, remember that this information is just extra proof and not the actual main part of the evidence. You shouldn't thoroughly rely on this, although the information could hint whether she likes you or not.
 If not, nurture it a little longer before pushing forward with this. However, keep in mind that you have a limited amount of time to make your move before it's too late. Although you may feel shy and a little nervous about this, remember that a lot of other boys have gone through this just like you, and you shouldn't let your fear take away your chance to be with her. If you're feeling uncertain about this, ask yourself this question: "Why did you go this far with her only to turn back?"


Remember that if you never take a chance, be brave, and ask her whether she likes you or not, you'll never know the end results. They could be the exact opposite of what you expected or they could be exactly what you thought it would be. You never know till you try.
Tell yourself that you have twenty seconds of crazy courage to get through this. Use those seconds wisely and push through it. You'll be surprised at how brave you were to do this.
It's fine to be nervous and a little afraid about asking her whether she likes you or not, but it's not okay to let the fear completely take control of you and restrain you from doing what you want. A lot of people are afraid like you when it comes to this point, but not all of them make it through. Why? Because they let their fear tell them what to do. Prove yourself and show that you're not afraid by doing this!
Even if the girl rejects you, you should be proud of yourself for having enough courage to ask her. That is already a huge accomplishment, and you should gain confidence and knowledge through this. You have come so far, and you should be glad you were the one to lead this relationship through the journey the whole way.
 If you two aren't already alone, ask her if you can talk to her in a secluded area, but make sure she is comfortable with it so that she knows you aren't going to violate her. Admit to her that you have feelings for her. Then, ask her if she feels the same way about you, but add that if she doesn't, it's fine and you two can still be friends if it's fine with her.


If she admits that she holds feelings for you as well, ask her if she wants to be your girl friend.

If she accepts, congratulations! You've achieved your goal, but remember that the journey isn't over. You still have a long way to go if you want to do your best at getting this relationship to grow beautifully. Give it your very best and put her first. Don't cheat on her or do anything to make her upset. Respect her.
If she declines, she may not be ready to take things so seriously yet, despite the fact that she may have feelings for you. This is understandable, and make sure she knows that you understand and respect her decision. Don't be upset, but kindly let her know that you can wait till she is ready. This will make her look up to you, and she may admire you even more for being so mature. Once this is over, know that you two like each other and fulfill your promise: wait for her to be ready.


If she doesn't like you, it's fine. Take it easy and don't lose your control. Tell her that it's okay, and you would still like to be friends with her if it's fine with her. Don't immediately dump her and run after another girl with desperateness because that shows her you are immature and she was even more right in not liking you. Be a good friend towards her and treat her with good respect. She might change her mind in the end and find that she actually holds feelings for you. There's still a possible chance.
