 Cut it out, using scissors. Draw three horizontal lines across the rectangle, splitting it into three 1 1⁄4 inch (3.2 cm) pieces and one 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) piece.








Note that you'll need to make it this size to fit your paper towel roll.
To make these lines easier to fold later, you may wish to measure and trace these lines in marker first, then use a paper cutter or box cutter to lightly score these lines into the plastic. Do not cut completely through the plastic, however.;
, The quarter-inch strip should stay on the outside and act as a flap. Tape the strip along the edge using transparent tape, so the triangle hold its shape.
 Cut a paper towel roll down to 8 inches, the same size as your triangle. Slide the plastic triangle into the paper towel roll. To create your peephole, turn the paper towel tube on one end, standing straight up. Trace a circle around it on black construction or contact paper. Then, poke a hole through the center of the circle, using scissors or a sharp pencil, and making it large enough so you can see through it. Tape the circle over one end of the tube.








If you'd like, make the circle a little bit bigger. You can then cut tiny slits along the edges so the circle lies flat on the end. Then you have some wiggle room to work with and won't have tape on the visible part of your kaleidoscope.
And if there is tape that's visible, you can always cover it in glitter.
 Place the square of plastic wrap over the other end of the tube. Use your fingers to poke it down into the plastic triangle, until it forms a little pouch.
 Anything small and shiny will do the trick, but translucent objects are best. You also want different shapes and sizes. Your kaleidoscope won't be shoved in a drawer anytime soon if there's infinite variations as to what can be seen!








If this doesn't end up looking like you want it to look, you can always go back into your kaleidoscope and make adjustments!

, Place a four-inch square of waxed paper over the pouch and around the cardboard tube, sealing in the beads and sequins. Stretch a rubber band over both the waxed paper and the plastic wrap. Make sure it’s on tight so nothing spills out!









Trim the corners of the squares. This will make the kaleidoscope look neater. You can replace the rubber band with some sticky tape, if you like.
 You can use stickers, wrapping paper, contact paper (just be diligent in bubble prevention!), or construction paper. Some contact paper looks like wood, metal, or gold. But why stop at paper? You could add glitter or sequins on the outside, too!







, Hold the tube up to one eye, facing the light, and look through it. Turn it slowly -- what happens? It's your own light show! The light is bouncing back and forth against your report cover, creating this constantly changing display in front of your very eyes.








Take it away from your eye for a second, give it a quick, gentle shake, and put it back up to your eye. Just how different is what you're seeing? What happens if you do it again? Can you recreate anything?

