 This clay doesn’t require any sort of baking or firing, and will harden into the final product as it dries out of the package. You will need enough clay to cover the surface area of the pumpkin you wish to create, as well as enough to create a stem.Because you probably won’t be able to find mass amounts of orange clay, you can purchase white clay and use paint to color it accordingly.;
, This will be used twice for this project. Unless you have orange clay handy, you will probably be working with white polymer clay. To create the orange color for the pumpkin and the brown color for the stem, you will need to dye the clay with acrylic paint. Additionally, after the clay dries, you can add more color and detailing to your pumpkin (and stem) by painting it again with acrylic paint.Don’t forget to purchase a few paintbrushes, if you don’t have any.
 You probably already have these at home, and you’ll need them for this project. Look for heavy-duty paper like a paper bag. This will be used to create the form of the pumpkin. You will need enough foil and plastic wrap to cover the surface of the pumpkin, whatever size you choose to make it., You will be creating the pumpkins and stems separately. This makes them easier to mold and paint. You will need some glue to attach the stem to the pumpkin, and you want it to be a sturdy bond. Mixed media glue works well for this.Your local craft store will have some. If you’re not sure if a glue will work to attach polymer clay together, ask!

, To make sure your beautiful, homemade pumpkin holds up, you’ll want to seal it. While the acrylic paint will be pretty durable, it can be good to add a second coat of protection if these decorations are going to be put in storage for part of the year. For this project, you’ll need to purchase a polyurethane varnish, which works well on polymer clay projects.Depending on the look you want for your pumpkins, you can choose sealants with a matte or shiny finish.
 Making the entire pumpkin out of one dense ball of polymer clay would require a lot of clay. Instead, you’re going to create the form of the pumpkin with your paper! Roll a couple of pieces or strips of your paper into a ball about the size that you want your pumpkin.Don’t worry – it doesn’t have to look perfect. Just get the paper rolled up as best you can!

, The paper ball will start unraveling the moment you take your hands off of it. The aluminum foil will hold it in shape. Once you’ve molded a piece of aluminum foil around your paper ball, you can start to mold it into more of a pumpkin shape. This is the pumpkin form that will create the base of your clay project.The great thing about pumpkins is that they’re naturally bumpy, so don’t worry about trying to make it perfectly smooth.
 It’s important to not start working with the clay until you’re ready to use it, because no bake polymer clay will start slowly drying out once it’s out of the package. Grab as much as you think you will need to cover your pumpkin form. Warm it up by kneading it in your hands, and then add a few drops of the orange acrylic paint into the clay. Then, continue kneading until the paint has mixed into the white clay and you’re left with orange clay. The more orange paint you add, the darker orange your clay will be.Your hands will get a bit messy during this step. If you want to use gloves you certainly can. Otherwise, you can clean your hands when you’re finished with a bit of soap and water., After you’ve gotten your clay to a shade of orange you’re happy with, it’s time to roll it out. You can use a rolling pin for this step, or any cylindrical object with a smooth surface. Place your clay on the surface you’re working on, and use your rolling tool to stretch and flatten it out. Continue going until you’ve created a flat piece of clay large enough to cover the pumpkin form you created.Don’t roll the clay paper thin, or it could break or tear as you wrap it around the pumpkin form.
 Place the center of your clay slab on the top of the pumpkin. Then, carefully fold and wrap the sides over the rest of the pumpkin, making sure everything is fully covered. Once you’re satisfied with the placement, begin smoothing it out. Blend the places where edges of clay meet, being careful not to tear the clay.No bake polymer clay can start to get dry as you work with it. Keep a small cup of water at your workstation so you can wet your fingers while you work with the clay.
 Take a new piece of polymer clay out of the package, and repeat the dying process to make it brown. Then, roll out three pieces of the brown clay along your flat, creating tubes or strands of clay. Cut the tubes into small sections, whatever length you want your pumpkin stem to be.Once you’ve created your pieces, grab three or four of them and gently press them together.
Gently knead and roll the pieces together so that they dry together, but still have the appearance of distinct strands of clay stuck together. This will create the dimensional, ridged look of a real pumpkin stem.
Flatten the stem at the end, where it will attach to your pumpkin.
 Once you have wrapped your clay around the form and you’re satisfied with how it looks, it’s time to add the ridges and grooves. However, you want to make sure that you don’t tear the clay, which would expose the aluminum foil, and you don’t want pieces of clay to get stuck to your tools. To avoid this, wrap the pumpkin in plastic wrap. Now, you can add your texture details with less chance of clay getting stuck or ripping., Real pumpkins aren’t smooth, so this is an important step to make it look realistic. You can use anything from a pencil to a dull knife to add these details. Start from the top of our pumpkin and bring your tool all the way to the bottom, creating long vertical lines. You can add as many as you like, but remember, the clay will start drying so it’s important to work efficiently. You will not be able to change the shape of the clay later., After you've created the ridges and you're satisfied with the texture of the sides of the pumpkin, you'll need to add a bit of detail to the top. The stem will need a flat surface to be glued to. Using your fingers, gently press down on the top to form a little indent that will fit the stem. Place the stem to the top of the pumpkin to ensure it fits properly.
 If you are satisfied with the colors of your clay after it has dried, you can skip this step. However, some people like to touch up their clay with a fresh coat of paint or a little bit of detailing. Grab your acrylic paints and your brushes, and start painting however you want. You can use a light orange around the entire pumpkin and fill in the ridges with a darker shade of orange, or you can keep everything one color. You can paint the stem brown or add a bit of green. This part is totally up to you, so get creative!


Remember, the paint doesn’t need to be perfect and even. Pumpkins are naturally textured and different colors, so embrace a little bit of mess.
 It will feel dry to the touch pretty soon after painting, but it’s best to let it sit overnight. The surface of the paint will dry faster than the full coat, so play it safe and give it some extra time. You don’t want to risk messing any of your painting up by handling it too soon., Once your paint is completely dry, it’s time to attach your stem to your pumpkin. The easiest way to do this is by adding a dollop of your mixed media glue to the top of your pumpkin. Then, press your stem firmly into the glue, adjusting it until you’re satisfied with its position. Wipe off any excess glue.Give the glue a couple of hours to dry. Even after the glue is dry, avoid picking up your pumpkins by the stems, just to be safe.
 You can do this before the glue is dry. Applying the sealant is the final touch, and it will blend your stem and pumpkin together by adding one, cohesive finish. It will also protect your pumpkins from any wear and tear. Spray over the entire pumpkin and stem, and let them dry overnight. Now, it’s time to find a spot in your home for your gorgeous homemade pumpkins!