 Temperatures throughout the country start to rise, so it's necessary to have the proper clothing and accessories. Light colored cotton shirts tend to "breathe" better than other fabric, such as polyester, and thus creates a better blood flow.;
, Even if you are on a walk around the neighborhood, the sun rays always impact your skin. Be sure to apply SPF 15 sunscreen prior to going outside. Waterproof sunscreen helps when going in the pool or ocean.
 Knowing how low or high the UV rays for the day before going out is important. The higher the level, the higher the risk of health problems and skin cancer.
 People do get sunburned on their scalp, foreheads, and the back of the neck. Keep yourself covered and safe with them.
 Every type of footwear is acceptable in different places and activities. For the great outdoors, it's always good to have a flexible, closed-toe pair of sneakers or hiking boots.
 Make sure you have a water bottle or a sports drink with electrolytes handy. Avoid drinking when you're thirsty, but use it as a motivation to consume non-caffeinated drinks.
 Fruits such as mangoes, grapes, and strawberries are excellent frozen snacks. Pack them in a Tupperware container and take it with you on your journey.
 Instead of giving your child white bread for sandwiches, offer wheat bread. Give them a small plastic bag of trail mix or granola on walks.
 Make sure that you find activities suitable for their ages, whether you have a toddler or an elementary school kid.


Beaches
Short hikes with minimum ascending
Fishing or boating trips

, Allow yourself to become familiarized with any maps of the trails, how high a trail goes on a hill or mountain, what are the best times of the day, etc.
 Before the temperatures rise even more in July, take this chance to settle yourself outside for a few days. Camping is one of the best ways to interact with nature and spend quality time in the great outdoors.
 Take advantage of any free-waiver or free admission days in June to see the natural beauty of your state.
 This is a great way for not only family, but friends as well, to get together outdoors. Always be sure to use disposable plates and utensils, even for a backyard barbecue, so that cleanups are easy to handle.
 Many vegetables are well suited to be planted in the Spring, depending on the climate. Make this a family activity, so that kids can enjoy eating what they have grown over the summer.
 Bring an extra plastic or trash bag for a trash disposal. Never litter or toss trash on the side of the road. Keep the bag with you as you leave and dispose it properly.
 If you are at a campsite and used a burner or concrete grill, make sure it's clean for the next person to enjoy. Cover up any tent nail indentations in the dirt when packing things up.
 While you are hiking, it may be enjoyable to collect nature along the way. Take pictures of everything instead and enjoy the memories.
 Never use shortcuts, as you may hurt the wildlife and area by breaking branches or stepping on grass or flowers that may have an imprint for quite some time.
 If you're wanting to make a campfire, never break branches from trees, but try to find dead branches from the ground.

