 Moisture on the leaves is an invitation for mold and fungus, which can severely damage your plants if you're not careful. When watering, aim low and soak the soil, ignoring the leaves. They will get wet sometimes, most noticeably when it rains, but this is okay. The point is not to keep the leaves completely dry, just not to get them wet if you don't need to.
 This material needs to decompose, which brings in all sorts of molds and fungus. To keep the plants safe, make sure to pick out dead foliage from along the garden bed., If you're going to use the roses, don't spray them down with chemicals. However, if they are purely decorative, a fungus spray is often a good idea to keep them clean and beautiful. You can also get "dormant sprays" that will work throughout the winter -- a good choice right before you pack the plants up for the cold.Anti-fungals are especially important during cool, wet periods of weather. If you see black spots on the leaves or a light gray, powdery, fuzzy mold anywhere, spray an anti-fungal immediately.
Good air flow and full sunlight are the most effective antifungals, so be wary when these conditions disappear due to the weather.
 The Japanese beetle is the scourge of many rose bushes, and they can eat away an entire plant in just a few days if left unchecked. As soon as you see one, examine and clean the whole plant before they attract more. Luckily, they are easy to spot and deal with, especially if you catch the infestation early. However, for serious cases where plucking by hand is impossible, an insecticide with carbaryl, permethrin, or neem in it should do the trick.


Organic pesticides (with neem) and soaps will kill the beetles effectively. They will not, however, provide ongoing protection.
Japanese beetles are big, black bugs with pointed backsides and thick, ridged wings., These little insects will slowly chow down on your beautiful roses, but they're too weak to handle the blast of a hose. Try to spray them down on a warm, sunny day, allowing the water to evaporate quickly. For difficult or recurring infestations, a standard garden insecticide should do the trick.


The insects can be multiple colors, but most remember lice -- small, round, and numerous.
Flowers like marigolds, sunflowers, daisies, and dill attract insects that eat aphids, bringing in a natural defense system., Marigolds are another good option, and some intrepid gardeners have found that human or dog hair in the garden area discourages deer. The scent of lavender, in general, discourages animals from browsing or grazing on your lovely roses.