 You can do this in an electric mixer or in a food processor fitted with whisks. It will take about 2 minutes. The butter 'must be at room temperature.
 There should be no streaks of broken egg yolk in the mixture.When you are done, set the mixture aside.
 To prevent your cookies from turning out too dry and crumbly, you must measure out the flour accurately. Do not scoop it up out of the bag. Instead, use a spoon to transfer the flour into the measuring cup, and use a knife to level it off., Set your mixer to the slowest speed possible, then add the flour mixture 1 cup (100 grammes) at a time.
 Cover a baking sheet with a sheet of parchment paper. Roll out a ball of dough into ⅛ to ¼-inch (3 to 6 millimetres) thickness, then cover it with another sheet of parchment paper. Repeat this step for the second ball of dough, using another baking sheet if necessary., You need to refrigerate the dough so that it will be nice and firm when you go to cut it. Once the hour is almost up, start preheating your oven so that it will be ready by the time you finish cutting your cookies.
 When you are ready to start baking your cookies, take the baking sheets out of the fridge, and transfer the rolled out dough to a cutting board. Cut the cookies out as closely together as possible.


You can ball up the scraps and roll them out to make more cookies. If the dough gets too warm, place a cold baking sheet on top of it for 10 minutes before continuing.,, The longer you bake them, the crispier they will become. If you prefer your cookies to be softer, bake them for 8 to 9 minutes. If you light them to be crispier, bake them for 10 to 12 minutes instead.If you have any leftover dough, you can start rolling and cutting it now while the first batch of cookies is baking.
 If you are making more cookies, you can start baking them now while the first batch is cooling off.
 You can decorate them with Royal icing or with glacé icing made from powdered sugar and water. A delicious finishing touch could be a dip in some warm melted chocolate for a gorgeous flavour.

