 Many full-service e-commerce websites include customer relationship management and newsletter functions. You may need to upgrade to a new type of account in order to use the emails in your list.


There are a few occasions where someone would need to build an email list without having a website. If this is the case, try to partner with another organization that can host information about you. Emails should be connected to a website so that they can attract new business and repeat customers directly to a site or service.;
, If you need to send marketing emails to your email list, then a mail service like Constant Contact, Mail Chimp or Vertical Response can help you design emails and manage your list.


Mail Chimp has a free email marketing account for people who send to very few email addresses. You may need to sign up for a paid account as your email grows. Constant Contact and Vertical Response charge based on a monthly fee and/or per email sent.
 Now that you know how many people you currently have, you can begin to grow that number.
 This means that you can control the content on the website and make it accessible to people who have started an account on your site.
 Make a monthly newsletter that tells potential customers something that they may want to share on social media or with their friends. Include social media links and a “Forward to a Friend” button on your HTML email program, such as Mail Chimp.Try a tutorial, expert tips or industry trend information. Ask experts in your company to craft these emails.
 The best way to increase an email list is to create quality content that is only accessible by people who have an account. The customer will give you their email in exchange for free, valuable content.


Create a landing page on which you can capture users and sign up new accounts. Once the account is created, the landing page should lead to the content. You may need to enlist the services of a web programmer to do this.
Valuable website content may be in the form of an eBook, video, tutorial, free template or free download.
Announce the free content offer on social media sites, your website, monthly emails, in print ads and in Google ads or other links.
 Start a Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest and/or Instagram account. Share your valuable content and lead people to the landing page on your website.
 Your email program may provide you with a coded button that will allow people to enter their emails to sign up for your list. If you are sending out valuable content, new people will want to join your list., Create a landing page where people can enter the contest by providing their email. Make sure you have a valuable prize and that you follow contest legal guidelines that are dictated by state commerce agencies.
 You must keep a schedule of sending valuable information to your email list in order to keep the list growing. Once you are set up to capture emails through your website, social media accounts and email management program, you can move on to more advanced list-building strategies.
 Offer to give their subscribers a special offer in exchange for sending out an email recommending you to their list. You can also offer the business itself a service in exchange for your recommendation.


Include an offer or content for anyone who joins your list via this link. The partner’s emails should include a special coded link to your website so that you can track the efficacy of this promotion.
Use a program like Google Analytics to see who clicks on links and to track campaigns.
You can also start an affiliate program with other websites. You can split a percentage of the profits from a sale with the affiliate who recommends the person to you.
 Ask people to write down their email in exchange for a coupon. Upload these emails to your email management program or website.


Compartmentalize your list into different sources. Then, you can send a welcome email and tailor your emails to them specifically, as well as emailing your entire list.
 Give people a free ticket when they sign up with their email address. Place a sign up list at the event to garner even more addresses.
 Make entrants sign up with their name and email.
 You will be surprised at how many people are willing to give their email address when asked.
 Ask customers to refer friends by entering their emails in order to receive a valuable gift or credit. Have a web programmer create a landing page that allows people to enter between one and five new email addresses, which will send invitations to these people to join the list and receive a coupon.

