 To use the app, you will need a TWC ID. On a browser, whether on an Android device or on a computer, visit the Time Warner Cable website and register an account.;
, Scroll down the page a bit until you find the heading “Need Help?” at the right side. Click the “Manage My Account / Pay My Bill” option just under the heading and you will be redirected to the login page.


Next to the “Sign in” button you’ll find “Don’t have TWC ID? Register here.” Click the “Register here” link to access the registration page.
 There are two fields that you need to fill in the first registration page, your ZIP code and your phone number. When you’re done, click “Continue.” This helps the site accurately identify your TWC service subscription.


In case there are multiple accounts for the same phone number, you will have to enter the digits in the portion highlighted in the example image on the next page. Click the blue “Continue” button on the lower right side to proceed.
 There are multiple options you can choose to verify your personal information with the TWC site. Click on the drop-down box below “Select an Option” to choose the form of verification. These include your Customer Code, the last 4-digits of your credit card number, driver’s license, or social security number.


After selecting a verification option, enter the required digits in the text field directly below the “Select an Option” drop-down menu.
 You should be at the third step on the web page, denoted by the numbering in the bar below “Register for a TWC ID.” Enter a valid email address into the Email address field. Additionally, you can check the “Use email as my username” to automatically set the email address you registered with as the username for your TWC ID. Next, enter your desired username if you opted not to check the “Use email as my username” box.


After that, enter the password that you wish to use to log into your TWC ID. The password must be between 5 and 6 characters long, use only special characters used in email addresses, must not contain spaces, and cannot contain objectionable words. You will need to enter the password again in the field below to confirm that the password has been entered correctly.
Check the box at the bottom most of the page to accept the Terms of Use. Click the blue “Terms of Use” link beside the box to see the full document if you want. Click the “Continue” button to proceed.
 You must now set security questions in case you need to recover your account. You must choose two questions, each with their respective drop-down boxes and answer text fields. Choose a question by clicking on the drop-down menu, and then type the answer at its bottom answer text field.
 This will finish the registration and create your account.
 You should be greeted by a login screen.
 The app should then log you in, showing you the main menu where you can begin looking for shows.
 Tap the “Live TV” tab at the top of the main screen. The left panel should show you sorting methods for the categories of shows to watch, such as News, Sports, and other entertainment categories, like cooking shows. Tap on a category or sorting method to locate the channel you want to watch. When you find it, tap on the channel to begin streaming live TV to your tablet.


The show will begin streaming in full screen, but does not have a playback bar like normal TV.
Change the channel by swiping from the left and choosing another channel in the categories menu.
 You can bring up the list of shows you can watch on demand by tapping the “On-Demand” tab at the top of the screen on tablets, or at the bottom of the screen for Android phones.
 A list of shows should greet you in gallery view, displaying their posters and names. Tap on a show you wish to watch.
 A description page should come up, telling you about the show, its current season, as well as an episode list on the bottom of the window that you can scroll through to choose the one you want to watch. Tap the “Watch Now” button next to the episode number to begin streaming the show.


The episode should then play in full screen, with a progress bar and playback controls on the bottom of the screen on both tablets and phones.

