 If you want to observe the planets with your naked eye, timing is key. The best time to look for planets is roughly 45 minutes before sunrise. Depending on the time of year and your location, the precise timing of sunrise will vary. You may want to spend a few days tracking sunrise before attempting to observe the planets so you'll know a good time to go out., You will want to choose a location where you can look in the rough direction of the sunrise. This means there should be no buildings, trees, or other landmarks blocking your view.If you live in a rural area, it should be fairly easy to find a location free of obstruction. However, make sure you watch out for larger trees as these can block your view of the planets.
If you live in an urban area, you can try standing on a large structure like a rooftop or parking garage. This can allow you to see over the buildings to observe the planets.
 While the planets generally fall near the sunrise and their order remains the same, their precise location changes by season. You may have to look farther east some times of the year to properly see the planets. You can purchase a star map or star atlas at a bookstore, which will provide you with varying maps of the skyline by season and location. You can also find star maps online, many of which will be calibrated to the current season and your location. It's a good idea to review a star map before you set out to view the planets., Venus will the easiest planet to find with the naked eye as it's by far the brightest. Jupiter is the second brightest, so it will also be fairly easy to locate. If you look slightly to the south of the sun, you should see what looks like an abnormally bright star in the sky. This is actually Venus. If you look slightly farther south, you should see another bright star. This is Jupiter.The location of Venus and Jupiter will change by season, and it may be easier to find in the months of January and February. Consult your star map to calibrate for your time of year.
 Mercury is the planet closest to the sun. If you look slightly to the lower left of Venus, you will see another brighter star in the sky. This is Mercury.Mercury can be particularly hard to find as it's not as bright as the other planets. Mercury sometimes hides behind twilight or clouds. Unfortunately, if the sky is not clear you may not be able to locate Mercury with the naked eye.
 Saturn and Mars will be located between Venus and Jupiter. They may not always be visible to the naked eye. In the months of February and January, they may be easier to spot. Saturn will be closer to Venus, while Mars will be closer to Jupiter.You can use color to find Saturn and Mars. Saturn will have a yellowish glow that distinguishes it from other stars. Mars will appear rusty or reddish in color.
Keep in mind it's difficult to find Saturn and Mars during certain times of the year. Sometimes, they may not be visible with the naked eye at all. Consult your star map before going out to see if it's possible to find Saturn and Mars that morning.

