 One reason your hamster's eye may be watery or closed is that something is stuck in the eye. If this is the case, there won't be any crust present holding the eye closed, so you can gently open your hamster's eye and look. If there is dust or sand in the eye, you can use a Q-tip or similar, dipped in lukewarm water to gently remove the debris. If an object has actually punctured the eye, don't try to remove it or you could cause further damage. Take your hamster to the vet as soon as possible., Animals, as well as humans, can contract conjunctivitis, commonly known as Pink Eye. The condition is usually not harmful to hamsters, but you should still see the vet to make sure your pet heals properly. Schedule a visit to the vet if your hamster exhibits the following symptoms.A watery eye discharge. This may become more pus-like as time goes on.
Sticky eyelids.
Swollen eyes.
Redness around the edge of the eyelids.
 It is possible for the eyeball to actually protrude from a hamster's head. It can occur from an infection or trauma. This is a serious condition that requires veterinary attention as soon as possible. Don't waste time if you see this condition in your hamster. The faster you get to the vet, the better the chances you can save the eyeball., You'll want to avoid hurting your hamster while cleaning out the eye. Being too rough while handling him for this procedure can cause injury that will require veterinary attention. Pick him up gently and don't start cleaning until he's settled down. Be sure the hamster is comfortable and has stopped struggling before you start cleaning out his eye.
 Either of these objects will work, as long as you use lukewarm water. Make sure the water isn't hot, or you could burn your hamster and cause damage to the eye. , You shouldn't abruptly pull the eye open. The crust associated with the sticky eye will be holding the eye shut, and pulling it apart can cause damage. Instead, you have to break down and soften the crust that is keeping the eye shut. You can do this by holding the wet cloth over your hamster's eye for a few minutes. This will help loosen up the eyelid. He may even be able to open his eye on his own after this without any further help. Try two minutes of this before taking any further action., After you've held the cloth over your hamster's eye for a few minutes, the crust should be soft and loose. Now you can gently brush it away from his eyelid without hurting him.If the crust doesn't come away easily, don't force it or you could hurt the hamster. Instead, go back to holding the cloth on the crust and let it loosen further.
 If a few minutes go by and your hamster is still unable to open his eye by himself, you'll have to open it manually. After wiping away the crust, it should be easy to open the eye. Gently pull the lids apart until your hamster is able to open his eye on his own.Remember to stop right away if you have any difficulty doing this. Go back to holding the cloth over the eye and wiping away crust, then try again.
 If you can't get the eye open or suspect that anything else may be wrong, don't hesitate to go to the vet. If there is a problem, catching it early is key for your hamster's health.
 If your hamster is prone to sticky eyes, you can prevent the problem with regular washing. Take a wet cloth and gently wipe around the eye to get rid of any fluid buildup. This will prevent crusting and help keep your hamster's eyes from getting stuck together. You should especially do this if your hamster is getting old since older hamsters are more prone to the problem.