 If they're bigger than you are, you'll need to cut down the edge and resew them to your size, but it'll still work! And any material will work, too. Jeans, slacks, khakis -- it's all good.
 Remember to leave 2" for a seam allowance or your skirt will be a bit shorter than you want it to be. Keep the part that's cut off (that is, the legs) -- that'll be what goes between the "legs" of your skirt, filling out the middle.
 Do it all the way around until 1/4" (.6 cm) below the crotch on both sides. You'll need your handy dandy seam ripper for this part. It'll take some time, so throw on your pajamas and the TV and get comfy.


This is the most tedious part. It's all downhill from here!

, All those exposed seams? They need to go away! Fold them under (1/2" or so) and pin them to the inside. Do this on both sides, all the way around. You should have a clean, streamlined "V" on both sides, even and mirroring each other.
 Don't skip this step! It may seem a bit unnecessary, but your material will be much, much easier to work with if it's flat and all the kinks are worked out. You'll also be able to see if your lines are straight and your angles are how you want them.
 Turn your skirt inside out and pin the pant leg (the one you cut off) all the way around, covering the "V." Cut it so it covers the entirety of the opening, pinning it in place so it doesn't go anywhere.


You'll need to do this for both sides, by the way, unless you want a crazy big (read: totally inappropriate) slit up the back (or front!) of your skirt.
 Go up both sides, sewing as close as possible to the edges where the fabrics meet. This can be done by hand, but will be much simpler with a sewing machine.
 Since you have that new cut at the bottom of your skirt (it's actually a skirt now!), you'll need to get it clean and looking pretty. Grab 1/2" (1.25 cm) of the edge of the fabric and tuck it under, creating a hem. Iron it down and sew (again, as close to the edge as possible), creating a nice, clean line.
 You probably have some extra fabric on the insides of your seams that can do to be cut off. After that, grab your iron one last time, and give 'er a final press. Tada! It may not be water into wine, but it's pretty dang nifty!

