 Before you decide to go through with a tummy tuck, talk to your doctor. You should go over your full medical history and bring any medications you are taking. If you want the tummy tuck because you lost a lot of weight in a short amount of time, be prepared to talk about your weight loss with your doctor.You should also tell your doctor what you want to look like after the procedure so they can best advise you.
If your doctor can't do the procedure, ask them to refer you to a doctor who can. This is a great way to find a good doctor without having to rely on things like online reviews.
 Because a tummy tuck is a surgery, it has some typical surgery risks: the incision can get infected and keep bleeding, or you could have a bad reaction to the anesthetic. There are also risks related directly to a tummy tuck, including scarring, fluid accumulation under your skin, or tissue necrosis, which is when tissue under your skin gets damaged or dies.Talk to your surgeon about your specific chance related to these risks.
 If you decide to go through with the tummy tuck, you'll need to do a few things to get ready. You should stop smoking, maintain your weight at the same level, and take any prep medications your doctor prescribes for you. You should also ask someone to be available to help you at home after your procedure., Your doctor will give you specific directions for taking care of your scar. You should also avoid moving or sitting in any way that will strain your scar for about six weeks. This usually means bending or twisting at the waist.

You'll also need regular check-ups with your doctor for a year after your procedure. Make sure you go to these appointments and mention any pain or uncomfortableness you experience., If going under the knife makes you nervous, there are other procedures you can try. In these types of procedures, your doctor will use lasers, radiofrequency waves, infrared light, or ultrasound waves. They all work by inflaming the collagen or elastin in your skin, making your skin look tighter.If you decide to go this route, make sure you see a doctor who has experience with this type of procedure.
Any of these procedures can feel quite painful, even after your doctor or nurse uses a topical anesthetic. Consider your tolerance for pain before you choose any of these procedures.
Non-surgical procedures are best if you only have a bit of loose skin - near your neck, for example. You probably won't get the results you want with a non-surgical procedure if you've got a lot of loose skin, especially around your stomach.

