 Over 10 million people in the US have a visual disability,6.5 million are over the age of 55, and even more blind and visually impaired people around the globe.All of them are either male or female and have different races, nationalities, ages, multiple disabilities, and different statuses. Many are employed and have jobs.Understanding that you're not the only one in the world who is blind or visually impaired can make it easy to cope with your visual loss.;
, Having a visual disability should not stop any of your passions, hobbies, or activities you enjoy doing and exploring. Even with your visual loss you can still attend family activities, travel around the world, and do volunteer work around your community. You may need to make a few adjustments to adapt with your visual disability, but even so, you can still be like any other sighted person and do the things you love to do., While there may be times you'll want a helping hand, there are ways you can still remain independent without your sight. Lots of devices and tools have been created to help blind and visually impaired people to do daily life tasks such as cooking your own meals, roaming around the house, doing basic hygiene, traveling, and paying your own bills.There are also lots of apps on smartphones and computers you can use that are made for the blind and visually impaired. You can still remain independent, you'll just need to learn how to do certain tasks on your own to adapt with your vision loss.
 If you're currently employed and have a job, know that you having a visual disability does not mean you need to quit or retire. With some adjustments and technical assistance, you can continue working and doing your job. Visit career sites for the blind and visually impaired and talk to your manager about you can work with your visual impairment., Knowing laws for yourself important and crucial, so you can ensure that you get the help and services they need. One of the most important laws in the US are the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Search up and research the laws in your area so you can understand your rights as a blind or visually impaired person.In the US, you can find the local and state legislators and learn how to reach their neighborhood offices. This can be really useful when you need to contact someone to confirm what your rights are under the law., If you can't accept yourself for having a visual disability, living and doing daily life tasks is going to be a harder journey for you. Understand that you aren't the only one in the world who has a visual disability and you were made this way. Your aren't worthless or meaningless because of your vision loss, you can still accomplish a lot of tasks, even more than a normal sighted person can if you try.
 Try to research and learn as much as possible about your eye condition so you can better understand it. Early intervention teachers and therapists, medical doctors, libraries, the Internet, eye care and low vision specialists, national organizations that serve people with visual impairments, and other people that have a visual disability are good sources you might want to consider from.Ask questions to your doctor about your eye condition, especially if you're still confused and need a better explanation about it.
Understand that it's normal to ask questions about your eye condition and it won't be considered 'silly' or 'weird'. Getting to understand your visual impairment will help you cope since you're able to understand yourself a little better.
 Visual loss can be major life event and can cause you to feel depressed, anxious, lonely, helpless, nervous, panicky, and even angry.Finding and attending adjustment classes and therapeutic counseling that focus on adjustment can help with your emotional health, and also get the resources needed., There are many tools for the blind and visually impaired to use to help cope with their disability. If you're visually impaired, you might find it a good idea to have telescopic glasses, lenses that can filter light, magnifying glasses, hand magnifiers, and reading prisms. You may also want to install certain software on your phone or compute to make texts easier to see, or to have voices say certain movements or actions aloud., Connecting with the blind and visually impaired community will help you get tips from people who are just like you. Meeting other blind/visually impaired people can help you recognize that your not alone, and that you can have an enjoyable, pleasant life.
 Introducing yourself to others who are blind and visually impaired will make you feel welcomed and important, and can be comforting. A friend with a visual disability can validate your feelings and understand the challenges you have to face. They can also provide plenty of emotional support, suggestions, tips, and sources for yourself., Professional organizations, university-affiliated hospitals, and national organizations for the blind and visually impaired are good sources to help yourself by coping with your visual disability. Consulting with professionals about your eye condition can help you cope with the diagnosis and can help you get the support you need., It can be difficult at times to maintain a positive attitude about your disability, but it can help make life better and easier for you. Don't focus on what you can't do, but instead, concentrate on what you can do. Take care of yourself daily, spend time with the people you love, and do the things you enjoy doing. Although you will have many challenges, you'll also have many accomplishments, just like any other sighted person does.

