 These are fresh and refreshing at the same time, leaving you more awakened and smelling as sweet as a citrus orchard. You can use citrus scented soaps in the shower, bath or when washing your hands.

Lemon, orange, mandarin, grapefruit and lime are all delightful scents.;
, Herbs such as rosemary, thyme and basil are both fresh smelling and invigorating. They are also cleansing and some herbs even have medicinal purposes.

Add herbs, fresh or dried (in a sachet), to a steaming hot bath, to release their herby flavor. Allow them to float and wait for them to release the scent into the water. Then hop in and have a good, long soak.
 Try a few drops of lemon or floral perfume or essential oil to the floor of your shower. Turn on the shower to warm up the scent, then take a shower in lukewarm water. The perfume will slowly release its fragrance and create delightfully scented steam., Choose your favorite perfume and put two to three drops of it onto your towel before bathing or showering. Leave the towel on the heated towel rack or radiator until it warms up a little. After bathing or showering, give yourself a vigorous rubdown with the warmed, scented towel. The warm towel will feel cozy and soothing and the fragrance will be left on your skin, subtle but lovely., Start your bath with scented body oil. Then use scented soap of the same scent. After the bath, use body lotion of the same scent and finish up with either eau de toilette or cologne in the same scent. This allows you to layer the scents up, in the same family of fragrances., Use a vaporizer to which you have added your favorite essential oil. Lean your head over the vaporizer, placing a towel over your head, and allow the scent to soak into your skin., Not only will you have clean teeth and fresh breath, it'll also smell sweet. Use toothpaste and mouthwash that have minty flavors, such as peppermint or spearmint., A lovely lip balm will keep your lips in good condition and add fragrance and a delicious taste at the same time. Some choices include honey and cinnamon, peach, strawberry and vanilla., Use quality scented shampoos and conditioners to add a lovely fragrance to your hair. You can even make your own hair fragrance spray or hair perfume., Prefer nutritious foods at all times, and there is no harm in choosing foods with lovely fragrances, such as mint, lemongrass, coconut and vanilla.