 Contact the local interscholastic federation in your state to see what certifications or licenses are required before you can start coaching in school. You can also visit https://nfhslearn.com/home/coaches to find what certifications are required for your specific state.


Certifications vary from state-to-state. Classes include concussion in sports, first aid and safety, as well as general coaching education courses.The California Interscholastic Federation requires coaches in the district get a general coaching certification, a sports specific concussion certification, a cardiac arrest certification, first aid certification, and CPR training.Each course will cost anywhere from $30 - $70 depending on which state you live in.In Pennsylvania, coaches are required to undergo concussion and cardiac arrest training.;
, It's required that you get criminal background clearances in order to be a teacher and coach in many states. These background checks will often include a state and federal criminal background checks and child abuse background checks.Different states require different clearances.
In some states, it's required you undergo a drug and alcohol screening and employment and credential verification., You will have to work your way up if you want to coach on a college or professional level. Becoming a high school football coach is a great way to start. Many schools can’t afford to hire a full-time coach, so having your teaching degree is a way to get involved with coaching while still maintaining a job.


Concentrating on physical education and sports science while you study in college will help you get a position as a coach., Use job websites to find local coaching jobs in your area. You can also use the official American Football Coaches Associate job board to find jobs across the United States.Many of your local listings may be for young adults or children, but starting there will help you later in attaining coaching positions at higher levels. Be aware that teaching children may be very different than teaching adults.Many lower level teams won’t require the experience that a college or high school would expect from a football coach.
Having a firm grasp over physical fitness or working with kids will help you get a coaching position.
 If you’re having trouble finding a paid position as a head coach, it’s a good idea to start looking for volunteer assistant coach positions. If you have experience with strength and conditioning or physical fitness programs, it will help you land a job as a volunteer.


There are programs like Pop Warner that have listings for volunteer positions ranging from head coach to equipment manager on their website.Try to find your local athletic association and contact someone about becoming a volunteer.
 Football teams made up of younger players may not require you to have any previous coaching experience. If you know the head coach and have a good rapport with them, they may be able to help find you a job as an assistant coach.


You can meet other coaches at clinics or camps that are taking place in your area.

