 Headbands work well with all hair lengths and types. The key is to part your hair or comb it over, then slip on the headband ½ inch to one inch (between 1-2 cm) past your forehead. You can then push some strands under the band or keep it all swept back.


To make your look more striking, go for a patterned, sparkly, or knit headband.
You can also switch up your style by pulling your hair into a bun or a side braid after you’ve put the headband in place.
 Clips give you lots of easy, versatile options to work with for the school day. A big jaw clip can keep longer hair out of your face if styled into a bun or ponytail, while a pretty barrette can be used to tuck your hair behind your head.


If you have short hair, you can still use hair clips. For example, if you have bangs, you could part them to one side or swoop them up and secure them with cute mini claws.A banana barrette can be used to clip your ponytail vertically so that accessory is visible from the side.
Don’t forget the almighty bobby pins. They may get lost easily, but if you need to secure a bun, there’s no better choice.
 If you have medium or long hair, a cute hair tie can do wonders. Go for a non-slip grip tie so you don’t have to constantly re-do your updo. You can get a mixed pack so you can try different colors, or stick to a color that resembles that of your hair so the tie is less noticeable.For more of a fashion statement, pick up a hair tie that’s decorated with a flower or a gem, or choose a tie that has a patterned band.
Don’t use rubber bands in place of hair elastics - they’ll break your hair, not to mention it’ll be really painful to take them out., Wrap a ribbon around your head for a look that’s similar to a headband. Cap it off with a simple bow on top of or near your neck for an extra cute look. You could also weave a ribbon into a braid for a multi-colored, easy fashion statement.
 While a full-on flower crown may be better suited for Coachella than math class, you can still incorporate flowers into your everyday looks. Pick up a flower clip and place it to the side of your head. Or pin your hair to the side and tuck in a silk flower.Stick to medium-sized flowers for a school-appropriate look.
When using flowers, place them near hair pins so you don’t have too much going on at the same time.
Some headbands have flower detailing, so that’s a cute way to incorporate an element of nature into your school-day as well.
 You don’t have to wash your hair every single day. A quick and easy way to make unwashed hair look better is to fill a spray bottle with a few tablespoons of your favorite styling product mixed with equal parts water, shake it up, and spritz your hair all around.Washing your hair every two to three days can actually be better for your tresses than washing daily.Make this refresh spray on Sunday night so it’ll last you the entire week and you won’t have to worry about creating it in the morning.
Try not to go longer than 3 days without washing your hair.
 Dry shampoo removes most of the excess oil from your hair. It’s the perfect go-to if you wake up with greasier hair than you’d like. Apply the shampoo to the bottom layer of your hair, and avoid spraying it on top of your head because it can leave noticeable residue. If using a spray dry shampoo, spritz it at least 6 inches from your scalp to avoid heavy build-up.
Don’t fret if your hair looks white after applying the dry shampoo. Run your hands through your hair to distribute the product and get rid of the white cast.
Dry shampoo comes in two main forms: powders and sprays. Spray products are usually easier to control.
 Restore volume to your hair by applying flexible molding paste to the roots of your hair. It’ll polish your look and give your hair that slight oomph that it may be lacking.Warm thick hair paste between your fingers for a smooth application.Apply the molding paste to the bottom layers of your hair so it's not visible.
Dry shampoo can also restore the appearance of volume, so you can try that as well.
 To restore shine to your hair, apply one to two pea-sized drops of smoothing serum or oil. Warm it between your hands to activate the ingredients and work the product throughout the length of your hair. To avoid greasy-looking hair, avoid your roots and focus mainly on the ends of your hair.Coconut, castor, macadamia, argan, or olive oil work well for boosting your hair's shine.
 The best way to avoid buildup is to wash your hair. If you don't have time to shampoo daily, using a scalp exfoliating treatment once a week can wash away dead skin cells and lift the build-up.Many exfoliating treatments contain gritty particles that you have to make sure you rinse out well.If your hair is particularly greasy, you can try using this treatment twice a week.
 If you have curly, frizz-prone, or otherwise unruly hair, you may be waking up with rough hair because of your bedding. Cotton sucks the moisture from your hair, while silk and satin pillowcases help maintain the moisture in your hair.If you don't have silk or satin pillow cases, wearing a silk scarf, or satin cap can help protect your hair as you sleep.

