 The portable kit is geared toward preparing your daughter, in terms of material items, for her period. The idea of the kit is that it is portable and your daughter can put it in her backpack or take it with her on an overnight to a friend’s house. You can sew a bag yourself, use a pencil case or buy a small makeup bag from a pharmacy. You could also use a zippered compartment of a school bag or purse.
 These supplies should be things that your daughter might immediately need in the event that her period comes by surprise or at an inopportune time. Not every woman has the same flow or the same needs, so it is best to over-prepare until you know the character of your daughter’s menstruation. But remember, the kit needs to be small enough to put into a backpack or overnight bag. Consider the following:


If she’s had her first period.
What products you like best.
How heavy her flow is (if she’s had her first period).
 There are a number of things you should put in the kit. These items will prepare her for most scenarios and most emergencies. Hopefully, it will give both you and your daughter the peace of mind that she'll be prepared when the time comes.


2 Pantiliners
2 Pads (add more, if you don't use tampons).
2 Tampons in different sizes (add more, if you don't use pads).
Midol or Ibuprofen for cramps.
Hand sanitizer. Explain that she should wash her hands and use soap or use sanitizer before and after taking off and applying a pad or tampon.
A small pack of tissues. If there is a shortage of toilet paper or she needs to be more discrete.
An extra pair of panties. Just in case.
A plastic bag. If she doesn’t have access to garbage, she can put her used supplies in a plastic bag and dispose of them later., Now you’ve got to sit down with her and have a discussion about the purpose and need of the kit. Explain that the kit is for emergencies and for on the go. It is better to be prepared than to be caught unprepared. Avoid embarrassing her, and reassure her that puberty and her period is a normal part of life. This discussion is best had after you’ve initiated a long-term discussion about growing up, puberty, and even sex.