 Getting a watercolor tattoo isn't all that different than getting a regular tattoo. The same processes are used. The only difference is the design. The tattoo artist copies the style of a watercolor painting, but they still ink the tattoo in much the same way., Though there is some disagreement about using black lines in a water color tattoo, some tattoo artists think using black holds the tattoo together better. It may also keep the tattoo from fading as badly., Most tattoos need to be touched up over the years, so remember that getting a tattoo is a process, not a one-time appointment. Watercolor tattoos, in particular, may fade a bit more than regular tattoos, though not too much., If you're not even sure where to begin, spend some time looking up watercolor tattoos on the internet. Save pictures of tattoos that you like, as that will give you some idea of where you want your tattoo to go.
 Often, people get tattoos of things or people that are close to their hearts. You'll be less likely to regret a tattoo if it has a significant meaning to you. Think about the things that are most important to you, and then try to figure out how to incorporate that into a watercolor tattoo.Your tattoos don't have to be literal. That is, you may want to incorporate your children into your tattoo. However, you don't have to just get their face tattooed on your arm. You can use a symbol to represent them. For instance, if you often call your child "Peach," you could get a tattoo that incorporates a peach.
However, your tattoo doesn't have to have a meaning. It can just be something pretty that you like.
 Often, when doing a watercolor tattoo, the artist will need a bit of space, as the blending of colors takes some room. In other words, you need to pick an area on your body where there's room to work, and you'll need to be flexible on the size., Usually, the tattoo artist will come up with the design for you if you give them an idea of what you want. Of course, you need to work with someone whose work you admire so that you know you'll end up with a piece you're happy with., You can also bring your own sketch or painting, if you're an artist, that the tattooer can base your tattoo on. If you're not an artist, you could ask a friend to paint it for you before you go in.
 When getting a watercolor tattoo, you want to make sure you pick someone who is well versed in the style.Check for artists in your area. Ask around for recommendations from people you know who have tattoos. Once you've narrowed it down to a few tattoo artists, ask to see samples of their work before deciding on one person.


You can also find work for most tattoo artists online.Read online reviews to help you decide.
 When picking a tattoo studio, you want to choose one that follows hygienic standards. The needles that are used in tattooing can introduce infection to your body if the studio is not up to snuff.You should visit the shop in person before getting the tattoo, so you can check it out and talk with the people there. The studio should look clean, and it should have differentiated areas for tattooing and piercing.
Make sure the business uses an autoclave to disinfect instruments. If it doesn't, go somewhere else. However, needles should be new with each customer.
Also, tattoo artists should wear gloves when working on clients.
 Tattoos are expensive in general, but if you're getting a design from a quality tattoo artist, it's likely to run you even more. Get an estimate from your tattoo artist so you have an idea of how much money you'll need to have on hand, likely several hundred dollars or more for an extensive tattoo.Often, tattoo artists charge by the hour, meaning the more work your tattoo is, the more it will cost.
In addition, it's customary to tip your tattoo artist about 20%, preferably in cash., The tattoo artist will sketch or transfer the tattoo on your body before they ink it in. Make sure it's exactly the size you want. Also, make sure the placement is where you want it. Now is the time to change your mind if you're going to., A watercolor tattoo, like any tattoo, needs to be taken care of. Treat it like a wound because that's basically what it is. You can remove your bandage as early as an hour after getting the tattoo. You'll need to use antibacterial soap on it while it's healing, making sure you pat it dry after washing (don't scrub it). Also, you'll need to apply an ointment, which you can likely buy at the tattoo parlor. Make sure to follow all the care instructions offered by your tattoo parlor.Wait to swim until the tattoo has healed, and be sure to use a moisturizer on it once it's healed.

