 You can undergo mindfulness therapy in a traditional therapy setting, much like talk therapy or other psychotherapy. You can see a therapist, psychologist, or other mental health professional who will teach you the skills needed to undergo mindfulness for your OCD.A clinic near you may also offer different program options, such as intensive weekend in-patient programs, week long day programs, or other programs where you go to therapy more than once a week.Search for an OCD specialist in your area to find a mindfulness approach to OCD treatment.
 Many clinics and hospitals offer OCD support groups and group therapies. These programs are overseen and led by mental health professionals. In addition to normal OCD group therapies, you may be able to find a mindfulness based group therapy in your area.Discuss with your therapist or talk to your local clinic or hospital about the mindfulness based group therapy options in your area.
Search online to see if you can find a mindfulness group therapy in your area.
 Another option you may want to consider is telephone or internet based mindfulness therapy. Some OCD centers and clinics around the United States offer these alternate types of therapies for people around the world who may not have access to a clinic in their area that offers mindfulness therapy.Make sure that you choose a telephone or internet based center or clinic from a reputable OCD center. Research the institution before you give them money or start therapy.
You can search online for OCD centers that offer this type of therapy.
 Mindfulness and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) are complimentary therapies that focus on training you to tackle and deal with your thoughts. CBT aims to help you replace negative thoughts with healthier ones, while mindfulness helps you think about the thoughts in a healthier way.Obsessive thoughts and compulsions can be so strong that they control you. In mindfulness CBT, you learn to acknowledge the thoughts and then replace the negative thoughts towards your obsessive thoughts and compulsions. Instead of looking at the OCD thoughts as something controlling, unwanted, and terrifying, you shift the importance of the thoughts, making them instead just uncomfortable.

