 Your breathing rate and heartbeat increases while you are intensely angry. By breathing deeply and slowly, you can remove yourself from this state of intensity and restore some calm.


Breathe in slowly, then breathe out slowly.
Consider closing your eyes as you do this. It can help to block out things that are increasing your anger.
Breathe in and out deeply over a continuous period of time until you begin to feel calmer. As you breathe, feel the air going in and out. Allow the muscles to completely relax.;
, Anger thrives on negative and resentful thoughts. Seek to banish those angry thoughts by replacing them with good thoughts that focus on calm and peace.


Try to picture something that brings you peace and perhaps even happiness. Consider a tranquil scene, a favorite object or activity, or someone you cherish and can rely on.
Allow the good thoughts to well up in your mind and take over from the negative ones.
 Distraction is the traditional method for calming the tantrum of a toddler. It works just as well when you're older, provided you focus on the alternative activity thoroughly.


Try a dance step. Do a belly dance, hop back and forth, or gyrate on the spot.
Move about. Simply pace or jump.
Scratch your head, pull your nose, stroke your hair.
Relax your hands, your arms, your legs, your muscles.
Read something. Pull out a magazine or a pull up a website. Read until your anger passes.
Take a shower. Enjoy the feeling of the water as it cascades over you, washing away the anger.
Listen to music that you find soothing. Avoid anything that increases your anger.
Watch TV or a movie. Turn up the volume to drown out your thoughts.
Go for a long walk away from people. Try to think things through in a constructive way. Come back exhausted and have a good sleep.
 Talking yourself out of the anger––this is completely possible as it's your anger and your feelings.


Analyze the problem without raging out.
Talk out loud anything you think. This will be better if you do in front of a mirror.
If possible, divert the talking to more logical topics.
Talk to someone else. If you are hesitant to do this, call your best friend and talk.
Remind yourself that things will look better tomorrow, after a rest and a good think-through.
 This is the most powerful method that will induce relaxation and remove you from your anger.


Go and sit in an open place were there is plenty of fresh air. Just sit and relax by closing your eyes.
If possible, play some "Buddhist chants". They really help in meditation.
If you do this for an hour or so, you will feel refreshed (no doubt about it), and you will be parted from the anger. You will feel healthier through performing meditation.

