 Natural beauty is an attractive option, but changing from your true and tried face cleansers, moisturizers, and face masks is not as simple as changing your pants. There are many factors that must be considered before switching to the “green” option.Despite the popularity of natural products, very few studies have been conducted on the impact of fruits and vegetables on human skin.
There are no federal regulations regarding natural skin products. It is better to check the packaging to determine what is inside the product if you buy it at the store.;
, The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not regulate the distinction between these terms. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), however, does provide an official seal for organic beauty products.Many natural beauty products originate from overseas. In that case, you should be familiar with ECOCERT (French) and BDIH (German) designations for natural cosmetics.
The USDA will certify organic beauty products that contain natural ingredients such as honey, berries, and other fruits as long as they are void of synthetic pesticides, fertilizers, and other inorganic substances.
Here are the four organic levels certifications of the USDA: 100% organic; organic (95% organic produced ingredients); made with organic ingredients (70% of organic ingredients); and less than 70% of organic ingredients. Only the top two levels will display an official seal from the USDA.
 The basic claim is that these ingredients did not come from animal products. Vegan also means that the product was not tested on animals, but that does not necessarily mean that vegan is organic. You should also be aware that the words “natural” and “all-natural” really have no certifiable evidence that they are because they are not regulated by the USDA or the FDA.If unsure, check the FDA website which contains food labeling requirements under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Most prepared foods require labeling but nutrition labeling for raw produce and fish is voluntary.
 It is estimated that the average person applies ten different skin care products on their body each day. Most products are safe, but there are still ingredients you have to be aware of and their harmful effects. Few studies, however, have been conducted to discover long-term effects of placing so many creams and oils on the skin. Most are mild in small quantities while others, like phthalates, are linked to birth defects, infertility, sperm damage, and even feminization of male babies. Read the label!Downsize the amount of creams, toners, and moisturizers you have. Most products simply do not deliver the promises made on their labels. Instead, purchase one basic cleanser, toner, and moisturizer since there is little difference between them.
Beware of fragrances because they do not have to label the toxic chemicals that produce a product’s fragrance. This is where many of the toxic ingredients are located.
 There are hundreds of skin care products on the shelves claiming to be natural but, in reality, toxins still exist in many of them. Knowing what is extremely hazardous and what can and cannot cause serious illness will help you decide whether to continue purchasing your products at the store or begin to make many of the easy mixtures at home.The Center for Disease Control and Prevention found phthalates, a chemical plasticizer found in fragrances, to be a possible cause of birth defects.
The formaldehyde found in skin care products is a carcinogen that can cause nausea, coughing, asthma, and burning sensations in the eyes, nose, and throat.

