 As people with ADHD are often easily distracted, it's common for them to begin one task, then start on something else, leaving the first task unfinished. If, mid-task, you remember something else you need to do, write it down so you don't forget, and continue working on your current project.Try setting time limits for tasks to keep things moving. Give yourself an hour to answer emails, for instance, then two to focus on laundry. Set a timer so you don't lose track of time.
 A person's desk, whether at work or home or both, is an easy magnet for the accumulation of papers, bills, unsent birthday cards, and so on. You may need to experiment a little before you find a system that works for you, but consider using a color coding system, filing cabinets, or even big bins to keep things separated.Make an effort to put paperwork in it's proper place within an hour of receiving it. If you buy a new computer, for instance, immediately put together a folder for the receipt, warranty information, and any instruction manuals, and put this in your filing cabinet., With a friend or family member's help, organize your clutter into four piles: "trash," "donate," "age," and "keep." Have your friend immediately toss the "trash" pile before you can change your mind. Pack the "donate" items into garbage bags and drive them to the donation place that day. "Age" items go into a box. Mark that box with a date three months from now, and mark that date in your calendar as well. When it is time, look over those items. Is there anything you feel comfortable throwing out? If not, give it another three months.

Try to do this several times a year.
 At the end of each day, take a look around your home and find one thing that you don’t need. Perhaps it is an old pair of shoes, an old magazine, a travelogue, book, backpack or old piece of furniture. Consider whether you could donate the item to a local charity, give it to a friend or recycle it. If you can’t do any of these things, consider throwing it in the trash. At the end of a year, you will have decluttered your home by a count of three hundred and sixty-five unneeded items.Donate ten books to your local thrift store. Look at your bookshelf or the boxes of books in your attic. Find ten books that you have read and no longer need. Consider whether the titles could be given to a local charity, sold to a bookstore or given to a friend or family member. Put the ten books in appropriate piles depending on whether you are selling them or giving them away. Get rid of them as soon as you can., If you feel overwhelmed and don't know where to start, or simply feel that you need some help, you may want to hire a professional organizer. This person will come to your house and assess the situation, strategizing with you to find an organizational system that works for your life. One of the great things about a professional organizer is they've probably seen everything, so you don't need to feel embarrassed or ashamed of your clutter.