 Sometimes Snapchat will recommend other users based on mutual friendships between them and one of your best friends. Since Snapchat can be a very personal experience, stick to adding the people you know you can trust.;
, Repeated attempts at contact from people you've ignored can count as harassment. It's best to simply block them.


You also shouldn't feel bad about blocking people in your contacts list who send you unwanted or inappropriate snaps.
 Even though you trust the friend or friends who you're snapping, you have to assume that anyone can see the snap as soon as it has been opened.
 While it can be tempting to add a snap with a geofilter of your neighborhood to a public story, it's safer to use filters that don't reveal your location.


The same notion goes for snaps of addresses and license plates.
 Again, you clearly trust the friend to whom you're sending the information if it's personal. However, your snaps stop being private and become public as soon as you hit the send button, so anything you wouldn't feel comfortable sharing with people outside of your contact list is best left for in-person conversation.
 Snapchat resembles a white ghost on a yellow background.


If you aren't logged into Snapchat, tap Log In and enter your username (or email address) and password.
 Doing so will open your profile page.
 It's in the top right corner of the screen.
 This is in the "Who Can..." section of options on this page.
 This ensures that only people who have both added you on Snapchat and been approved by you will be able to send you snaps.
 It's in the top left corner of the screen.
 This is directly below the Contact Me option.
 Only friends will be able to see the content you post to your story.
, This is below View My Story.
 It will turn white. "Quick Add" places your name in a suggested friends list for other users, so disabling it means that other Snapchat users will have to look you up by your name or username to add you.
 This will take you back to the user profile page.
 You should see your yellow snapcode at the top of this page.
 It's close to the bottom of the screen.
 You may have to scroll down to find them.
 This is in the top right corner of your friend's name card.
, This will officially block your selected friend.
 Your options are:



Annoying - Choose if the person in question is simply a nuisance.

I don't know them - Choose if someone you don't know is attempting to contact you.

Inappropriate Snaps - Choose if you've received inappropriate or abusive snaps from this person.

Harassing me - Choose if the person in question has harassed, threatened, or intimidated you.

Other - Choose for any reason not listed above.
 It's in the top left corner of your screen. Doing this should take you back to the user profile page where you can continue safeguarding your account.
 It's in the top right corner of the screen, and will open Snapchat's Settings menu.
 This is toward the bottom of the screen. With Login Verification enabled, you'll need to enter both your Snapchat password and a code before you can log into your Snapchat account.
 It's at the bottom of the page.
 You should see your phone number listed here. Selecting this option will prompt Snapchat to send a code to your phone number.
 The message will say "Snapchat Code: ######. Happy Snapping!"


Make sure you don't close the Snapchat app when you do this.
 You'll do this in the text field in the center of the "Login Verification" page.


If you didn't receive the code, tap Send Code Again at the bottom of the page.
 As long as the code you entered matches the one Snapchat sent you, you will now have to enter your password and a verification code sent to your device whenever you try to log into Snapchat.


You can tap Generate Code at the bottom of the screen here to create a code that will allow you to log into your Snapchat account on another device if you lose your phone. To skip this section, tap Skip in the top right corner of the screen.

