 Treat her better than her past relationships. Focus on the little things. Open the door for her, walk her to class, and be courteous. While grand gestures are good, consistently treating her well will impress her.Don’t be a “player”. Flirting with a lot of girls is disrespectful to the girl that you want to impress., Girls can sense if you are being fake. It’s a turn off if you’re trying too hard to impress her. Make sure you have your own interests and opinions. Don’t be afraid to disagree. Be your own person.Don’t take up a hobby that you don’t enjoy just to impress her. Take up your own interests. "It's cool that you enjoy running but it's a bit too boring for me if I'm just running in my neighbourhood. I like to mountain bike because of all the cool things I can see on the trails. You should come out next time."

, Sweep her off her feet and show her that chivalry isn’t dead. Open the door for her, walk her to class, take her to exciting activities like roller coaster rides. Think of yourself as the leading man in her fairy tale.Don’t overcomplicate things and spend more than you can afford. Being courteous and doing small things like eating with her at lunch can impress as much as a grand gesture.
 Find a quiet place and try not to fidget with your cellphone. You don’t want friends or people walking by and making either of you feel self-conscious. Getting alone time makes it easier to be yourself.Find an activity like hiking or a movie that you can enjoy together. Put her at ease and it will be easy to impress her. "Hey, I heard you like Adam Sandler. Did you know he has a movie coming out next month? Do you wanna check it out together?"

, She can pick up on nervous energy but you should be able to as well. Don’t make things awkward. If you feel like holding her hand, just do it. The more you hesitate, the more you’ll build up and awkward tension. She will be impressed with confidence and ease., Some people are more comfortable touching than others. She may have already hugged you or touched your arm. In that case, it will be easy to reciprocate. If you haven’t touched her already, you may subtly touch her arm if you laugh at a joke or reach out to feel the fabric of her coat if it’s cold.Touch can follow a compliment. She will be impressed that you noticed and compliment her. "Your hair looks really good today. It looks really soft, may I touch it?"Place your hand on her lower as you escort her through a door. While this is harmless, subconsciously it’s a cue that you want to get closer to her.

