 Pick up a corner of the carpet with pliers. You can use a pry bar if the pliers aren’t doing the trick.


Rip up carpet, padding, wooden carpet strips, and staples. Discard them.
Remember to wear heavy-duty gloves and work clothes when removing carpet.;
, This process will create a lot of dust, and you will want to seal off the area as completely as you can.
 Affix it with masking tape. Lay down drop cloths on nearby floors or carpets.
 The sanding and staining processes both require good ventilation.
 Hammer them in thoroughly, so that they are even with the stair.
 Apply the tape to the wall, so that you have full access to the stairs.
 If it is thick paint or heavy stain, you may need to use a chemical stripper. Apply it according to package directions, remembering that ventilation is important.


Chemical strippers are usually applied to the surface with a brush and then scraped off with a putty knife.
If you don’t have a heavy stain on the stairs, move on to the next step, sanding.
Wipe the stripped stairs with a clean rag before you continue. You will need to sand the stairs lightly with fine-grit sandpaper to remove chemical residue.
 You can use an electric random orbital sander for surfaces; however, corners and other areas may require a finishing sander, sanding blocks, or just plain sandpaper.


A small wood chisel can be helpful to remove the finish from the edges or corners of the stairs or risers.
 If your stairs were recently installed, you may only need to give them a light sanding. Your aim is to entirely remove the old finish, rather than change the shape of the stairs.
 Then, vacuum the stairs and surrounding areas with a shop vacuum. Run damp tack cloths over the surface of the stairs.
 Choose an inconspicuous area and apply two to three coats. Repeat this step until you find the perfect color.
 Water or oil-based stains require a paintbrush, while gel based stains require a rag for application. Read the directions on the stain container well before starting.


Start at the top of the stairs and work your way down. Be sure that no one will need to walk down the stairs for the next day or so.
Allow the stain to penetrate the wood for 5-15 minutes, depending on the color you desire.
Wipe off the excess stain with a clean, dry cloth after allowing the stain to soak in. Make sure not to allow any stain that has not penetrated the wood to dry on the surface.
 Then, apply a second and possibly a third coat, wiping the excess off after allowing it to penetrate the wood. The stairs should look slightly darker with each coat of stain.
 Stairs are high-traffic areas, so sealing them is essential.
 Wipe up dust with a tack cloth.


Most floor-grade polyurethanes do not require sanding between coats, especially if the second coat is applied within 12 hours of the first coat.
 Allow it to dry for at least 24 hours before walking on them.,