, If you are creating an enclosure, then you need to do the math to determine its size and where you need to bend it to make your desired shape.You may need tools such as a ruler or other measuring stick, a square, a compass, or a protractor to find these dimensions.
Once you have calculated your dimensions, mark them up on the acrylic so that you know where to cut. A Chinagraph pencil or permanent marker works well, but the marker will not be able to be removed.
If you want any holes in your acrylic enclosure, it is better to drill or cut them into it before bending, as this process is easier while the acrylic is still flat.
 Cut the jig to help you bend the acrylic to the correct calculations, if necessary.This is where you can use the circular or table saw, if you are cutting a jig. A jig is a box or frame meant for holding a material and guiding a machine tool to the material.The jig will be cut at a particular height and and its edge at a particular angle, based on your calculations, so that you bend the acrylic correctly.
Make sure you have a spare piece of scrap wood to help you with the heat bending process. You will use it to push on the acrylic while it is heated.
 Heating is a slow process in order to make sure that you get a straight bend in the acrylic.Use the spare piece of flat scrap wood to push the acrylic back and down while you aim the heat gun at the acrylic. Make your pressure on the acrylic as even as possible while you push.
Move the heat gun slowly side-to-side while you push back and down on the acrylic.
Note that the acrylic will likely bend slowly at first, but the more heated it becomes, the more quickly in will bend. You may eventually need to only push down with the scrap wood in order to achieve a straight bend.
 This will be necessary if you are making an enclosure out of the acrylic, for example, but it will not be necessary in every situation. If you have no further bends to make, then move on to the next step, or you may be done with your project at this time.


It will be helpful to allow each bend to completely cool before going onto the next bend so that you do not lose the initial bend.
 Lay the bent acrylic on its side on a new piece of flat acrylic and trace the sides using a permanent marker or Chinagraph pencil. Cut the side pieces out using a Dremel saw or razor knife when you are done tracing.It is important to trace each side of the bent acrylic. Do not assume that both sides are the exact same shape.
 This can be a tricky process.


Be very careful while bending the acrylic and cutting your side pieces, as the acrylic glue requires perfect seams in order set correctly.The acrylic glue requires at least five minutes to set, so it is recommended to clamp the enclosure together to help it set correctly.