 Most of the time, the human immune system can fight off and heal ear infections with a bit of time (usually in two to three days).The fact that most ear infections can actually clear up on their own has led a number of physician associations to support the "wait-and-see" approach, which essentially means administering pain relief but not treating the infection with antibiotics.The American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy of Family Physicians recommends the "wait-and-see" approach for children from six months old to two years old who experience ear pain in one ear and for children over two years who have pain in one or both ears for less than two days and have a temperature of less than 102.2 degrees.Many doctors support this approach because of the overuse of antibiotics which has lead to an increase of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In addition, antibiotics can't treat an infection caused by a virus.;
, If the infection does not go away on its own, your doctor will likely prescribe a 10-day course of antibiotics, which can treat the infection and potentially shorten some symptoms. Commonly prescribed antibiotics include Amoxicillin as well as Zithromax (the latter case if you are allergic to penicillin). Antibiotics are often prescribed for individuals who suffer from frequent infections or for those with severe and extremely painful infections. In most cases, the antibiotics should clear up the infection. Potential side effects include rashes, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.if there are concerns about antibiotic resistance in the area, doctors will prescribe a drug that is a combination of amoxicillin-clavulanate (Augmentin) instead. The clavulanate prevents the bacteria from deactivating the amoxicillin, preventing resistance.
Note that antibiotics will not be prescribed if the infection is caused by a virus or fungus, as antibiotics would not be effective in these cases.
The usual dose for adults with OM is 250 to 500 mg, by mouth, three times a day for 10 to 14 days.
For children ages six and up who have a mild to moderate infection as determined by the doctor's assessment, a shorter course of antibiotic treatment (5-7 days instead of 10) may be prescribed.Always complete the full course of antibiotics. Even if symptoms improve partway through the course of antibiotic treatment, make sure to finish the full prescription. If you are prescribed enough for 10 days, then you need to take the antibiotics for 10 days. However, you should notice improvement within 48 hours. A persistent high fever (of over 100.4°F or 38°C) suggests resistance to that particular antibiotic and you may need to acquire a different prescription.
You should consult your doctor after the course of antibiotic treatment has ended to check on on the infection., Using an over-the-counter decongestant or medication can help drain the fluid accumulating due to the infection. You can get them in the form of nasal sprays or as oral medication and they can be purchased at most pharmacies. Be sure to follow any instructions on the label. Be aware that there is little evidence that decongestants improve the healing of ear infections and for this reason they are not usually recommended.Nasal decongestant sprays should not be used for more than three days at a time. Longer term use has been linked to "rebound" swelling of the nasal passages.
While the "rebound" swelling is less common with oral decongestants, some people experience palpitations or a rise in blood pressure.
Do not give decongestants to children with ear infections. Although adults can use decongestants with an ear infection, children should not. Because their anatomy is different, decongestants will reduce the ability of the body to drain the thickened fluids and will prolong the infection.
Consult your doctor before using any nasal decongestant spray or oral decongestants.
 Ear surgery may be an option in cases of frequent ear infections that don't clear up through antibiotics. The surgery, called a myringotomy, involves draining the fluid from the middle ear and inserting a ventilation tube into the ear drum. Usually, you will need to be referred to an ear, nose, and throat (ENT) specialist to determine whether this surgery is appropriate.In this outpatient surgery, an ENT specialist will surgically place the tympanostomy tube into the eardrum through a small incision. The process should help ventilate the ear, prevent the buildup of more fluid, and allow existing fluid to drain completely from the middle ear. Some tubes are intended to stay in place for six months to two years and then fall out on their own.Other tubes are designed to stay in longer and may need to be surgically removed.The eardrum usually closes up again after the tube falls out or is removed.