 In just five to ten minutes, you can relieve common morning stiffness, as well as increase your flexibility over time. Stretching your neck is a good place to start, and will help you transition from a prone to an upright position.Simply lean your head sideways, bringing your right ear close to your right shoulder. You can use your right hand to help deepen the stretch, but be gentle and don't force your head over more than is comfortable.
Practice deep breathing and hold the stretch without pulsing, then release and repeat the stretch on your left side.
You also can do this stretch by lifting and lowering your chin to stretch the front and back of your neck. Do a few forward neck rolls as well. Only roll your neck forward and from side to side in a half-circle motion. Don’t roll your neck backwards or you may hurt yourself.;
, Depending on your sleeping position, you may have pain or stiffness in your chest, back, and shoulders when you wake up in the morning. Chest and upper back stretches allow tense muscles to relax.To stretch the back of your shoulders, stand and reach your arms out in front of you, pressing your palms together. Lower your chin to your chest and pull your shoulder blades away from each other, feeling the stretch in your upper back.
To stretch your chest, turn your hands so your palms are facing forward. Then, reach both of your arms wide out to the sides at waist height and pull the shoulder blades together. Or, you can also try standing in a doorway with your hands on the walls on either side of the door. This will give your chest a good stretch.
Only go into these stretches as far as you can with comfort. If you feel any pain, stop stretching immediately – don't force yourself to stretch your muscles beyond their limits.
 Particularly if you work out on a regular basis, stretching your arms and shoulders in the morning is essential. Your shoulders are a delicate joint, and these stretches help improve your mobility.To stretch the back of your shoulder, stand and extend your right arm in front of you and across your chest. Pull it close with your left hand and hold it as close across your chest as you comfortably can. Take care not to pulse or bounce, and don't force it. Release and repeat the stretch with your left shoulder. You can do this three to five times if necessary to further stretch your shoulders.
To stretch for the triceps in the back of your arms, raise your right arm above your head and let your hand drop behind your left shoulder. Grasp your elbow with your left hand and gently push your elbow back. After holding this position for a breath or two, switch and do your other arm. This will stretch your triceps.
 You can improve your posture by increasing the flexibility of your core muscles. Stretching your sides will lengthen your muscles and improve your overall stability, as well as stretching your lower back.To do a hip flexion stretch, hold onto the back of a chair. Then, step backwards two steps and bend forward at your hips, letting your elbows point down to the floor.If you can't bend forward very far without discomfort, just lean over as far as you can, keeping your back flat and straight.
While standing, plant your feet about hip-width apart and wrap your left hand around your right wrist, then raise your arms over your head. Gently pull your right arm towards your left side in a side stretching motion. Then, return to the center and repeat the movement on the other side.
From a seated position, extend one leg straight in front of you and cross the other leg over top of it, so your knee is bent and your foot is flat on the floor. Rotate your torso towards the crossed leg either by grabbing that leg or by resting your elbow on the outside of that knee. Keep your back straight and long. Come back to center, then repeat the stretch on the other side.
 Keeping the muscles in your legs loose is essential, especially if you're a runner. Stretching the muscles in your lower body also can help to keep your joints loose and prevent ankle and knee injuries, as well as relieving foot, leg, and back pain.You can stretch your calves simply by leaning against a wall or chair. Keep your feet shoulder-width apart and lean into the chair or wall with your knees straight. Focus on pressing your heels into the floor to deepen the stretch.
Move your feet together and bend your right knee backward. Grab the top of your foot with your right hand and gently push your right foot towards you, keeping your body straight. This will stretch your quadriceps. Hold for a few breaths, then release the stretch and repeat the action on the other side.
 If you find your hips or knees are stiff in the morning, this stretch can help open your hips and improve your overall flexibility. As the name suggests, the runner's stretch can help prevent injuries common in people who run frequently.While on all fours, jump or walk your right foot forward in line with your fingers. Your knee should be directly over your ankle. Extend your left leg behind you, with your toes and knee on the floor.
Breathe into the pose, focusing on lengthening and straightening your spine and thrusting your hips forward. On exhale, switch sides and repeat.
Relax your upper body over your front leg and take a breath or two before you switch sides.
Hold the stretch for a few breaths, then raise up and repeat the stretch with your other leg. You can repeat this several times as necessary.

