 If this isn't possible, practice your routines at home (no excuses, you can practice without tumbling and the music! Sometimes, you may be able to find it on Youtube)


Be careful not to overdo it, however. Practicing too much before a meet can wear you out, make you frustrated, and even make you unable to compete, if you injure yourself. In the days immediately before a meet, lightly practice and focus on perfecting the small things in routines like dance, attitude, toe points, and arm and leg placements.;
, Eat foods like pasta (carbohydrates) and meat (protein). The worst thing you can do is not eat. Avoid dairy.
 Usually the gym will provide the team leotard for you but if not you would pick out the leotard that makes you stand out more and that complements you. Even though your old leotard might be your favorite, you should look professional.
 Competition times can range from early morning sessions of 8:00 to late night sessions around 6:30 or 7:00. A good thing to do is plan out your day in a schedule minute by minute. This way you make sure you have enough time to get ready, but you have to meet the time limits you set for yourself.
 hours before you compete. If you have a drawstring bag or backpack, put the essentials in the bag before the meet, such as grips and wristbands, any wrist or ankle braces, bobby pins, hair ties, or hairspray/gel, so you don't forget them.
 Knowing the routine will save you the stress of trying to remember what to do on the apparatus. When you go over it in your head


Go over parts you have trouble with (dance, leaps, etc.)

On Floor: Learn the music. Know when the music can help you remember your routine (the same way theatre performers remember their lines using cues. You can remember using musical cues.) Count out the beats as well. This will help you stay in time with the music, and avoid ending too soon and just standing there awkwardly.

On Beam: Strut your stuff! Be confident, and make the judges look.

On Bars: When going over your routine, know the rhythm of your swings. Some people swing faster, some swing at an even pace, and some people speed up as it goes along. Knowing your rhythm will help you visualize you routine.

On Vault: Know the number on the tape measure where you start, so you know how many steps you need to take. Visualize your run, and then how long it takes after you hit the springboard to fly over the vault. This will help you know when to 'block' off.
 It is essential to have a lot of rest. Go even if you aren't tired. Though you may feel completely rested when you go to sleep, you will be tired when you wake up if you don't go to bed early. If you really can't go to sleep, do other resting activities:


Reading
Watching a movie
Do homework

