 Having poor characters will more than often annoy other roleplayers and stop you from moving onto to advanced roleplays. In order to have an acceptable, excellent character, your character’s profile should contain the following in it:

Name - You should create a first and last name for your character. Try to be creative with it.






Age – The age of your character will depend on the roleplay (ex: a roleplay about teenagers would require your character to be 13 to 18 years old).
Gender – You will have either a male or female character, unless if specified.
Appearance – This is one of the important parts of your character, as this will influence the opinion of other roleplayers. You should include your character’s height, eye color, hair color, skin tone, etc. that describe your character’s appearance.
Personality – This is another important part of your character. Your character’s personality will decide whether he/she gets through the roleplay alive, wins another character’s heart, and other important events. Your character’s personality will also influence his/her decisions. It will also give other roleplayers an idea of what your character is like. Don’t forget to mix in a few flaws – no character is perfect! Without the personality, your character literally has no life to live for.
Your character’s profile must also consist of other information that the roleplay requires. Skipping those requirements may result in your character not being accepted into the roleplay.
 Be sure you have included enough flaws so your character will not be considered a Mary/Marty Sue. A Mary/Marty Sue is a flawless character with both an excellent personality and appearance. Mary/Marty Sues tend to be annoying and will always say or do the right thing.


Having a Mary or Marty Sue may get you kicked out of the roleplay! Plus, if you have a past of creating Mary or Marty Sues, advanced roleplays or another other roleplays may refuse to admit you in.
 Knowing what your character would do or say in a situation will help develop your skills in roleplaying. If you enter a roleplay without getting to know your character at all, you will have problems with writing!

