 You can find jump rings at your local craft store or Walmart. Jump rings are small and made of metal. They usually have a small gap between the two ends of the ring. Jump rings are the best decision if you want your hoop piercings to look as realistic as possible.
Buy a large pack of different sizes so you can keep using them for fake piercings, or if you make a mistake and need a back up.;
, Where you want your piercing will affect how large or small of a jump ring to use. You will have to make sure the gap in the jump ring is wide enough to fit your skin.


Hoop piercings are usually worn on the lip, nose, septum, or eyebrow.
If you use the jump ring for a nose piercing the gap is going to be smaller than if you used a jump ring for an eyebrow piercing.
 Jump ring gaps start very small, so you will not be able to fit your skin inside unless you make the gap wider. The metal is usually not easily pliable, so pliers are the best tool. Use two pairs of flat pliers to grasp both ends.
Twist the ends apart until you have your desired gap.
Keep checking the jump ring against where you want your piercing to see how much wider the gap needs to be. Make sure the jump ring is snug on your skin.
 Jump ring ends are usually sharp and can be harmful, especially if you are putting a good amount of skin between them. Clear nail polish will make a protective layer on the sharp ends, so they will not cut into your skin. , Once the nail polish has dried, apply a small amount of eyelash glue to the ends of the jump ring. Eyelash glue is the best adhesive for fake facial piercings because it is already made for the skin, so it will last the longest and not be harmful.


Choose an eyelash glue with a small applicator.
Let the glue set on the ends of the jump ring for 20-30 seconds before applying to the skin. , Tweezers are the most effective when handling jump rings. You will be able to hold them steady and not get any glue on unwanted areas of your face. Place your jump ring on where you want your hoop piercing.

