 You don't want that crusty skin on your face. After washing your face, apply a light moisturizer so your skin will be soft and your makeup will apply evenly.;
, While most guides instruct you to apply concealer after your foundation, but in some cases you can look like you have bags under your eyes. You can use concealer on under eye circles and pimples.
 Don't rub it on but dab it or pat it on and blend it in well.
 If you have pretty even skin, use a tinted moisturizer. To apply liquid foundation get a little palette such as the top of my eyeshadow case. Dab your make up sponge in the foundation and apply to the middle of your forehead. Work the color toward the sides of you forehead. Do the same starting with your nose, chin and cheeks. If needed to blend it in, you can use a cloth like an old t-shirt.
 Simply brush or pat it on.
 If you want a beachy tan look get the big brush you used for powder. Lightly brush it in bronzer and apply evenly to skin. Don't add too much or your face will look darker than your neck.
 Very lightly apply to the apple of your cheeks while smiling.



Set your elbow somewhere solid, put your finger a little below your eye, and pull down gently.
Put the eyeliner lightly on the line. Black is always cute but brown and gray are good choices too. You're enhancing, here.
Don't go bold.


Top eyeliner is easy and adds a dramatic look if wanted. Put your finger to the side of your eye pull just so that eye shuts. Apply the eyeliner in a very thin line to where the eyelashes are growing. To make your eyes look bigger make the line a little bigger the further you go. For more drama, you can even use a blue!
For a pop of color, you can line your waterline/lower lash line with a colored liner. Make sure it's not too obvious, though!
Eyeshadow really enhances eyes and draws light and attention to them! Apply it either before or after your eyeliner. Advice: Don't use that crummy little brush that comes with your eyeshadow, it's usually no good. Get the real deal. Now, there are several ways to do your eyeshadow. You can swipe one simple color like silver, brown, or pink. Swipe one color and add a darker color into your crease. Ex.: Lid-gold, crease-dark brown, Highlight underneath the eyebrow-cream.
It's not needed but if you want a look like you have longer eyelashes. Curl your lashes. Get that eyelash/eyebrow brush and brush you eyelashes so each are separate. Lightly mascara your eyelashes. One coat is enough, the falsie-effect isn't very natural and school-appropriate. If you're running short on time though and don't have time for eyeliner or shadow, dramatic lashes are a good pick if you can't pull off bold lips.
 Your lips are a central focus of the lower half of your face. You don't need lipstick or those sticky glosses, but if you do use them, make sure they are coordinated in not only color, but moisture protection.
 A word on perfume: Go easy. Try several different types. One perfume that smells wonderful on one person, smells like a toxic waste dump on another. It all depends on your body chemistry. Let other people tell you what it is.

