 Gardenias typically require an inch of rain in order to thrive, so adhere to that standard whenever watering.









Monitor the soil frequently for moisture content, and water thoroughly as the top inch of the soil dries. Avoid over-watering the soil especially, because if it is kept too wet, the roots will be starved for air., Mulch is made of decayed organic matter, such as leaves, bark, or compost and can be purchased at most gardening stores.









Mulch not only enriches soil, it will keep your soil moist, reduce the growth of weeds, and maintain a constant soil temperature.
For the best outcome, select a mulch made of wood chips, sawdust, or ground bark.
Applying mulch is extremely important since gardenia roots are shallow, making them especially vulnerable to weeds., Biannual fertilizing will promote healthy flower growth in your gardenia.









Be sure that you feed with acid fertilizer. The nutrients in this particular fertilizer are formulated for plants which prefer acidic soil. Applying regular fertilizer may not be sufficient for sustaining your gardenia.
Beware of over-fertilizing, as this can lead to damaging salt accumulation.
 Now that you have taken steps to provide adequate sunlight, soil, and water, you will need to meet the gardenia's humidity requirements.









Spraying with water raises the humidity around the plant, but only temporarily. Therefore, it must be done daily in order to ensure that the gardenia survives.Other than spraying, you could plant gardenias in clusters without overcrowding them. This will create a pocket of humidity. To increase the humidity even further, you could place a dish of water in the middle of the cluster. As the water evaporates, it will cover the surrounding gardenias.
 Deadhead after flowering to encourage more flowering.









Pruning younger, dormant gardenias will cause more prolific blooming. The young plant is very resilient and will easily repair lost stems because it is not yet actively growing.Remove scraggly branches and faded flowers. Gardenias are woody shrubs, so remove older, woody stems to encourage the growth of new branches.
Prune the lowest branches which are in danger of touching the ground. This can lead to infections.Don't cut all the leaves off. Some leaves need to be left so the plant can still produce food for the root system., These insects are especially attracted to gardenias and can impair growth or cause the plant to die.









Mealybugs are grey, segmented pests. They feed on the sap of the gardenia and leave behind a waxy coating on the plant. This can result in twig death, impair plant growth, and cause leaves to drop prematurely.
White flies are tiny white insects which resemble small gnats. They produce honeydew and the black sooty mold which grows on it. This mold can cause gardenia leaves to turn yellow and drop prematurely., These solutions will kill both mealybugs and white flies and are available in most local gardening stores.









If you are facing a large mealybug infestation, smother the gardenia with a good dose of insecticidal soap or horticulture oil. Two days after the first pass of insecticidal soap, cover the soil judiciously with a helpful fungus called Beauveria bassiana to kill any mealybugs that feed on roots. Beauveria bassiana is also available in most gardening/home improvement stores.
 Since gardenias are extremely cold sensitive, they will require adequate insulation and protection from harsh winter winds.









Secure a cardboard box large enough to cover the shrub without bending the branches. Use old blankets, straw, or bubble wrap to insulate the plant while it is under the cardboard box.Despite your best efforts, the tips of the branches may die and turn black from frost or cold damage. When this happens, prune the branches a couple of inches below the damage with sharp pruning shears.
Alternatively, you could transplant your gardenia to a pot and bring it inside for the winter. Though your plant will face higher chances of bug infestation, there are steps you can take to better care for your gardenia indoors.

