 One of the most common problems that many sugar addicts make is attempting to eliminate sugar from their diet all at once. This method often results in failure in just a few days. A body that is accustomed to receiving sugar on a daily basis cannot quickly adjust to the elimination of sugar, which has served as an energy source. Instead, try simple tricks like using one less teaspoon of sugar in your coffee, or eating half the amount of chocolate you usually do.You can also dilute sweet beverages. Try mixing half sweet tea with half unsweetened tea, or mixing half sugary soda with half unsweetened seltzer water.
Try mixing something sweet with something healthy. For example, you could dip banana or apple slices in chocolate.Be aware that if you attempt to quit eating sugar all at once, you'll likely experience profound and severe withdrawal symptoms. The withdrawal symptoms may manifest themselves in severe and intense cravings for sugary foods, or they may include more serious conditions such as headaches or nausea.
By gradually reducing your sugar intake over several weeks, you can greatly reduce the severity of these sorts of sugar withdrawal symptoms.;
, If your body is craving something sweet even after you have gradually reduced the amount of sugar in your diet, you may be able to trick your body by using sugar substitutes in lieu of real sugar. However, this is considered effective only as a short-term strategy because ultimately your body needs to get used to simply having less sweet food.The mind and the body are linked, and if you can convince your mind that it tastes sweetness, the body may believe that you're ingesting sugar.
Many sugar substitutes have no calories, and these substitutes can be used to deal with withdrawal symptoms without spoiling a sugar-free diet.
Opt for natural sugar substitutes such as Stevia and Xylitol rather than artificial sugar substitutes.
Some research suggests that using artificial sweeteners may actually contribute to weight gain by desensitizing you to "naturally" sweet foods such as fruits and vegetables. Experts recommend using artificial sweeteners only as a way to wean yourself off sugar over a short period of time., Fruit has natural sugars, but it's also loaded with vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients. You can also get a lot more "bang for your buck" with fruit than you can with, say, a candy bar.For example, 1 1/4 cups of fresh strawberries has just 15 grams of sugar.A single-serve packet of M&Ms has more than twice that.


Aim for fresh fruit rather than dried fruit or canned fruit, which often have added sugars.
 Instead of standing at the refrigerator or the pantry when a sugar craving hits you, you can respond by participating in some type of physical activity. Exercise releases endorphins in the body, which may help to regulate the mood changes associated with sugar withdrawal symptoms.If you're experiencing headaches or nausea because of sugar withdrawal, an exercise routine may help to boost your energy and eliminate your symptoms through increased oxygenation of the body.
 Sometimes people eat sugary foods when their bodies are actually craving liquid, so often simply drinking a glass of water can stop a sugar craving. Indeed, individuals who are addicted to high levels of sugar may have difficulty identifying the difference between a sugar craving and thirst. Whenever you experience an intense bout of sugar cravings, try drinking a glass of water to curb the urge.Experts recommend getting between 9-13 glasses of water a day.
 At this point, the more distance you place between yourself and sugary snacks, the less likely you will be to fall back into old unhealthy habits.


If the food is easily accessible, you will be more likely to give into temptation. However, if you do not keep sugary foods in your home, you will be more likely to find another, healthier way to deal with the sugar urge. See above for approaching others in your household about the issue.
 One great way to improve your chances of successfully navigating through sugar withdrawal symptoms is to keep a detailed journal about your daily diet, your hunger and sugar cravings, your sleep habits, your weight and your energy levels. A journal like this will provide you with motivation and clarity regarding the effects that sugar has had on your life and overall health.Keep details on what feels good about being sugar-free. The more you focus on the positive aspects of curtailing sugar in your life, the more you will see the benefits.
Add recipes that are sugar-free to your food journal. Turn it into a place where you feel free to explore new things to eat, variations of your own experimentation and general thoughts on how to share your sugar-free ideas with others.
Consider writing a blog if you enjoy sharing information and details on your experience. You'll meet others trying to go sugar-free and as well as sharing your tips on coping without sugar, you'll get lots of supporters who can share their experiences too.

