 The best way to set a solid foundation is to thoroughly understand the rules of the grading game. Does your teacher give more points for one assignment over another? If so, it might behoove you to pay more attention to one assignment over another. If you are in high school, are some classes worth more — e.g. AP courses? If so, you’ll want to concentrate your efforts there. In most states, AP classes are actually worth more towards your overall GPA, but the classes are more demanding. This is not to mention that AP courses replace college courses. So if you'd like to skip core or introductory college classes, then focus on your AP studies.;
, Look at previous syllabi and talk to other students. Figure out what each class looks like ahead of time and pick the one that seems the easiest.


In any educational program, you’ll have a set of mandatory classes and electives. Sometimes, the elective courses can be filled by a variety of subjects. If your goal is to “get good grades with no effort”, choose a subject you feel comfortable with, you think is easy, or you’ve already mastered. Keep in mind that there is no universal “easy A” class. It all depends on the teacher. A “shop” class can be very easy or really difficult. So too can a trigonometry class be a piece of cake or a terrible experience.
 Use a day planner to schedule your class time, study time, and time for all of the other activities you have to complete over the course of the semester. At the beginning of the year, map out when your assignments are due and even include reminders to get started on assignments. Time management is the key to getting good grades efficiently., Many of us have a tendency to put school work off. Time with family and friends seem to take greater preference especially as the deadline for a particular assignment seems so far away. In order to do well in school, you need to start at the beginning of term. Get a solid foundation at the beginning of the school year so you aren’t stressing at the end. Get good grades from the beginning. It takes much less effort to maintain good grades than it does to build up to them.Take advantage of all extra credit opportunities. Oftentimes, teachers give out extra credit work that is of the same difficulty or easier than your “normal” work. Because you can’t lose points for completing the extra credit, you can only gain from trying.

