 After a break-up it may seem like a daunting task to re-engage your partner. However, the most important concept associated with initiating contact after a separation is to really listen to your partner and respect her needs.If you attempt to initiate a conversation and your partner is not ready to talk, it is important that you give your ex time and space. You want to show that you are sensitive to your partner's needs.


Try reaching out by phoning, texting, or emailing your partner. Simply say something like, "I'd like to talk to you about the situation. Are you open to that?" If you are ignored, do not repeatedly call or text, leave a message and explain that you would like to talk about what happened. You will need to wait until your partner is ready for the conversation.
If your partner is open to communicating with you about the break-up, set up a time to meet in person. Public places are a good choice because they are neutral. One option is to go out for coffee. If you prefer more privacy, you could go on a walk together.
Avoid showing up at your partner's home, school, or place of business unannounced. This can be viewed as a breach of her boundaries, and could lead to more conflict. Instead, pay attention to your partner's wishes during this time and respect her boundaries; if she is not ready to see you or talk about the issue then forcing it will likely lead to further confrontation., When attempting to solve a conflict it may be better to communicate on an issue face-to-face in order to successfully come to a compromise or solution. Face-to-face contact is associated with greater ability to grasp both the content (the message) and context (nonverbal communication such as tone and posture) of what the other person is saying.


Avoid texting, email, or phone conversations about issues. Use these forms of communication only to set up a time to meet in person.
Try to set up a face-to-face meeting with the person to discuss the problem at hand.
 Assertive communication is the best tool to use when discussing relationship problems because it focuses on expressing your feelings and needs in an appropriate way.Using assertiveness skills increases the likelihood that your message will be well-received. Be direct, but tactful. If you want to mend the relationship, it may be beneficial to be direct about your desire. For example, you could say, "I really want to patch things up between us; I don't want to lose you."
Use “I statements” such as, “I feel ____, when you ______.” For example, you might say, “I feel angry when you walk away while I am trying to discuss an issue with you.” You can also explain what you’d like the person to do next time such as, “Do you think next time we can talk about the issue when it comes up?”
Be supportive and empathic. Try to understand where your partner is coming from. Avoid jumping to conclusions or taking things personally. Focus solely on her experience of what happened. Say things like, “I understand that you feel angry. I can see how you would feel that way.”
Ask questions for clarification such as, “I am hearing that you are angry at me for not spending enough quality time with you and ignoring you, is that right?”

, Some examples of aggressive communication and behaviors include: yelling, cursing, belittling, calling names, interrogating, threatening, giving dirty looks, bullying, throwing objects, and hitting.These behaviors are not conducive to enhancing positive relationships.


Don't beg her.
Don't be overly persistent. Realize when "no" means "no".
 Passive communication consists of: not saying anything, avoiding, ignoring, hiding, giving in to what the other person wants, an inability to say no when needed, taking all of the blame, apologizing when unnecessary, avoiding eye-contact, and pouting.


Do not avoid the problem, this does not result in conflict resolution.Try communicating assertively about how you feel instead.
 Conflict resolution skills are useful when trying to mend a broken relationship.One important component of conflict resolution is to be able to admit your mistakes. Identify how you contributed to the separation and own up to them to your partner. Apologize for these behaviors.
Point out the positive aspects of the relationship and the characteristics that you admire in your partner. It may be especially helpful to bring up aspects that you admire about her that are related to your breakup. For instance, you might say, "I know I was angry, but I really appreciate that you were able to speak your mind and tell me that you wanted to spend more quality time together."
Focus on collaboration, instead of compromising any of your values. Come to an agreement together that is a win-win situation. Have realistic expectations of the outcome.
 Marriage and relationship experts stress the idea of focusing on solving your solvable problems and letting go of differences that are not solvable or worth the effort.For example, solving the issue of your partner making critical comments is a solvable issue that can be corrected through learning appropriate communication skills such as assertiveness. However, the issue of your partner having a certain personality trait (such as extroversion) that you do not like may not be a solvable issue; some characteristics of individuals may not be malleable.


Begin by asking your partner directly what she would like to change about the relationship. If this is a request that you believe you can compromise on, then you can work toward a solution together.
Let your partner know that you are willing to make the specific changes that are necessary to mend the relationship. You can say, "I commit to ____, ____, and ____." For example, you could say, "I commit to spending more quality time with you, responding when you text or call me, and controlling my anger."
Some options for working toward positive changes are engaging in couples therapy to work out issues, or going to a retreat or relationship education course.