 Whenever she is in trouble or worried about something, don't just sit there with her. Acknowledge that you don't have all the answers, and that you may not know exactly what she's going through, but try to help make the situation better for her.


Ask her how you can help, but don't insist that she let you. Be patient with anything she goes through and be supportive. When you can make a difference, do so without hesitation, but also cautiously, as you don't want to hurt her in any way.
If she likes you already, go above and beyond the call of duty. Do something that she'd never expect you to do, like cooking her breakfast and then doing the dishes, and she'll fall even harder for you. You're showing her what you're made of.
If she doesn't like you yet, or you don't know how she feels about it, play it cool. Be calm. If you're the kind of guy who gets sweaty and stutters his words when he's around a girl, then just calm down. Think of her as just your friend who happens to look different. If you can't calm down, no sweat! Girls think it is adorable when guys trip over themselves. You'll make her laugh in a good way!;
, Be friendly with her without always being available. Girls love guys who are a bit mysterious, so try to cultivate a bit of mystery — don't always pick up the phone, let on where you're going, etc. Be honest, but not always totally up front.
 Your guy-friends probably didn't care that you walked around in the same clothes you mowed the lawn in, but the girl of your dreams probably won't be very impressed. Here are three simple things you can start doing right away that will help:


Shower and shave every day. If you're not yet old enough to shave, don't sweat it. You should be soon. Smell nice and look clean by showering or bathing regularly.
Wear clothes that actually fit. Not your older brother's clothes; not your dad's clothes. Wear your own clothes, and ones that flatter your figure. It doesn't matter how much money you have — every guy needs a good pair of jeans, a fitting t-shirt, a simple but elegant collared shirt, and shoes to fit the occasion.
Get in shape. Lose that excess flab if you can and turn it into muscle. Most girls like guys who have developed muscles that aren't so chiseled they're intimidating. Find an intramural sports league that you're interested in and go for it. You might even be able to impress your lady with your skills.
 Most men are charming in a couple different ways, but here are some charming ideas to think about:


Be a gentleman. This means opening doors, paying for a date, keeping your word, etc. Girls love to feel like a gentleman cares about them.

Be witty. Girls love guys who are great conversationalists, who can turn anything into a joke. Learn how to elegantly make fun of yourself.
Be intelligent. You should do your best to be well-read, informed about current-affairs, and curious. Women like men who are smart but still relatable.
 Every girl wants a guy who, at the end of the day, is reliable — dependable not because he has to be, but because he wants to be. Being reliable is all about telling a girl that she has security with you. Try to be the most reliable guy you know.


Do what you say you're going to do. If you talk the talk, walk the walk. Girls don't like guys who say they're going to do something and never follow through with it.
Be punctual. Even though some girls are late to dates, a girl hates it when she has to wait on a guy. To her, it says: "I don't care enough about you to be on-time." If you're going to be late, let her know.
Have a good reputation. Be the guy that other guys want to vouch for. You never know whether she, or one of her friends, could ask around about you. And if she hears how you cheated on your ex-girlfriend, your reputation is shot and you'll have to rebuild it.
 A person is more responsive and receptive when relaxed. This is similar to being witty, but with higher importance. It helps you connect with her emotionally/intellectually. She should enjoy your company and not be bored.
 It's a turnoff when you're always around her and touching her and flirting obnoxiously with her when she is not interested and has never shown any interest at all. Learn to give her the control, even if it's only the illusion of control.


If a girl doesn't want to make out, for example, or have sex, don't try to force it out of her. That's not the way to get her obsessed with you. Instead, listen to her wishes, understand why she has them, and respect them. You'll get more bees with honey than you will with vinegar.
 Most women don't care how much you make, or who your parents are, so long as you can provide for them. That's nice, because most men aren't blessed with wealth. Remember these things about money around women:


Women, like men, want to be spoiled some of the time. It doesn't have to be extravagant, but they like to be spoiled. Save enough money so that you can spoil her every once in a while.
Most women don't like men who flaunt their money. If you have money, don't flaunt it, because you just might scare her away.
 A girl might really like you but if she sees you dancing or talking with another girl, that could be a dealbreaker. Make sure she knows you're interested in only her.


At the same time, have friends who are also girls. If you hang around friends who are also girls, she'll feel safer around you because other women are comfortable hanging out with you. If you never hang around any women, it could be a sign to her that you're illiterate when it comes to them.
Sometimes, women engage in a little competition — just like men! Therefore, it's helpful to have other women around, provided you don't get involved or flirt with them.
 Give her some good old-fashioned compliments. Don't compliment her ability to do every little thing perfectly, or you'll seem too needy or obsessive yourself. But a well-placed compliment can make a girl remember you for days on end!


Be sincere when you compliment. Figure out what you like about her best — what you think makes her most unique — and tell her. If it's the truth, it will automatically come out as sincere.
Reinforce how she views herself. If she thinks of herself as an athlete, reinforce her competitive spirit or athletic skills. If she thinks of herself as a thinker, praise her smarts. Whatever she thinks of herself as, compliment that aspect of her the most.
Focus more on her personality than her appearance. If you have to get in a compliment about her appearance, stay away from the more feminine areas and stick to complimenting these:

Smile
Hair
Eyes
Lips
Clothes (style, appearance, etc.)



, Sing or hum songs, talk about movies, share favorite places. Anything that, when she hears/sees it again, will make her think of you.
 Girls like guys who are in touch with their feminine side without being girly at all. That means you have to understand where she's coming from but still be thoroughly manly if you can. Learn a lesson from the following cues:


It's OK to cry at a movie...if that movie is about sports. While most girls don't like sports, it's a badge of your manliness to her. Be prepared to stick with sports while still making time to see her.
It's OK to dress well...but not too well. As discussed earlier, girls love a guy who can dress nicely. But as soon as the guy dresses nicer than her, that can be a big turnoff.
 You should not make building a relationship with her a script. The most important thing to do when looking for a meaningful relationship is to relax around her, and let your true personality shine through. Do not force yourself to fit a stereotype. You're better off waiting until you can find a girl who likes you, not a stereotypical "cool" guy. A relationship in which you can be yourself is much, much more meaningful than one in which you have to pretend to be someone else.
 Be yourself and be a gentlemen. Let her do what she wants and act like you care about her.

