 Try wearing gypsy-style or bohemian clothing. For a forest elf, green, brown, blue, silver, white and beige are good colors to start with. Make sure they fit on you. Also, peasant tops and maxi skirts are a great choice. Sandals in the summer and ankle or knee long boots are good for winter. Animal prints like zebra and leopard are a bad idea. Let your hair grow long and keep it down or in a bohemian style in a natural hair color not too far away from your own as this can look unnatural.;
, This restricts you greatly in the clothes department but you can still work the look. Wear (if you can) more floaty, lightweight skirts and not too short (elves are modest and elegant). Move away from chunky, stocky clothing and try to keep it as elegant as you can. Accessories are helpful: wear delicate silver necklaces, rings or bracelets but do not go overboard. Clipping tiny flower clips or wearing a flower head circlet is perfect for this look so long as it doesn't clash with your uniform. Shoes should not make noises as elves are known for being silent in their movement.
 An elf does not have cakey makeup. They are subtly beautiful. Use eyeliner, light eyeshadow, loose powder, and lip balm. Stick to light colors, like pale blues, greens, lavender, white, and silver. If you feel braver, use brown. Go light.
 You want your classmates to flock to you. Be mature, slightly withdrawn and quiet but friendly,walk, talk, breathe musically. Be elegant and loyal to your friends. Keep in control of your emotions, don't get angry easily, but if you do, let it be known. Always be ready to help others: give them kind and wise words but do not order them what to do and do not become a slave to others yourself.
 Elves are always quiet.
 Express it in art class. You may also want to give up meat as Elves love and respect animals.
 Elves are well educated, smart, and have a vast knowledge of various things and workings of the world.
 Also, do not be angry. Elves are beyond child-like bullies and do not give them the satisfaction of their anger. However, this does not mean you cannot stick up for yourself, but in doing so, remain calm and collected and if things persist, inform the powers that be.
 pick up an instrument and join a choir and or band and participate in musical events at school. Great instruments to learn are the flute, piano, violin etc (anything with a pretty sound, veer away from brass instruments).

