 and you're ready to start! Make sure the room has a computer in it and is well lit! Why not get even more comfort by using your laptop?

,


Grab the pen/pencil and paper and jot down any ideas you'd like for your mystery novel!
Make sure you don't stress yourself if you can't think of any straight away! You'll come up with some really good ideas eventually! You don't have to plan every single detail, just have some rough ideas and a good idea of what MIGHT happen, in your story.
Don't forget the name! Do you want a series or just a random collection of mystery novels which aren't linked? Be thoughtful and imaginative!

,


Make sure your ideas make sense and sound good, then you can move onto the next step!

,


Remember: don't do every single little detail like: He grabbed a chocolate biscuit from Manny's biscuit tin.
,,


Edit anything you've done so far, to make it to your liking!
Make sure the story:

Is suspenseful and mysterious
Makes sense
Is thoughtful and imaginative
Is in your style
Is spelled correctly and doesn't contain any grammar mistakes



, Make the characters say interesting things, and try to make most things relate to the story! Make the characters personalities varied and make them suspenseful(depending on the style of your story.)

,,


Here's a tricky part! Edit all the details to your liking, and follow all the steps and advice we've gone through so far!

,


Make sure you're satisfied with everything
Think about amounts of chapters and whether there's going to be any twists or surprises...
Write in a font which matches the style of your story

, Remember tips and everything and use all your notes to contribute to the story! You can write down more notes, if it's all too much for you! Follow all the advice and GIVE IT YOUR ALL!

, Congratulations! Whether big or small, long or short, your story is as good as ever!

,, Now is the time to rewrite your story, take a break and just make sure it's all in shape! Why not plan it all again? How about some more editing?

, Review your entire story and read some parts to others! Follow their advice if you could make it better, but don't give up hope! Make sure it's all done carefully and not rushed!

,, If you want to be a famous author, you've got to let others know!

,