 Because calluses are your body’s defense mechanism for preventing irritation to sensitive skin, you may be able to get rid of your callus by simply reducing the friction when you write.


Relax your grip on the pen or pencil when you write. If you are squeezing too hard, it is likely that the pen or pencil is digging into your skin and rubbing. Take short breaks while you write and stretch your hands to remind yourself not to cramp up and grip the pen or pencil too tightly.;
, This will cushion the skin and prevent the pen or pencil from rubbing directly on your skin.


If it is too warm to comfortably wear a thin glove, protect just the area with the callus by wearing a Band-Aid or moleskin over the callus when you write.
You can create a donut-shaped pad by folding the moleskin in half and cutting a half circle out of it. Then apply the moleskin donut around the callus. This will reduce the pressure on the callus.Or alternatively, you can put the moleskin on the pen or pencil to make it softer.
, These methods will help soften and exfoliate the callus. You can try them all until you find the one that works the best for you. Soak for at least 10 minutes to get the best results.


Soak your callus in warm water with Epsom salt dissolved into it. Follow the directions on the box to adjust the concentration of salt to water.Create a solution of warm water and baking soda. Baking soda is a natural exfoliant.
Or alternatively, soak your hand in warm chamomile tea. Chamomile has anti-inflammatory properties which will soothe irritation from the pen or pencil rubbing.
You can also try a warm mixture of castor oil and apple cider vinegar. The oil will have a moisturizing effect and the acid in the vinegar will help soften the skin and promote healing.
 Do not grind down so deeply that you hit sensitive, live skin underneath. You may need to do this repeatedly over several days.


Do not use a pumice stone if you have diabetes because it increases your risk of infection.Do not cut or clip the callus away as this increases your chances of going too deep and injuring yourself., Gently massage the moisturizer into the callus and surrounding skin. You can use commercially manufactured moisturizers or various home-remedies including:


Vitamin E oil
Coconut oil
Olive Oil
Aloe. Aloe can be applied using either a commercially prepared mixture, or if you have a plant in your house, you can split open a leaf and apply the soothing, gooey gel directly onto the callus.
 These substances can be held in place against the callus with a bandage. Leave them on for at least a few hours or even overnight to give them time to work. Some things you can try include:


Lemon juice, soaked into a cotton ball
Vinegar, soaked into a cotton ball
A slice of raw onion, soaked in lemon juice and salt or vinegar

