 When you meet a short-term or long-term objective, be sure to reward yourself. Find a way to treat yourself and demonstrate that you are proud of your achievement. Positive reinforcement is a great way to help your efforts towards your goal become regular good habits.For example, if you meet a short-term weight loss goal, reward yourself with a new pair of running shoes or by downloading some new workout music.
Celebrating your small successes can help you stay motivated in the long-run. Consider using a calendar and marking the days you met your goal (maybe marking it with a smiley face or sticker), or use a journal to track all of your achievements, big and small. This can be especially helpful if you go through a rough patch and feel like you haven't accomplished anything — go back through your calendar or journal and let it remind you of how far you have come.
 As you work to make changes in your life, you are going to have some setbacks. In order to keep going, it is important to remember that no one is perfect. Occasional lapses are okay. If you try to be perfect in your efforts to achieve your goals, you are going to get discouraged, which may turn your small lapse into a much bigger one.For example, if you drink an extra caffeinated drink during the day, let it go and try to do your best the next day.
 Though you may want to see immediate results or hope that your habits are transformed after just a few weeks, it is important to remember that change takes time. Think about how your brain works: when you do something new, your brain creates new neural pathways, or connections. Each time you do that action, the pathway is strengthened. For the pathway to be strong and active, you need to repeat the action, and you need time.

Think about your current daily habits. Let's say, for instance, you always have a cigarette after eating and have done so for five years. That's at least three times a day for 1,825 days, or 5,475 repetitions. That habit is going to be pretty strong, and it's going to take time to build a stronger connection (such as the habit of going for walk after eating or simply not lighting up). Know that it is possible to override these connections by repeating new behaviors, but it will take time.
 Rigidly sticking to a certain objective or a strategy for achieving it can lead to burn out and long-term lapses in effort. To avoid this it is important that you maintain some flexibility in how you approach your goals. You may find that your goals change over time and that something that was important is now much further down your priorities list. As your priorities change, make sure that your goals change with them.For example, you may have set a goal to write two pages of a novel every day only to find out that you do not necessarily like writing regularly or that you need to find a new writing strategy.

