


Display a sign-up sheet at your place of business.
Ask your email contacts if they'd like to be added to the list.
Use Web forms on your Web site or blog. Set them up to allow a person to request information and require their email address for delivery.
For each email address you collect, keep records showing time, date and collection method. If you're ever reported for SPAM, those records are the proof that can prevent you from getting a fine.;
, There are many autoresponder email delivery options available. Some of their services include:


Double opt-in methods that can legally protect your business. Double opt-ins prove you received permission not once, but twice to send commercial email to each person on your list.
Opt-out features enable consumers to remove themselves from your mailing list without your intervention and keep you in compliance.
Customizable email templates can match the look and feel of your business.
Fully automated campaigns can be created well in advance of actual promotions.
Highly targeted customer profiles coupled with intuitive programming can automatically move a person from one campaign to another.
Enhanced tracking enables the user to view opt-ins, check delivery stats and track each person's progress through assorted marketing campaigns.
Split testing allows you to try different messages for effectiveness so you can tweak your campaign.
Autoresponder platforms offer management capability over multiple campaigns in different stages at once.



Choose your promotion. Are you launching a new product? Discounting your services to new customers?
Select a time frame and set quantitative tracking goals for success. What do you want to achieve? During what time period?
Outline how many emails you will send out and when. Timing can be important. Do you want people to receive your messages at the start of their workday when they're fresh? Shortly before they go home? On a particular holiday?

,


Create messages with mobile Web users in mind. Keep the message brief, with no more than 60 characters per line.
Be sure every commercial message contains the information required by law, such as sender contact address and opt-out instructions.
If using an automated delivery service, create every message in both plain text and HTML. The service will bundle the messages, and the recipient's email settings will determine which one to display. (Note: If sending messages manually through a program like Outlook, send only one. Bundling does not occur in all email programs, and sending both plain text and HTML can result in the receipt of dual emails.)

, Make frequent comparisons to the goals you set when developing your campaign. (Are you meeting your target sales quotas? Generating the expected percentage of new clientele?) Be willing to make adjustments if necessary. Take detailed notes, and you'll know how to use email marketing to greater advantage in future campaigns.

