 This is especially important to avoid follow limits. The first limit you'll probably hit is when you've followed 2,000 people. You won't be able to follow any more until you have 2,000 followers.


When this happens, you'll need to "clean-up" your list by unfollowing people who haven't followed you back. Aim to unfollow people who don't post that often, or whoose tweets you aren't really interested in. Then you won't feel like you're missing out.
However, as the list of people you're following grows, it will become more and more time-consuming to go through it and filter out the non-followers. Luckily, there are services like Twidium and FriendorFollow which can clean up your list for you.
Once your list is cleaned up, you'll be able to follow a whole new selection of Twitter users, and - if you choose carefully - most of them should follow you back!

, "Twitter celebrities" (Twitter users with huge numbers of following and followers) are also likely to follow you back automatically.They'll be following over a thousand or sometimes tens of thousands of people, but unlike spammers, they'll have the same number of (or more) followers.
You'll stumble upon such accounts during your Twitter travels (e.g. when they are retweeted by someone you're following), but you can also do an Internet search for "most popular Twitter accounts" or "popular Tweeters".
People who follow spammers are likely to be autofollowers. Wait until a spam follower follows you. Spam followers will have 1,000+ people they are following, but only 5 to 150 followers in return.
Follow everyone who follows the spam follower. Those are likely to be people who are following in return in order to boost their own follow count.
 One good technique is to search for tweets with keywords related to your topics of interest.


Let's say you're a metalhead. Look for people who mention your favorite metal groups. Reply to their tweets and then follow them. Your response will show them that you have something in common, and make it more likely that they'll follow you back.
Better yet, retweet them if the content is good. Not only are you forming connections with other Twitter users, but you're also bringing good content to your followers.
 There are many services available that allow you to trade currency for followers. For the most part, these followers will be bots (fake accounts set up for the purpose of boosting numbers), but your number of followers will increase substantially.


Devumi, FastFollowerz, TwitterBoost, BuyRealMarketing, and TwitterWind are all reliable services for delivering followers, all of which cost between $12 and $20, offer some form of money-back guarantee, and increase your followers by a serious increase of 300,000-500,000.If you're operating a personal account, stick to building followers the old-fashioned way. It's easy to see when one of your friends buys fake followers, which can be kind of embarrassing if it comes out. Buying followers is more commonly employed by businesses and celebrities for whom it is important to display a large number of followers on Twitter. Politicians and popular musicians are often followed by a large number of fakes.There are many risks to follower-buying. Many services don't guarantee followers for an extended period of time, meaning you could have hundreds of thousands one week, and much fewer the next. Many follower-sellers are simple scams designed to get your credit card information or gather contact information spam your real followers.
