 You can use a jar, ziplock bag, or any sealed container. If you develop symptoms within two weeks of the bite, take the jar with you to the doctor. The doctor can send the tick out for testing.If you want to save a tick for testing, do not squash it, burn it, or put it in alcohol. Simply put it in the container, and leave it until you are ready to test it.
Medical testing can be expensive. Even if the tick carries a disease, it does not mean that you have been infected.
 Attach the tick onto a piece of paper with a sturdy piece of transparent tape, like packing tape. This will keep it contained until you can identify what type of tick it is. Different species are likely to carry certain diseases. If you become sick, this information can help your doctor make a diagnosis.You can bring it to the doctor or you can look up different species of ticks online to identify it yourself.
Black-legged ticks are more likely to carry Lyme disease while lone star ticks and dog ticks can give you Rocky Mountain spotted fever., If you do not want to save the tick, kill it with alcohol. Fill a cup or bowl with rubbing alcohol, and dunk the tick inside. Leave it for several minutes. This will likely kill the tick., Just to be safe, you should avoid throwing out a tick in the trash. Instead, wrap it in a piece of toilet paper, and flush it down the toilet. This will ensure that the tick is safely out of your home., Next time you go outside, try to prevent ticks from latching onto you. There are many things you can do to reduce your chance of a tick bite.Apply an insect repellent containing DEET. If you have children, spray the repellent on for them.
Use permethrin on all of your clothing and gear. This is usually available at outdoor stores.
Check everyone for ticks after coming inside. Pay special attention to their arms, knees, waist, belly button, ears, and hair. Remember to check pets as well!
After coming inside, put your clothes in the dryer on high heat for an hour to kill any ticks that might be hiding in your clothing.Light-colored clothing will let you see ticks more easily. Wear long-sleeved shirts, long pants, and boots if possible. Tuck these into one another.