 When evaluating your pediatric dental visit, think about how quickly you were seen. If you were scheduled for 10:00, for instance, but you weren’t seen for twenty minutes or more, that pediatric dental clinic may not operate in a punctual and efficient manner. If you are often made to wait, look elsewhere to ensure your time is not wasted and to receive the prompt service you should expect from a quality pediatric dentist.Sometimes emergencies occur that can push back appointments. If a late appointment happens just once or twice and they explain the reasons why, give them another chance.
 While watching the pediatric dentist and their staff, ensure they are thorough but gentle during your child’s examination. After the appointment, debrief your child about their experience even if you were in the exam room with them the whole time. Most kids won’t leave the dentist’s office with a glowing review of the dentist. But they should be free of complaints regarding serious pain and come away feeling that the dentist was considerate of them.You can determine if the dentist and their staff are gentle and thorough by observing the proceedings, listening for cries of pain from your child, and then looking for a sympathetic response from the dentist or the staff member.
 After your dentist sees your child’s teeth, they should promptly let you know the state of your child’s dental health, including any problems that may have developed. They should patiently and clearly listen to and answer questions you might have, and advise you about what steps you can take to improve your child’s dental health, if necessary., A good pediatric dentist will not only apprise you of your child’s dental health, they will also encourage the child to acknowledge their own role in staying healthy. For instance, your dentist and/or their staff might encourage your child to brush and floss daily, showing them the right way to do it. They should also encourage your child to stay away from sweet juices and sugary snacks.