 Americans are famous for their work ethic, and most Americans believe that success is the direct result of how hard you work. So being an “all-American” girl means you don’t just do the bare minimum to skate by. You know that the more you work, the more you can achieve.


Look for areas where you can improve your performance. Does your spelling need work? Could you use more practice with fractions? Ask yourself what you can do to get better, then do it.
Strive for perfection in your work. If you know an assignment could be better, keep working, even if you’ve met the basic requirements. Don’t turn in C work when you know you are capable of A work.
 When you’re an “all-American” girl, you believe that your work leads to success. That means it’s important to look for new chances to show off your skills and knowledge. Don’t wait for your boss to ask you to take that extra shift—offer to do it. Don’t wait for your Spanish teacher to offer extra credit—ask for it. If you want to be in the school play, audition. If you want to be on the basketball team, try out.
 Being “all-American” means that you don’t depend on other people to help you out or make sure you’re doing a good job. You are your own first, and harshest, critic. You hold yourself to a high standard. This doesn’t mean that you don’t ask for extra help if you know you need it. But it does mean that you don’t depend on other people to catch your mistakes for you.
 Being “all-American” means that you believe the way you spend your time is a reflection of your ambition and your drive to succeed. Strive to make the best of your own time and respect others’ time.


Be punctual. Running late all the time shows others that you don’t take their time, or your work, seriously.
Don’t procrastinate. Make sure that you do your work as soon as you are able. Putting things off means that you’re more likely to have to rush later, which means you’re more likely to make mistakes.
Meet deadlines. This shows others that you respect their time and are good at managing your own. If your paper is due on Friday, make sure it’s ready and the best it can be by Friday. Plus, if you turn things in on time, you don’t have to extend your stress time!

