 Unorganized items can make a room look smaller.


Devise storage solutions. Consider installing corner shelving units to maximize the available space. Choose closed front storage units for a sleeker look.
Bring accessories up off of the floor. Magazine racks, baskets, boxes and even floor lamps or televisions on the floor can make a room feel messy and cramped. For example, mount a television on the wall or place it on a stand. Switch out floor lamps with large bases for table lamps or wall sconces.;
, Light, airy shades will reflect more light, which can make a basement look bigger. Cool toned colors can make walls appear to be receding, which can also help create the illusion of spaciousness.


Gather paint swatches.
Look at the swatches in the basement. Tape them up to each wall to see how the colors appear in different areas of the room. Paint colors can look dramatically different depending on the lighting conditions of a room.
Consider a monochromatic color scheme if you want to use a bold color. A monochromatic palette can give your basement a streamlined, modern look. Keep furniture and accessories in the same color family as the paint color or colors you choose for the basement walls.
 The floor surface and any carpeting or rugs you have can greatly affect how large or small a space feels.


Choose reflective surfaces like shiny wood or laminate. The reflective properties will help open up the room.
Go with lighter colored carpeting and use area rugs with light colors.
Use flooring or rugs with no pattern or small scale patterns. Large scale patterns can feel oversized in a cramped space and emphasize the smallness of the basement.
 Paint in the wrong color or finish or exposed duct work may give your basement a cave-like atmosphere.


Make sure the ceiling paint has a flat finish. A glossy finish will emphasize any flaws on the ceiling and make the ceiling feel lower.
Paint any exposed pipes the same color as the ceiling. This will allow them to blend in with the ceiling.
Consider colors other than white. Sometimes using a complementary shade, lighter hue, or even the same paint color as the walls on a ceiling can make a room feel larger.
 Some basements do receive natural light from small windows or even sliding glass doors. Others have no or almost no natural light. You can mimic the feel of natural light by using light sources at different heights and angles throughout the basement.


Install track or recessed lighting in the ceiling.
Use a variety of lamps at different heights. Make sure you place them in strategic spots throughout the basement to avoid the appearance of dark corners.
Consider installing wall sconces or picture lighting to highlight decorative pieces.
 Changing the arrangement of the furniture in a basement can bring new life to the space.


Move large pieces of furniture away from the walls. Many people think placing furniture against the walls and leaving open space in the middle of a room will make a room look larger, but it can have the opposite effect.
Consider removing or adding furniture. Large scale pieces may be out of place in a small basement. Small to medium sized furniture can be a better fit for small spaces.
Use stackable or foldable seating. If you want to have extra seating, consider purchasing stackable chairs that you can easily store when not in use. The chairs will be available if you have company.
 If your small basement has any windows, you can use shutters, blinds or curtains to make the windows appear larger and taller.


Put up shutters around and below the basement window. This creates the illusion of a taller window.
Hang a short, decorative blind starting from the ceiling that can cover the window if needed. You can use this blind as a valance. Hang a second blind just above the bottom of the window. The second blind will cover blank wall, again creating the feel of a larger window.
Combine the shutter or blind window treatment with curtains if you wish. Hang curtains wider than the window frame to make the window area appear bigger.
 Mirrors reflect light, creating the illusion of a roomier space.


Hang mirrors where they will bounce back light. For example, you may want to place a mirror on the wall opposite a window, or where it will reflect the light from a particular light fixture.
Choose mirrored or shiny furniture and accessories to intensify the effect.
 Prints can make a space feel cluttered, and prints in the wrong scale can easily overpower a room. Choose small prints and don't use a print on more than 1 major element. For example, if you put up wallpaper, don't use a highly patterned area rug.

