 Breaking up with someone face-to-face is perhaps the most difficult way to give the bad news, whether you’re shy or not. However, it is also the most respectful. Honor the relationship you had by having the courtesy to tell him in person.


Avoid breaking up with him by calling on the phone or through text or email. You would likely feel worse if he ended the relationship with you through these means, so don’t do it to him.If you have tried, and you absolutely cannot bring yourself to do it in person, write a letter or call him. Apologize for not doing it in person, and explain that you tried and could not bring yourself to do so.
If you are afraid for your safety, you can break up any way you want. An email or a text may be preferable to an in-person confrontation.
 You can’t sugar-coat an effective breakup. Not telling your soon-to-be ex the truth about your feelings can cause him to have a false sense of hope. Instead, speak honestly about why you’re ending the relationship. He deserves to know the truth, even if your shyness makes it difficult.


Although honesty is the best policy, you don’t want to come across too harsh. Try not to blame your ex for anything and attempt to stay positive. Doing so can prevent you from deeply hurting his feelings and having a particularly messy breakup., Consider his feelings during this breakup. He’s about to hear news that will likely break his heart. Therefore, you want to stay kind and sensitive to what he’s going through. However, you must also be clear about your boundaries or he may not get the hint.


Saying “yes” to conditions you don’t agree with will only keep him around longer. For instance, if you don’t want to stay friends with him or hang out, tell him so. While you can still be kind, you don’t have to skirt around the issue because you feel bad. Tell him directly what you feel comfortable with and leave it at that.Soften the blow by mentioning his positive qualities and saying other true things that shed an optimistic light on the breakup.

