 You should be able to cross-reference the people named in the site pages. Do a Google Search on the instructors and program directors. Look at their profiles on LinkedIN and any other publicly available sites. Does their online presence match their credentials? Do their credentials meet your expectations?;
, Does the content and quality meet your expectations? Is his/her style vibrant and engaging? (Note: Online instructors should have a presence in social media. Not having a presence may be a red flag.)

, Has he/she taught at the corporate or university level? Look for individuals that understand and have experience teaching adult learners.
 The description conveys the course objectives and what you can expect to learn. The outline provides an example of the tools you will be using such as lectures, discussion forums, quizzes, and assignments. Do you have access to enough information to make a decision about the course content and format? Does the course content match what you need? If the description does not match, neither will the course.
 Beware - if you need to buy a book, the course may be just an instructor-led reading group. An online course should be all-inclusive.
 The syndicator is an organization that offers the SAME online courses to hundreds of schools and colleges. It’s an easy way for your local school district or college to offer the convenience of online programs and it’s a great way for the syndicator to market their courses through locally recognized institutions. In the syndication model, the course developer, the instructor, the school, and the syndicator each earn a percentage of the course price that you pay. While there are certainly terrific courses offered through this channel, given the revenue sharing model, I would challenge the quality and effort of the individuals involved in the process.
 You should be able to find out how many students will be in your class. Even for an experienced online instructor in a virtual classroom, it is difficult to provide personalized attention on a discussion board with more than 25 participants.
, There’s nothing like a referral to help you make a decision.
