 Your friend may be self-isolating because of insecurities they have or other issues with their self-esteem. One way that you can help them is to make a list of their positive qualities or help them make one. Seeing all the great things about themselves can help them feel more confident and stop self-isolating.


Write down ten things you like about your friend and give them the list. Better yet, read the list to your friend and explain why you wrote each thing.
Tell your friend to add to the list. Tell them to list their skills, personality traits, and other positive characteristics.
 Your words, validation, encouragement, and support can go a long way to help them stop isolating themselves. It lets them know that you support and care about them. It can also give them the self-esteem boost they need to socialize more and enjoy the world.For instance, you don’t have to lavish your friend with praise, but you might say something like, “I really like how you can be persistent. Your dedication is inspiring.”
Or, for example, you could tell your friend, “You really have a way of putting people at ease. It helps make a lot of situations much better.”

, People are less likely to be social when they aren’t comfortable with how they look or how they think people perceive them. Your friend may be self-isolating because of insecurities they have with their appearance or reputation. Help your friend boost their self-esteem and stop self-isolating by giving them advice and support for updating their image.For instance, you could help your friend go through their closet and put together some stylish new outfits.
Or, for example, you can help them work on smiling more and seeming more approachable.
 Some people isolate themselves, not because they want to, but because they aren't confident in social situations. They aren’t sure what to say or do. You can help a self-isolating friend by working with them on ways to feel more comfortable socializing. Your practice can give them the self-confidence they need to stop isolating themselves.Practice conversing with people. For example, have your friend practice introducing themselves to you or starting a conversation.
Role play various social situations. For instance, you might walk through what to do at a party or how to talk to someone at a sporting event.

