 Decisive Pumpkin is recommended as you’ll want to deal more damage at a faster rate against Larxene


If you are having a hard time blocking her attacks, switch to Uptamia Weapon for MP Hastega.
Passive skill: Combo boost - the longer your combo, the higher the damage each strike will do.;
, This equipment is very helpful in battles that require you to spam Reflega.


Passive skill: MP Haste - this skill makes your MP recover faster.
 You’ll need this to lessen the damage you receive from Larxene’s physical attacks.


Provides 25% damage reduction for all elements including physical attack.
 This item is very important! It’ll help make the battle a whole lot easier.


Provides 40% Thunder resistance.
 Reflega helps block most of Larxene’s attacks.
 Use this for MP recovery during emergency situations.
 Use this for HP and MP recovery, in case you’re about to get KO'd.
 Larxene becomes shrouded by thunder and summons 4 thunder bolts.


You can stun her by using Reflega; this will give you a chance to land a combo.
 Similar to Thunder, but stunning her will now be by luck.


Use Reflega to stun her during this attack; stunning her will give you a chance to land a combo.
Note, however, that using Reflega may or may not stun her during this attack.
 Larxene sends out a line of lightning, but she will no longer shroud herself in thunder.
 Larxene will dash at you with a clone.


Visual alert for this attack is the darkening of your screen, and Larxene being struck by lightning.
 Larxene dashes toward you, then performs a ground-based combo.


You can block this attack with either Guard (□) or Reflega or Dodge Roll (analog+tap □) away.
 Larxene appears above you and performs an aerial dive.


Block with Reflega or move out of the way with Quick Run (analog+hold □) or Dodge Roll.
 Larxene’s clone splits into two and attacks you from both sides.


Block with Reflega or move out of the way with Quick Run or Dodge Roll.
 This attack will only be used when Larxene has at least 1 clone. Larxene and her clones attack you from all sides, surrounding you in thunder and throwing you into the sky, then dropping you in a giant thunderbolt.
 If Larxene has no clones, she will teleport to the middle of the arena, then summon electric orbs and spins them together, summoning lightning from the sky. She will then create more clones.


Some attacks require a different method of avoiding, depending on the situation, and thus will be listed in the battle guide.
 Larxene will not waste a single moment and will immediately attack you. After casting Reflega, Larxene will be stunned, giving you an opportunity to land a combo.


Remember not to land two finishers on her.
 After landing your first combo, Dodge Roll away from her to avoid her counterattack.


After the first clash, she can either spam you with Thunder, or attack you with clones.
 If she dashes, disappears, or jumps, immediately cast Reflega; and if the screen darkens, get as far away as possible. Getting hit by one of the stray lightning will cause a massive amount of damage.
 Remember to keep your back against a wall to avoid having to look at multiple angles while trying to predict where the clone will attack.
 Occasionally, it will give you an opportunity to use a Reaction command (△), which will eliminate all of Larxene’s clones.
 Larxene will start using new attacks when her HP hits 2/3 of her original HP.
 She’ll also have 2 main attacks: she’ll either cast Thundara or clone herself.
 Remember to Dodge Roll away as soon as the explosion hits her.


During phase II, there is a chance that your reflect will not stun her, and she’ll immediately counterattack.
Don’t avoid her Thundara; she’ll immediately use her Desperation attack, which will be harder to avoid.
 After avoiding four lightning pillars, land beside Larxene and cast Reflega as soon as she tries casting Thundara, then Dodge roll away.


If she gets stunned, Dodge Roll back to her and unleash a combo
If not, then repeat the double jump and glide until she gets stunned.
 If a clone disappears, it will most likely do an aerial attack. Wait a few moments (3–5 counts, depending on how fast you count) before you guard against the attack, then proceed attacking the clone if it’s stunned. You might have to watch for a few things during this part:


If the clone you blocked gets stunned and the other clones are not doing anything, meaning not preparing to attack you, you will most likely get a Reaction command; use it to eliminate Larxene’s clones.
If the clone you blocked gets stunned, but the other clones are preparing to attack you, stop your combo and Dodge Roll away from them.
If the clone you blocked doesn’t get stunned, get away and wait for it to do another aerial attack.
 Occasionally she will summon clones and all of them will disappear instead of only one clone trying to do an aerial attack. When this happens, a synchronized attack will follow. To avoid this go to the middle of the arena and start blocking their attacks.


If a clone gets stunned, attack it and watch the other clones until they stop their synchronization.
 Wait for a clone to try an aerial attack on you, then repeat step 4.


Keep doing this until Larxene moves on to her third and final phase; this happens when she only has 5–6 bars left.
 This time around, Larxene cannot be stunned while using Thundaga. She will also use another type of Thundaga, but this one will not have any visual representation, no aura - nothing - and this one comes out faster than the other Thunder magic Larxene uses.


Spam Reflega to avoid this spell.
 This is an indicator that she’ll use her Desperation attack; just keep gliding until she finishes and all the lightning orbs are gone.


Afterward, quickly face Larxene and block.
There’s a small time frame in between being able to block this attack and getting hit, so be careful.
 If she starts doing aerial attacks, block twice using Guard. If she does a ground combo, use Guard thrice.


When blocked correctly, you’ll be given a chance to do a Reaction command and eliminate Larxene’s clones.
 She’ll go back to spamming Thundaga attacks after she loses her clones; just keep blocking or dodging her until you find another chance to attack.


Keep attacking her until she dies.

