 If you were unable to get tickets for one of the self-guided public tours of the White House and will be in Washington, visit the grounds of the White House, also called President’s Park. From the White House Visitors Center to The Ellipse and the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, these places will give you a chance to see the White House even if you can’t get inside of it.


The grounds of the White House, also called President’s Park, extend from Lafayette Park at H Street, NW in the north to The Ellipse at Constitution Ave, NW in the south and between 15th and 17th Streets, NW.
You can’t visit the grounds inside the White House fence. Even ticketholders for White House tours are not allowed to stroll around the grounds inside the fence.
Street parking is limited near the White House grounds and spaces fill very quickly. In addition, if you’re not familiar with driving in Washington, DC, which is tricky because of the city’s street plan, it’s advisable to use public transportation.Public transportation to the White House grounds is best by Washington’s subway system, called the Metro. The closest stops to the White House are Federal Triangle, Metro Center, McPherson Square, and Farragut North., The Ellipse is a grassy area that extends from the South Lawn of the White House to Constitution Ave, NW. From this point, visitors get spectacular views of the South Portico of the White House.


The Ellipse is open to the public all day, every day unless otherwise posted.
If you are in Washington during the holiday season, you’ll be able to see the National Christmas Tree and National Menorah on the Ellipse., Lafayette Square, named for the Revolutionary War General Marquis de Lafayette, is a small park that extends from H Street, NW in the north to Pennsylvania Avenue, NW in the south. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1970.From this point, visitors get excellent and very close views of the North Portico of the White House.


Lafayette Square is open to the public all day, every day unless otherwise posted.
If you are lucky, you may get to see the President or members of the First Family arriving or leaving from this vantage point.
Secret Service agents guard the area around Lafayette Square because it is so close to the White House. The guards are often friendly and may answer questions if you have them.
 Formerly called the Old Executive Office Building, the Eisenhower Executive Office Building was once the largest office building in the world.It now houses most of the White House staff’s offices.The Eisenhower Executive Office Building is located right next to the White House at 1650 Pennsylvania Ave., NW.Because the building houses for White House staff, there are no public tours or visiting hours for the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
 If you were unable to get tickets for one of the self-guided public tours of the White House, the White House Visitors Center offers an excellent alternative to the actual site.


The Visitor’s Center offers a touch screen virtual tour of the White House as well as artifacts and a film called “The White House: Reflections from Within.”The Visitor Center is located at 1450 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW and charges no admission.
It is open daily from 7:30am to 4:00pm except January 1, Thanksgiving, and December 25.