 It’s very common to miss your loved ones when you’re away from them. Make a list of the people you miss and what they brought to your life. What memories do you cherish? What things did you do together? What aspects of their personalities did you love? Finding new friends who are similar to those you left behind can help you feel emotionally supported. It can also help you adjust to a new place or situation.


Look for ways in which your new environment is like what you miss. Research on homesickness has showed that when you can find aspects of the familiar in your new situation, you are less likely to stay homesick because you are focused on something positive., It’s easy to say that you need to make new friends, but actually doing that can be hard in a new place. The best way to develop a strong social support network is to put yourself into situations where you’ll meet new people, especially if you have similar interests.Getting involved with new activities can also help distract you from your feelings of homesickness.


For example, if you’re away at school or college, there are a variety of clubs, sports, activities, and student government bodies you could join. These can help you connect with other people, many of whom are probably experiencing homesickness too!
If you’re at a new job or in a new city, it can be hard to make new friends. Research has shown that you may find it harder to make friends after you leave college.Consistency is key: joining a group that meets frequently, such as a book club or workshop, is likely to help you make friends because you’ll see the same people on a regular basis., One of the most important things you can do to fight homesickness is to make new friends. Having a strong support network makes you less likely to have problems coping with homesickness, even if you feel it.Sharing your positive memories about home will help lift your spirits and make you feel more comfortable talking about home.Have a party where you share your cuisine and customs with new friends or acquaintances. Whether you're studying abroad or just going to college a few hours away, sharing your favorite foods from home with others can make you feel better. You can have a party where you teach a few friends to make the foods you love most from home, or just invite some people over to enjoy your favorite local snacks.
Share your favorite music with others. If you're from a place that loves country music, have a small get-together where people play board games, get to know each other, and listen to your favorite tunes. If you loved listening to jazz at home, play some jazz. The music doesn't have to directly relate to your home as long as it reminds you of being home.
Tell funny stories about being at home. Though you may be feeling too mopey to laugh, try sharing some funny anecdotes about what you loved most about being at home. Talking about fond memories can strengthen your connection to home and to new friends.
If you're living in a place with a different native language from yours, try teaching some people a few key phrases in your language. This will be fun, distracting, and educational for your friends.
 Feeling shy, awkward, or vulnerable is a common side-effect of homesickness. If you don’t take any risks, you will miss out on experiences that could help you adjust to your new situation.Try accepting invitations, even if you won’t know many people at whatever you’ll be doing. You don't need to be the life of the party! Just being present and listening to others is a good step.


If you’re shy, give yourself a manageable goal: meet and talk to just one new person. You’ll probably become more comfortable socializing as time goes on.Focus on listening to the other person, which is the easiest way to make a connection.
Even if you end up not making friends at that particular party or event, you will have proved to yourself that you can handle doing new, unfamiliar things, and that can boost your self-confidence.
 Doing the same familiar things may feel comfortable, but it’s important to push yourself out of your comfort zone to grow and change. Research has shown that a moderate level of anxiety, such as that experienced when you’re learning a new skill, can improve your performance in intellectual and interpersonal tasks.Feeling too comfortable can keep you from adjusting to your new environment.Start with small steps. Trying to face your biggest fear all at once could be counter-productive. Trying to throw yourself into something completely foreign could leave you feeling overwhelmed. Give yourself small, manageable goals that challenge you a little bit at a time.Try a new restaurant in your new town. Offer to sit with a stranger at the cafeteria. Ask someone in your class to start a study group with you. Invite a co-worker to get drinks after work.

