 Ice can reduce swelling and numb the pain of a canker sore. If you can, use your tongue to hold a chip directly against the sore until it dissolves.Keep ice chips in a coffee thermos or a styrofoam cup to prevent rapid melting, and use them throughout the day.
If ice chips are too cold for you, try to at least drink cool water throughout the day. Let it sit in your mouth and gently swish it against your sore before swallowing it.
 Spicy, acidic, and abrasive foods can irritate the sore. This will cause pain and may delay healing. Eat bland and soft foods to let your ulcer heal.Avoid carbonated drinks, citrus fruits, hard foods like toasted bread, and anything with a lot of salt or spice.
 Avoid aggravating your sore by grazing it with your toothbrush. Use a toothbrush with soft bristles and try to avoid touching the sore.Get toothpaste for sensitive teeth like Biotene or Sensodyne ProNamel to use until your sore heals.
 If you can't get rid of your mouth ulcer as soon as you'd like, you can at least try to improve your comfort. Take an over-the-counter pain reliever like ibuprofen, or use an OTC numbing gel. These are available at your local pharmacy.If you have any medical conditions or take other medications, talk to the pharmacist or your doctor before choosing a medication.
Don’t take aspirin if you’re under 18. Never give aspirin to a child.
 You can obtain zinc lozenges from your local drug store or pharmacy. Though these haven't been proven to be helpful, some people find that they ease discomfort and speed up healing.Use them as directed on the package.
 Vitamins B and C may help to heal mouth ulcers, though this needs to be studied further.Get vitamin supplements from your drug store or pharmacy after speaking with your doctor or pharmacist. Only take the recommended amount.
 Lysine, an amino acid, could potentially help with your mouth ulcers. This needs more research, however. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if there's any reason you shouldn't take lysine., Echinacea is an herb that can be found in supplement form at your local pharmacy or drug store. Because it acts on the immune system, it may help promote healing of canker sores. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist about whether it's safe for you to use echinacea.