 This is a long, extensive process, weighing pros against cons. For example, the Gigabyte GA-MA790FX-DS5 is an excellent socket AM2 motherboard, and the EVGA Nforce 790i SLI is a monster of an LGA 775 motherboard.;
, What you want is one with room for expansion and lots of cooling options. Thermaltake's Wingo V7420AU1 has some great fan powering with adjustable speeds and supports expansion and water cooling. Lian Li cases are also a good choice. They are made of aluminum and highly expandable.
 PC Power and Cooling Inc. make the most powerful power supplies on the market today. Be cautious of high-wattage, inexpensive power supplies.
 Remember to get RAM that matches the motherboard. (ie, DDR or DDR2, and a compatible speed, which is the PC2-xxxx number)

, When looking for a processor, consider the energy consumption, as manufacturers offer many processors with different power consumption levels. If you are the type that is constantly doing several things on the computer, get a multi-core processor so you can run more applications at once. If you are playing games, a single-core processor will suit your needs better.
 Cooling is what keeps your components from overheating and malfunctioning. Most of the time you will only need fans, but if you are overclocking components to run complex games, you might want to look into more expensive liquid cooling. For the best (but most expensive) cooling, you might want to try submersing you main components in non-conducting mineral oil. Choose copper cooling components for the optimal performance. Remember to get a case that fits the cooling system you choose, as water cooling systems or large heatsinks take up some space.
 This should be the easiest thing to choose. You should already have a good idea of what you need if you have gotten this far. If you are gaming, you may want to look at getting more expensive but higher-speed hard drives to shorten loading times. "The following are optional and it doesn't matter how many you get as long as they will fit in one machine! You could have a working computer with just the above"

, Just about any DVD-RW drive should do. For gaming, a faster hard drive will speed up loading times slightly.
 Motherboards have integrated video cards but aren't always up to scratch for serious gamers and for Windows Vista or any other operating system that has fancy eye candy. Here, name-brand is probably best so buy something ATI or Nvidia. For the newest games, you might want to get a card that's DirectX 10.
 Although the motherboard has integrated sound as well it won't be likely to give you the clearest sound quality. This is one of the least important things, and will likely be one of the cheapest. If you are going to plug your computer into surround sound speakers, make sure to get a compatible card

, Get a combo floppy/media card reader/writer.
 Try choose a brand-name LCD monitor that has a high resolution and has a low response time.
 If you want to have a wireless network, get a wireless router. Any Netgear/D-link/Linksys router should do. You will also want a USB or PCMCIA WiFi adapter for a laptop, or a PCI one for a desktop computer.
 Most keyboards are the same, except for eye candy. Since usually you aren't staring at the keyboard, splurge somewhere else. A two-button laser mouse is a must, and it should have a decent scroll wheel as well, and probably side buttons.
 You should make sure to only buy what you need, as everything you add will cost extra. If you want to print out hi-res digital pictures on nice glossy paper, get a printer that does that. If you are only printing the occasional word document, don't spend a ton. For a gaming PC, you might not even need a printer at all! '(please don't edit this to include specific products as these rapidly go out-of-date. Also, can someone make this a comment, I'm still new here.)

