 If you don't know the root notes or chords, just ask. For example, say the song's chords are G, C, and then D. You want to play a G when the guitarist plays a G, a C with his C, and switch to D when he switches to D. If you're just getting started, this works for more complex chords too -- you could play the same three notes if the chords were G7, C7, and D7.


For beginners, just focus on these root notes. As you get better, start experimenting with the same notes in other areas. The open 2nd string is a D, but so is the 3rd string, 5th fret!
Work on transitioning right in time with the guitarist. You want to hit the first C note right as she hits the first C chord.
 One of the bass's primary functions is to bridge the gap between the rhythm section (drums) and the other melody instruments (guitar, vocals, piano, etc.) To do so, you have to be locked into both, playing the right root notes to fit the melody and the right rhythm to fit the drums. Good ways to do this are to think in frequencies:


Play a lower note to time up with the low-frequency kick drum, hitting this deep bass not together.
Play a higher note (like the same note's octave) to fit in with the snare drum., The walking bassline began in blues and jazz but has since expanded to all types and genres of music. It is the simplest way to bridge your root notes and start expanding your playing through songs. To begin doing so, simply try playing each fret between two notes on the same string. For example, say the song goes from an E to an A. The following "walk" helps you fill the space between changing chords:


G|-----------------------------|
D|-----------------------------|
A|-----------------------------|
E|----0--1--2--3--4--5-----|
You'll notice that some notes don't sound as good as others. As you get better, you'll learn to walk up and down using only the notes in your scales.
 You want to play limited notes, but you want every single note to hit the listener hard. The only way to do this is to keep a strong, regular rhythm, which makes practicing with a metronome essential. You should always focus on landing on the beats, practicing in 4/4, 8/8, and even 3/2 with your metronome.


Rock bassists tend to create a rocking, bouncing feel by landing hard on the 2nd and 4th beats.
Funk bassists must hit the 1st and 3rd beats harder than the other two -- this is one of the roots of the genre.
Reggae and ska bass tend to focus on the in-between beats -- the "1 and, 2 and, 3..." beats.
 Plucking the guitar near the neck produces a warmer sound. Plucking near the bridge has a brighter and more percussive tone. And switching to a pick gives you a harder, sharper edge to your notes. If you're really looking to extend your range, you can learn to play slap bass, producing the unique, loud tones made famous in the Seinfeld soundtrack.


The aggressiveness you pluck with will also dramatically change the sound.
Palm muting is when you drape the edge of your hand on the bridge while picking, giving a quiet, percussive, and plodding sound to your notes.
Always think about what tone best fits the song. Harder, more rocking genres like punk tend to want louder, more percussive playing, while softer tones are used in a variety of genres., When you want to add a little flourish or flair, pick moments where the band gives you space -- when there are no vocals, during moments the lead guitarist is quiet, or in and out of transitions. Fills are your chance to show off for a few notes, and they are an essential part of keeping the bass interesting without stepping on anyone's toes.


When playing a fill, try to time it up with a drummer's fill. This usually comes right before the song transitions in some way.
Remember that the roots notes are always most important. When in doubt, play the root notes.
 Great bass players know that they are responsible for a song's groove-- the almost subconscious feel that gets people dancing or moving. But a busy, technical, or flashy bassline is very hard to groove to and often drowns out guitar, piano, and vocal parts. A huge part of successful bass playing is showing restraint.


Remember -- root notes come first, forming the melodic backbone of the song. Any flourishes must come after you've mastered these notes.