 If you are able to visit a Russian-speaking country, you should stay in a household where they don't speak your language. This way you are forced to communicate only in Russian. It may take a few months, or longer if you don’t have basic understanding of the language. However, being in a situation where you can only communicate in Russian will help you pick it up quickly.Having a basic knowledge of grammar structure and vocabulary is preferable when living in total immersion. This way, you are able to understand most of what you hear, and grow in understanding much more quickly.
 If you visit Russia, you may like it. Moving to Russia can also be an option. If you place yourself in total immersion on a more permanent basis, you will be highly motivated to both understand and speak Russian. You will learn quickly so that you can function better in society.


It is better to know people before you move to a new country. They will help you find a place to live, make friends, stay safe, and so on.
You might want to visit before making the decision to move there.
 Some colleges and community centers offer Russian language courses in their facilities rather than online. Try taking a course where the instructor only speaks Russian. During the class time, you will only hear, read, and speak in Russian. This is a good way to immerse yourself if you don't live in a Russian-speaking area.


Look at the course offerings of your local university or community center by visiting their catalog online or giving them a call.
 If you are unable to go to a Russian-speaking country, a good place to start is to find a Russian tandem partner. Tandem partnering means that you meet with a native speaker on a regular basis. They teach you Russian, and you teach them your language.Keep in mind that while this arrangement is free, it doesn’t mean it will be easy. Your partner may not be good at teaching, and vice versa.
You should study when not with your partner so that you don’t forget what you learn each time.
Use any study method you know of, whether a Russian language textbook, workbook, website, app, and so on.
Have your partner teach you verb structure, vocabulary, and quiz you on everything you learn.
Try to have as many conversations in Russian as you can.
 Another way to practice immersion if you can’t go to a Russian-speaking country is to immerse yourself at home. Make all your media be in Russian. Find Russian radio stations online, watch Russian-speaking movies and TV shows, listen to Russian music, and so on.


You can look into changing your computer, tablet, and smartphone language settings to Russian.
Whenever you see an option to translate a website, choose to translate it into Russian.
 To help with visually understanding the Russian language, try to read only in Russian. Purchase newspapers, books, and magazines only in Russian. Go onto Russian websites and read web articles and webzines in Russian.


Try changing the language settings on your social media to Russian.
For example, you can change your Facebook language to Russian by clicking “Settings,” then “Language” in the upper right hand corner after signing in.Learning the sounds of the Russian alphabet is helpful for reading the language.
 Being able to write in Russian is proof that you are learning it. Whenever you have the chance, write down your thoughts in Russian. A class will provide this opportunity and give you feedback. If you’re not in a class, try finding a Russian speaker to write letters or emails with.


You could also try texting or having instant message chats with a Russian speaker to test your Russian writing skills.

