 Most home growers find that a standard size aquarium is perfectly adequate as a space to grow spirulina in. A tank that size will supply a family of four with plenty of spirulina.You can grow spirulina in larger tanks, or even in a basin or pool outdoors (if you live in a warm climate). However, it will be easier to manage the spirulina culture indoors in a small tank.;
, A spirulina colony can appear thick, but it’s mostly water. Once it’s ready to eat or use, you’ll want to squeeze out the excess water. For most home growers who will want to use only a small amount of fresh spirulina at a time, a fine cloth or mesh will work just fine. In addition, you'll need a scoop to get the spirulina out of the tank.If you want to harvest larger amounts of spirulina to dry, get a larger supply of fine cloth or mesh to make things easier.
 Trying to grow spirulina in plain water won’t necessarily lead to great results. To have an optimal colony, you’ll need to add specific minerals. You don’t have to be an expert, though--you can buy premixed mineral “food” for spirulina from health and organic stores as well as online. Make sure that it contains:Sodium bicarbonate
Magnesium sulfate
Potassium nitrate
Citric acid
Salt
Urea
Calcium chloride
Iron sulfate
Ammonium sulfate

, To get your own spirulina colony going, you’ll need a bit of live spirulina as a starter. Check with your local or favorite online health food or organic supplies store and ask for a spirulina starter kit.Spirulina starter cultures are usually as simple as a bottle containing spirulina algae in its medium (water).
Buy spirulina cultures only from sources you trust. Since spirulina can absorb heavy metals and other toxins, you want to ensure that the starter supply has come from a safe source.
 If possible, set your tank so that it is near a south-facing window that gets lots of sunshine. Spirulina algae need plenty of light and warmth to grow well.Some spirulina growers use artificial light, but results will be better with natural light.
 Spirulina growers refer to the “medium” the algae grows in, but this really just means the water in the tank, with the mineral “food” added. Fill your tank with filtered water, and add the mineral mix according to the package instructions.You can run tap water through a standard faucet filter (such as a Brita or Pur filter), and use this for your tank.
If your water is chlorinated, you should de-chlorinate it using supplies found at aquarium supply stores.
 Ideally, the temperature in your tank should be around 35°C (95 F), but above 38°C (100.4 F) is too warm. Use an aquarium thermometer to make sure your tank will provide the right temperature for your spirulina.Spirulina can tolerate lower temperatures without dying, but will do best in warm environments.
If your tank is too cold, you can warm it with an aquarium heater, which can be found at an aquarium supply or pet store., You should follow the exact instructions that come with your bottle of spirulina starter to be sure, but usually it’s simple to add the starter culture. Generally, you just pour one half to three-fourths of the bottle into the medium in your tank., At first, your spirulina colony will seem thin, but over time it will thicken and expand in size. Most of the time, you won’t have to do anything to your colony other than let it grow!If your colony doesn’t seem to be growing well, test the pH of your tank, which should be around 10 when the spirulina is harvestable. If the pH is off, you may need to add more mineral “food.”
You can find pH test strips at aquarium supply stores or online.
 Your spirulina will need oxygen to thrive. Some growers will use an aquarium pump to ensure a supply of oxygen, but this isn’t strictly necessary. To help air get into the water of your tank, you can simply stir the medium occasionally., Once your spirulina is thriving, you can start taking some out to consume. All you have to do is scoop some out! Most people find that about a spoonful of spirulina at a time is enough if you are consuming it fresh., Place the spirulina you took from your tank onto the cloth. Hold it over a sink or bowl and gently squeeze out the excess water. You’ll be left with a thick green paste. Use this fresh spirulina in smoothies, top your favorite foods with it, or enjoy it all by itself!, Each time you take some spirulina out of your tank, make sure to add a bit of the mineral mixture back in, in about equal measure. For instance, if you tank out a tablespoon of spirulina, add about a tablespoon of the medium back in.