 This is widely reported to fade color quickly and without causing too much damage to your hair.


Crush Vitamin C tablets with a pestle and mortar or in a plastic baggie with a rolling pin or hammer. Move the crushed tablets to a small bowl and add a tablespoon of water to make a paste. Apply the paste to your hair and leave in for about 30 minutes, then rinse with warm water.Alternatively, you can add the crushed Vitamin C to clarifying shampoo. Apply mixture to your hair and cover your head with a shower cap. Leave in for about 20 minutes, then rinse.;
, This is one of the safest ways you can lighten your hair, in terms of reducing chemical exposure.


Squeeze fresh lemon juice into a container. Apply to your hair and cover with a shower cap for a few minutes. Then, wash hair as usual using warm water to rinse the lemon juice from your hair.You can also try creating a spray mixture with moisturizing agents like almond oil to lessen the drying effects of the acidity of the lemon juice.Spraying lemon juice on your hair and then spending a few minutes in sunlight before rinsing it out will also help lighten your hair color., This is a natural method that will not damage your hair follicle like some other methods, and it is best used on darker hair colors.


Mix 3 tablespoons of ground cinnamon with your conditioner to make a paste. Apply to damp hair thoroughly, covering all roots and strands. Cover your head with a shower cap and leave in overnight. Rinse thoroughly the following morning.Alternatively, you can try applying conditioner to your hair and then applying a paste made of ground cinnamon and water on top of the conditioner. It is still recommended to leave on overnight., Here is another natural method that is less damaging to your hair and encourages you to get outside.


Mix ½ cup sea salt with a small amount of water to make a paste. Apply to damp hair. Spend some time outside in the sunlight to allow the sunlight and sea salt paste take effect in lightening your hair color. Rinse thoroughly when done.Another method is to mix one part sea salt with five parts water. Saturate your hair with the mixture and let sit in your hair for about 15 minutes before rinsing., This is one more natural method that will help to lighten your hair color.


Mix 1/3 cup honey with ¼ cup of your conditioner. Apply thoroughly to damp hair and comb to ensure even coating. Cover hair with a shower cap and leave on for eight hours or overnight. Rinse thoroughly when done.You could also try a mixture of honey with other lightening agents such as cinnamon and vinegar with olive oil added in for moisturizing. It is best to leave this mixture in overnight, as well., Chamomile tea brings out blonde undertones and works well on lighter hair colors.


Brew a pot of chamomile tea and let it steep for at least an hour, making it strong. Saturate your hair with the chamomile tea and then spend some time out in the sunlight to dry your hair.Alternatively, add a few tablespoons of the brewed chamomile tea to your conditioner. Apply thoroughly to damp hair and leave in for several minutes before rinsing out., Dish soap has harsher chemicals than shampoo, so you will need to be sure to condition well afterward.


Lather dish soap into your hair like you would with shampoo. Massage it into your scalp and rinse well.Repeat if necessary.
You could also try mixing dish soap with baking soda for extra color-lightening power. Massage into hair thoroughly and then rinse well., Be sure to choose a brand of laundry detergent that does not use bleach or bleaching agents, which will significantly harm your hair.


Use one tablespoon of detergent to wash your hair. Lather and massage into your hair as if it were shampoo. Rinse thoroughly.Conditioning your hair will be necessary due to the harshness of the laundry detergent.
 This method plays double duty to achieve your mission and condition your hair.Massage hot oil into your hair from roots to tips. Wrap your hair in a clean towel and leave in for one hour.Rinse the oil out with hot water to thoroughly rinse the oil from your hair. This will help it return to its normal state and not leave it too greasy.
 Supermarkets and retail stores sell hair color removal kits that you can use to lighten your hair color. Follow the instructions on the kit for use. It may take a few rounds to get your hair to a lightened color that you prefer., Anti-dandruff shampoo seems to work well on colors that are already slightly faded or are lingering from an old color job.It works best before the color has had time to fully set.Anti-dandruff shampoo is stronger than regular shampoo, so it has more of a cleansing or stripping effect. Wash your hair with it several times every couple of days to see results., This is a natural alternative to bleach, but baking soda has a similar bleaching effect.


Start by wetting your hair with warm water. Then, make the paste by mixing equal parts baking soda and shampoo. Massage the paste into your hair and leave on for a few minutes. Rinse thoroughly.Another option is to mix baking soda with lemon juice at a ratio of two teaspoons to two tablespoons. Massage into hair and let sit for about five minutes, and then rinse thoroughly., A bleach bath is best done by a salon professional because of the potential to damage your hair and affect your skin and/or clothing.A bleach bath is a mixture of shampoo and diluted bleach, which will lighten your hair. It can take anywhere from five to 30 minutes to work, depending on how much you want to lighten your hair color.Note that a bleach bath has the potential to affect your natural hair color, as well.
 Keep in mind that this is a last-resort option, because bleaching severely damages your hair. Only attempt bleaching your hair when other methods have not worked to your satisfaction.


Mix one part bleach with four parts warm water; the more diluted it is, the better. Put on rubber gloves, and massage or scrub the bleach into your hair. Leave in for 10 minutes, then rinse thoroughly.Be prepared to condition your hair deeply after bleaching.
In most cases, you will probably want to dye your hair back to something closer to its natural color. It is best to give your hair some time to recover before doing so.