 There are two ways to grow chives: from a preexisting plant/cutting, or from seeds. Most gardeners recommend growing your chives from a bulb or from a start from another chive plant, because growing chives from seeds takes two full years. If you choose to grow from a preexisting plant (available at nurseries), select a start that is bright green, full, and at least 3–5 inches (7.6–12.7 cm) high. These qualities indicate a healthy chive plant which is likely to flourish in your garden.To grow from seed, you must start the seeds indoors a few months prior to planting them outdoors, then transplant them into the ground when spring comes. The seeds will grow into full plants, but they will not be mature enough to harvest for another two years.
Chive plants grow in bulbs that are divided every 3-4 years. Thus, you can plant a divided bulb from a friend or neighbor’s chive plot, and it will grow into an entirely new plant.
It is a fairly straightforward process to plant seeds, bulbs, and starts outdoors. Seeds take a bit of extra work prior to outdoor planting.
 Chives are sun-loving plants, and although they will still grow in shade, they will produce the biggest harvest when placed in full sun. Find a plot in your garden that has sunlight most of the day. If your garden is shaded, choose a patch that gets at least 4-6 hours of sunlight., Although some plants can grow in dense, hard soils, chives need light, loamy, and sandy soils with good drainage. If you’re working with soil that has a lot of clay or is very dense, mix in some sand or peat moss to loosen it up. Consider adding a garden-quality compost mixture to mix nutrients into the soil. If possible, amend the soil 4-6 weeks prior to planting, so that the soil can have time to adjust to the changes.
 Dig a hole 2–4 inches (5.1–10.2 cm) deep. Place each chive plant into the hole, and replace soil over the top. Make sure that the soil does not go above the base of the stems, as this will slow the growth of the plant.


If you are starting your chives as seeds, start them indoors 8-10 weeks prior to your outdoor planting date. Try to plant the herb 1-2 weeks after the last frost of the winter – typically around March or April, depending on your growing zone.
Chives grow from small bulbs at the base, so make sure to fully cover the base when you plant them. The bulbs aren’t typically that large, so you shouldn't need a hole bigger than 2–4 inches (5.1–10.2 cm) deep and wide.
 The soil should be moist when you water your chives, so you need not water them again immediately after. Chives don’t require a lot of moisture, so add water only when the soil is completely dry. The frequency of waterings will depend on the weather in your area, but may vary from once every 1-3 days.
 Apply a bit of fertilizer once every 3-4 weeks to make your chive harvest prosper. Choose a 20-20-20 mixture (equal parts nitrogen, phosphorous, and potassium) or an organic fertilizer, and incorporate it into the soil according to package directions. If you’re concerned about weeds in your garden, adding a layer of mulch will help block them out. Mulch is a type of compost, bark, or straw that is available at most garden supply stores. Add a layer 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) thick over the top of the soil, to block out weeds and to trap in moisture for longer.
 Wait to harvest your chives when they are at least 7 to 10 inches (17.8 to 25.4 cm) in height. For the best-tasting crop, harvest your chives during the summer and late fall – 3 to 4 times total during the year. It is not necessary to harvest the entire plant at once; only cut what you need from a patch, and harvest that particular patch 3-4 times per year.


The overall size of your chives will vary depending on the variety you grow, but all varieties are harvestable around 7–10 inches (17.8–25.4 cm). This normally occurs around mid-summer, and will continue until the weather cools below freezing.
In some area with light winters, chives will remain evergreen and produce harvestable plants until the following year., Use a pair of gardening shears or scissors to cut your chives straight across, starting from the outside of the plant and working in. Cut the chives about two inches from the base of the plant, as this will stimulate new growth for additional harvests.


Do not harvest the entire plant at one time. Cutting all of the leaves off will stop future growth.
Try not to cut them at an angle, as this will cause them to lose moisture more rapidly than if they are cut straight across. Cutting at an angle exposes more of the stem, and therefore moisture in the plant dissipates more quickly.
 Cutting off all the chives in the late fall (October or November) will help to produce a better crop the following summer. Use your gardening shears to cut off the top of the entire chive plant 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) from the base. Chives are perennial plants, so they will continue to grow back on their own so long as you take care of them.
 Chives can get quite large if they're allowed to grow continually for many years. Divide the chive plants every few years to prevent them from overtaking your garden and becoming unruly. Chives are a type of bulb, so they are easy to divide. Simply dig down in the dirt to reach the bulb, and split each large plant into sections 1/3 the original size. Replant each of these, or throw out the extras if undesired.Consider replanting chive your spare chives at the base of your apple trees. The chive plants will prevent a disease called "apple scab" from spreading on the trees.
Chives are said to repel deer. Consider planting your spare divisions in an area of your lawn or garden where deer have been a problem.

