 When not at home, lock your dog inside. When you do let the dog outside, you should supervise where he or she goes.Of course, constant surveillance isn’t always possible.


Consider building a shelter attached to your garage, or keep the dog in a fenced-in area which is not accessible from the road. Preferably, the yard should be behind the house, so it is not even visible form the street.
 If you let your dogs outside, then you’ll want to keep them from roaming far from home. A dog that runs away from home is vulnerable to being stolen. Do the following:Put them on a leash, especially if you can’t supervise where they are going or don’t have a fenced-in area.
Avoid tying their leash to a lamp post or mailbox when you run into a store.Dogs can get free or, worse, become ripe targets for thieves.
Spay or neuter your dog, which will reduce the desire to roam. Also sterilized animals are less valuable to thieves.
 Your dogs should have a collar with an identification tag that includes your name, address, and phone number. Also get microchips for your dogs.Microchips are about the size of a grain of rice and are inserted underneath the dog’s skin.


The microchip contains important information about your dog. When someone passes a scanner over the chip, it can read the unique code. The person scanning your dog then calls a registry and retrieves your contact information.
It costs around $45 to have a microchip implanted. The chip should last the entire life of your dog.Implanting a microchip causes no more pain than a regular vaccination so don’t avoid a microchip out of fear of hurting your dog.
 If you have a purebred dog, you might be tempted to tell other people. You should avoid doing so. Bragging about your dog might only serve to temp other people to steal it.If you want to brag about your dog, then brag about how loving and loyal it is. Don’t mention how much you paid or how rare your dog is.
Most dogs are stolen for profit motives. For example, they may be sold to puppy mills to act as breeders.The less you say about the dog's monetary value, the better.
 Avoid giving your dogs away for free, since scammers will jump at the opportunity. Charging even a minimal amount (such as $25) will weed out the dishonest buyers.Also do the following:


Ask for and check references. If someone approaches you without references, then you should reconsider placing a dog with them.
Visit the new owner’s home. Drop by casually by check to see that the conditions are safe.

