 You may have thought long and hard about which breed’s characteristics are the best fit for you, but don’t expect every single dog in that breed to perfectly match those characteristics. Read the ad’s description of the dog very carefully to get a better sense of its temperament. Keep in mind that, as with all advertising, the seller may be putting a very positive spin on behavior that you would rather do without.This is especially true with older dogs, whose private histories could drastically alter their behavior from their breed’s norm.
At the same time, puppies are not guaranteed to grow up and meet these norms, either.
 If you’re looking for a dog that’s already calm, well-behaved, or just laidback, look for signs that indicate the dog is anything but. Some sellers may clearly address the dog’s needs in terms of exercise and/or training, but always look for less obvious signs that the dog is more energetic or self-willed than you can handle (even if you're active, too). Such signs could include:Advising large homes or yards: indicates a very active dog that needs plenty of space to romp around in and structured exercise in the form of walks, jogs, and active playtime.

Vaguely describing the dog as being very energetic: a possible sign that the dog is poorly trained, easily distracted, or even destructive around the house.

Labeling it an “outside” or “crated” dog: another sign that the dog has not been properly trained.
 Again, the listing could be very specific in describing how the dog behaves around strangers, guests, children, and other pets or animals. However, be on the lookout for descriptions that sound positive but are really rather vague, especially if you have kids, housemates, or frequent guests. For instance:Simply claiming a dog is “great” with kids or other pets may not tell the whole story.
The author may be basing this on a household with just one child who is calm and self-controlled. Similarly, the dog may get along with their particular cat, but not any cat.
The dog may be outward and friendly with other dogs in neutral settings, like the park or vet, but that doesn’t mean it will share a living space with your current dog.
Or, the dog may get along with every kid and pet in your house, but be hostile to outsiders.
 Remember: this is a classified ad, not a detailed biography or behavioral assessment of the dog. Think of how many different scenarios could be meant by each simple description. Create a list of questions to ask the seller to clarify each point. For example:“Loves company:” Does this mean the dog enjoys company when it’s offered, or does it demand constant attention? Does it favor human company over other dogs? Does it experience distress when left alone?

“Protective:” What does it protect exactly? Does this mean that it’s a well-trained guard dog? Or Is it protective of your family and home to a fault and hard to control once a guest sets it off? Or is it more protective of its own resources? Does it act territorial around its food, water, toys, and/or bed?

“Likes to be in charge:” Of whom? Other pets? Or humans, too? Will it be aggressive toward other pets at home? Does it refuse to obey your commands?

