 The Experience the Music Project has booked local musicians to play all over the airport 7-days a week. A great place to listen to the music is the Central Terminal area and main food court. If you like what you hear, you can usually sign up for a mailing list or purchase a CD. (Various gates);
, Sub Pop Records is the underground music publisher that originally signed Seattle greats including Nirvana, Soundgarden, and Postal Service. Their store in the airport is wall to wall classic vinyl and very hip clothing and SubPop souvenirs.
 Metsker Maps (Gate B) has hundreds of maps. Get to know where you are going or plan a future trip.
 At almost every gate hub, you can rent a movie from Digiboo, and either download it onto a thumb drive or wirelessly directly onto your laptop.
 Check out the Washington-made goods in Made in Washington (Gate N), Discover Puget Sound (Gate N), and Fireworks. (Gate N).
 Get a massage at the Massage Bar (Gates C and N) or a manicure at Butter Spa (Gate C)

, Enjoy the Northwest's most iconic foods! (Various gates)


Beecher's Cheese (Gate C). Try their Flagship Cheddar.
Anthony's Restaurant (Gate C) Seafood defines Northwest cuisine. Salmon is a specialty.
Dilettante Chocolates & Mocha Cafe (Gates C and D)
Ivar's Seafood (Gate C). Try their signature clam chowder.
Alki (Pre-Security)
Seattle's Best Coffee (Pre-Security, Gate D and S) The "other" coffee company
Starbucks (Central Terminal, Pre-Security, Gate N) Starbucks started in Seattle, and never left!
Seattle Seahawks 12 Club (Gate N) Release the beast!
Bigfoot Food & Spirits (Gate N) For the adults, a place to chill.
Dungeness Bay Seafood House

, There are 16 permanent exhibits and several rotating ones throughout the airport. Start at the Central Terminal near Starbucks, and then follow the signs! It's about a half mile walk.
 The big windows and rocking chairs in the Central Terminal are a perfect place to be mesmerized by the choreographed dance of huge planes and their tiny attendants.
 With colorful giant toy airplanes and plenty of room to run around, it is a sanity saver if you're traveling with toddlers and preschoolers.
 If you have more than a couple of hours, you can take the light rail train to Seattle's Chinatown or downtown Seattle. It takes about 35 minutes, costs about $3 each way, and runs about every 10 - 15 minutes.

