 A well-organized scrapbook will capture a certain time or event such as a first birthday, holiday, or family road trip. Within this theme, the scrapbook will unfold the story you will tell of that time. So the first thing to do is gather all of the photos that you want to use to help memorialize special memories., Usually, the layout of a scrapbook has a double-page spread, meaning there are photos on the left and right side of the page. These pages should match and compliment each other in color and theme. So as you are deciding on which photos to use, think about which photos you may want to stand alone, and which ones you want to pair with several others on a page. This will help you decide which photos to add in the scrapbook, and which ones you may want to leave out. Just because you have one hundred photos does not mean you have to use them all.Even if there is one special photo alone on a page, and then three photos on the page next to it, try to find a common theme to connect them.
Scrapbooks tend to look better when pictures are not crowded on a page. Keep this in mind when deciding how many photos to add., If you are using a patterned paper, or paper that has many colors, mat your photo onto a solid neutral paper to prevent the photo from competing with the design on the background paper. This is a simple step and can make all the difference in your scrapbook design. No matter what your background paper looks like, providing a mat allows your scrapbook to have a more finished look. Follow these steps to mat your photos:Have ready a solid color paper that is neutral in color. Try to choose a color that will compliment the colors on the background page. When in doubt, black and white work with everything.Cut the paper so that it is 1/8"-1/2" larger than your picture. This will provide a frame and visual space between the paper and photo.Use photo-tabs to adhere the picture onto the mat. These are double-sided sticky tabs that are photo-safe and keep your picture flat.