 You want to be sure your own phone volume settings aren't the problem. Make sure the other caller's settings aren't the problem either. See if your handset volume setting is too high and adjust accordingly. Ask the caller on the other end if the caller’s handset volume is too low and resulting in over compensating by speaking louder.


Most phones have these settings on the settings section of the caller’s apps menu if it's a cell phone. If it's a landline, then these settings may be a physical button on the handset, but could also be a menu setting. Check the phone's instructions if you are unsure.
 This is a good way to remind the loud caller of the caller’s own surroundings while working it into the normal flow of the conversation. Ask if the caller is in a noisy place like a restaurant, bar, airport, or similar. If the caller is in a loud establishment, then ask if the call can be handled in a a quieter place nearby such as a lobby or office. If moving isn’t an option, then you might need to adjust your own phone volume to compensate., This can mean moving the call to another place and/or time. If you or the loud caller talking to you are at dinner or a movie, then you can ask to postpone the call until later. You can use moving your own location as a way to quiet things down. Ask the caller to wait until you've moved into a lobby or another office before resuming the caller’s call. This can be a reminder for the caller to reduce volume.This should be asked simply as: "Can I call you back, or you call me back in a couple of hours?" or something similar.
You could also say, "Wait a moment until I've gone into the next empty office." Follow up by saying something such as, "Ok, you can talk again....lower please."

, Calls typically are private matters. The caller may reduce volume upon realizing their own loud voice is violating privacy. Let the loud caller on the other end know that either you are in a public space or issue a reminder about being in a public space. This also works if you are in a private dwelling with close by neighbors--such as an apartment building.You can say something such as: "Do you want the neighbors to hear what we're saying? Speak lower."
If both of you are in private dwellings without neighbors in adjacent spaces, then this step will not work.
 This could be interpreted as rude so there is a risk of confrontation with the caller on the other end. This is a last resort when the other methods aren't working or practical to use. This can bring about several responses including the loud caller agreeing to continue the conversation at a lower volume, the caller ignoring you with continued loud talking, or taking offense. If the caller is offended you may receive an insult in response or the caller may just end the call. If the caller ignores you, then you can try repeating your efforts to ask the caller to reduce talking volume or attempt the other steps again. But this increases the risk of offending them.


Simply say something to the effect of: "Stop talking so loudly." or "Talk more quietly."

