 You can redirect ants away from your main honey source by putting a small dish of a spoonful of honey or sugar water outside near your house. Ants will go for this source first and as they consume the dish’s contents, refill it and periodically move it away from your house to draw them away.Make sugar water by mixing a 1:1 ratio sugar to water. Dissolve the sugar by putting it into hot water and then let it cool.
Another trap you can make is with peanut butter and bacon grease or a combination of sugar and Borax. Fill a small container with the mixture, place aluminum foil over the top, and poke holes for the ants to get in.
These diversions will not kill ants, only distract them from your kitchen. You will need to be sure to move the trap away from your house to prevent an invasion.
 Ants cannot traverse through water so it’s a natural deterrent and protection for your honey. Fill the bottom of a small dish or saucer and place your honey container in it. Make sure you don’t overfill it with water, you want just enough for a small pool. This method is best to use if you keep your honey stored out on a kitchen counter.Check the plate frequently to ensure that the water hasn't evaporated.
This method can be used when the lid is lost permanently; just keep adding more water as needed.
 Store-bought traps are a tried and true ways to capture ants and kill them. The one caveat is that traps only kill ants that make it into your home; it doesn’t keep them away. Place traps around your kitchen appliances or any corner that traps dirt and crumbs.


You can also get outdoor traps that snag the ants before they make it into your home.
Keep the traps out of reach from children and pets as they contain toxic chemicals., If you have small children, pets, or allergies, you may find the best option for your home is to kill persistent ants without chemicals. Set out a dish no the ground with a toxic solution to ants in it, or spray them down directly with vinegar or lemon juice.


In a container, mix 1 part baking soda with 1 part powdered sugar and set it out. The sugar attracts the ants and the baking soda reacts to their digestive systems and they explode., Stay on top of the intruders by squishing them into a paper towel or tissues as soon as you see them. Getting them as soon as you see them will help stall them finding any of your sweets. Depending on the size of your invasion, this may not be practical, but it is a good temporary fix.

