 Determine the size you want your company to be and the area of investment you want to specialize in, for example real estate.;
, Include your goals and how you plan on achieving these objectives. Establish funding and marketing and all the areas associated to the industry. Give yourself a timeline for developing strategies and achieving goals.
 Try to select something recognizable. The name should reflect the type of business you are running, be unique and easy to remember. Then legitimize your business by getting it licensed and registered according to legal requirements.
 This may also help you determine the type of investing you may want to offer. If you were considering real estate investment but there is a business in the area that already covers that, you can focus on general investing.
 Even if you have capital on hand to get you started, you will probably need to get a loan to keep business going. For large expenses and payroll, consider an equity loan or line of credit if you have equity in your home. If not, then opt for a traditional loan. You will also need to apply for a business credit card to take care of daily business expenses such as office supplies.
 You may decide that you want to begin your investment business on your own, and then when business picks up, you can build a team. Hire staff members that are experts in the investment field. If you want your business to be successful, then the people you partner with have to be successful at what they do.
 Develop a marketing plan that meets this budget. You can advertise your services on the radio, television and in trade magazines. Consider printing company brochures. Eventually your investment portfolio will play a big part in your marketing plan.
 Offer your clients investment tips and provide articles on investing. You could also offer a blog that is updated regularly. Your clients can use this website as an investment tool, not just as a source of information but also to view their portfolios.

