 Depending on where you live, you may have to file paperwork to legally work from home. You'll also need to file the appropriate paperwork with your local government to become a business.


You can visit your local government offices to find out more information about these requirements.
Online research and your local library are other locations to find more information about legal requirements for a small business.
 You can do business by referring others to bigger companies, earning a referral fee, or you can do business by booking and selling various travel packages.


You can search the internet or find books at the local library to help you research the many facets of the travel industry. Additionally, you can directly contact companies in the travel industry, such as cruise ship companies or hotels.
Contacting other small travel agencies may help you to learn more about the type of agency you want to start.
 This will provide you with a solid foundation, and will help you secure funding from investors if you need additional capital to start your business.


You can find help developing business plans online.
A business consultant can also help you to develop a solid business plan.
 You will want to open two separate accounts. One account should be for your business as an independent travel agent, where you track funds coming in to and going out of the business. The other account should hold all the money your clients provide to book their trips.


Compare local banking institutions and take advantage of any small business incentives available.
Aquire a credit or debit card to help pay for business expenses as well.
 Building relationships with vendors can help you negotiate package deals to offer to your customers.

Dealing with more than one company can give you more to offer your clients, and it could also provide you with additional money.
Having strong relationships in the industry can also help your marketing efforts.
 As opposed to franchisees or independent contractors, home-based travel agencies need to perform all of their own marketing.


Consider joining local organizations for business owners, such as a chamber of commerce.
Compare mass marketing alternatives, including print, radio, and television advertisements, for your target market.
Include internet and social media marketing in your marketing strategies.
Consider partnering with other travel agencies that can serve as your connection between the airlines, cruise lines, and accommodations. With these connections, you can have additional time to make more connections in the industry.

