 Burmese cats are generally healthy cats, but there are some issues that your cat is more prone to have. Burmese kittens can be born with congenital diseases, such as facial and head defects as well as heart problems.Adult Burmese cats are more prone to obesity and diabetes.This is why it is important to monitor her eating throughout her life, because obesity can lead to diabetes. As she ages, look for sign of diabetes, such as:


Increased drinking
Increased urination
Inappropriate urination, such as in spots where she shouldn't
In rare cases, an increase in appetite;
, When you first adopt your cat, she should be taken for a series of core vaccinations, including distemper, feline leukemia, and rabies as well as other common diseases. She will also need a feline leukemia test within the first few months. There are other vaccinations your cat can get, so check with your vet to see if there are other vaccinations that might be good for your cat. If you got your cat from a breeder or shelter, check to see if they will give you her records to see if she had anything done before you adopted her.
 Kittens should also be dewormed, starting as early as three weeks of age. She should then be dewormed a minimum of two more times. These visits should be three to four weeks apart.


Your vet will do a fecal examination to ensure that your cat doesn't have any other parasites that need to be treated.
If you get your cat from a shelter, it is very important for your to check her for worms and other parasites. These are spread easier in shelters., If you don't plan to breed your Burmese cat, you should have her spayed (or neutered if male) by the time she is six months old. This procedure helps you prevent unwanted kittens and prevents problems with other cats.


It also helps prevent certain cancers and diseases, such as urinary tract infections and genital based cancers., You cat should have regular check ups at the vet. Around one year old, your cat should have her vaccinations updated if necessary. As she ages, she needs to go periodically for general health checks.When she turns 10, she should go to the vet twice a year for health checkups to make sure she stays healthy. It will also help you catch age specific diseases early.

