 Fish hooks are really dirty. They have been in pond or lake water, filled with bacteria, algae, pond scum and whatever else is living in there. Use a saline solution liberally on the wound to disinfect it immediately after getting the hook out.If you don’t have saline solution on hand, beverages with a high alcoholic content, like vodka or rum, will work in a pinch. This is not an ideal solution, but most fishermen are more likely to have alcohol on their boats than saline solution.Hydrogen peroxide has long been used to disinfect fresh wounds. However, recent studies have proven this product to be largely ineffective. Some studies even suggest that it can cause more damage to the injured area., You will want to rinse out the wound with cool water and antibacterial soap as soon as possible. If you don’t have these things on the boat with you, a bottle of drinking water is a temporary solution until you can reach medical supplies.Wash the wound out as soon as possible after the hook is removed. This will go a long way in avoiding infection.
Apply antibiotic cream and a bandage. Once you have disinfected and cleaned the wound, apply an antibiotic cream or ointment and attach a clean bandage to the wound. This will help kill any remaining bacteria and help to keep the wound free of dirt.Change the bandage often and allow the wound to breathe from time to time.You may need to get stitches is the wound is particularly deep., Fishing hooks are often rusty. Even if the hook doesn’t appear to be rusty, it can still carry tetanus bacteria. So get a tetanus shot. While no one likes getting shots, it is far better to err on the side of caution because the alternative is very unpleasant.You have 72 hours to get a tetanus shot after injuring yourself., Most injuries caused by fishing hooks, once sanitized, present very few problems. However, you will want to keep an eye on your wound to make sure it is healing properly. Some signs of infection to look for are:The wound is not healing
Swelling
Oozing or seeping fluids or blood
Warmth emanating from the wound
Throbbing at the wound site
Red streaks extending out from the wound site
If you notice any of these signs, seek immediate medical attention.

