 If you are in a relationship, sharing what happened to you with your partner can help you heal. Talking with them about it gives them the opportunity to support you in the ways that you are most comfortable with.It can also strengthen your relationship because they will understand you better.


Try saying, “I need to talk to you about something from childhood that may affect me and our relationship now. I was sexually abused when I was…”
Tell your partner how you feel about intimacy right now. Talk about what is okay and what isn’t.
You might say, “I’m okay with hugging and kissing, but I don’t want to do more than that right now.”
Talk about what they can do to support you. For example, be with you when you tell your family or even cook dinner while you attend a support group.
 In some cases, childhood sexual abuse can make you become afraid to tell those close to you or even a therapist what happened. You may fear that no one will believe you or that they will be mad at you or even blame you. Don’t be afraid. Sharing what happened with them allows them to support you and will give you a sense of relief which will help you heal.


Your friends and family love and care about you. Professionals are available to support you.
Practice what you are going to say in the mirror so that you can build up your confidence.
You might want to start by saying, “I’m going to tell you something that is very difficult for me. When I was a child, I was sexually abused by…”
It is up to you whom you tell, because only you can figure out who will listen and help.
Telling others could also prevent it from happening to someone else.
 Some survivors experience only a few negative effects. Other survivors may later experience anxiety, depression, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), or substance abuse problems. A therapist can help you process what happened and teach you coping techniques so you can heal from what happened.


Some successful treatments and strategies for childhood sexual abuse include Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT), mindfulness meditation, experiential techniques, etc.Effective strategies for addressing childhood sexual abuse include mindfulness meditation, experiential techniques, etc.
Your therapist may prescribe medication to help you with cope with nightmares, panic attacks or other effects of sexual abuse.
 There are a number of resources available for survivors of childhood sexual abuse. These organizations, groups, forums, and websites help you heal by linking you with people that have also experienced sexual childhood abuse and/or know how to help you cope with what happened.


Join a local or online support group for childhood sexual abuse survivors.
Check with your religious organization about services or resources they may offer.
The National Association of Adult Survivors of Child Abuse provides links to websites and lists of agencies that support survivors of childhood sexual abuse., It can help you to understand what happened, why you feel the way you do about it, and what the long-term effects may be. Educating yourself can also help you realize that you are not alone and teach you techniques that can help your healing.Read books, journal articles, and blogs about childhood sexual abuse and how others have healed from it.
Ask a professional what educational resources related to the topic do they recommend.

