 It has a fat content of between 15 to 20 percent, has great flavor, and will be deliciously juicy. Ground sirloin will be leaner, in general, but will also result in a drier burger. Ground round has about the same fat content as ground chuck, but lacks that rich, beefy flavor of either chuck or sirloin. Avoid buying ground beef that has no specific cut labeled: this can be a mixture of a variety of beef cuts, can be very fatty (without the flavor) and very mushy—and nobody likes a mushy burger.For the ambitious chef, try grinding your own beef in your food processor. Do it in 4 batches, and do not touch the beef while grinding (to avoid bacterial contamination). Use a spatula to scrape down the sides so that your beef is ground uniformly.;
, While you can use a skillet, the best burgers are cooked on a medium-hot grill.


If you opt to use a skillet, after you've formed the patties, heat a teaspoon or two of vegetable oil until it just begins to smoke, then back down the temperature until it stops smoking. You want it hot, but not so hot that the outside burns before the inside is fully cooked.
 Place the meat into a large bowl, season with pepper, and add 4 tablespoons melted butter. You can add other spices if desired, but less you add, the more beefy flavor comes through. Mix the seasoned beef together gently; mashing the burger and packing the meat tightly will result in something more like a flat meatloaf, not a juicy hamburger. The lighter touch you use, the better.
 Divide the seasoned meat into four sections. Gently form round patties so that they are about 4-1/2 inches (11cm) in diameter. Place in the refrigerator while you finish prepping and the grill or skillet heats up., The best burger is an individual affair: some people like mushrooms, others like their onions grilled, and some think the best hamburger is about the beef, and too many condiments is just a distraction. Here are some ideas for what to prepare:


Mustard and ketchup. Dijon mustard works great for burgers, complimenting—not overwhelming—the flavor of the beef.
Lettuce. This adds a satisfying, cool crunch to your hamburger. Traditionally, iceberg lettuce is a favorite, though romaine lettuce has a richer flavor.
Tomato. Vine-ripened tomatoes are best. When you buy them, they should be firm and have a rich tomato aroma. For extra zest, brush a little olive oil on the tomatoes, and grill them for a couple minutes.
Mushrooms. Sautéed white or crimini mushrooms add an earthiness to the hamburger to balance out the bright flavors of the lettuce and tomato.
Onions. Raw, they add tanginess and bite; sautéed, they add a sweet depth to the combination of flavors. You can also split the difference: brush them with olive oil, and grill for up to 10 minutes.
Cheese. Who doesn't love cheese on their burger? This can range from mild Swiss cheese to sharp cheddar to spicy pepper jack. Rather than slicing it (or using pre-sliced cheese products), use a grater to shred the cheese. It'll melt quicker, and lends itself to combinations like melted swiss combined with spicy pepper jack.
Bacon. Bacon needs no introduction! While it can up the calorie count significantly, it can also add a deep smoky, sweet richness to your sandwich.
Special sauce. This can be anything. You might love thousand island dressing, a swipe of mayonnaise, horseradish, or any other condiment. Just keep in mind, this is a recipe for the best hamburger, so let the flavor of the ground beef be the star.
 Place the patties on your heated grill or skillet, and cook, covered and undisturbed, for about 5-6 minutes. Flip and cook the other side. Burgers are done when the temperature reaches 160°F (65°C). About a minute before removing the burger, add the shredded cheese so that it is just beginning to melt when the burgers are done.


Note: because hamburger carries an elevated risk of bacteria, it's safest to cook ground beef to the recommended texture. However, many people prefer their hamburgers rare or medium rare. If so, reduce cooking times, and let the internal temperature rise to about 125°F (51°C).
 When the burgers reach the desired degree of doneness, remove them to a heated plate, brush the buns with a little butter or olive oil, then grill briefly until toasty brown.
 Put a layer of ketchup on the bottom bun, then the beef patty. Salt and pepper to taste, then add the tomato, lettuce, and other toppings as desired. Put the mustard on the top bun, and press it all together gently so that it sets.
 You can serve this with chips, fries, potato salad, coleslaw, a dill pickle, or whatever you like. An icy carbonated beverage, a cold beer, or a spicy zinfandel tops the meal. Bon appetite!, This recipe uses ground sirloin, as it's flavor is very good, and its fat content is much lower than ground chuck. Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a heavy skillet until it just starts to smoke, then brown the ground beef in two batches. You do not need to cook it all the way through, just sear it to boost the beefy flavors. By browning in two batches, you avoid steaming the beef, which doesn't add anything at all to the flavor. If your skillet is on the small side, three or even four batches are recommended.


When the beef is browned, set it aside.
 Place a strainer over a large bowl, and empty the two cans of whole tomatoes into it. Slice open the tomatoes, removing and discarding seeds or tough parts. Press the seeded and cored tomatoes to remove as much juice as possible.


Set aside 3/4 to 1 cup of the prepared tomatoes, and 2-1/2 cups of the strained tomato juice. Keep the remaining juice in case you need to add liquid later in the cooking process, after which you can then discard.
 Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a heavy 12-inch skillet until shimmering (but not smoking). Add the onions, and sauté until beginning to brown, then add the garlic and oregano. Cook for about 30 seconds, then turn up the heat to medium-high.
 Add the larger quantity of tomatoes to the skillet and cook, stirring frequently, for about 10 minutes, until browned and sticking on the bottom of the skillet.
 Pour the wine into the mixture, and stir with a wooden spoon, scraping the bottom to incorporate the fond (the brown bits that stuck to the skillet). Cook until mixture begins to thicken, then add in the ground sirloin, bay leaf, and brown sugar.
 Pour in the 2-1/2 cups tomato juice, and stir until combined, reduce heat to medium low, and let simmer for 10 to 30 minutes.


For a richer, more complex sauce, keep the simmer very low, add an anchovy, and add more tomato juice, wine, or tomato sauce as needed.
 Dice the tomatoes until chunky. About 5 minutes before you serve the sauce, add the tomatoes and basil. Check your seasonings, and add salt and pepper to taste.
 Ladle generous portions of sauce over your favorite pasta, and serve with grated parmesan reggiano cheese, fresh crusty bread, and a nice chianti., In a large heavy skillet, heat 1 tablespoon vegetable oil (per batch) until just beginning to smoke, and cook the beef in 4 or 5 batches until browned, and then set aside.
 While the beef is browning, combine the cayenne, oregano, and cumin together in a small bowl.
 In the same skillet, add another tablespoon vegetable oil, and cook the onions until soft and beginning to brown. This will add a nice sweetness to the chili. About 30 seconds before the onions are ready, add the garlic and jalapeños, and stir until just softened and aromatic. When ready, remove the onion mix from the skillet and set aside.
 shake the cayenne, oregano, and cumin into the skillet. Cook for about 15 seconds, then add the ground beef and onion mix back into the skillet, stirring to blend.
 Pour in the tomato sauce, the water or stock, and the lime juice, then stir to blend. Reduce heat to low, then cover and simmer for about 20 minutes.
 Taste your chili, then add salt and pepper to taste, stirring to blend.
 Increase the heat to medium, stir in the masa flour or cornstarch until blended, then stir in the beans and diced tomatoes. Cook until heated through—about 5 minutes—then serve in large bowls. Garnish with cilantro, top with shredded cheese and chopped scallions, and serve with tortilla chips, an icy cerveza, or a refreshing margarita.
 In a medium saucepan, add a teaspoon of salt and the peeled and chopped potatoes, then cover with cold water.


Bring to a full boil over high heat, then reduce the heat to simmer. Cook for about ten minutes, until a fork or knife can easily pierce the potato.
Drain the potatoes, then return the saucepan to the stove, stirring occasionally for about a minute until the surface moisture has steamed away.
 In a large bowl, mash the potatoes until smooth.


Mix the egg yolk and cream together, and blend into the potatoes along with the melted butter.
Add the scallions, then salt and pepper to taste. When you're satisfied, cover and set aside while you prepare the filling.
 Heat 1 teaspoon vegetable oil in a heavy skillet until just beginning to smoke, and quickly brown the beef in 4 batches. When finished, set aside.
 In the same skillet, heat 1 teaspoon vegetable oil until shimmering, then add the mushrooms and onions. Cook 5 to 6 minutes, until the onions are just softened and turning brown at the edges. Add the garlic and tomato paste and cook for about 2 minutes.
 Stir in the porter, scraping the bottom to loosen the fond, and cook for about a minute, then add the flour, stirring and cooking for another minute.
 Pour in the stock, add the anchovy, thyme and bay leaf bundle, and carrots. When the mixture comes to a boil, reduce heat and bring the mix to a low simmer. Stir in the beef, cooking for five to ten minutes, and continue stirring occasionally.


Add in the cornstarch, and stir for another 30 seconds. Remove the thyme and bay leaf bundle, and adjust seasonings with salt and pepper, to taste.
 Set your oven rack to the top shelf, leaving enough room for the pie with about 3 inches clearance.
 In a deep-dish pie pan, add the meat filling mixture. Layer the mashed potatoes on top of the meat with a pastry bag, covering the entire surface. Swirl the potatoes with a fork to form ridges, then place the pie on a rimmed baking sheet., Slide the pie into the oven, and broil for 10 to 15 minutes, until the potatoes are nicely browned. Remove, let sit for for a few minutes. Garnish with scallions and parsley, and serve piping hot with a hearty ale.