 To combine your different layers of your story to get ready to publish, you will need software (Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator or InDesign). There are free tutorials that walk you through learning the software available on Createspace.com, and Adobe.com, as well as in the software programs themselves.

Adobe Illustrator has a feature called Image Trace, that will remove the white background from black and white line drawings in one or two clicks!
Createspace.com offers templates for book layouts, as well as a user community forum to answer any questions you may have.
 In Adobe or other publishing software, you will combine your story layers, backgrounds (or white page), followed by illustrations and on a top layer, text. Adobe Illustrator handles text better than Photoshop, and it's best to type text into the Illustrator last, after placing backgrounds and picture. Copying text over from other applications can make your text blurry and unreadable. Use Photoshop for altering the illustrations for color, size, perspective, but use Illustrator for text., This will be your master copy if you later need to make changes. Don't rely on your PDF version as your only copy. You want to be able to make improvements to the original file later., Once you have your full book in Illustrator, InDesign, or your other publishing software, you will need to use the save as feature to convert the pages to one PDF file. A single PDF file is needed to upload to a Print-on-Demand (POD) publisher, such as Create Space or Lulu.

If your file is too large you will not be able to upload it for printing/publishing. Make smaller files by selecting "Optimizing for the Web", and not selecting "include Thumbnails, or Illustrator's ability to change." Now you have two copies, your master Illustrator file, and a single PDF file in a smaller size for upload to POD.
 Create Space has temples that will help you design your cover, and get the correct size that includes front, back and spine in one larger file. The interior storybook file -- the single PDF, and the cover file are uploaded separately to the online publisher.