 Foster passion in your life by focusing outward on others around you. Treat everyone you meet and know with compassion and kindness, rather than anger or ignorance.


You can do this by expressing gratitude towards individuals that you think are not often recognized or acknowledged, such as your high school teacher, a parent, or a peer. Demonstrating compassion and kindness towards others can help you to also feel inspired and motivated based on their example.
 One of the best ways to be more passionate around others is to focus on active listening, where you listen and respond to someone with the goal of improving mutual understanding. When you practice active listening, you are viewing every conversation as an opportunity to get to know someone better and to learn. The goal is to make the speaker feel like you are engaged in what they are saying and are willing to respond to them with passion and enthusiasm.You can improve your active listening by talking to a friend. Listen to the friend talk about her day or her latest hobby and make sure you are focused fully on her. You should let her speak without interruption, being sure to nod and make eye contact to show you are engaged in the conversation. Once she is done speaking, you should try to repeat the main points of what she said to you back to her using your own words. You can phrase this by beginning with: “So, what I understood was…” or “I believe that based on what you told me, you mean…”
If you are doing active listening correctly, she should agree that you have understood what she told you. If you did not understand your friend correctly, that's okay; ask for clarification. Asking questions is part of active listening. Once she feels you have understood her, you then have the opportunity to respond to her thoughts and offer commentary or advice. Your friend can actively listen to what you have to say, creating more passionate and engaged conversation overall.
 You can also show passion towards your partner or spouse by not being afraid to display affection towards them. Kissing and hugging your partner will signal to her that you care about her and are willing to show her how passionate you can be. You should also be okay with getting hugs and kisses from your partner, especially if you are trying to cultivate a more passionate relationship with her.You may also want to focus on displaying more affection towards your partner during sex, including kissing her, touching her face and body, and telling her that you think she is beautiful. Though you may feel shy or uncomfortable with these passionate actions at first, doing them regularly will help you become more comfortable with displaying passion towards your partner.
 Another way to develop more passion between you and your partner is to focus on building new and exciting memories together. This could mean setting up a surprise date where you both do something on your bucket list, or suggesting that you try a new cuisine at a restaurant on date night.Studies have shown that sharing a new activity with your partner can increase the level of passion in your relationship and lead to a more exciting partnership overall.

