 Wherever you marked pipe and fixture locations on the back of the stall unit, use an 1/8th inch drill bit to cut pilot holes in the shower unit. Go slowly and carefully so you don’t crack the interior finish.


It's important to drill pilot holes from the back of the stall to the front. This will make it easier when you use the saw to cut the larger holes for the fixtures.
 Once all pilot holes are drilled, remove the drill bit and insert the 2” hole saw into your electric drill. The pilot bit on the hole saw will be larger than the holes you just drilled, which should keep the hole saw from skating around while you're cutting the hole.


Start cutting the hole from the inside of the shower stall. Put very little pressure against the surface while the hole saw is cutting, and let the saw do the work. Once the saw has cut nearly all the way through the shower stall wall, ease up on the pressure until the hole is complete.
It is not unusual to have a little smoking or burning as you cut the hole, which is caused by friction. The hole saw will like be quite hot immediately after the hole is cut. After a minute or two, remove the cutout piece from the hole saw.
 Most single-unit kits will come with wall screws and fasteners unique to the model and you'll need to defer to the instructions on the unit to secure the shower to the wall. Most units will have between three and six fasteners per wall.


The flanges and handles, as well, will be unique to the model, usually quick-install models that will attach quickly and simply. Read the following methods for more specific instructions regarding the installation of multi-panel components, if necessary.
 Once the unit is secure, use tub and tile caulking to seal all surfaces that come in contact with the walls and floor for a water-tight seal. Seal the flanges with a thin bead of caulking and allow to dry for 24 hours before exposing to water.
 Shower doors on single-unit kits should snap right in, though models with sliding doors may be slightly more complex. Read the subsequent methods for more specific instructions regarding multi-panel installation of shower doors.

