 If you run an online business, you need to give customers a way to make purchases with their credit cards. However, other types of businesses can also use an online credit card payment system. Brick and mortar stores, for example, may choose this kind of system over a POS system. Similarly, a mobile business such as a repair company or vendor may choose to accept online payments with a laptop instead of with a mobile device.A brick and mortar store using this system would need a credit card swiper that can connect to a laptop.
 This is the method for accepting online payments if you already have a merchant account. You simply need to sign up with a payment gateway, such as SecureNet or AuthorizeNet. The payment gateway acts like a credit card reader. It communicates with your merchant account to process the credit card payment.Payment gateway companies are usually large and have helpful customer support.
The usually offer lots of options for customization, so they are often compatible with large businesses that need personalized systems.
 If you don’t have a merchant account, choose an all-in-one online payment solution, such as PayPal or 2Checkout. These services provide you with a merchant account and a payment gateway. Set-up for these kinds of systems is quicker and easier than using a separate merchant account and payment gateway. You don’t have to worry about filling out two sets of applications and waiting for them to be processed separately. However, your customers may be directed away from your website when making payment. For example, if you use PayPal, your customers may be directed to the PayPal site during their payment transactions. , The fees vary greatly depending on the provider you choose and the volume of sales. In general, the set-up fees for a third-party processor are lower than a POS or mobile system. This is because you usually don’t have to lease or purchase any equipment. However, the transaction fees can be higher. Some third-party processors use a tier system. As the volume of transactions increases each month, the transactions fees decrease.