 If you need to confront the person allegedly spreading a rumor and creating drama, then react in constructive ways. It will help you be more accurate in reading the person’s body language, help you to listen, and be aware of your feelings and needs.Stay balanced and focused. If someone says something to you that offends you, do your best to not react in a negative way. It can be challenging to hold back. Being able to focus on remaining calm will increase the chances of resolving your conflict.
Most people are not comfortable with facing conflict. While the person may react negatively, you can remain calm showing the person that you are serious and appear to be comfortable dealing with a conflict.
 Being the target of rumors can cause you to feel overwhelmed. Stress can affect your mood, your health, and your quality of life.The three most common responses to stress are:


Anger and agitation overwhelm you. It is difficult to focus on anything other than your emotions in the moment.
You become depressed and withdrawn. Your emotions shut down and you retreat from the situation.
Paralysis takes over. The pressure causes you to freeze up on the outside while on the inside you are extremely agitated.
 Stress is your body’s response to a perceived threat to your well-being.When there is heightened uncertainty during a confrontation it is easy to feel threatened.


Whatever your response, you can combat stress by finding things to do that are soothing. For example, diffuse your stress in the moment by taking a few deep cleansing breaths. It can help relieve tension and help you focus on the task at hand.Also, you can meditate by yourself or in a group, or use progressive muscle relaxation (relaxing one muscle group at a time) to help manage stress when you are away from a stressful situation., Be an active listener which entails demonstrating a non-judgmental demeanor, focusing your attention, and trying to understand the person’s point of view.When rumors have spread and drama runs rampant, you can get to the core of the matter by listening to the person who started the rumor, or those who contributed. Listen closely and you may notice the person’s motives are due to her underlying feelings of jealousy, or insecurity. You don’t need to confront her by saying, “It sounds like you are jealous of me.” Instead, you could say something like, “We all have things we’re good at and not so good at. I’m just trying to do my best.”
Silence can be beneficial to the process.Use it to your advantage. For example, allow the person to talk until she is finished. Rather than jump right in wait for a short period of silence to see if she has anything else to say. Many times her own discomfort with silence will cause her to divulge additional information she wouldn’t have said otherwise.
 You want to set the stage for a successful outcome. Try to be in command of the conversation. The goal is to direct it toward a resolution: you want the rumors and drama to stop.


At the beginning of your conversation say something like, “I want to talk to you about something and I’m confident we can come to an agreement. We just need to have a conversation.” This will set the person at ease and will help you relax too.
Remember, people are not comfortable with conflict so anything you can do to ease that tension will work in your favor.
 The questions you ask will help mold a resolution. You want to acknowledge the problem, make everyone aware that the rumor is not true, that it has negatively impacted you and you don’t want it to happen again. You can use questions similar to these:


What can I do to help you see that the rumor isn’t true?
How do you think we can stop the upset this has caused?
Do you understand where I’m coming from?
What can we do to prevent this from happening again?

, There are various ways to reach an agreement. People choose to either: compete (I win - you lose); accommodate (I lose – you win); avoid (I lose – you lose); compromise (I lose and win some – you lose and win some); and collaborate (I win – you win).The ultimate goal is to create a win-win. Once everything has been discussed you need to ask for the resolution you want. Don’t think of it as being pushy, but rather you are simply following a structured approach and this is the last step.


If you want the rumors and drama to stop, then you can say something like, “After everything we’ve talked about I would like to agree that if you have questions about me, or about anything you can come to me. Can you agree to that? That would stop the rumors and the drama.”
Appreciate the successful outcome. Anytime someone works with you and you come to an agreement, you need to thank the person for their participation. It might be difficult if you dislike the person, but say it anyway. For example, you could say, “I really appreciate you talking with me to get through this. I’m so happy we resolved this. We can put it behind us now, right?”

