 There are varying socket sizes for light fixtures. To choose the correct size of bulb, look on the bottom or top of the burnt out lightbulb or around the fixture’s socket. You will see some letters that are occasionally followed by a series of numbers. This is the code for the lightbulb you will need to find at the store. Bring the dead lightbulb with you to the hardware store to find a replacement more easily.Some lightbulbs only have the letter code. If this is the case, you will have to measure the bulb yourself to find the circumference. Multiply this number by 8 to find the code. For example, a 2 1/2” PAR-type lightbulb is a PAR-20. Remember, make sure to buy a bulb with the correct wattage. Otherwise, you risk starting a fire. This information can be found on the dead bulb.
 A linear light bulb is shaped like a tube with metal pins on each end. Most linear light bulbs are fluorescent. However, some bulb supply stores will sell halogen, LED, and CFL linear bulbs as well. First, turn off the light and wait ten minutes for the bulb to cool.Remove any covering over the light fixture and set it aside.


Be careful when removing the light fixture covering. There may be dead bugs or glass debris inside that could fall in your eyes.
 Gently twist the bulb ninety degrees in the direction with the least resistance. The pins on the end will line up with the socket groove. Now you will be able to lower the lightbulb away from the fixture. If you encounter any resistance while lowering the bulb, rotate the bulb more and try again.Be careful when removing a fluorescent light bulb. This kind of bulb is prone to breaking.
Wear safety goggles when removing fluorescent bulbs from a ceiling fixture. Otherwise, it may break get glass in your eye.
 Find the socket grooves on the light fixture. Turn the bulb so that both of the pins can slide easily into the socket opening. Once the pins are in the socket grooves, turn the bulb about ninety degrees in the direction with the least resistance. If you have resistance in both directions, gently push the bulb further into the socket.After replacing the bulb, turn on the light to test the bulb before replacing the fixture covering.
Some handymen prefer to replace all of the bulbs in a fixture at once to save money and time. 