 You will be drawing something that looks like an upside-down T. Start with a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) tall, 8-inch (20.32 centimeter) wide rectangle at the bottom of your page. Find the center, then draw a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) tall, 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) wide rectangle right above it.Make sure that the two are touching, just like an upside-down T.


You can make your car out of printer paper or construction paper, but cardstock will be much better.
The bottom rectangle will make the sides of the car. The top rectangle will make a curved roof, like in a buggy.
 Cut out both rectangles as one piece. Snip the left and right corners of your bottom rectangle off. You want them angling towards the top, vertical rectangle. These will make the windshield., Start by drawing a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) square in the middle of your bottom rectangle. Use the sides of the square as your folding guideline. Keep the side flaps bent so that they are 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) apart. You should have something that looks like a box., Hold the two side flaps 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) apart. Bring the tip of the top rectangle towards the side flaps. Nestle it right between them, so that the bottom corners touch.Secure everything together with a strip of tape.


For a neater finish, put the tape inside the car instead.
You want the side edges of the top flap to be aligned with the slanted edges of the side flaps.
The top rectangle will create an arch, like in a buggy. For a standard car, pinch it just above the side flaps.
 You can trace these circles using a compass or bottle caps. These will be your wheels. To make them even sturdier, you could use thin cardboard instead., Start by coloring your wheels black, then adding grey or silver hubcaps. Paint your car, if you wish, then draw some doors and handles on the sides. Finish off by adding on a front and back windshield.


Add some more details, such as decals, headlights, or even a driver!
You can paint or draw the details on. If you use paint, let the car dry before moving on.
 Use a hole puncher on the car and a needle on the wheels. The holes on the car should be about ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) from the bottom edge, and 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) apart. The holes on the wheels need to be smack in the center.Don't use a hole puncher on the wheels. The holes will be too big.
If you don't have a needle, you can use a toothpick or an awl. Be careful, however!

, You will need two toothpicks: one for the front set of holes, and one for the back.Trim down the toothpicks until they are ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) long on each side of the car.


Paint the toothpicks black first for a more realistic effect.
If you don't have any toothpicks, you can cut down some skewers or use lollipop sticks instead. You may have to make the holes on the wheels bigger, however.
 Slide the wheels onto the toothpicks—make sure that the hubcaps are facing out. Don't worry if the wheels don't rotate on the toothpick. The toothpick will rotate in the holes on the car instead., The wheels should fit snugly onto the toothpicks. If they are loose or falling off, slide a small bead over each end of the toothpick. Secure the bead with a drop of glue, if needed.If the bead is a different color from the hubcap, you can paint it grey or silver to match.
If you can't find any small beads, try a bit of hot glue instead.
,