 The amount of water you need varies from person to person, but generally you want to maintain consistent hydration to avoid becoming dehydrated by exercise, especially if you sweat a lot.The easiest way to determine whether you're well hydrated is to look at the color of your urine. If it's clear, you're well hydrated. The darker your urine, the more water you need to drink.
Start early in the day and rehydrate yourself regularly and consistently. Avoid chugging a large amount of water before starting exercise, however, since the sloshing in your stomach can make you feel sick.
Since caffeine is a mild diuretic, you may need to drink more water than you would otherwise to counteract that effect.;
, Particularly if you're engaged in vigorous physical activity, you may need more than just water to replace the liquid and nutrients you lose through sweat. Sports drinks can assist with this as well as giving your body more energy.Read the labels on sports drinks carefully, and avoid those with added sugars. To avoid caffeine overdose, you also may want to avoid sports drinks that have any amount of caffeine added.
Since most sports drinks have carbohydrates, sodium, potassium, and protein, you also may benefit by drinking them before exercise.
In most cases, sports drinks are only beneficial before or during exercise if you are involved in vigorous activity lasting 90 minutes or longer.
 To avoid becoming dehydrated during exercise, you must actively replace the fluid you lose through your sweat. This amount will vary among people, and depending on the conditions and environment in which you're engaging in physical activity.The easiest way to determine the total amount of fluid you are losing during exercise is to weigh yourself immediately before and then immediately after exercise.
Every pound of weight you've lost equates to approximately a pint of water. Keep in mind it's not unusual to lose as much as 5 pounds of fluid during intense exercise, especially if you are engaging in a vigorous activity that takes place outside in warmer months.
 Drinking water isn't the only way to stay hydrated. Foods with a high water percentage can be a good alternative to drinking water on its own, especially if you don't like the taste of water.Both watermelon (as the name suggests) and celery are more than 90 percent water, as well as cucumbers and strawberries. While celery isn't necessarily packed with nutrients, it is high in fiber and several other energy-sustaining nutrients such as potassium.
You also can get water from other drinks, such as coconut water or skim milk.

