 If you decide to use a hormonal form of birth control such as the Pill, a patch, or vaginal ring, you need to make an appointment with your doctor. She will discuss your different options and then prescribe the best choice for your health and your lifestyle.


You must get a prescription to start birth control pills, a patch, or a vaginal ring.There are different options for birth control pills that range from 21 day pills to 365 day pills and have different combinations of estrogen and progestin.During the time that you do not take these pills, you will have your menstrual period.The vaginal ring is a flexible plastic ring that is inserted into the vagina for 21 days. It releases hormones into your vaginal tissues and from here are carried through your body. After the 21 days, you get your period.The contraceptive skin patch is a small adhesive patch that you apply to your skin for three consecutive weeks. You get your period the fourth week and reapply a new patch thereafter. It releases estrogen and progestin into your system through your skin., In order to get started using hormonal birth control, have your doctor prescribe the method you choose. You can fill this at a local pharmacy and begin using the method in most cases immediately.


Be aware that some pharmacies will not fill hormonal birth control prescriptions for ethical reasons. Likewise, some insurance will not cover hormonal birth control, which can be expensive.
 Once you’ve filled your prescription, you can start using the method. If you are menstruating, you should wait until the end of your period to start these methods.


Begin taking pills either on the day that you start your period or the Sunday after you start. If your periods are very infrequent, your doctor may recommend starting immediately.
Until the hormonal birth control begins to regulate your cycle, it’s not uncommon to experience breakthrough bleeding and breast tenderness., It’s important to use hormonal birth control methods consistently. Taking birth control pills daily, applying the patch or inserting the vaginal ring after four weeks can help prevent pregnancy. This will also help ensure that your cycle remains regular.If you take the pill at the same time every day, it can help you remember to take it regularly, making it less likely that you forgot and get pregnant.
For some pills, such as the mini-pill, it’s important to take them at the same time every day so they have maximum effectiveness.If you travel frequently, it can be difficult to time these methods exactly. If you are unsure because of time difference when traveling, consider using a backup contraceptive method like condoms until you resume regular use of hormonal birth control.

