 You will need three different shades: a medium shade for the lid, a dark shade for the crease, and a light shade for the base and highlight. Try to choose colors from the same color family, such as all blues or all browns. Also, keep in mind that different colors may enhance different eye colors. Here are some suggestions:








For the best blending, eye shadow should have four different shades: The lightest (a shade close to white) on the inner corner and just under your browbone, the second lightest over the lid, next darkest on the crease, and darkest on the outer corner blended in.
If you have blue eyes, you can wear similar shades, such as dark blue, grey, and silver. You can also wear contrasting shades, such as bronze, brown, copper, and taupe.
If you have brown eyes... you can wear similar shades, such as bronze, brown, and taupe. You can also wear contrasting shades, such as blue, green, grey, and purple.
If you have green eyes, you can wear similar shades, such as green, and forest green. You can also wear contrasting shades, such as gold, pink, taupe, and purple.
If you have grey eyes you can wear similar shades, such as blue, charcoal, and silver. You can also wear contrasting shades, such as brown, gold, green, and purple.
If you have hazel eyes, you can use greens and golds to bring out the greens and golds in your own eyes. You can also use contrasting colors, such as plum, reddish-brown, and wine.
 Or simply use a dot of liquid concealer in place of primer.
 Choose your lightest shade. Swirl your brush in the eye shadow and sweep it over your entire eyelid, from the lash line all the way up to the eyebrow. Gently blend the shadow towards the corner or you eye and away from your eye. You can leave your eye shadow like this, or add extra definition by adding some shadow and lid color.









Consider brushing some loose powder under your eye, just beneath the eye lashes. This will catch any loose specks of eye shadow. When you are done applying your eye shadow, you can brush this powder off using a clean brush.
Some people do not like having the same highlight color as their base. If this applies to you, you can use an eye shadow primer to stop your eye shadow from creasing. Be sure to apply your highlight in your inner corners to open up your eyes and to your brow bone to give your eyes definition.
 Swish you brush across the medium shade and sweep it along the entire eyelid, going from right next to inner corner of your eye to the outer corner.
 Take a smaller brush and sweep it across the darkest shade. Run it along the crease of your eye, going in an arch starting from the outer corner and following the shape of your natural eye socket, or where your eyelids fold in when you open your eyes.
 Using a small, fluffy brush, go over the eyelid, where the lid meets the crease. Next, go over the brow, where the crease meets the brow. When you blend, run your brush from the inner corner of your eye to the outer and back to the inner in a rainbow motion.









If you brushed loose powder beneath your eye, you can dust it off after you have finished blending everything.
 Place the tip of your eyeliner as close as possible to the lash line on your upper lid. Slowly draw a smooth line, going from the middle of your eyelid to the outer corner. Then, going from the middle to the inner corner. You can extend the eyeliner a little bit beyond the outer corner, creating a wing tip. Whether you use eyeliner pencil or liquid eyeliner depends entirely on what is easiest for you to work with. Here are some more tips on applying eye liner:









For a natural, daytime look, use brown or black-brown liner. For a more defined or evening look, use black eyeliner.
It helps if you hold a pocket mirror in your other hand, and look down at the mirror while applying the eyeliner.
You can also close your eye partway, and gently pull on the outer corner of your eye, stretching the lid. Draw your eyeliner in a neat line.
You can use eyeliner or eye shadow on your bottom lid. Eyeliner will give you a more defined look, while a thin line of charcoal or dark brown eye shadow will give you a softer look.
 Start applying your mascara from the middle of your eye. Dip the brush into the container and pull it out, dragging it along the rim of the container to remove any excess mascara. Bring the brush as close as possible to your lash line and gently pull it up, wiggling it from side to side slightly; lower your eyelids at the same time as you are pulling the brush up. Repeat the process for the outer and inner corners of your eye.









You can apply some mascara to your bottom lashes. Simply bring the brush as close as possible to the lower lash line, and brush downward.
 Unless you have very thick eyebrows, you might want to fill them in. You can use eyebrow pencil or eye shadow. Follow the natural curve of you eyebrow, making the color softer and lighter the closer it gets to your nose. In general, you want to use a color that is two to three shades lighter than your hair color, unless you have blonde hair. Then, go 2-3 shades darker. Here are some more tips:









If you have blond or light colored hair, use a light brown or medium brown.
For brown hair or medium-colored hair, use a medium or dark brown.
If you have black hair, use a very dark brown. Never use black, as it will be too harsh.
If you have red hair, use a color close to your hair color, but two to three shades darker.
For other, unusual hair colors, such as blue, green, pink, or purple, consider using a shadow that matches your hair color, and going two to three shades darker. You can play around with colors, or use a color that matches your original eyebrow color.

