 You should look for start by looking for jobs through job listings and job posting boards. When you have decided on the type of job you want, you may look in the newspaper or on business websites for jobs that may be open in your community. You may also look online for job postings.;
, One good way to find a job is to talk to others. You can ask friends, family, neighbors, and people in organizations you are a member of if they know of any jobs you can apply for.


If you want a job in a particular field, try contacting someone you know in that particular field to see if they know of any positions.
 Many states and countries offer career centers that specialize in helping deaf and hard of hearing people find employment. These centers offer a variety of services, including help with your resume, help with the job search, training, and support.Try searching online for deaf career centers in your state, or contact your local deaf and hard of hearing services.
 Another service you may find helpful is a rehabilitation counselor, who can usually be contacted through deaf and hard of hearing services. These counselors can help you assess your job skills and provide information about employment opportunities.Many of these rehabilitation services also provide training programs so you can learn job skills, including skills for using assistive technology in the workplace.
 You may be able to find jobs through the a government hiring authority. These hiring authorities aid Federal agencies in hiring individuals with disabilities more quickly. This requires a certification letter that you can obtain from the state or local vocational rehabilitation office. You can apply to the selective placement coordinators, which will help you find a job.You will have to fill out an application and send the letter of certification.
For example, in the United States, you can apply for a job through Schedule A, which is a hiring authority to help people with disabilities find jobs in Federal organizations.
 You may be able to find a job through an employment agency. Search for an employment agency that has an equal opportunities policy. Talk to them about what you can do and what your skills are. They may be able to place you in a position that is right just for you.If an agency tells you that you can’t do something because of your hearing loss, move on! Find an agency that values your skills and strengths. It may take a few tries, but you will find an agency that can help you find a job.

