 The most common for acute coughs are: the common cold, influenza (better known as the flu), pneumonia (an infection in the lung(s) by bacteria, viruses or fungi), chemical irritants, and whooping cough (also known as pertussis is a highly contagious bacterial lung infection).The most common causes of chronic coughs are: allergic reactions, asthma, bronchitis (an inflammation of the bronchi or air tubes in the lungs), gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and post-nasal drip (mucus drips into the throat from the sinuses causing an irritation with a reflex cough).


There are other less common causes of cough including other lung disorders such as Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis.Coughs can also be due to side effects of medication. This is particularly the case with a class of blood pressure medications-- the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. A cough may be the side effect of other illnesses including: cystic fibrosis, chronic and acute sinusitis, congestive heart failure, and tuberculosis.
 Try home remedies for 1-2 weeks. For most coughs, these should provide enough relief for you to recover. If there is no improvement after 1-2 weeks, however, make an appointment with your physician for a full diagnosis and to determine your best course of action.Also, make an appointment with your physician if during that 1-2 weeks you experience: any fever of more than 100 degrees F for more than 24 hours, coughing up greenish-yellow thick discharge (this can indicate a serious bacterial pneumonia), coughing up mucus with streaks of reddish or pinkish blood, vomiting (particularly if the vomit looks like coffee grounds-- this may indicate a bleeding ulcer), difficulty swallowing, or difficulty breathing, wheezing or feeling short of breath.
 There are some illnesses that can incapacitate children more quickly and some illnesses that children are especially prone to get. Because of this, you need to assess their coughs differently. With children, call your physician immediately if they experience any of the following:Any fever over 100 degrees F.
A barking type of cough-- this may be croup (a viral infection of the larynx (voice box) and trachea (windpipe, breathing tube). Some children may also experience stridor, which is a high-pitched whistling or gasping sound. If your hear either of these types of sounds, call your physician right away.
A wheezy, gurgling type of cough that may sound raspy or whistling. This could be bronchiolitis, potentially caused by the respiratory syncytial virus (RSC).
A whooping sound when your child inhales, which is likely whooping cough.
 Remember that coughing is the body’s natural way of getting rid of bacteria, viruses, or fungus-filled mucus, and that is a good goal! However, if your or your child’s cough is not allowing you to rest or sleep, or is causing any difficulty in breathing, it is time to treat that cough. You need adequate rest and sleep when you have a cough, so that is where remedies can be useful.


You can use many home remedies as much and as often as you want. They will also help keep you hydrated, which is very important as your immune system and body recovers.

