 An easy way to solve a dramatic situation is to stop it. Be introspective about the situation and determine if you’re the one causing the drama.


Do people tend to drift away from you? You may be the drama-filled person that causes stress in every situation, and they don’t want to deal with it.
If people cut conversations short with you, and constantly reply with brief answers like “Sure” or “Whatever” they may just not want to talk with you because of the impending drama.
When you always seem to be in an argument with people around you, and they don’t have the same issues otherwise, you are probably a source of drama.
 Feeling like you do not have control of your life can cause you to react in overdramatic ways. If you are in a situation that makes you unhappy or that arouses other negative emotional responses in you, then remind yourself that you can do something about it. You do not have to stay in a situation that is bad for you.


For example, if you are in a relationship with someone who pushes your buttons or who does not listen to you, then you have the option to say something or to end the relationship.
 Know which battles to choose and people will learn to listen when you do speak up. The more fires you light over little issues, the more likely it is that others will begin to stop listening.


Try to ignore little things that people say and do that get on your nerves. For example, it is not worth getting upset with a friend if she borrows your pencil without asking. However, it would be important to address your friend’s behavior if she has a habit of frequently using your clothes and other personal items without asking you first.
 Negative thinking can cause you to feel unhappy and you may act out some of those emotions, but you can reframe negative thoughts to make them into positive ones. Whenever you have a negative thought, take a moment to reframe it so that it is positive instead.You can also practice positivity by keeping a gratitude journal where you list everything that you are grateful for. Practicing gratitude can improve your self-esteem and help you to feel happier.For example, if you find out that a friend said something behind your back, then you might catch yourself thinking, “Everyone hates me!” To reframe this thought you could change it to something like, “Even though this friend said something mean about me, I have other friends who accept me and care about me.”
To keep a gratitude journal, start listing the things that you are grateful for starting with the most basic. Do you have a bed to sleep in? Food to eat? Clothes on your back? Then, as your list gets longer, start paying attention to little things to be grateful for, such as a beautiful sunset or having a fun time with your friends.
 Not knowing what others are talking about, or missing some of the details, and then interjecting yourself into the situation, is likely to cause confusion. Just stay out of it and don't worry yourself unnecessarily. If it doesn't involve you and it's not really a huge deal then there is no need for you to panic about it or be involved.

