 The Young Professionals Programme (YPP) is intended for talented young men and women with little to no work experience. Those who are eligible may take a written and oral examination to determine whether they qualify for placement on the job roster for YPP participants. Those on the job roster are selected for YPP jobs as they become available. To be eligible for the YPP, you must meet the following requirements:


Be 32 years or younger
Hold at least a first-level university degree in one of the job families offeredBe fluent in either English or French
Be a national of a participating country

, Click on the “Register as a User” option at the top of the UN employment website. You will be required to fill in your name, email, and date of birth, as well as creating a user name and password.
 Once you register you will be prompted to create your Personal History Profile. This profile will be your confidential online resume, and includes general information about you, your education, and your employment history.


You can complete the PHP right away, or come back later. It will take between 30 minutes to one hour to complete, and you can save a partially completed profile at any time and return to finish it.
Make sure you fill out the space for your "Country of Nationality" with a country participating in the YPP program.
 As a YPP candidate, you must select a job labeled "YPP Examination." Choose a job in the job family you're interested in and qualified for. Fill out the correct combination of “Main Course of Study” and “Field of Study” that matches your degree and the requirements for the job. You can submit only one application for an examination.After completing the forms, click "Apply Now" to submit your application. You'll need to answer a few screening questions and agree with the terms to successfully submit the application. You will receive an email confirmation that your application was received.
Your application will be evaluated, and you will either be invited to take the examination or informed that you are not eligible.
 If you are eligible, you will be invited to take the written examination. It lasts 4 1/2 hours and consists of two parts: the General Paper, which is the same for all job families, and the Specialized Paper, which tests your knowledge on your specific area of expertise. If you pass the test, you will be invited to take the oral examination., This is an interview conducted by the Specialized Board to determine whether you have the skills and behaviors required for the jobs within the job family you're applying for. After the examination, you will be contacted by the Central Examinations Board to let you know whether or not you may participate in YPP.
 If your interview is successful, the Central Examinations Board will endorse you for a position on the YPP job roster. When a job in the appropriate job family becomes available, you will receive an offer.


Receiving an endorsement doesn't automatically mean you will get a job. While the chances are quite high, getting an offer is dependent on job availability in your job family.
If your interview is not successful, you'll be contacted by the Central Examinations Board to let you know that you did not receive an endorsement.

