 Clarifying shampoo is a great way to fade semi-permanent dyes. However, if you used a permanent dye, then using a clarifying shampoo may not be powerful enough to make a difference. This method may fade permanent dye a little, but it will take longer to do so.
 You will need to buy a clarifying shampoo that is not recommended for use on dyed hair. This type of shampoo will help to strip your hair of the dyed color. You will also need conditioner. This can also be on the cheaper end of the conditioner spectrum.Suave Daily Clarifying is a good shampoo to use.
If your hair tends to be dry or unmanageable, you should buy a deep conditioner that will give your hair the nutrients it needs.
You can also try an anti-dandruff shampoo., Baking soda is a natural bleaching agent, so adding it to your shampoo can make the color-stripping process go faster.
 Make the water as warm as you can stand it. Warm water opens up hair follicles and cuticles making them more receptive to being stripped of the dye. Get your hair thoroughly wet with the water before shampooing.
 Pour a quarter sized amount of shampoo in your hand and apply it to your hair. Use your fingertips to give your head a good scrub. Squeeze off any excess foam (which should be the color of the dye you are removing). Make sure your hair is thoroughly coated in the shampoo, but do not rinse yet!

, If you have short hair, you can leave it down. Place a bath towel around your shoulders that you don’t really care about (the shampoo and dye will run and could potentially get on your towel).
 Make sure the shower cap covers all of your hair and is securely fitted on your head. Use a hairdryer to heat your hair, but take care not to hold the heat on one spot for two long or you could potentially melt the plastic. The heat will help the shampoo strip your hair of color.If you don’t have a plastic shower cap, you can use a plastic bag. Wrap it around your head and secure the opening in the front with a clip.
 Once you have let it sit, rinse your hair thoroughly with warm water. Lather your hair with shampoo two more times, rinsing after each time you use the shampoo. When you are done rinsing, the foam should only have a hint of dye left.
 Rub your hair thoroughly with the conditioner, making sure your whole head is covered. If your hair is long enough, clip it up, otherwise just leave it down.
 Once your hair is semi-dry, let your hair sit for 25 to 30 minutes. Rinse your hair with cool water so that all of the conditioner gets washed out.
 To close the hair cuticles up, blast your hair with freezing cold water. This will help to ensure that your hair retains the nutrients it needs from the conditioner. You should see that the dye has faded to roughly 2/3rds of what is once was. Let your hair rest for a day and then repeat this process.