 The purpose is not to belittle or show up your opponent; if that is your aim, then this is not the article for you. The purpose is to alleviate the tension and to help both of you see the absurdities and contradictions of life in general and of the topic you're arguing about in particular. It's about helping both of you to not take yourselves so seriously, even if the topic itself is very serious. Humor is a great way to quell emotional drama or inflation of an argument beyond its original point.


Be sure that you're actively listening to what the other person has to say and not simply attempting to deflect their concerns with humor as a brush-off. Active listening will ensure that you can reflect their concerns back at them at the end of the argument (see below).;
, Humor can alleviate a difficult situation and lighten the tension but it also has the potential to escalate the arguing if it's used in way that suggests belittling of the opponent or situation. Great care must be taken to assess this before inserting humor into the argument. There are several principle things to consider:


Ask yourself: "Am I arguing with someone who responds well to humor?" Not everyone appreciates a joke when tempers are flaring and for some people, humor will simply prove that they're not being taken seriously enough and could fan the flames of an argument. Use your awareness of the person to judge this aspect, as well as considering whether the humor you wish to inject is respectful of the other person.

However, this should also be balanced with a realization that a person who is very critical of others and yet very sensitive in return has an internal problem and you can't spend your life tiptoeing around their hyper-defensiveness. In this case, being respectful means being ready to drop the argument from your end and not being defensive if they do fail to respond calmly.


Ask yourself: "Is humor appropriate in this context?" Some fights are too heated or are about too sensitive a topic for humor to be appropriate and effective. Attempting to use humor in settings where your opponent feels extremely vulnerable, passionate or dogmatic can make the situation worse, since you may appear to be making light of a serious issue or putting down their passion or beliefs.

However, this needs to be weighed with taking care to not over-privilege "taboo" topics; if you're arguing with someone who stakes out a position of "don't touch my beliefs/opinions even though I can decimate yours", humor may be the last resort left before you end your involvement in the dispute.


Ask yourself: "Is this the right setting for using humor?" In certain settings, like a workplace, humor may be an inappropriate way to address conflicts. Obviously, this will depend on the context and the feel for the situation around you.
 Obviously, you don't want to elevate the argument into a more serious fight where humor may no longer be appropriate but if judged appropriately, humor can defuse the mounting tension and help your opponent see that arguing the toss is not going to solve the bigger issue. A big part of this is delivering your humor in a courteous and calm manner and avoiding any condescension or derision in your tone.
 There are a number of strategies that can be useful when deciding on your comment:


(1) Add perspective – making a joke that reminds people of the world outside the argument can lessen tempers. For example, in an argument about always forgetting to put the toilet seat down, you might throw in a comment along the lines of: "Yes, it is nice to have indoor plumbing!"

(2) Be self-deprecating – arguments often arise when both parties are acting stubbornly. Making a joke at your own expense shows that you don't take yourself too seriously. For example, "You know that I have trouble with complicated mechanisms that have both 'up' and 'down' settings." Even more effective is an apology coupled with self-deprecating humor, such as "I'm so sorry, it seems that missing my mid-afternoon snack has fueled my transformation into a gormless half-wit."

(3) Be flattering – changing your tone by saying something overly sweet might seem like you're trying to weasel out of the argument, but when done with humor it just might fly. For example, "You're so beautiful, you would make falling into the toilet look graceful... and then I bet everyone else would start doing it too."


, A well executed joke can lead to a momentary break in the argument, particularly if the other person laughs. Take advantage of the break after the joke to defuse the argument entirely. This often means apologizing or accepting the other person's point of view. Alternatively, if you cannot accept their view, respect their view by telling them that you understand their side of the argument and that while it hasn't changed your own opinion, it has given you a lot to think about and that you're prepared to take into account the things they've raised.
 The best time to sort out an argument is when those involved in it are not overly emotionally invested in the argument itself and the tempers have been extinguished. Taking the time to address the issues that caused the argument helps to avoid future arguments on the topic. It also helps to show the other person that when you use humor during an argument, it wasn't done to avoid the issue entirely but just to change the format of the discussion. This may make humor even more effective with that person in the future; for example, eventually you either remember to put the seat down or explain why you just can't learn to remember...


Give yourselves at least 30 minutes to calm down and perhaps even longer, depending on the urgency of resolving the issue. Take a walk, listen to or watch something funny or spend time with pets or kids.

