 If you and your crush are both adults and part of the professional world, you can indirectly ask for a phone number by asking for a business card.


The downside of this option is that you may end up getting a business phone number instead of a private phone number. Make sure that one of the phone number on the card is marked as a cell phone before calling for personal reasons.
 Asking another person to interfere works well if the third person is a mutual friend with both of you. Ideally, this mutual friend will already have your crush's number. If not, he may be more comfortable asking for it than you are.Your mutual friend may catch onto your motives, so choose who you ask carefully. If you are not ready to have word get back to your crush about how you feel, make sure that the friend you ask can keep a secret.
 Nowadays, you can find out a lot about a person just by snooping online for a bit. The easiest way to find someone's phone number online is to check that person's Facebook page. If the two of you are friends, there is a decent chance that your crush's phone number will be visible to you.
 While there are no free, reliable services that allow you to find anyone's cell phone number, you can simply check the phone book for a home phone number. This might be better than nothing.


This tactic will only work if your crush has a landline and if that number is publicly listed.
Note that if your crush is underage or otherwise lives with her parents you will need to know the names of your crush's parents.
 When you do call, make sure that your reason for doing so sounds justifiably urgent. Acknowledge that you got the number from a third party and explain why you needed it.


For instance, you could call to ask a question about a shared assignment and explain that you got the number from a friend in another class. You could also text an invitation to a group event and mention who passed the number along to you.
You could also just tell her that you wanted to call her to ask her out. Sometimes playing games is not the way to go.

