 Some research suggests that children already start to form negative opinions about science by kindergarten.Start studying science concepts early in your everyday life to see how it is applicable and why it is important.


Supplement TV time with science programming. Watch shows like Bill Nye the Science Guy, Sid the Science Kid, and Mythbusters to introduce you to basic science concepts in an entertaining way.Ask yourself questions. When you first start with a new scientific subject, getting the concepts right isn’t as important as simply encouraging critical thinking. Ask yourself questions like “Why do you think giraffes have long necks?” on trips to the zoo, or “Why does water solidify when freezing?” when you make a new tray of ice.
Remember, it is ok to be wrong. Instead of simply telling yourself that you are wrong, think through the process and guide yourself to new conclusions using new information.
 You might not get all technical concepts of scientific processes, but don’t try oversimplify too much. If you break things down to the point where fundamental information is missing or what you’re saying is simply inaccurate, you may suffer in the long run.Ask yourself “Will this change the concept?” before you simplify something in your notes or on a paper. You may not need to understand nuclear fusion for a middle school astronomy report. Still, saying “The sun is a ball of fiery gasses and metals” is more accurate than stating “The sun is a ball of fire in the sky.”

, You will have science questions that you cannot answer on your own. That is alright. Tell your teacher you don’t know, but that you want help finding the answer.


Saying you don’t know reinforces the idea that scientific learning is not about memorizing facts, but rather about critical thinking and investigating.
Read through your class materials and textbooks thoroughly to gather the information already available to you.
If class materials don’t answer the question, look for online resources that can help explain. There may be videos, games, or even another teacher’s lesson plan that you could use.
Ask to meet with your teacher outside of class to help explain the concept. Tell them “I’d like to learn this so that I can better understand the course content and the subject as a whole.”

, Get inspiration by biographies about famous scientists. Learn about what these scientists' lives were like and what they accomplished that brought good things to the world.


Find grade-level appropriate biographies about famous scientists such as Isaac Newton, Albert Einstein, Marie Curie, Watson and Crick, and others. You can find these in bookstores or online.
Watch short videos to go along with what you’re reading. There are a number of online videos dedicated to celebrating great scientists. Watch them before or after you read so you can see why that person still matters today.

