 Prejudice, when broken down, basically means pre-judgment. Having awareness that you do, in fact, make unfair assessments or judgments about others is a great starting place. Take a close look at your life and your everyday interactions. Think about the beliefs, thoughts, and opinions you have developed about others. When did these prejudices take root? What is happening to reinforce them in your life?


Researchers believe that, as early as age 3, children begin developing an attachment with their own cultural or racial group, the in-group, and unconsciously have negative views of all other groups, the out-groups.Some of these biases are learned within the home or cultural group. Others are emphasized within the media.;
, So, we know that children learn prejudice early on in life.Given that prejudice is learned, it, too, can be unlearned. No matter how long you have had certain viewpoints about other groups, it is entirely possible to change these views.


Prejudice can be unlearned with diversity education. One study found that students who took a prejudice seminar had significantly reduced prejudice and stereotypes after completing the seminar., You must truly want to change these biases with maximum effort and continue in the change process despite difficulty or loss of motivation.You can show commitment to changing your personal prejudices by developing a plan to take action. Choose one prejudice at a time that you want to change and identify methods in which you can change it. Set a deadline. Over time, check your progress.
 Bringing awareness to your personal prejudice demands paying very close attention to what you are telling yourself about different groups. In addition to helping you overcome prejudice, improving negative self-talk can also boost your self-esteem and mental well-being.Intentionally listen in to your thoughts when you interact with people from different cultural and racial groups or other backgrounds. What kinds of things are you thinking? What proof do you have that these judgments are valid?

