 This app resembles a gold statue's face. Opening Temple Run will direct you to its home page.


If you haven't yet downloaded Temple Run for iPhone or Android, first do so.;
, It's in the lower-left corner of the screen.
 You can change the following options:



Music - Slide left or right to lower or raise the music volume.

Sound - Slide left or right to lower or raise overall sound.

Tutorial - Slide left to disable the tutorial.

Friend Markers - If your friends play Temple Run, leaving this enabled will show their progress.
 It's at the bottom of the screen.
 Your new game will begin.
 This will cause your character to move to the left or right side of the path.
 You'll want to do this as soon as your character reaches a turning point in the path.


Swiping left or right while running on a straight part of the path will cause your character to stumble, which will forfeit your current bonus.
Stumbling twice in a row will cause the enemies behind you to catch you, thereby ending the game.
 Doing so will help your character maneuver over low obstacles and broken sections of path.


You can also retrieve power-ups by jumping through them.
 Sliding helps your character avoid high obstacles.
 If you have any utilities (such as resurrection wings) equipped, doing this will use them.
 In Temple Run, your character starts off running at a reasonable pace through a fairly linear maze. As your time in a specific run progresses, the character's speed and the maze's complexity both increase.


If your character stops running at any time (e.g., because of stumbling twice), the game ends.
 Coins both increase your score and count toward in-game purchases, such as power-ups and character skins. Yellow coins are worth one coin each, red coins are worth two, and blue coins are worth three.


Don't prioritize coin collection over safe running if you're going for a high score.
The magnet power-up will collect coins for you.
 The vertical bar in the top-left corner of the screen grants you a bonus each time it fills up, meaning your overall score (and resulting reward) grow each time the meter refills. To fill this meter, collect coins.


Running into a tree branch or stumbling will reset the meter's progress.
 Sliding helps your character maneuver beneath some obstacles, but it also changes your camera angle, which can cause you to fall into another trap. Obstacles you can vault over instead of sliding under include the following:


Fire
Tree branches
Short gaps

, You can unlock each of the game's power-ups from the STORE section of the home page for 250 gold apiece, though upgrading them after this point will cost significantly more. These power-ups include the following:



50 Coin - Immediately grants your character 50 coins.

Coin Magnet - Gathers coins for you so that you don't have to run through them to collect them.

Invisibility - Allows you to run through obstacles and over gaps for a brief time.

250m Boost - Makes you invincible and boosts you forward for 250 meters of running.

Double Value coins - While not technically a power-up, upgrading this attribute shortens the distance you need to run before coming across red and blue coins.
You can also purchase "Utilities", which are items to help you in-game. Tap the screen twice to use them.
 To pause the game, simply tap the "Pause" icon in the bottom-right corner of the screen.


Closing the game while it is paused won't reset your progress.

