 As an asthmatic with seasonal allergies, you need to try to avoid your allergens as much as possible. While you can't avoid them completely, staying inside when allergen counts are high can help with the problem, particularly on days that are dry and windy.Plan outdoor activities for days when it's just been raining, as allergens won't be as much of a problem.
 If possible, have someone else do the outside tasks that need doing, such as mowing the lawn or landscaping the bushes, particularly when your seasonal allergies are bad. Doing these tasks puts you in direct contact with these allergens, making you vulnerable to asthma attacks.If you must do outdoor tasks, try wearing an allergy mask (available at drug stores) and changing your clothes as soon as you enter the house.
 Most weather stations and websites now track allergen counts, such as pollen, grass, mold, and trees. Knowing when allergens are high can help you know when you need to take extra steps to avoid the outdoors as much as possible., While you might like to let in the fresh spring air into your house, it's best to keep them closed, especially when pollen counts are high. If you're warm, use a ceiling fan or turn on the air conditioner, which has filters to help rid the air of allergens.The same rules apply to your car. Close the windows, and keep the air conditioner on recirculate.
 One way to help your home have fewer allergens is to use a HEPA air filter. The best place to have one is in your bedroom, as it filters allergens out of the air. A dehumidifier can also help, as it can keep allergens down.Also, make sure you are vacuuming regularly, as that helps remove allergens. Just make sure your vacuum has a HEPA allergen filter.
 As noted, it's best to take your outside clothes off when you enter the house, as they can have allergens on them. It's also a good idea to take a shower when you enter, washing allergens off your skin. That way, you'll be relatively allergen-free while you're in the house.It's also a good idea to wear items like a wide-brim hat, sunglasses, and even an allergy mask to keep allergens away from your face as much as possible while you're outside. When you come in, try using eye drops to wash away allergens.
Similarly, try using saline rinses in your nose on a regular basis to help rid your sinuses of allergens.