 An Indian woman is capable of wearing any type of dress; professional, casual or traditional for different occasions, but when it comes to ceremonies, mainly they wear something special with a traditional look.


To dress like an Indian woman make sure you have different choices; Saree/Sari, Ghagra choli, Salwar Kameez, Ghagra. Choose wisely according to what you like and what you are comfortable with.
Determine if it's suitable. If you are wearing a Sari, make sure it suits your skin tone. If you are white-frost, then try wearing Saris in colours that are dark; red, maroon, dark green, deep pink, orange, vermilion, purple e.t.c. If your a shade darker,then try wearing ruby, blue, green or any shade of pink(any medium light or medium dark colour that suits you perfectly)
If you are chocolate brown or a bit lighter than that try wearing any colour that is light and florescent; shy blue, green, lavender, light pink, yellow e.t.c
Wear silky saris to impress them. Usually, silky clothing are deemed to look more stylish because firstly, silk is quite expensive and secondly silk has the right contrast at the right place and it looks expensive when wearing. It may make you look rich and luxurious.

The same procedure mentioned above goes for Salwar-Kameez, Ghagra Choli and Ghagra..

;
, After choosing the Sari you are going to wear, pick a good Indian hairstyle to go with it. You can choose any hairstyle like; Plait or braid, French plait or braid, Bun, Pin up or use a clutch to clip your fringes and the first layer of your hair together, e.t.c.Add some flowers to your well combed hair.


Make a string of flowers by stitching it together
Using a hairpin, clip the string of flowers to your head

, Wearing some fashionable jewelry goes well with Indian outfit because jewelry adds a glimpse or touch of glamour to the look.


If you are wearing a sari, you can wear golden necklaces or any diamond necklace.
With it you can wear golden bangles,golden anklets, golden earrings and any other jewelry.
 Try wearing light makeup because the face would look more glorious in the festival or ceremony, not too flashy and not too heavy. Lipstick or lip gloss, eye liner or kajal, compact powder mascara or some eye shadow.

