 Your disguise will depend on who or what you plan to spy on. You’ll want to blend in, so if you plan to spy during a school football game, wear the school colors so you’ll seem like just another member of the audience. If you want to learn town secrets at the local pool, wear your swimsuit and bring suitable props, like a towel and pool toys.;
, It will help you get into character if you spend some time thinking about who you wish to become. Maybe you will pretend to be a foreign exchange student, the cousin of a person who lives in your neighborhood, or even your own brother or sister. Think about where the person comes from as well as how they dress, talk, and act., Practice speaking in different tones or accents. You can also use different words than you normally would. Changing your voice is a great way to keep people from recognizing you. This is especially helpful if you are talking on the phone.
 You may want to add a bit of swagger to your walk, change your posture so you seem like a royal, or hunch over like a beggar. You could lengthen or shorten your stride, or fake a limp. Your body language will help others to recognize you, so changing it is a great way to avoid detection., Sometimes the best disguise is no disguise at all! People won’t suspect you of spying if you just look like another kid at the park or mall. This way you can follow someone or eavesdrop without any suspicion.
 You’ll want to blend in with your surroundings, so wear clothes that other people are wearing. Most people aren’t in costume, so you’ll stand out if you are dressed up as a cat in a room full of people wearing jeans.
 You can wear all black or dark colored clothing to go unnoticed. This is especially true if you are spying at night, as you will look like simply another shadow.


Wearing all dark clothing can be dangerous at night if you are near roadways. Be sure to look out for cars and stay out of the street.
 If you wear something that can be turned inside out, you will be able to easily change your clothes to shake off a spy that’s following you. Quickly changing the color of your outfit will confuse enemy spies, as they will be looking for your original outfit.You can also bring extra outer layers to quickly change your look. Grab a hoodie, a long-sleeve button up, or a jacket to throw on over your clothes.
 You can make yourself look bigger by wrapping towels or scarves around your arms and legs, and adding a cushion to your chest and belly area. Use tape or strings to hold the items in place. Then put your clothes on over the padding. This will throw people off your scent because they will be looking for someone smaller than you!Wearing multiple layers of thick clothing is another way to add some bulk to your disguise, and it make look more natural than adding towels or cushions under your clothes.
 Camo is a great way to blend in if you are outdoors. Pick a style that matches your surroundings as best as you can. Use the white and gray camo in winter, and green and brown for other seasons.
 You’ll be sure to throw your enemies off track if you look just like them! Wear the same colors or type of clothing that they normally wear. Be sure to match your accessories too. For example, wear jeans and a black t-shirt with a baseball hat if that’s what your enemies are usually wearing.
 Sunglasses will hide your eyes so no one knows which way you are looking. The darker the better. Oversize sunglasses can also work to hide your face even more. Be sure to ask before borrowing a pair from your parents or siblings.
 Changing your hair is bound to make you unrecognizable! Add a wig you have from Halloween, or make one from paper or cloth. Cut the paper or cloth into strips to make it look more like hair. Put it under a hat if you are having difficulty attaching it to your head.


You could also color your hair, if you have your parents permission. Use a temporary dye to change the color of your hair. Be careful not to get dye on anything other than your hair., Using a scarf or bandana will hide your features from the people around you. Wrap the cloth around your head or neck, but be sure it isn’t too tight.
 Wearing a mask will hide your face from those you wish to spy one. Choose one that makes sense for the occasion - a clown mask will not blend in at a neighborhood pool party, but it might work at the county fair.
 Use pipe cleaners to make an eye patch. Bend the pipe cleaner into a circle a little bigger than your eye. Cover the circle with dark cloth or felt. You may need to glue it on to be sure it holds tight. Add a pipe cleaner on either side to attach the eye patch to your head.You can bend the side pipe cleaners around your ears (like glasses) or wrap them around your entire head.
 A mustache is an excellent part of a disguise! Make one by bending a brown or black pipe cleaner into a mustache shape.You can also get fake mustaches at many costume or party supply stores.
 Add a hat to your disguise to ensure no one recognizes you. Choose one you already have or make a paper hat.
 You can use makeup to make you look older, like by adding wrinkles. You can also use it to create a fake black eye to change your appearance. Be sure to ask the owner of the makeup if you can use it first.


Be careful not to get makeup in your eyes or mouth.

