 Before taking over-the-counter medication, make sure to read the labels. Look for the active ingredients on the package. The brand name might suggest one ingredient, but the active ingredient may be something different.Pay attention to dosage. Many OTC pain relievers are sold in different dosage strengths. One capsule might be 100 mg while another might be 500 mg. Also check for words like “extra strength” on the label.
Reading the label helps you know the ingredients in the medicine you are taking. This is helpful when trying to refrain from taking multiple medications with the same ingredient.
 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are common pain relievers for mild pain management. Common NSAIDs are aspirin, naproxen or Aleve, and ibuprofen, Advil, or Motrin. NSAIDs also reduce inflammation.Use NSAIDs for the following conditions:Injury with inflammation, such as a muscle strain or pull
Arthritis
Menstrual cramps
Headache
Bruise or abrasion
Minor pain post surgery
Sore muscles
Tooth ache
Kidney stones
Back pain

, Acetaminophen is a common drug used for minor pain relief and to help sooth aches. The most common product containing the drug is Tylenol.You can use acetaminophen to treat:Headaches and migraines
Bruises and scrapes
Minor pain after surgery
Muscle aches
Arthritis
Toothaches
Back pain
Kidney stones
Nerve pain

, Antacids or anti-ulcer drugs can help with stomach pain due to ulcers, heartburn, indigestion, or acid reflux. There are four types of these drugs: proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), H2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs), Misoprostol, and antacids.


Common antacid and antiulcer medications include Nexium, Prevacid, Prilosec, Zantac, Tagamet, Pepcid, Cytotec, Tums, and Rolaids.
Side effects of PPIs include increased bone fractures in people over 50. Women should not take misoprostol pregnant or trying to become pregnant.
 Depending on the type of pain you have, you can try topical pain relievers. This type of pain medication comes in creams, lotions, and sprays you place directly on the skin.The use of topical pain medication can be for sore muscles and arthritis.
Topical pain treatments include Aspercreme, Ben-Gay, and Icy Hot.
Side effects include burning or stinging on the skin. You shouldn’t use topical pain medication on broken or irritated skin.
 Each over-the-counter pain medication has side effects that may occur while taking it. Some of these side effects may also be a result of misuse.NSAIDs may cause headache, nausea, an upset stomach, skin rash, stomach ulcer, fatigue, dizziness, increased blood pressure, indigestion, and problems sleeping. NSAIDs may also increase the risk of heart attacks and stroke.Acetaminophen can cause stomach irritation, allergic reactions in some people, like people with asthma, ringing in the ears, kidney damage, and a reduction in clotting. If you take more than the recommended amount, it can cause liver damage.Avoid giving aspirin to children because aspirin has been linked to Reye’s syndrome with children.
Talk to your healthcare provider before taking NSAIDs if you have high blood pressure, kidney disease, or gastrointestinal bleeding.
Don’t take acetaminophen if you drink more than three alcoholic beverages a day. You should also talk to your doctor if you have had liver disease before taking acetaminophen.