 You will get up just one hour early, allowing you to take things slow. Aim to leave the house half an hour early.;
, Have a nice cereal and some milk, or soy or almond milk. Skipping breakfast (or any other meals) does not lead to weight loss but some assume that to be true. Don't eat a slimming cereal though - have oats with real raspberries, or perhaps slices of banana.
 Prepare, e.g. iron, your clothes the night before. Shave, or get your make up right. Days are better if people treat you better, and people treat you better if you look attractive, that you take good care of yourself.
 You left half an hour early, so you have time to get there without feeling rushed. Your boss will probably be happy to see this, and cut you some slack for the rest of the day.
 It's not your bosses time after all. Plan your day. Read company procedure for what is expected of you (your job description), or learn a new skill. If you are a software project manager, you might want to read about accounting. If you work in retail, learn about how to fix the barcode computer when it goes wrong.
 Keep a little A5 notepad, and make a note of it so you won't forget. Check about 4 times through the day to make sure you haven't missed something urgent.
 Unexpected and unwanted things happen, that's life, and the people around you understand that. The most important thing to do is manage failure. Make sure the relevant supervisor knows about the risk before it happens, and take a step back to come up with a rescue plan. Own the solution.
 By understanding peoples motives, and thinking about the reasons why they are causing conflict, you can find mutually acceptable solutions. Their reasons may seem selfish to you - they don't want a time consuming task because they want to leave early for a date say. But conflict is likely to simply entrench their position or cause resentment. Find some advantage in the situation, e.g. "Sure, I'll do that today, and I hope it goes really well. By the way, I need to get away early on Friday, so could you help me with my stuff that day".
 Make sure everything is done with half an hour to spare, so your last half hour is just finishing up. If you always end up staying late because there is too much work, then often you will never finish everything of an evening. That means it can wait till tomorrow. Leave on time, and don't worry about the backlog. It just means that a 2nd person is needed, and when that becomes clear, maybe you will be promoted in charge of them.

