 Measure your height while not wearing shoes. In addition, stand straight, head erect and eyes looking forward.


If you can, have a friend or family member measure your height. It's a bit easier than doing it yourself.
Call your doctor and ask for your last height if you've had a recent appointment.
If you're entering the military service, only a service member is allowed to take height measurements.;
, Use the circumference of your waist at a horizontal level around the navel for men, and at the level with the least width for women.Your arms should be relaxed by your side.


Don't pull or suck in your stomach while you're measuring.
Try to relax and measure as you're exhaling to get the most accurate measurement.
Keep in mind that BMI does not factor in waist circumference.
 Start below the larynx (Adam's apple) with the tape measure perpendicular to the long axis of the neck.Try to keep you head straight and look forward. Avoid flaring your neck out.
Make sure your shoulders are down and relaxed, not hunched.
 Place the tape measure around the largest width of your hips.


If wearing clothes, pull the tape measure somewhat taught to account for the bulk of your clothing., Plug the numbers into the appropriate formulas or use an online calculator to assist you.Round your answer to the nearest full percent.


When calculating your body fat percentage, ensure that your height is in inches, not centimeters.
For men, use the following formula:  % body fat = 86.010 x log10(abdomen - neck) - 70.041 x log10(height) + 36.76 For women, use the following formula:  % body fat = 163.205 x log10(waist + hip - neck) - 97.684 x log10(height) - 78.387 , For the most accurate body fat percentage, it's recommended to take all of the measurements 3 times.


Take the average body fat percentage by adding your 3 results and dividing by 3. This will give you the most accurate measurement.
If any of your measurements has a discrepancy of more than 1 inch, take an additional 4th measurement and then take the average of all 4 measurements.