 You know to put safety caps on the exposed outlets around your home, and this is especially important in the kitchen. Whichever outlet cover you choose to use, make sure that you unplug appliances when they aren’t in use and cover the outlets. Kitchen outlets are a particular concern because of the proximity of metal objects, such as skewers, forks, keys, or knives, that a child could stick in a live outlet., While you don’t have to lock appliances up in a cabinet, you should unplug them when they’re not in use. This is especially important for any appliance that could heat up and burn your child or turn on and cut your child. Consider wrapping each appliance’s cord up so that it’s not only out of reach, but not easily plugged in should your child try to do so.Another safety tactic is to put a small lock through the cord’s prongs, which will prevent the plug from being inserted into an outlet.
It’s also important to put appliances out of a child’s reach, including cords, so that they can’t pull anything down on top of them.
 Even if your child is crying and something on the stove needs your immediate attention, such as a pot boiling over, do not hold your child while you cook. You have to choose which needs your attention more at that moment, your child or the pot on the stove. Unfortunately, when you lift the pot’s lid, steam might rush up and burn the child’s leg, or they might be kicking their feet and accidentally kick the pot or handle to a pan, flipping the hot contents all over both of you.Talk to your child and explain what you’re doing so that they understand that you’re not ignoring them.
You can also talk them through what you’re doing in the kitchen to satisfy their natural curiosity. Try gating the kitchen off so that they can watch you from a safe distance while you explain.
 From about the age of 18 months on, children’s natural curiosity and desire to help you naturally lend themselves to teaching your child to cook. They will gain skills in reasoning, dexterity, critical thinking, and counting, and, most importantly, kitchen safety. Teaching children to cook allows you to teach them how not to burn themselves while also teaching them important life skills.You know best what you should teach your child regarding burn prevention and kitchen safety.
Cooking together is a fun and educational way to bond with your child.
Toddlers are great at stirring and spooning ingredients.
Elementary school-aged children are great at cutting, folding, greasing, and mixing.
Older children (8-11) can help plan meals and also cook on the stove, with supervision, of course.
Allow only children who are tall enough to remove food from the microwave oven safely to use a microwave. Children who are too short to reach a microwave oven easily may risk facial burns.
 It’s best to keep children out of the kitchen and away from the oven and stove while you’re cooking, unless they’re helping you and you’re able to supervise them. Consider putting up baby gates that block the entrance to the kitchen or putting your little one in a high chair or playpen when you’re cooking.If you let your toddler in the kitchen with you, especially if they are just learning to walk or are holding on to objects to stand up, make sure to keep them away from the oven, as they might burn their hands on a hot oven door.
 Children are naturally curious, and may tug on tablecloths or towels that are hanging down within reach. This is especially true for children who are just learning to walk, as they tend to grab the first steady object to hold themselves up. Unfortunately, pulling a tablecloth or towel placed under hot cookware on a counter top or table can be dangerous because the cookware might come down on the child’s head. Position hot vessels away from counter top edges so children can't touch them or grab the handles. Turn pot and pan handles inward so they're not easily reached.