 Walls and other objects will significantly reduce the range and strength of a WiFi signal. Metal objects, containers of water, and other conductive objects have an especially strong effect. Positioning these in front of thin walls and windows can make it harder for a neighbor to steal your signal. This can also block incoming signals that interfere with your own device.


5Ghz WiFi signals are are particularly bad at penetrating objects.
 Most high-quality WiFi routers have an adjustable power level setting. Turn this down to reduce the strength of the signal. You may need to experiment to find a setting that keeps your WiFi at a suitable strength throughout your home.


If your kids are sneaking online when they're supposed to be sleeping, consider turning the power level down to minimum each night. Increase it again in the morning.
 Replace your router's antenna with a directional antenna if you only need to broadcast the signal to one spot, such as your desktop computer or living room. This will significantly weaken the signal everywhere the antenna isn't pointing.


To save some money, make your current antenna "directional" by placing a sheet of aluminum foil in any direction you don't want the signal to travel.
 Access your router settings through an internet browser, then change the channel setting to avoid interference with other networks. Test channels 1, 6, and 11, testing the WiFi signal strength around your home at each setting. One of these will usually provide a fast, low-interference network.


If your router allows access to channels 12 or higher, test the highest channel.
Many modern routers have the option to automatically detect low-interference channels and switch between them. Enable this option if available.
Each router manufacturer arranges its own settings. If you can't find a channel option, refer to the router manual for a guide.
 Change your router password if you suspect a neighbor is connecting to your network. This option is available in your router settings, through your browser.


Select WPA encryption, which is more difficult to hack than WEP.

