 You can download iTunes for free from Apple's iTunes website. Click here for detailed instructions.;
, Make sure to plug it into a port directly in your computer, not a USB hub.
 This will only appear if you're connecting your iPad for the first time., You may be prompted to trust the iPad, much like your iPad asked to trust your computer.
 You should see an iPad icon in the upper toolbar if you are using iTunes 12, or in the Devices drop-down menu if you are using iTunes 11.


If your iPad is not appearing, make sure that it is turned on. If your iPad cannot turn on and it is not detected by iTunes, you may need to put it into Recovery mode.
 This will open the Summary screen for your iPad, where you can create backups or download iOS updates.
 In order to copy, or "sync", content with your iPad, you will need to add it to your iTunes library. You can add any media files that you already have on your computer such as MP3, AAC, MP4, MOV and several other media file types. You can also purchase media from the iTunes Store.



Click here for detailed instructions on adding music to iTunes.

Click here for detailed instructions on adding video files to iTunes.

Click here for detailed instructions on converting WMA files to MP3.
 Click the iPad icon in the upper toolbar if you are using iTunes 12, or in the Devices drop-down menu if you are using iTunes 11.
 In iTunes 12, this is located in the left frame after selecting the iPad. In iTunes 11, this is located along the top of the main frame after selecting the iPad.


Check the "Sync Music" box to allow iTunes to sync music with your iPad. You can either sync your entire library or specify which albums, artists, genres, or playlists you want to copy to the iPad.
 In iTunes 12, this is located in the left frame after selecting the iPad. In iTunes 11, this is located along the top of the main frame after selecting the iPad.


Check the "Sync Movies" box to allow iTunes to sync videos and movies to your iPad. You can select which movies in your library you want to sync, or automatically sync based on what you've watched.
If you have TV Shows in your video library, you will find them in the TV Shows tab.
 This may take a little while, especially if you are copying a lot of music or large videos., iTunes will sync your photos from a base folder or any subfolders in that base folder. If you are using a Mac, you can use iPhoto to organize your photos into albums.


Click here for some tips on organizing the images on your computer.
 Click the iPad icon in the upper toolbar if you are using iTunes 12, or in the Devices drop-down menu if you are using iTunes 11.
 In iTunes 12, this is located in the left frame after selecting the iPad. In iTunes 11, this is located along the top of the main frame after selecting the iPad.
 After selecting a folder, you can choose to sync all of the photos in the folder, or specific subfolders.
 This may take awhile if you have a lot of photos to copy.
 You can also use iTunes to sync other files such as applications, podcasts, and contacts. Click the appropriate tab and select the content you want to sync.
 Make sure that your iPad is connected to your computer via USB and you have tapped "Trust" on the iPad screen (if prompted).


Wi-Fi syncing allows you to manage the content on your iPad without attaching it to your computer.
 This will allow you to perform the same syncing procedure as you would if your iPad was connected with USB, except over your wireless home network.
, Click here for detailed instructions.
, Your iPad will sync with your computer as long as it is connected to the same network, the computer is turned on, and iTunes is running.
 There are different adapters available depending on the model of iPad you have, as well as the type of connections your monitor supports.

The most painless way to connect your iPad to most modern monitors is through an HDMI converter. A VGA connection is lower quality, but is also nearly universal.
 If necessary, use the audio jack on the adapter to attach external speakers as well., By default, your iPad will display the screen on both your iPad and the monitor (except the original iPad, which can only show video that is currently being played). The operating system and any apps will be displayed on both devices., When you play a video, it will play on the monitor, playback controls will be shown on your iPad.