 Although you are free to create your comic in a way that you feel is best, there are some common mistakes that cartoonists can make. Avoiding these mistakes will help boost your chances of getting your comic published. Take a look at some of the common comic mistakes to help your comics stand out:Focus on defining your characters instead of creating unique characters.
Allow your comics to cover a large variety of topics. Avoid focusing on any topics or settings that are too narrow.
Keep your lettering legible.
Once you've finished a comic strip, shrink it down to print size to make sure it's legible and readable.
You'll want to use pens, brushes and waterproof ink to create your comics.
Don't create a comic that is too close to another comic's style or content.
 Whatever your level of skill in creating comics, you'll always want to be practicing. Constant practice and time spent creating comics will allow you to sharpen your skills, improve your comics and increase your chances of getting published. Make sure you are constantly working to improve your skills and getting in plenty of practice making your comics.Most successful cartoonists are people who constantly practice creating their comics.
Pay attention to areas of your comics that could use improvement. For example, your writing may need some more work or maybe your lettering could be a bit neater.
 One simple way that you can improve your comic creating skills is to read other comics. Reading other comics will let you know what works and what makes a comic a success. Keep in mind, you won't want to copy other comics. However, studying the elements of successful comics can help you implement them into your own and increase your chances of getting your comic published., Getting your comic published can take a lot of hard work. Your comic may be rejected multiple times before being approved for syndication or publication. If you are self-publishing, be ready to work at building up your reader base and promote your comic. Either way, publishing your comic will take a lot of time and effort, so stay positive and keep working towards your goal.]


Many syndicates receive thousands of submissions every year and only select a few.
Take any feedback you get seriously. Try to improve your comic based on that feedback.
Don't be afraid of rejection. It's normal to have your comics rejected initially.

