 Being creative is about taking leaps of imagination, trying new things, and seeing what happens. Try out a crazy new idea or technique, change up your normal workflow, and cut and paste your work in new and exciting ways. Many of these experiments will fail, but creativity is about finding the one unheard-of new thing that succeeds.
 Not every creative idea is going to be a good one, and that's okay! If you are afraid of failing, or having a bad idea, you'll never come around to a better one. Stop judging your ideas as you go; instead, write down as many as you possibly can. After you're done, you will pick through the ideas to find the good ones. An idea you might think is bad might actually be fantastic when paired with an idea that strikes you later on – but you'll never know it if you erase the idea right off the bat.
 “An idea is nothing more nor less than a new combination of old elements.”Take from anything you can. Mutate it, clone it, and combine it until you have something creative that you can call your own. You don't need to think of it as stealing; this is how art begins:


The Rolling Stones mixed delta blues with English rock and roll for a new, honky-tonk style.
William Faulkner, Nobel Prize-winning author, took James Joyce's flowing, heady style and combined it with the spiritual and racial history of his home in the American South.
Cubism, the art form of Picasso, developed from experiments with Impressionism and the stylized masks of African and Asian sculpture.
 Stress can be a hindrance to your ability to express your creativity. If you feel confined, stressed, or pressured, move to another location which may be more relaxing, such as a garden or a balcony. Try listening to music to stimulate your brain cells to make connections. Putting on some music, heading outside, or switching desks can break up the monotony and get you working again.
 Sometimes, simply asking for input can give you the "Eureka!" moment you are looking for. Everyone's mind is different, and the influences that inspire another person may be completely different from the intricacies of your own mental milieu. Someone may make a comment that is obvious given their background, but that you could never have thought of. Getting others involved will lead more influences and ideas to collide, which can spur greater creativity.


This does not mean you can't work alone. Develop a project in solitude, then send a draft to a few trusted friends and ask for critiques.
 This means that once the pen goes on the page, you don't take it off. Make yourself work without stopping or judging for a timed five-minute burst. This is a great warm-up to creativity: it takes your mind off of judgment, and it can lead to unexpected new ideas as your brain races to keep filling the page. It also gets your brain working creatively every single day.
 This may seem counter-intuitive, but taking some time away from your current creative project gives you space to think. When you return, you'll be coming at it with a fresh pair of eyes. You may be able to better see areas of improvement or to make a connection that you couldn't envision before.

