 Although you should be able to navigate FINRA's simplified arbitration procedures on your own, you may have more success if you hire an attorney.Generally, simplified arbitration is available if your claim is for less than $50,000. If your losses are greater than that amount, arbitration procedures can be more complex and you should probably hire an attorney to ensure you're able to get as much of your money back as possible.
While many lawyers are willing to take strong cases on contingency, about a third of your award or settlement will go to attorney's fees. Also keep in mind that most attorneys won't take cases on contingency that are worth less than $100,000.
In arbitration proceedings, you may be able to use a law school clinic free of charge. FINRA's guide includes a list of law schools that have securities arbitration clinics.
 FINRA has published a customer's edition of its code in plain language, which you should study particularly if you've decided not to hire an attorney.The customer code governs arbitrations between stock brokers, brokerage firms, and other financial industry professionals and their customers.
You can access a copy of the customer code at http://www.finra.org/arbitration-and-mediation/arbitration-rules.
FINRA also publishes an investor's guide to disputes, which you can download at http://www.finrafoundation.org/web/groups/foundation/@foundation/documents/foundation/p119054.pdf. This guide contains answers to many frequently asked questions investors have regarding FINRA's arbitration process.
If you have questions at any point about FINRA's arbitration procedures, you can talk to one of FINRA's staff attorneys. Although they cannot provide you with legal advice or assistance on your particular case, they can tell you about FINRA's procedural requirements.
Keep in mind that FINRA's arbitration process is only available to investors who have disputes with a registered stock broker or brokerage firm and have signed an enforceable arbitration agreement. This agreement typically is listed as a clause in the customer agreement you signed when you opened your account.
 There is no required format for your statement of claim, which you may even submit as a letter provided it includes all required information.To be valid and complete, your statement of claim must include your name, your current home address, and your home address at the time the events that caused the dispute took place.
Your statement also must include the basic facts of your dispute and the amount of money you believe you are owed in damages.
Be sure to include the dates the incidents took place. Your claim is not eligible for arbitration unless the events that gave rise to your claim happened within the past six years.
You can attach any documents, such as account statements or correspondence, that support your claim.
Information about yourself and your investment habits also may influence your case. For example, if you're a sophisticated investor who frequently trades in risky or volatile stocks, your case against your stock broker typically won't be as strong as if you're a less affluent, conservative investor who's simply trying to save for retirement.
 Although your statement of claim has no required format, FINRA has a prepared Claim Information Form and Submission Agreement that must accompany your statement of claim.The Uniform Submission Agreement states that you agree to follow FINRA's procedural rules and be bound by the decision of the arbitrator.
The Claim Information Sheet is a summary form used by FINRA staff to process your claim.
You can download these forms at http://www.finra.org/file/arbitration-claim-filing-guide.
 After you've completed all the required documents, you must file them with FINRA along with the applicable filing fee to request arbitration.You must submit originals of all documents as well as the requisite number of copies – one for each of the respondents and one for each arbitrator. The number of arbitrators you will have depends on the amount of your claim.
Make sure your originals and all copies are signed and dated.
Your application packet must be accompanied by a filing fee, which ranges between $50 and $1,800 depending on the amount of your claim. You can determine the amount of your filing fees by using FINRA's online fee calculator, available at http://apps.finra.org/ARbitrationMediation/ArbFeeCalc/1/Default.aspx.
If you cannot afford the fees, you can apply for a hardship waiver. You must make a written request and include a copy of your most recent tax return, two of your most recent pay stubs, and any other documentation that demonstrates financial hardship such as evidence of a wage garnishment or lien.
You can submit your application packet online at http://www.finra.org/arbitration-and-mediation/online-claim-filing.
 FINRA will serve your statement of claim on the stock broker or brokerage firm, who have 45 days from the date of receipt to file an answer.The answer must include the respondent's version of events, as well as any defenses or reasons they believe you are not entitled to the money you seek. Respondents also must file a signed Uniform Submission Agreement.
Respondents may attach any documents that support their arguments. They also may assert any counterclaims they have against you, each other, or other parties related to your claim.
 The vast majority of claims are settled before they ever reach the final stages of arbitration.Keep in mind that you have no guarantee of winning anything as a result of arbitration. Additionally, challenging an arbitration decision is extremely difficult once it's delivered because challenges are only permitted in very limited circumstances, and must be filed in federal court within three months of the arbitrator's decision.
FINRA will refund a portion of your filing fees if your claim is settled or withdrawn more than 10 days before the date your arbitration hearing is scheduled.

