 Determine whether taking Amtrak will save you money. Compare Amtrak fares to what you would pay to fly or drive.;
, These smartfares are advertised weekly specials that you can find on Amtrak's website. Select fares and routes will be 25 percent off.


Book early. Popular routes such as the Washington, D.C. to New York, New York route often fill up quickly.
Read the terms and conditions listed on the SmartFare page. For example, you must book between Tuesday and Friday, fares are one way and for coach tickets only.
 Children, senior citizens, members of the military and other special groups can get discounts on their Amtrak tickets all the time.


Book your tickets over the phone, at a station or online if you are using a student, military, senior or association membership discount. You may be asked for a code when booking online, which is provided on the Amtrak site.
 You can save 20 percent off each fare if you are traveling on Amtrak with a group of at least 20 people.
 You can save money using Amtrak by purchasing a rail pass for 15 days, 30 days or 45 days. These passes are good for travel on any route throughout the United States.


Select a California rail pass if you plan to travel only in California by train. Amtrak allows you to travel for 7 days within a 21-day period for $159.
 This is especially cost effective for business travelers who commute using Amtrak on a regular basis. You can get a monthly ticket, a 10-day ticket or a pass good for certain cities and routes.
 You can save money using Amtrak if you plan to vacation in one of their specialized destinations that include escorted tours. The most popular are to places such as the Grand Canyon and Glacier National Park.


Talk to a travel agent or compare prices so you know what you would spend if you traveled to the same destination on your own. Factor transportation, hotel and food and then compare your price to what Amtrak offers.
 It costs nothing, and you will be able to earn points towards free and discounted Amtrak travel. You will also get coupons and members-only specials emailed to you.
 Amtrak has a Facebook page, Twitter account and a YouTube Channel. You can also look for the Whistle Stop, a social networking platform with stories on train and rail travel.

