 Ensure that the circuit for the room you are working in has been flipped off. This will prevent accidental electrocution and reduce the risk of fire.


Most circuit breakers are located in the garage or basement, but placement will vary from home to home.
When you find the breaker box, locate the breaker that controls the lights for the room you are working on. Flip it to the off position to keep power from traveling down those wires. Most electrical panels label switches for the different rooms in your home.

Use a voltage tester to check that power is no longer flowing to that room.;
, This will affect the way that you perform the installation. You can tell if the power is coming into the switch by removing the light switch panel. If there are two black wires coming into the switch box, then the power is coming into the switch first. If there is only one black wire, then the power is coming into the switch from the light fixture. You can usually use an electrical tester to be sure.
 Before you start installing, take a look at your new three-way switch to identify all of the terminals that you will be connecting wires to.


Traveler wire terminals - These are located on each side of the switch towards the top of the switch.
Ground wire terminal - Older switches may not have this, but all new switches must. This is located on the top or bottom of the switch, mounted to the frame.
Common wire screw - This is located on the left side of the switch, and is a different color than the two traveler terminals.
 You will likely need larger boxes than you already have if you are replacing a regular single-pole switch. Three-way switches involve more cables, so you will need a little more room to work.
 Choose 14-3 or 12-3 NM cable, depending on the breaker. 14 gauge wire needs a 15 amp breaker, while a 12 gauge wire requires a 20 amp breaker. You must use this type of cable to ensure correct voltage and the number of wires.


See this guide for details on running wire through your wall.
The first number specifies the gauge and the second number is the number of wires carrying current. A cable for a 3-way will have three insulated wires: black, red, and white.
 Connect the black wire from the power source to the common terminal of the first switch. Connect the black wire from the new cable to the common terminal on the second switch.
 Connect the white wire at each end of the new cable to the travel terminal on the right side of the switch. Mark this wire with black tape to indicate that it is "hot" (white wires usually aren't).
 Connect the red travelers to the left traveler terminals on each switch.
 Use the ground wire from the new cable.
 When you pulled out your old switch, there was a white wire attached. Connect this white wire to the white wire that is connected to the light. Use a wire nut to connect them. Consult your local electrician or hardware store to ensure you’re using the proper size wire nut for your set up.
 This black wire used to be attached to the old switch, and runs directly to the light. Connect this to the black wire in the new cable, on the first switch end. Use a wire nut to connect them.
 Connect the ground wire from the power source, the ground wire to the light, and the ground wire from the new cable to the ground terminal on the first switch. Use a wire nut to connect them all.
 Now that both switches have been wired, you can screw them into the electrical boxes installed in the wall. Turn the breaker back on, and then give the switches a test.
 Since the power comes from the light, you will need to transfer this power to the second switch. Connect the black wire from the light to the black wire on the new cable in the original switch box. Use a wire nut to connect them.
 Connect the white wire from the light to the common terminal on the first switch. Mark the wire with electrical tape to indicate that it is hot. Connect the black wire from the new cable to the common terminal on the second switch.
 Connect the white wire on both ends of the new cable to the left traveler terminals on each switch. Mark them with electrical tape to indicate that they are hot. Connect the red wire on both ends of the new cable to the right traveler terminals on each switch.
 Connect the ground wire from the new cable to the ground terminal on the second switch. Connect the ground wire from the new cable and the power cable from the light with a wire nut. Make sure the nut is fastened securely. Connect these to the ground terminal on the first switch.
 Now that both switches have been wired, you can screw them into the electrical boxes installed in the wall. Turn the breaker back on, and then give the switches a test. Once you’ve determined all is as it should be, put your cover plates back on.