 Just because you’re embarking on a political career, doesn’t mean that you can neglect the basic rules of composition.Your speech needs a clear beginning, middle, and end.
The beginning needs to hook the audience, you need to keep them interested through the middle, and the end should leave them nodding their heads in agreement, applauding and on their feet.
 Don’t let your speech wander and meander. It is confusing to hear a rambling speech and it makes you seem confused. No one wants a confused leader.Staying on message is about more than repeating yourself. Focus on a problem and then offer a solution.Say your issue is healthcare. That’s a multifaceted issue, so bring up specific problems, and offer specific solutions.
For example, start by offering the problem: “Prescription drug costs are too high!” Give a few details or anecdotes to illustrate the magnitude of the problem, and then offer your solution: “And that’s why we’re going to negotiate directly with the drug companies to lower prices.”

, An associational appeal is an appeal to people’s sense of group identity on the basis of authority or equality. Associational appeals can be very powerful, so use them anywhere you can.For example, a politician who emphasizes his military service is appealing to group affiliation based on authority.They are one of us and deserve our allegiance because they protect us.


A politician who is brings up the fact that their family “has been here for five generations,” or that they are the “child of a single mother” is appealing to group affiliation on the basis of equality.

They are one of us and understand us because they have lived a life like mine.
 Emotional appeals are some of the most powerful appeals, particularly when you want to turn your audience against something or someone.Emotional appeals can turn audiences against things for a simple reason: anger and fear are easy emotions to stimulate.For example, when a politician says: “The system is rigged! They think they’ve got you fooled, but I know different.” They are making an emotional appeal based on stoking the anger of the audience. When they imply that “they” think of the audience as fools, the speaker plays to the audience’s sense of ridicule. This infuriates the audience, turning the audience against “them.”

, Logical appeals are actually the strongest appeals, but they are the slowest to take effect. It takes longer to make someone understand a problem than it does to make them mad--or make them believe you’re a part of their group.For example, "Very few of us would argue with the proposition that 99/3=33. That’s because we’ve been logically convinced of its truth. There’s almost nothing a person could do to convince us otherwise, and therein lays the power of a logical appeal. However, it took us far longer to understand division than it did for us to feel anger or fear, or understand that we were part of a group.", Identify which appeals you have on your side and emphasize those aspects of your argument. Should you be lucky enough to have all three, you don’t have much more to do than make sure all the words of your speech are in the right order. However, most arguments are going to be weaker or stronger in one or more areas.


If your biggest appeal is associational, your argument is less about specific points than it is about you. Design your speech to emphasize your biography and why it makes you trustworthy. People elect a person, not a set of ideas.If your biggest appeal is emotional, keep your speech short, so that the audience doesn’t notice the logical flaws. Adjust your energy level to the audience's. If they're agitated, start slowly. If they’re bored, then start off at a higher energy level. Always work to an emotional crescendo, however. Never start at the emotional level you want to finish at.
If your biggest appeal is logical, break up the facts with feeling. You can’t risk boring your audience to death, so you need to break up your logical propositions into bite-sized chunks. Think of it as the spoonful of sugar principle—a spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down., Your speech shouldn’t sound like you’re reciting multiplication tables.You want to sound like you’re having a dialogue, even though it’s a monologue. Therefore, it’s best not to bring a full-text speech, and it’s best not to try and memorize it word for word (at least in the beginning). Instead, bring bullet-point type notes to keep yourself on track.


If you will be speaking at a podium or beside a table, put your notes on a piece of paper or a notepad--not notecards. Very few people can shuffle notecards discretely enough to look professional while doing it.
If you won’t have a podium and you must use notes, get your notes onto one notecard.
 Be pithy. The easiest way for people to forget about what you have to say is to bore them, and the easiest way to bore them is to drag your speech out. You want to be memorable, and you want to leave them wanting more.Brevity is the soul of wit. No one is going to remember sixty word sentences. Since you are striving to be memorable, make sure to pepper your speech with short, punchy lines.You don’t want to sound like a limerick, but you do want to use alliteration, assonance, and rhythm to your advantage.
For example, “Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country,” contains only nine unique words, with seven examples of alliteration.

