 Obviously, this would be for someone who has a child or children, but as apologies go this is golden for the stretched-too-thin parents of today. Get creative about how you might present it and your apology. If the other person has an infant, for example, show up one day unannounced with a baby doll in a stroller. Tucked into the doll’s hand or side, have a card expressing your apologies for missing their birthday, along with a certificate you made for a day or evening of free babysitting.You’ll probably need to stipulate that you’ll need some advance notice, but do it in the fine print.
 We all know someone who isn’t particularly tech-savvy and has so many files on his or her desktop that it’s amazing anything can be found, let alone opened. Generally, it’s become quite the nightmare for the person, too. One way to apologize to someone like this, and make quite an impact, would be to give his or her computer a little sprucing up, assuming you know how to do such things. Email the person a personalized, belated birthday card, letting him or her know you feel badly about forgetting and that you’d like to redeem yourself by breathing new life into the contraption they’re staring at now., While there are a few people in the world who genuinely enjoy mowing the lawn, trimming edges and pulling weeds, it’s safe to say the vast majority would rather spend Sunday afternoons doing other things, like watching football or going shopping – in the air conditioning. Thus for many, taking this off their hands in the way of an apology could mean an awful lot. Consider who the person is when thinking about how you’ll deliver your apology and this gift of your time.For example, if it’s your father, perhaps you could sneak into his closet and get his work clothes and boots, dress up in them and deliver your apology written on a watering can or a bag of leaves you’ve already raked and sacked.
 One of the birthdays you most don’t want to forget – and typically suffer the most consequences from – is that of your romantic partner or husband or wife. Not a good thing. Nor easy to remedy. However, a surprise candlelit dinner for two with roses and a thoughtfully written card, followed by a hot bubble bath, a long massage and whatever comes after, well, that probably has some mileage in helping to make up for forgetting your loved one’s birthday. And it likely won’t be a much of a burden for you to bear either!