 Before and after handling your chickens, wash your hands with warm water and soap. You can use hand sanitizer instead, as long as it is at least 60% alcohol. Any clothes, gloves, or tools that touched the chickens or chicken poop should also be washed with soap., Use a footbath each time you enter or exit your chicken’s coop, or other sort of enclosure. Footbaths can be simple plastic tubs filled with a disinfectant designed for use on farms. Cover the footbath when not in use.Place the footbath on a slab of cement or on a pallet. This will help minimize the amount of dirt you track into the bath.
Change the disinfectant solution in the footbath daily.
Note that the footbath is for disinfecting your shoes, not your feet!

, You should only use one pair of footwear when you’re in the chicken’s enclosure. Do not use these footwear for any other purpose. In particular, make sure that nothing you use that may come into contact with wild birds ever goes into the chickens’ living area. This includes clothing and equipment as well, though boots are the greatest risk factor., Wild birds, including waterfowl, can potentially infect your chickens with bird flu. Especially if you live near a body of water, keep a vigilant eye out for birds that may try to visit your chickens. Wild birds may be attracted by your chicken feed, for instance. Buy props to scare other birds away online or from an agricultural retailer., Keep new birds away from your flock for 30 days. This ensures that they are not sick before exposing them to your other chickens. Keep the new chickens somewhere away from your chicken enclosure.Only get new birds from reputable sources.
 You want to ensure you’re getting your chicken feed from a supplier that keeps it clean. Once you have the feed, keep it in containers that prevent other birds, animals, and insects from getting to it. Large plastic bins work best. , Call your local wildlife agency if any of your birds become sick or die unexpectedly. They can advise you on how to proceed. If you are unable to reach a local agency, reach out a regional organization.