 One of the quickest ways to trace the origin of a number is to do a web search. If the number is publicly listed, there’s a good chance it will show up in your search results. At the very least, you should be able to determine the approximate location.;
, This will give you the phone number of the last call you received, provided it wasn’t private or being blocked. If the number is blocked or set to private, there is very little chance that you will be able to determine the number or where it was coming from.
 These are databases of publicly-available information on businesses and individuals with public numbers. Many allow you to do “Reverse Phone” look-ups that will provide you more information about the phone number, such as where it is located and what service it is on.
 There are several resources available online that list payphone numbers and their locations. Many of these directories are community-run and updated, meaning that they may not always be 100% accurate. Two of the more popular sites are:


Payphone Project
McPayphone

, There are a variety of phone directories online, both free and paid. Many offer to provide you with phone information for a monthly fee by collating large amounts of publicly available data. You may be able to find this information yourself, but it may take quite a bit of digging.
 Most service providers offer a tracing service for harassment situations. You may need to pay a fee in order to use this service, and it won’t actually provide you with the phone number or any other information. Instead, it is sent to law enforcement for investigation.


After activating the service, dial *57 after receiving a call you want to trace. The phone company will make a record of that number and forward it law enforcement.
Make sure to note the time and date of each harassing call, and try to take notes about what the caller sounds like as well as a rough transcript. This will all aid in the investigation.
 The last and final option is to pay a professional private investigator to research the number and determine the subscriber name and address. This is of course a method of last resort, and should only be explored once you've determined that no public information is available through every other possible resource.

