 Most likely, you are here because you find enjoyment in writing, editing, or otherwise improving articles. However, you may want to draw inward and seek out some insight. Are you feeling lonely, undervalued, lost or depressed? If you are feeling sadness, depression or you have lost your way, wikiHow is not going to solve these feelings for you. Perhaps you have an obsessive need to stay on the terminal and participate in wikiHow.


While instant gratification through seeing your changes in print is a great feeling, it isn't a lasting one and you may find yourself needing this fix more and more, just as with any addictive behavior. If you have such feelings, it is important to seek some friendly or professional assistance and work through the feelings.






On the other hand, if you are simply lazy, it is time to go and book a gym session or walk your dogs.





;
, By doing this, you can still read the article, but you won't be tempted to follow links.
 It is a long-term project. You can leave it and return in a week, month or even a year later and it will still be here.
 Don't turn it into a crusade to fix everything that is here. Remember that you cannot fix wikiHow's myriad of edits in need of mending by sitting at the computer all day every day trying to accomplish this task.
 Many things can only be learned by doing them. You can read on the site how to do them, but the proof is in the pudding. Go and try what you read. Maybe you will find better ways of doing the activity and you can later return and add your suggested ways for improving the activity. Life is the best teacher of all and your computer and the Internet are only a portion of your life.
 Your family and friends would like to spend time with you, not with you and your computer.
 Make a cup of tea or coffee. Can you be on wikiHow at the same time and still drink it while it is warm? Or do you often turn to a cold cup? If you do, this may indicate that you are taking it too intensely and that you are neglecting to put the site into perspective.
 Only come and visit at selected times. Determine these by looking at your schedule and/or agenda and seeing when you have time free. Circle those times, highlight them and stick to them. Set a timer so that you do not stay longer than you intended. Have a family member knock on the door and tell you that time's up.
 Visit a certified psychologist if things get out of control. Even being very honest with a family member or a friend can gain you much needed support to wean yourself off of an Internet addiction. People are more inclined to be helpful if they know what you are going through.
 Those who really do it, really know it. And that is the sort of advice that wikiHow is really seeking — and more likely to get your article featured.
 Blocking wikiHow should make your addiction go away.

