 Push the covers to one side, and sit on the edge of your bed with your feet planted firmly on the ground. The cool air on your extremeties may more rapidly decrease your feeling of sleepiness, or “sleep inertia.”If your alarm clock is next to your bed, on a night stand, stand fully upright before turning it off.
If your clock is situated at a distance from your bed, walk over to it and turn it off.
 If you are alone, or if your partner or roommate must also wake up at this time, turn on all the lights and open your curtains and blinds.


The light will stimulate the photoreceptors in your retinas.and send a “wake-up” signal to your brain.Open the windows, if possible, to help cool your hands and feet and encourage wakefulness., Waiting too long might tempt you to lie back down for “just a few more minutes.”


Try brushing your teeth first, then showering or washing your face. The cool water and lights in the bathroom will stimulate your senses and help to diminish your sense of sleepiness.
 Getting moving will stimulate your nervous and cardiovascular systems.


Yoga stretches encourage deep breathing, which helps with wakefulness first thing in the morning, and will help you feel more peaceful and alert for the rest of the day.Aerobic exercise may help you become more alert as your heart rate increases and improves oxygen flow to your brain. Additionally, "fasted excercise," before breakfast, will improve the way your body stores fats and burns calories, which will improve your health and energy (and sleep)., Having the time to prepare a delicious meal as a reward for waking up on time might be just the right encouragement you need to get out of bed.


Fresh fruits can provide a boost of energy, along with delicious flavor, to get your day started on a positive note.Lean proteins, such as eggs, will provide more long-term energy and a sense of fullness, to help you avoid eating too much at lunch due to hunger.Complex carbohydrates also offer long-term energy, as your body digests them more slowly, as well as a nice burst of energy immediately after eating them.