 Do whatever you can to cool the person suffering from heat exhaustion. If possible, get the person suffering from heat exhaustion to shade or an air conditioned building. If those are not available, get the person suffering from heat exhaustion in front of a fan.Keep the person with heat stroke in a cool environment while they hydrate and allow their body temperature to regulate. This may mean several hours to a full day indoor or in a cool area.;
, With heat exhaustion, the person’s temperature may only be slightly elevated, if at all. However, it is important to monitor the person’s temperature since a very high temperature (over 104 degrees Fahrenheit) can indicate heat stroke.To lower the person’s temperature, try applying a cool compress to the back of the neck and wrists. Use a towel soaked in cool water or wrap an ice cube in a paper towel and apply it to the skin.
Try not to apply ice directly to skin, as the skin may be sunburned and this may cause damage to the tissue., If the person suffering is wearing tight-fitting clothing, loosen it, and remove any excess layers. If certain articles of clothing are necessary, loosen them as much as possible to allow airflow through the clothes.Do not remove any clothes that are necessary to protect the person from exposure. Sunburns and blistering will only make heat exhaustion worse. Avoid removing protective layers unless absolutely necessary

, Lay down the person suffering from heat exhaustion and elevate their legs and feet slightly above the level of the heart. If the person reports feeling dizzy or disoriented, decrease the elevation incrementally until they feel comfortable.Use props such as pillows, an ottoman, or towels to help support the legs and feet.
 Heat exhaustion and dehydration are closely linked. Slowly and consistently drink water to replenish their fluids and keep hydrated.Drinking cool water, if available, may help with the overall cooling process.
If you suspect salt depletion, which may be recognized by nausea and vomiting, you may want to provide the person with sports drinks to help replenish their salts while keeping them hydrated.Avoid any alcoholic or caffeinated beverages, as this may lead to further dehydration.
 Soak a cloth or sponge in cool water and rub it over the body, especially the head. Alternatively, you can fill a spray bottle with cool water and spray the person suffering with it. Sweat helps the body to cool as it evaporates, and applying moisture to the skin can perform the same function.


If there is access to a shower or bathtub, soaking in cool water may also help the overall cooling process.
 If you even suspect you are dealing with heat stroke, immediately call emergency medical services (911). If the symptoms seem minor, you may want to call the person’s general practitioner. However, if symptoms include loss of consciousness, vomiting, or dizziness such that the person cannot stand, emergency services need to be contacted.


Let the medical professional with whom you speak know what symptoms the person with heat stroke exhibits, and inform the medical team of what type of treatment is being administered.
Ask them, “Is there anything else we need to do to manage the condition until this person can get to you?”
If you are on the phone with emergency services and an ambulance is being dispatched to you, stay on the phone until the ambulance arrives, and update the medical professional regarding any changes in condition and actions taken.
 If the person with heat exhaustion has become unconscious, if they are showing symptoms of heat stroke, or if they have a fever at or above 104° F (40° C), call an ambulance or take measures to get them to a hospital immediately. Administer first aid as necessary, but make it a priority to get the person medical attention as soon as possible.Carefully monitor heartrate and breathing if the person is unconscious. If either stop, it may be necessary to perform CPR.
 For any individual who suffered from heat exhaustion but did not need emergency care, follow up as soon as possible with a doctor. Go to an urgent care center or make an emergency appointment with a general practitioner to have them look for signs of complications due to heat exhaustion.It is important to be seen by a doctor as soon as possible after recognizing symptoms of heat exhaustion. Do not wait multiple days for an appointment with a general practitioner. If a regular doctor cannot see the person immediately, it is best to go to urgent care.
 A person who ended up in the hospital or in urgent care with symptoms of heat exhaustion should make a follow up appointment with their regular doctor a few days after initial medical treatment to ensure that the body has adjusted back to normal. Let the doctor know what symptoms were experienced, and what treatment was administered as first aid, as well as by a medical professional.


Ask the doctor, “Is there anything else I need to do to properly treat this issue?”

, Heat exhaustion and heat stroke are two closely related syndromes, and if left untreated one can easily lead to the other. However, the symptoms of each are different, and both require a different set of treatments. Symptoms of heat exhaustion include:


Confusion or disorientation
Fatigue
Heavy sweating
Pale or flushed skin
Rapid heart beat
Headache or dizziness
Fainting

, Before any first aid is administered for heat exhaustion, you should check to see if things have progressed to the level of heat stroke, which requires a different first aid approach. Heat stroke has symptoms including:


Red skin
Dry skin with no sweating
A body temperature of above 104° F (40° C).
 Heat exhaustion may be caused by either water depletion or salt depletion. Look at the symptoms to understand what type of heat exhaustion you are treating and relay this information to a medical professional as soon as possible.Water depletion leads to symptoms such as excessive thirst, muscle weakness, headache, and fainting.
Salt depletion leads to symptoms including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and heat cramps.

