 First, cut a sheet of newspaper into quarters vertically - this does not have to be precise. Then place a wooden skewer at one corner of a sheet of paper. Place it at a slight angle so that the rolled tube you will end up with is longer than the sheet of paper itself. Then roll the paper around the dowel, making sure to keep it tight. Once you have finished rolling, put a drop of glue on the last corner to hold the roll together.


You will need many tubes of paper, so repeat this process for each.
In place of a wooden skewer, you can use a thin knitting needle, a 3mm dowel, or anything similarly long, narrow, and round.
 This can be as large or small as you want your basket to be. Glue paper tubes to the cardboard so that they radiate away from the center in rays. Make sure to use an odd number of tubes for this.


You will need to use more rays for larger bases. The closer together the rays are, the tighter your weave will be.
 Glue this piece of cardboard to the first so that the paper tubes are firmly pressed between the two pieces.


Leave a heavy weight on top of the base while it dries to make sure that everything is nice and secure.
 Fold a new paper tube over one of the rays and glue the folded end to the working end. Then weave the tube in and out of the rays, over one and under the next. Make sure it sits snug as far down as possible - at first on the base, and later, on top of previously woven tubes.


As you weave, the rolled tubes will flatten out. This will make your basket stronger.
 This will essentially make one long tube that will form your whole basket.
 When you're ready to stop weaving, fold the end of the tube you're weaving with over a ray and glue it to itself.
 Cut each ray about an inch past the top of the basket. Then:


For each ray that stands on the outside (the last tube you wove past the ray went to the inside of the ray), fold the end over the basket and glue it to the inside of the basket. Use a clothespin to hold it in place while the glue dries.






For each ray that stands on the inside (the last tube you wove went outside the ray), fold the end over the basket. Instead of gluing these to the outside, tuck the end inside the woven basket at the second row from the top, securing it in a way that makes it fit into the weave of the basket.
