 A major difference between available insurance plans is which medical problems are covered. In order to make a plan worth the cost, you'll want to make sure it includes certain protections.This can include accident coverage, illnesses, and even dental care. Knowing your options and the needs of you and your cat will help you make the best choice., Cancer is a common and very expensive disease to treat. While most plans do cover cancer treatment, be aware of payment caps that limit the insurer's liability. Calculate a "worst-case scenario" cost by asking your vet what cancer treatments usually run. Do not choose a plan that leaves you on the hook for a substantial amount of the worst-case scenario's cost., Your cat may deal with a long-term disease or health issue that can't be simply cured with a treatment. This can require daily medications, visits to specialists, and other expensive maintenance to keep them healthy. Chronic diseases like kidney failure or diabetes are common examples of ailments that require on-going treatment. Since these can be very expensive, finding an insurance plan that helps financially help with treatments can be a very important component of a policy.Hereditary and congenital diseases often fall under this category. Depending on the particular breed of cat, some hereditary diseases may be more common than others. Purebred cats are more likely to face hereditary diseases than cross-breeds. Some insurance companies will define congenital diseases, which are present at birth, differently than hereditary diseases,which can appear later in life. Knowing these details of a policy can dictate how much an insurance policy is willing to pay.
 Teeth problems that require a pulling or cleaning of teeth can quickly add up costs. You may want to make sure that your plan has a policy that covers preventive care, like teeth cleaning, but also that will help costly oral procedures.


Separate dental plans may be available to supplement a traditional health insurance.

