 The cost of insurance purchased through the Federal or state exchanges created under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is subsidized for many buyers. Unfortunately, the calculation of the subsidy for each individual is based on yearly and not monthly income, so even if you have no income as a result of your layoff, your subsidy will be based on the previous year’s tax information.This includes W-2s or income tax returns.
Tax information is likely the only type of personal information you won’t know off the top of your head that you'll need to sign up.
 Add up the costs of any ongoing care for the previous year. This should include the costs of prescription drugs and care for any chronic conditions, as well as any predictable ailments, such as the flu. This should at least give you a baseline dollar amount for the amount of coverage you’ll need.Don’t forget to factor in the costs of people covered on your health plan as well as costs for vision and dental care.
 Once you’ve gathered your tax information, go to healthcare.gov and log on (or create a new account). You’ll need to provide information about the size of your household, where you live, your identifying information, and your income.If you prefer, you can call 1-800-318-2596 instead, and they will walk you through the process.
Once you’ve provided this information, the exchange should pull up a list of plans for which you are eligible and the post-subsidy premium.
 Since all of the plans on the exchanges cover similar events, one of the primary ways they influence costs are by shrinking the size of your network. While that may of may not be important to you, it’s something you should be aware of when choosing a plan.As of the open enrollment period beginning in fall of 2016, the network size of the various plans will be clearly labeled. Until then, check with the insurer or the helpline directly.
HMOs usually have lower premiums and smaller networks. PPOs have higher premiums and larger networks.
 Plans under the healthcare exchanges are graded on a scale ranging from Platinum to Bronze. Bronze plans have the highest deductibles and Platinum plans have the highest premiums and the lowest deductibles.A Platinum plan pays 90% of the costs of care.
Gold plans pay 80% of the costs of care.
Silver plans pay 70% of the costs of care. Additionally, if you fall in the appropriate income brackets, you can receive extra discounts if you choose a Silver Plan. See if you qualify at https://www.healthcare.gov/lower-costs/.
Bronze plans pay 60% of costs.

