 Professional nail salons have the right equipment to give you a long lasting coat of polish. If you want a really long-lasting coat that doesn't chip, you can opt for a gel manicure, which uses a super hard setting type of nail polish that acts almost like acrylic nails.


If you are very dedicated to having long nails, you can get acrylic nails, which are fake nails that are attached to your actual nails. These nails are very, very strong but they cost more than a regular manicure and are quite a commitment.;
, Although there is a myth that you should soak your nails before a manicure, water on your nails will actually stop the polish from adhering correctly. This could cause your nail polish to chip off quickly.


You also want to make sure there are no creams or lotions on on your nails right before painting them. This will also stop the polish from attaching correctly., More expensive nail polishes usually contain more pigment, fewer potentially toxic chemicals, and better brushes inside. That said, you don't need to spend $50 to get a quality bottle of nail polish. Balance your budget with your desire for a crisp and smooth manicure.


Also avoid using quick-drying polish if you want to avoid chips. The formula of quick-drying polish, while containing the same ingredients as the regular, has different ratios of ingredients. This difference in ratio makes the polish more likely to chip.
 Don't use a 2-in-1 base and top coat. These will not work as well as a separate base and top coats that are each formulated specifically for their location on your nail.
 Letting each coat dry completely allows it to become hard and tough. Besides the possibility of messing up the previous coat, waiting for each coat to dry is an important, but frustrating, step in creating a lasting manicure.
 You will want to brush on at least 2-3 coats. Remember, you want to let each coat dry before adding on another.
 Begin your top coat by doing a small layer around the tip of the nail. Then, once that is dry, cover the whole nail in top coat. This will give the tip of your nails more strength over the life of your manicure.


Apply a few layers of top coat if you have the time to do it. The top coat should leave a nice, smooth finish that will resist chips and snags.

