 After getting in your car, activate your turn signal in the direction you wish to merge. For instance, if you are parked on the right side of the street and you wish to merge into the lane parallel to your vehicle on the left side, activate your left-hand turn signal by pulling down on the signal lever.


Check your side mirror to ensure there is space in the flow of traffic to pull out, then turn your wheel hard to the left and accelerate gently.
Return the signal lever to the neutral (starting) position by pushing up gently on it.
 When merging onto the highway, accelerate quickly so that you attain the speed appropriate for highway driving. About halfway down the on-ramp, flick your left-hand turn signal on. This will demonstrate that you want to get over, but remember, you do not have the right-of-way when merging. Be careful when merging into high-speed traffic.


While some highways are constructed in such a way that there is no other option but to merge, some on-ramps turn into independent lanes which connect to the next exit if it is nearby. In either case, using your turn signal will alert other highway drivers to your desire to merge, and will give them time to slow down or change lanes in order to let you do so.
Look out your left-side window when merging into highway traffic, that way, you can see where cars are relative to you, and will be able to time your merge better. Check your rear-view mirror and left side mirror as you merge in order to identify a gap in the flow of traffic.
Once you’ve found your gap, merge quickly to the left.Spend no more than 2-3 seconds moving from the on-ramp to the highway proper.
 If you need to get off the highway, position yourself in the far-right lane on the highway. If your exit ramp is on the left, position yourself in the far-left lane of the highway. Turn the appropriate turn signal on when you’re about 100 yards from the off-ramp. Do not slow down as you approach the off-ramp.Only modify your speed and adjust your turn-signal once you are on the off-ramp.


Once you’ve hit the off-ramp, adjust your turn signal lever to indicate your next move. If you’re going straight, place it in the neutral position. If you’re turning left, press the lever down. If turning right, you can keep your signal on in the right-hand turn position all the way to the end of the off-ramp.
 If, for instance, you are in the right lane and want to change to the left lane, you can do easily and safely by employing your turn signal.


First, put your turn signal on in the direction you wish to go. To move into the right lane, push your turn signal up to let others know you wish to move to the right. To move into the left lane, push your turn signal lever down to indicate that you wish to move into the left lane.
Activate the turn signal at least five seconds before you wish to change lanes.Don’t switch the signal on for just one or two flickers. Place it in the locked position just as you would when making a turn.
If all is clear, turn your wheel slightly toward the lane you wish to merge into. Once you’re completely within the boundaries of the lane, move your left hand to your turn signal lever and switch it off.
Do not cross multiple lanes of traffic with a single activation of your turn signal. If you know you need to cross many lanes, give yourself the adequate time and space to do so. Plan your lane merges ahead of time.

