 One great way to re-establish trust on yourself is to become aware of your positive qualities, skills, and talents.Recognizing the good things about yourself will increase your overall confidence and help you realize how much you know and how much you can trust about yourself.


Make a list of all the good things about you. Include personality traits, things you can do, things you’ve learned, etc. For example, you might write: funny, friendly, good swimmer, and speak French. Remember, to focus on the qualities you truly love about yourself and not what you think others may love about you.
View your strengths as areas of knowledge – where you can trust your thoughts. For example, if one of your skills is crocheting, you know you can trust your thinking regarding making a scarf.
 Negative thoughts about yourself can undermine your self-confidence if you don’t stop them. They can cause you to doubt your abilities, your worthiness, and your thoughts. Using positive self-talk is one effective way to encourage yourself and remind yourself that you can trust your thoughts.Compliment yourself at least once a day. For example, you might start your morning by telling yourself, “Good morning, you amazing person! You look great today!”
If you need to, then keep your list of strengths where you can see it so that when you need to use positive self-talk you have some ideas of what to say.
For each negative thought you have, become aware of it first of all, then examine why you are having such thoughts and let the negative thought go. After that, try to identify three other positive thoughts that you could put in its place instead.
 You can rebuild your confidence in yourself if you start trusting your thoughts on small matters.Eventually you want to work your way to confidently making major decisions, but as you are rebuilding trust in yourself it’s okay to start with smaller decisions. Once you achieve enough small successes, you’ll feel confident trusting your thoughts on bigger things.


For example, listen to yourself about whether you like the taste of sushi or the smell of lavender.
Trust yourself to make decisions like what to wear, which route to take, or where to sit.
 Whether it’s a major judgment call or an everyday choice, make a note of it when your thoughts prove trustworthy. Although it may seem silly, over time you will see just how often you’re right. Seeing this can help you increase your confidence in yourself and in your thoughts.


Keep a journal or notebook with you where you can record it when your thoughts prove to be true.
You can keep track by writing down a few words to describe the situation, noting the date and time, or just putting a tally mark.
Refer to your journal frequently to remind yourself that you can trust your thoughts.
 Often people that don’t trust their thoughts are also experiencing a high level of stress.This stress can cause you to be less focused, more anxious, and to worry more – all of which can interfere with you thinking clearly and being able to trust your thoughts.


In tense situations try taking a break to do some deep breathing. Slowly inhaling and exhaling can relieve your tension and clear your mind.
Do things to relax and encourage you like participating in your hobbies or learning more about topics you’re interested in.
Try meditating or visualizing yourself relaxed and calm. For instance, if you have to make a major decision, picture yourself doing it calmly and with confidence.
 Nothing is certain in life and there’s no way to be sure that every thought you have is accurate. There will always be the possibility that what you’re thinking is wrong. You can take some pressure and stress off of yourself by accepting that most of your thoughts will be true, but it’s a part of life that not all of them will be.


Tell yourself, “No one knows everything. Sometimes my thoughts won’t be trustworthy, but that doesn’t mean I can’t trust myself. It happens to everyone.”
If you have a thought that proves to be false, don’t beat yourself up. Remind yourself, “Everybody is wrong sometimes, and everybody is right sometimes.”

