 The menu was originally called the Seven Under Six Grams of Fat menu, because all seven sandwiches had 6 or fewer grams of fat in each 6-inch sub.It has since been renamed the Fresh Fit Choices menu, and now contains eight 6-inch sandwiches.The sandwiches on the Fresh Fit Choices menu are:


Black Forest Ham (4.5 grams total fat, 290 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing)Oven Roasted Chicken (5.0 grams total fat, 320 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing)Rotisserie-Style Chicken Chicken ( 6.0 grams total fat, 350 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing)Roast Beef (5.0 grams total fat, 320 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing)Subway Club (4.5 grams total fat, 310 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing)Sweet Onion Chicken Teriyaki (4.5 grams total fat, 370 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing)Turkey Breast (3.5 grams total fat, 280 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing)Veggie Delite (2.5 grams total fat, 230 calories when served on a 6-inch nine-grain wheat bread with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, green peppers, and cucumbers, with no cheese or dressing);
, In order to keep to the 6 grams of fat maximum, you should choose one of the low-fat bread options. You'll also want to choose low-fat and low-calorie contents. There are numerous bread choices that fall under 6 grams of fat, but it's worth remembering that your fillings and toppings will add some fat and calories to your sandwich. The six-inch breads that fall under 6 grams of fat are:


Nine-Grain Wheat Bread (2.0 grams total fat)Flatbread (4.5 grams total fat)Hearty Italian Bread (2.5 grams total fat)Honey Oat (3.0 grams total fat)Italian (White) Bread (2.0 grams total fat)Multigrain Flatbread (4.5 grams total fat)Parmesan Oregano Bread (2.5 grams total fat)Roasted Garlic (2.5 grams total fat)Sourdough Bread (3.0 grams total fat)Garlic Bread (2.5 grams total fat)Mini Italian (White) Bread (1.5 grams total fat)Mini Wheat Bread (1.5 grams total fat), There are numerous vegetable options at the Subway counter. All but the serving of avocado are completely fat free.The vegetables typically available at Subway include:


Avocado (5.0 grams total fat)Banana peppers — three rings (0 grams total fat)Cucumbers — three slices (0 grams total fat)Green peppers — three strips (0 grams total fat)Jalapeño peppers— three rings (0 grams total fat)lettuce (0 grams total fat)Olives — three rings(0 grams total fat)onions (0 grams total fat)Pickles — three chips (0 grams total fat)spinach (0 grams total fat)Tomato — three wheels (0 grams total fat), Salad dressings, cheese, and sauces like mayonnaise can add a significant caloric content to even the healthiest sandwich. In order to achieve the desired nutritional value of being under 6 grams of fat, it's best to avoid most dressings and cheese slices.Vinegar, spices, and mustard are all low-fat, low-calorie options that can add flavor to your sandwich.
 Ordering sweetened drinks, cookies, or chips can quickly derail your diet. Choose a low- or no-calorie beverage (such as unsweetened tea or water with lemon). If your sandwich is not quite enough food, have a piece of whole, fresh fruit as a snack., In order for any diet to be successful, the goal is to burn more calories than you consume each day. This creates what is called a "caloric deficit."The total caloric intake on the Subway Diet will vary, depending on which bread, vegetables, and meat (if any) you add to your sandwich.
 Walking was part of the original Subway Diet. In addition to eating low-fat Subway sandwiches, the diet requires regular exercise. The Subway spokesman who pioneered the Subway Diet walked 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometers) each day while keeping his fat and calorie intake low.How many calories you burn while walking will depend on how far you walk, how fast you walk, and how much you weigh.A 160 pound (73 kg) individual who walks for one hour at 2 mph will burn 204 calories. At 3.5 mph, that individual would burn 314 calories.A 200 pound (91 kg) individual who walks for one hour at 2 mph will burn 255 calories. At 3.5 mph, that individual would burn 391 calories.A 240 pound (109 kg) individual who walks for one hour at 2 mph will burn 305 calories. At 3.5 mph, that individual would burn 469 calories., While the diet's pioneer and Subway spokesman consumed fewer than 1,200 calories each day, many medical experts caution caution against a diet so low in calories. Aim for at least 1,200 calories per day to prevent a deficiency in iron, calcium, and protein, and to prevent slowing down in your metabolism.The diet's pioneer lost 245 pounds.However, Subway cautions that these results are not typical.Talk to your doctor or a registered dietitian before beginning this or any other weight loss plan.

