 Cut the ends of the asparagus if the spears are thick. Wash the asparagus. Fill a large pot with a couple inches of water and place a vegetable steamer into the pot. The water should not seep through the holes in the steamer; if it does, pour some water out of the pot. Put the asparagus in the pot and bring to a boil. Steam until soft or until you reach the texture you want.


Consider serving steamed, grilled, or roasted asparagus as the first course at dinner. It is traditionally served with fresh-melted butter or freshly-made Hollandaise sauce. Eat with forks or fingers.
Asparagus gets soft and moist when you steam it, and the result can taste bland. Add salt and other seasonings to spice up the flavor. Bear in mind that even though asparagus is very healthy, adding tons of salt and other seasonings may offset the health factor.
 Cut the the ends of asparagus if the spears are thick. Wash the asparagus. Make a "boat" with aluminum foil for the asparagus to go in; the sides should be high enough to prevent the oil and asparagus from spilling over. Pour 1-2 tbsp. of olive oil into the aluminum foil "boat", and lay the asparagus in on top. Place the "boat" on an outdoor grill on medium heat until the spears reach the texture you want.


Asparagus gets tougher when you grill it, but it still retains all of its moisture. The best part is that when it's cooked, you don't lose any nutrients!
This is one of the simplest, tastiest ways to eat asparagus if you don't want to work it into a more complicated recipe.
 Trim the spears and drizzle them with a bit of olive oil and seasoning. Toss the spears and seasoning in a bowl to mix. Then place the asparagus onto a hot griddle pan; ridged is ideal, but a flat iron skillet will do. Leave on a medium heat until blackened on one side (1-2 minutes). Roll over and cook the other sides. Serve warm.
 Asparagus develops a rich flavor when roasted, making this one of the most popular ways to eat the vegetable. Wash and trim spears, lightly peel the base of tougher stalks, and pat dry. Place on a baking sheet and mist or drizzle with olive oil, rolling each spear to coat. Sprinkle with salt and fresh-ground pepper, and bake at 425°F (220°C) for 10 to 15 minutes.


You can stir your roasted asparagus into a risotto or a creamy pasta dish. You can also serve the roasted asparagus as a side-dish to meat, fish, and pasta.
Consider adding a couple of fresh garlic cloves and a dash of freshly-grated lemon zest. Consider roasting with butter, salt, and parmesan or mozzarella.
Consider chopping the baked asparagus and sprinkling it on top of oven-baked macaroni. If you are so inclined, you can also chop bacon into bits and sprinkle it in with the asparagus.
 Chop the asparagus into two-inch chunks along with eggplant and butternut squash. Place the vegetables into a pan on the stove, and simmer on a medium-low heat. Season them generously with salt and pepper. Add tomato sauce. Let the mixture simmer for 5-10 minutes until the vegetables have cooked thoroughly into the sauce.


Sauteed asparagus taste great with pasta.

