 Traditional business cards should not be cluttered or difficult to understand. Most professional business cards use a traditional design for a reason: because it conveys the important information directly.Avoid using elaborate or overly decorative designs that may make it difficult to understand the information on the card.
Provide your name, your title, the company name, and contact information. You may also want to include something specific to your industry if it is obscure or if you have a specialization.
An example of how to list your information could be:


John Smith
Vice President of Marketing
(555) 555-5555
123 Electric Avenue
Boston, MA 02108
;
, Avoid using gimmicks or slogans that may change often on your business cards so you can use them for a long period of time. Short term promotions or gimmicks can make it so you can no longer use a business card after the promotion is over or your sales gimmick changes.Only include information that is pertinent to helping people get in touch with you.
Rely on yourself to sell people on contacting you instead of novelties in your business card.
 There are common principles of design utilized in most traditional business cards that your card should adhere to in order to be pleasing to the eye as well as informative. Borders, color usage and text size can make a business card design successful or illegible based on your use of the principles of design.Maintain at least a five millimeter border around the outer perimeter of the business card.
Stick to a two color design such as egg white card stock and black ink.
Ensure your text is large enough to be easily readable.
 Instead of clipart, consider simply including the business’s logo if you want to add images. Avoid the use of clipart as it may make your card look unprofessional or poorly designed. Clip art often looks cheap and can diminish the credibility your business card conveys.Only use imagery on your business card if it will help reinforce your business’s brand.
 If aesthetic design isn't one of your strong suits, there are a number of options available that can help you create a business card that is both effective and pleasing to the eye.If you have the budget, enlisting the services of a professional designer can help you ensure your business cards adhere to all of the appropriate principles of design.
Ask your printer if they can recommend a designer, or look for one with good reviews on websites like Yelp.com or AngiesList.com.Many printing companies offer a variety of templates that you can use with effective designs. Templates offer tried and tested designs that are common in traditional business cards.
 Once you design your business card you will need to address the materials you want it made out of with the printer. Make sure you support a strong design with good choices on the finish of your card.Most business cards should be printed on 80-pound cover stock paper.
Choose between smooth, linen and laid finishes for your card. Smooth is the most common choice but linen or laid can both give your card a textile feel that may be appropriate for your design. Make sure your printer chooses ink that does not bleed on the finish of your choosing.
There are many shades of white and off-white for card stock, as well as many colors of ink to choose from. Black or grey inks are the most common and appropriate but selective use of colors can draw attention to specific areas of your business card if that compliments your design.

