 Field guides are a good introduction to acquiring this skill set. So is tapping the wisdom of long-time naturalists who might live nearby.;
, Are there nests to observe or evidence of animal activity (beaver damage to trees along a riverbank for example)?

, Will the weather impact slipperiness of trails? Is there a more comfortable, safer alternate?

, Provide your group with a brief explanation of the planned walk. Give out maps if relevant. Point out comfort facilities; it is a good idea to suggest a rest stop before heading off. If you have any heavy props to show, this is a good time to do it (to avoid carrying them, or forgetting them at the end of the walk).
 This way they can get to feel comfortable around one another quickly.
 You can then tailor the hike as much as possible to their interests.
 You may actually be able to help them face their fears if you show them how to correctly handle the animals. At the very least, provide appropriate reassurances as to the group's safety.
 Engage them by pointing out a few things and then let them take it from there. Be open to questions.
 Ensure that all your other carry items are with you, such as demonstration props, and essentials such as First Aid, maps, two-way radio, water, snacks, etc. When it's time to set off on the walk - either lead the way or point the way where appropriate.
 When you make your stop to wait for the group to catch up, adjust your position so that you are positioned in the middle of the group. With you at the middle of the group, the whole group has a better chance of hearing your talk and seeing any activity.
 If you're leading without others, take a head count and silently add up the numbers at regular intervals. If you're lucky enough to be a leader with a few sweepers, use the sweepers to check if everyone has arrived at a stop. One of the sweepers can always be elected to return to base if needed, without disrupting the whole group. If you have a very large group that feels unwieldy in terms of managing, it might be better to break this large group into smaller groups, making sure to keep people with their family/friend groupings.
 When you have a group of mixed fitness, interest levels, and stamina, it is best to make stops short and frequent, so as to maintain the group's attention.
, Depending on the length of the walk, drink and refreshment breaks will also need to be considered. Find clean, dry, sturdy logs, mossy or grass patches, etc. to sit on for a rest where needed.
, Ensure that it includes conservation messages that draw on what the group has seen, so that their experience informs them about the future opportunities for stewardship that they might be able to participate in directly too.
 Use teachable moments so that your group will understand the concepts and practices that will keep the area pristine so that other visitors may enjoy the area as much as they do.

