 For a woman to become a bhikkhuni, she must meet several basic requirements. They are generally quite practical:


She must not be pregnant or nursing
If she has a child, she must arrange other care for her dependent
She must be of sound mind and body
She must be free of debt and other obligation

, They vary in size (from very small to quite large) and can be found in rural areas in addition to in cities. Once you've found one that's right for you, express your interest in training there. Each community has different regulations, but most will have you training for a few weeks.
 If you enjoyed your time at the monastery and they, in turn, took a liking to you, you may be asked to return upon the completion of your initial training. It is during this time that you will undertake the eight Buddhist precepts. These are the 5 of lay practitioners, plus three more (known as the upasika vows).


You do not have to shave your head at this juncture. You will, however, be wearing white or white and black clothing. This stage normally takes a few weeks to a few months.
The precepts (or Garudhammas) are the following:She must not harm any human or non-human life
She must not steal
She must abstain from all sexual activity
She must not tell lies or deceive
She must not drink alcohol or otherwise ingest intoxicants
She must only eat at the appropriate times
She must not sing, dance, or wear cosmetics or perfume
She must not indulge in sleep or spend her time in luxurious places



, This literally means "homeless one," since you will have abandoned your home for the life of a nun. You are required to shave your head, wear white robes, and uphold the 8 precepts. This normally takes six months to several years, depending on your situation.

As of now, you are still technically a lay person. You are allowed to handle money and support yourself financially, though certain expenses will be shared with other women in the same position.
Practice meditation. The "Brahma Viharas" of Loving Kindness (Metta), Joy of Appreciation (Mudita), Compassion (Karuna) & Equanimity (Upekkhā) are very important meditations to develop.
 This is where you fully enter the pabbajja, or monastic life. Different communities have different age requirements and traditions when it comes to this stage. Certain countries will place prospective members on a probationary period before the pabbajja commences.Now you must undertake the ten novice precepts, which includes not using money. You may also be prohibited from driving. You will also be given an elder member to become your personal teacher.
 This is known as higher ordination. With the permission of your teacher (after an agreed-upon period of time), you may request to become a full-fledged Bhikkhuni. 20 people will (must) witness the ceremony you will be ordained with a whopping 311 precepts., After 10 years or so, you will begin teaching and taking on your own proteges. Within that time, you may travel as much as you please, working with different mentors or staying all your life with your original teacher. After 20 years, you will be deemed a Mahatheri or Great Elder.