 The most common object used to estimate inches is the adult thumb. On average, the width of an adult thumb is about 1 inch.The distance between the top knuckle of the thumb to the tip of the thumb on an adult's hand is also about 1 inch long.






Other options may include a water bottle cap, a detachable pencil eraser, the width of a standard rubber eraser, the length of a paperclip, and the length of a standard small sewing pin.
 Place the edge you want to measure on a blank sheet of white paper. Use a pencil to trace the length of the edge from one end to the other.


The line you trace onto the paper should be the exact same length as the edge you want to measure. After tracing the edge, you can remove it from the paper.
Make sure that you use white or light colored paper so that you can clearly see the marks you make.
 Align one end of the measuring object to the start point of the line you traced. Mark the other end of the measuring object with a pencil.


For example, if you are using the width of a rubber eraser to estimate inches, place the width of the eraser flat and parallel against the line. One long side of the eraser should lie perpendicular and flush against the start point of the line. The other long side should lie perpendicular to the line, somewhere inside along the length of that line. Use a pencil to mark the position of the second long side as it falls out in comparison to the line.
 Move the measuring object over so that the starting edge now lies on the previous mark. As before, make another mark on the second edge of the measuring object.


Continue down the entire line in this manner until you reach the end.
Each time you shift the position of the measuring object, make sure that the measuring edge lies parallel to the line.
 After reaching the end of the line, remove the measuring object. Count the number of gaps in between your marks. This number is a rough estimate of the number of inches.


Count the spaces in between lines, not the lines themselves.
Make sure that you count the space before the first line and the space after the last line, as well.
If the space after the last line is significantly smaller than the rest, use your eye to judge how much shorter that line is and add that to your estimate. For instance, if the final space is half as long as the others, count it as half an inch.







