 Nursing school can be grueling and emotionally taxing, and these feelings can be amplified when you begin to deal with patients in your clinical rotations. Essential coping skills can include confiding in fellow students or a therapist if you become overwhelmed emotionally. Taking the time to find joy and humor each day, even if you’re surrounded by very sick patients, can help as well.Remind yourself that your patients are depending on you, and that you are impacting their lives in profound ways. This can be helpful on days that you feel sad or upset by your job.
Remember that even the best nursing care cannot solve every issue.
 Not only can exercise help relieve stress and anxiety, but it will also keep you in shape physically. Nursing school can involve physically taxing work, like lifting or moving patients. To keep in shape for these demands, you should aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise five times a week to reap the most benefits.Incorporate strength training, particularly for your core, and flexibility exercises into your routine to prepare you for the physical demands of lifting and moving patients.
Some students find it useful to combine study sessions with exercise, like comparing notes with a classmate while taking a walk or a job.
 On days when you’re rushing from class to clinicals, sitting down for a meal may be the last thing on your mind. But you won’t study effectively or treat patients well if you’re not properly nourished. Plan your meals on the weekend and then shop accordingly to help you have healthy food throughout the week.Keep healthy snacks on you at all times. Good options include granola bars, nuts, fresh or dehydrated fruits, and beef jerky.
You can turn some study sessions into healthy potluck gatherings.
 Be sure to plan enough time in your schedule for life outside of school, and incorporate things that make you happy into your daily life. The rigors of nursing school can be stressful, so you want to have outlets so you can bring your best self to school each day.Think about things that boost your mood, like taking time for a relaxing cup of coffee or tea or chatting with a friend. Remember to incorporate those into your days as often as possible to keep yourself emotionally healthy.
If possible, take advantage of a school break by getting away, even if it’s just a day trip. A change of scenery can be beneficial in clearing your mind and lifting your spirits.

