 When you start a game, you are taken to the Spawn screen. This is where you choose where to appear on the map, and where you choose your loadout, or "kit". Your kit determines what weapons and equipment you have, and will have a large effect on your playstyle.Special Forces - Special Forces are equipped with a good mid-range carbine and C4 which can do lots of damage to vehicles and infantry.
Support - Support kits feature heavy machine guns which work best for defending positions. Support kits can also provide resupply packs which help out your teammates and earn you points.
Medic - The Medic has a decent weapon, but the primary focus is on healing and reviving teammates. Because of the number of points this can earn you, and the relative ease-of-use of the Medic's primary weapon, this is a great starter-class.
Sniper - The Sniper kit is designed for long range engagements with a powerful anti-infantry rifle. Sniper's can also lay Claymore mines to protect defensive locations or sniping nests. Snipers will usually die in close-quarters combat, so move often.
Engineer - Engineers have a shotgun for close-combat, but have no means of engaging enemies at range. Instead, they can repair vehicles and lay anti-vehicle mines.
Anti-Tank - Anti-Tank soldiers are equipped with a shoulder-mounted anti-tank rocket. This powerful rocket can disable most vehicles, but you'll want to hit them from behind to do the most damage.
Assault - Assault soldiers don't have any specific skill that they can use in battle, but they are equipped with the best rifles and armor, making them perfect for direct engagements with other infantry and for taking Capture Points.
 Battlefield 2 is a very team-focused game, and the team that plays well together will come out on top nearly every time. Working with a team will be much more effective than going out on your own, as you'll be able to rely on other players for support, healing, and revives.


Join a squad from the Spawn menu. This will allow you to spawn directly on your squad leader, and you will be able to track each other's movements on the map much easier.
Use your microphone if you have one. You don't have to talk all the time, but having a microphone can make it easier to call out targets and acknowledge orders and information from your teammates.
 The maps in Battlefield 2 are huge. Staggeringly huge in some cases. While you won't be able to learn all the maps immediately, or even ever, you should work on remembering landmarks and important areas. Since games revolve around capturing specific points, it will be very helpful to know the general layout of each Capture Point.


Map knowledge comes with time. As you play, you'll subconsciously learn the maps and become more familiar with the flow of the game. Don't get discouraged at the beginning because you can't tell where you're getting shot from.
As you learn how the maps work, you can start using advanced tactics such as flanking to catch your enemy from the rear by surprise.
 You won't last long running out in the open. If you need to stop to plan your next move, make sure that you are well-hidden so that a sniper across the map can't take you out. Going prone (crawling) will make you move slower, but you will be a much smaller target and can often slip past enemy positions unseen.


When you are prone, your weapons are much more accurate.
 If you hold down the trigger of your automatic weapon, you will soon find your bullets hitting everything except your target. Accuracy is incredibly important in Battlefield 2, and firing in short, controlled bursts can help improve your accuracy tremendously.


Many automatic weapons let you change the fire mode to single shot, which will greatly improve your accuracy. You can toggle the fire mode by pressing the weapon selection number key (for example, to change the fire mode on your primary weapon, press 3 after you've selected it).
 Headshots with any weapon are much more devastating than body shots. Practice lining your shots up so that you hit your opponent's head. You are much more likely to drop them in one or two shots this way.


Press the right mouse button to aim down your sites and make your gun more accurate.
 Reload your weapon any time you are not actively in combat. You always want to have as many shots available as possible in case things go south and you need to unload your clip.


Avoid reloading in the middle of a fight. Instead, switch to your pistol and continue firing. It is much faster to switch to your pistol than it is to reload your weapon.
 Vehicles are one of the primary features of Battlefield, and are crucial to a successful match. Vehicles are complex machines and can take a while to get used to, making them intimidating for newcomers. This is especially true for aircraft.


Join an empty server if you want to practice flying aircraft or driving tanks. This will let you fly around the map without having to worry about killing your own teammates or wasting a vehicle.
 The main mode for Battlefield 2 is Conquest mode. In this mode, each team will attempt to capture and hold various points on the map. Each team is given a limited number of reinforcements, and if a team controls more than half of the points the opposing reinforcements drain quicker.


You can capture points by standing within the capture radius of the flag. As long as there are more of your teammates nearby than there are enemies, you will capture the flag.

