 Pour 4 inches (10 cm) of cooking oil into the deep fryer. Switch on the heat and allow the oil to reach 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).If you don't have a deep fryer, you could pour the oil into a large Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed saucepan. Place the pot on the stove over medium-high heat.
Use a frying thermometer to monitor the temperature of the oil. It should remain at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius) for the duration of the cooking process. Adjust your temperature settings as needed to achieve this.;
, Rinse the potatoes under cool, running water while scrubbing off the dirt with a vegetable brush.


Thorough cleaning is important if you intend to keep the skins on for your fries.
On the other hand, if you prefer fries without skin, peel the potatoes first and rinse them under running water when finished. Since the dirty skins are gone, you won't need to scrub the potatoes with a brush.
 Insert the waffle blade attachment into the mandolin. Pass the end of the potato over the blade, making one ridged slice.


The waffle blade should have ridges on it. If your mandolin allows you to choose the thickness of the slices, choose a thickness of at least 1/4 inch (6 mm).
If you don't have a mandolin, you could also use a ridged cheese knife. Make a straight cut down over the end of the potato and create slices roughly 1/4 inch (6 mm) thick, if not a little thicker.
 Rotate the potato 90 degrees, so that the vertical grooves now run horizontally. Make a second slice from this angle.The resulting crisscross should produce the waffle fry shape. If you do not rotate the potato, your slices will look like ridges instead of waffles.
Continue slicing in this manner, rotating the potato 90 degrees in between each slice. Repeat until you slice through both potatoes.
 Place several cut slices into the hot oil. Fry for several minutes, turning as needed, until the fries turn golden brown.


Watch the fries closely to prevent them from burning.
You need to fry the potatoes in batches instead of frying them all at once. Adding too many to the hot oil can crowd out the pan and cause the temperature to drop. As a result, the fries won't cook correctly.
 Use a slotted spoon to remove the finished fries from the hot oil. Transfer them to a plate lined with clean paper towels.


While waiting for the oil to drain, you can start on your next batch of fries.
 Sprinkle salt over the fries while they're still hot and eat them immediately to enjoy the best taste.

