 Multi-strand bracelets are fun to make. You make all strands using the same type of bead, but in different colors. You can also make each strand using a different type of bead. Seed beads are great for this type of bracelet. Here is a list of what you will need:


Beading thread
Beading needle
Beads
Bead tips (also called bead clamps, clam shells, bead ends, or string tips)
2 jump rings
Clasp and hook
Needle nose pliers
Scissors
Super glue

, This will allow the bracelet to hang loosely around your wrist. This will give you the length of your finished bead strands.
 You will be folding them in half in a later step. This will make one beaded strand.
 You will want about two to four knots. Don't worry if they look messy; you will be hiding them. You should end up with a large knot and four strands of thread coming out of it. This will make the bracelet more durable. , You can use your fingertips or a pair of needle nose pliers to close the bead tip. The loop on the bead tip should be on the same side as the short, extra ends of your thread.You will trim them off later.
 Keep stringing until the bracelet is a little bit shorter than you want it to be.
 Don't tie the knot too close, however, or you will put too much pressure on the thread. Try to leave a small gap between the knot and bead.
 You can use your fingertips or a pair of needle nose pliers to close the bead tip. The loop of the bead tip should be facing away from the beads.
 When you finish all of your strands, lay them out side by side in an order that you find visually pleasing.


If you'd prefer a "tangled" look to your finished bracelet, interweave your strands rather than keeping them separate.
 Hold a jump ring with your fingers and a pair of needle nose pliers. The cut part of the jump ring should be between your fingers and the pliers. Hold the ring tightly with the pliers, then move your fingers away from you. The jump ring will twist open.Repeat this step for the other jump ring.
 Hold the jump ring with the needle nose pliers, and slip the clasp and beaded strands onto the ring. Only one end of the beaded strands should be on the jump ring. The other ends of the strands should be hanging freely.
 Still holding the jump ring with the pliers, take hold of the ring with your fingers. Move your hand towards you, twisting the ring close.
 Slip the clasp onto the other jump ring, along with the strands. Close the jump ring.

