 You need to learn why the other party is breaching the contract in order to determine how you will proceed. If the other party is breaching by choice, you might be able to ask for more substantial remedies (i.e., specific performance) than if the other party is breaching because it is impossible for them to meet the terms of the agreement. When you contact the breaching party, have an honest conversation about the circumstances and try to understand their side of things. Having this conversation early could avoid a lot of problems down the road.;
, When you contact the other party, you need to do it in a way that leaves a trail of evidence regarding your efforts. Start by calling the other party and having an informal conversation. If the conversation does not resolve the dispute, send an email to the other party so you have a paper trail of your efforts. If you need to go further, you may have to send an official letter and maybe even official notice that they are in breach of the contract. These notices, letters, and emails will provide you with important paper trails if you should decide to sue.


Additionally, you should consider offering the other party an opportunity to resolve the dispute through mediation or binding arbitration. By doing this, you are evidencing your willingness to resolve the dispute amicably. Some courts might even require you take these steps before going to trial.
 Your agreement might spell out what actions you can take if one side breaches. Because you agreed to these remedies ahead of time, you are probably limited to the remedies spelled out in the purchase and sale agreement.The agreement might also tell you how much time you have to bring any lawsuit.As soon as you realize the sale has fallen through, take out your copy of the agreement and read it.
A lot of purchase and sale agreements will contain binding arbitration agreements, which require you to arbitrate your dispute instead of litigating it. If you're contract contains one of these provisions, you may be limited in how you can proceed with a dispute.
You also need to look for venue provisions, which restrict where you can bring a lawsuit. For example, your contract might state that any litigation needs to be brought in a certain county in a certain state.
Some contracts will also dictate that attorneys' fees will be awarded to the winning party. If this is the case, you may be able to use this clause to your advantage during settlement negotiations.
 Your state’s law may tell you what options are available. For example, in Minnesota (and other states), the following three remedies are generally available to you if the other party breached the contract:Cancel the contract. Either the buyer or seller could cancel the contract. The seller may be able to keep the earnest money deposited.
Sue for “specific performance.” This means you sue and ask the judge to order the seller or buyer to go through with the sale. Generally, a buyer is more likely to get specific performance, although a seller can sometimes force a buyer to purchase the property. Specific performance is only ordered when the injured party can’t get another adequate remedy.
Sue for damages. Money compensation is called “damages.” If the failure to close the sale cost you financially, then you can be compensated for the financial damage you suffered.
 You can only sue for a breach of a valid contract. However, there are many contingencies in the standard purchase and sale agreement, particularly for buyers.A contract is not binding until all contingencies are satisfied. Accordingly, you need to check whether all of them were satisfied:Financing contingencies. Many purchase and sale agreements make the sale contingent on the buyer getting financing. If he or she can’t get financing, then there isn’t a valid contract to breach.
Inspection contingencies. Another common contingency is for an inspection to be performed and for the buyer to be satisfied with the results. If one wasn’t performed, or the inspection reveals defects, then the buyer hasn’t breached the contract by backing out.
Contingencies for sale of the buyer’s home. Because a buyer often needs to sell their home first to free up money, many contracts contain a contingency for sale of the buyer’s home. If the buyer can’t sell their home, then there isn’t a valid contract.
Contingency for title review. The buyer reviews the home’s title report to uncover whether the home is free and clear of any liens or other problems.If no report is provided or if the home has liens, then the buyer can back out of the sale.
 To fully understand your options, you should meet for a consultation with a qualified real estate lawyer.Take your copy of the contract with you and ask for the lawyer’s advice.


You can find a qualified lawyer by contacting your state or local bar association. Bar associations are lawyer organizations and most provide referrals.
Think about hiring the lawyer to represent you, especially if a lot of money is at stake. It can be difficult to bring a lawsuit yourself, and a qualified attorney can make your strongest case possible.
 Generally, the buyer and seller can come to a mutual agreement to cancel the contract. Because you are mutually deciding how to end the contract, you can also decide what happens to the earnest money. You could split it, return it to the buyer, or let the seller keep it.This is a great opportunity to take part in mediation if the other party agrees. A mediator will help you and the other party find common ground and create a mutual agreement that helps both parties.
Both sides should sign a “mutual rescission agreement,” which formalizes that you have ended the contract.
You can find sample rescission agreements online., Unfortunately, both sides might not be able to reach a mutual agreement. You should read your state law to find out what steps to take in this situation. In some states, there is a “statutory cancellation” procedure.For example, in Minnesota, the buyer or the seller can send a legal notice to the other side telling them that they are in default of the contract. Also remind them of how much time they have to fix (“cure”) the default.
You should read your state statute, which will contain language you need to include in your legal notice.
 After serving your legal notice, you might have to wait to give the other side a certain amount of time to go through with the sale. If the other side doesn’t go through, then you can cancel the contract.When the seller refuses to cure, then the buyer is usually entitled to a refund of the earnest money.
However, if the buyer refuses to cure, then the seller can typically keep the earnest money.
 According to the “statue of frauds,” contracts for the sale of land must be in writing.If you had only an oral contract, then you probably can’t sue because there isn’t a valid agreement.
 In many states, you can file your complaint in the county or district court where the property is located. However, in some states, you have to file in a particular court depending on whether you are asking the judge for specific performance or for money damages.


Some states have “equity” courts and “law” courts. You can ask for specific performance by filing in equity court, since law courts cannot provide that remedy. However, if you sue for money damages, then you would file your lawsuit in the law courts.Check your state’s judiciary website to see if your state maintains separate law and equity courts. Many states no longer do. Nevertheless, you should find out ahead of time whether your state does so that you will file your complaint in the correct court.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a complaint. In the complaint, you identify yourself as the “plaintiff” and the other party as the “defendant.” You also give the judge some idea of the factual circumstances of the dispute and make a request for relief (i.e., specific performance or money damages).Your lawyer should draft the complaint. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you can ask the court clerk if there is a printed “fill in the blank” form you can use.
Alternately, you could look in a book of legal forms for sample complaints. You can find these books at your local library or at a bookstore.
 If you sue for damages, then you need to prove to a court that you suffered financially because of the failed sale. There are a couple ways to calculate damages:


Generally, a seller can calculate their damages by subtracting the amount the house sold for from the amount listed in the breached purchase and sale agreement. For example, the buyer might have agreed to buy a house for $500,000 but then backed out. If the seller sells the house for $400,000 to a second buyer, then the seller can generally get $100,000 in compensation. The seller can also add on any amounts spent to maintain the property.The buyer must also prove any financial damage suffered from the failed sale. For example, he or she might have had to rent temporary housing as a consequence of the breach.
 Make several copies of your complaint and take the copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file the original. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.


You may have to pay a filing fee. The amount will differ by court, so call ahead of time and ask the court clerk for the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 You must provide notice to the other side that you are filing a lawsuit. Generally, you will provide notice by sending a copy of your complaint and a summons, which you can get from the court clerk. Service can typically be made in the following ways:Hire a private process server to make hand delivery. You can find process servers in your phone book or online. They typically charge $45-75 per service.Pay the sheriff or constable to make hand delivery. They typically charge about the same amount as private process servers.
Have someone 18 or older not related to the case make hand delivery on the other side.
 Whoever makes service usually has to complete a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service” form, which you can get from your court clerk. The server completes the form and signs it in front of a notary public before returning the form to you.


Make a copy of the completed form and file the original with the court to show that service was made., Typically, the other side will respond to your lawsuit by filing an answer in which they deny your allegations and possibly raise different affirmative defenses, such as your waiting too long to sue.A copy should be sent to you. Read it closely and understand what arguments the defendant makes.


In addition to an answer, the defendant might also file counterclaims against you. Counterclaims are like mini-lawsuits that result in you becoming the defendant for those claims. The defendant's counterclaims must arise out of the same actions you are suing for.
 Once the defendant files his or her response, a period of "discovery" will commence during which you can get information about the case from the other party. During discovery you will gather facts, interview witnesses, find out what the other party is going to say, and see how good your case is. You can accomplish these things by using the following tools:Depositions, which are in person interviews conducted under oath. The answers given during these interviews can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to parties and witnesses. The questions must be answered under oath and the answer given can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are formal requests for documents from the other party. You can request almost anything that is relevant to the case including emails, text messages, phone records, and contracts.
Requests for admission, which are written statements sent to the other party. The other party will have to admit or deny each factual statement that is sent to them.
 As soon as discovery concludes, the defendant will usually file a motion for summary judgment. To succeed, the defendant will have to show that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the other party will have to persuade the judge that, even if every fact was assumed to be in your favor, you would still lose the court case.


To oppose this motion, you will file one of your own. Your motion will try to persuade the judge that there are issues of fact that need to be hashed out at trial. You can prove this by providing the judge with evidence and affidavits.If the defendant filed counterclaims against you, you might consider filing a motion for summary judgment on those issues.
 You might be suing for a small amount of damages. In this situation, it could make sense to try and settle your lawsuit out of court. You could negotiate a settlement, participate in mediation, or try non-binding arbitration.


Mediation is ideal if you don’t have a lawyer. You and the other side meet with a third party neutral, who is the “mediator.” The mediator listens to each side and then helps you work towards a mutually-agreeable solution. Mediators generally charge about $70-400 an hour, which you could split with the other side.To find a mediator, you should contact your local courthouse or local bar association and check if they offer referrals.
If mediation doesn't work, you might try non-binding arbitration. During arbitration, you and the other party will meet with a judge-like third party who will listen to both sides present evidence. At the end, the arbitrator will issue his or her opinion, which will state who they think won and how much should be awarded to the prevailing party. Because this is non-binding, neither party will need to abide by the arbitrator's decision unless both parties agree to be bound.
 If you fail to settle your case, trial may be inevitable. Before you go to court, you will take part in one last pretrial conference. During this conference, you and the other party will sit down with the judge to discuss a trial schedule. Make sure you bring up every issue you want to raise during trial. If you fail to get an issue on the trial schedule, the judge might not let you present evidence on that issue once trial starts., If you or the defendant elected to have a jury trial, you will choose your jury through a process called "voire dire". During voire dire, you and the defendant will have an opportunity to ask questions of potential jurors in order to assess their ability to fairly hear your case. If you think a potential juror has a bias, you can excuse them. A jury is chosen when both parties agree to the jury that is currently in the jury box., As the plaintiff, you will make your opening statements first. The purpose of your opening statement is to describe the issues of the trial and the facts you intend to prove in support of your case. This is not an opportunity to present evidence and you should avoid talking about the law as much as possible. Keep your opening statement short and to the point.


After you present your opening statement, the defendant will have an opportunity to do the same., You will present your case before the defendant by calling witnesses to the stand, taking their testimony, and presenting physical evidence through them. This is your opportunity to show the judge and/or jury the facts of the case and why you should win. After you ask your questions to each witness (called direct examination), the defendant will have an opportunity to conduct cross-examination.


You will rest (i.e., end your presentation of evidence) after you have called all of your witnesses and presented all of your evidence., The defendant will present their case after you rest. During the defendant's presentation of evidence, you will have an opportunity to cross-examine witnesses after the defendant questions them. The purpose of cross-examination is to challenge the witnesses testimony.


For example, if a witness testifies to one fact but a prior statement or document contradicts that testimony, you can use that information to "impeach" the witness., After both parties have rested and all the evidence has been presented, you will be given an opportunity to address the judge and/or jury one last time. This opportunity, called closing arguments, should be used to summarize the evidence, explain how the evidence falls in your favor, and explain why you should win the case.


Once you make your closing arguments, the defendant will have an opportunity to do the same., Once the trial is over, the fact-finder (jury or judge) will deliberate and discuss the trial in private. Once the fact-finder comes to a conclusion as to who should win the case, they will present their decision to the judge. The judge will look it over and announce the verdict to both parties. If you win, you will be awarded damages and/or equitable relief.


If you lose, you might be able to appeal the decision if your judge did something wrong. If you want to appeal, you need to file your appeal papers soon after the verdict is read and judgment is entered( usually within 30 days).