 They are most common in women between 20 and 40 years old, in people with osteoarthritis in the finger joints, or a history of joint or tendon injuries. You might have a ganglion cyst if you have:A lump on the tendons of your wrist or hands. These cysts may also form in the joints of the wrist, hands, feet, ankles or elsewhere.
A lump that is round or oval shaped. Most are smaller than an inch across. The size may change overtime, with it getting bigger when you use the nearby joint.
Pain. Even a cyst that is too small to see may cause discomfort, numbness, weakness, or a pins-and-needles sensation if it presses on a nerve.;
, The doctor will likely do several things to confirm that it is a ganglion cyst. There are different types of cysts that have different types of treatment and emphasis need correct diagnosis. Other skin types cysts are sebaceous cysts, lipomas, infectious abscesses, enlarged lymph nodes, tumors, etc. The doctor may:Press on the cyst to see if it is sore.
Shine a light through the cyst to see if it is solid or fluid-filled.
Aspirate fluid out of the cyst using a needle and syringe. If it is a ganglion cyst, the fluid will be clear.
 Imaging tests can detect small cysts that are not visible from outside the body and rule out other diagnoses like arthritis or cancer. The doctor may suggest:An x-ray. This test does not hurt, but it is important that you tell your doctor if you are pregnant or think you could be pregnant.
An ultrasound. This test is painless and involves using sound waves to form an image of the inside of your body.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This test uses magnets and radio waves to create three dimensional images of the cyst. You will lie on a table that moves into the MRI tube. It is loud, but it does not hurt. Tell your doctor ahead of time if you have claustrophobia., Up to half of ganglion cysts go away by themselves. Your doctor may suggest treating the cyst if:It presses on a nerve causing you pain.
It is so large that it reduces the movement of your joint.
 The doctor may put a brace or splint around the joint near the cyst to prevent you from moving that joint. Because the cysts often get larger when you move your joint, restricting the movement sometimes enables the cysts to shrink.If you use this approach, ask your doctor how long you can wear the brace or splint before your muscles will start to lose their strength.
If the cyst is uncomfortable, your doctor may recommend that you take a painkiller, such as Ibuprofen.
 During this procedure the doctor will use a needle to suck the fluid out of the cyst. This procedure provides quick relief, but the cyst may reoccur.The doctor may suggest injecting a steroid into the area to reduce the risk of reoccurrence, but there is no evidence that this successfully reduces reoccurrences.
This is an outpatient procedure. You will be released the same day with a Band Aid over the location where the needle went through your skin.
 This is generally a last resort after the other options were unsuccessful. The surgeon cuts out the cyst and the stalk where it connects to the joint or tendon.Though surgery is the most effective treatment, some cysts do still reform after surgery.There are two equally effective surgical procedures that are used.Open surgery — During this procedure, the surgeon makes a cut about 2 inches long over the cyst and removes it.
Arthroscopic surgery —This is a type of keyhole surgery. The doctor makes a small incision and inserts a camera and other instruments through the incision. Using the camera as a guide, the surgeon removes the cyst.
Both procedures can be done using either local or general anesthesia, depending upon the recommendation of your surgeon., If your doctor decides the cyst does not need to be operated on or if you would like to try home treatment for the cyst, you should consider taking OTC pain medication. Ibuprofen or naproxen sodium can help to dull the pain of the cyst.You may also take OTC pain medication during a period of observation, during which you will leave the cyst alone and return to the doctor’s office later for periodic observation. This is often done if the ganglion cyst does not appear to be cancerous or the result of any other serious medical issues., If the cyst is located on your foot or your toe, you should avoid wearing shoes that will squeeze or constrict the cyst. You may decide to wear open-toed shoes or flip flops so the cyst is able to heal on its own.If you must wear closed-toe shoes, you should tie the laces or straps looser than usual so the cyst does not get irritated when you walk. Avoid wearing shoes with tight zippers and made of non-breathable fabric, like leather or polyester, as this can irritate the cyst.
 There is an old remedy for ganglion cysts that consists of hitting or thumping the cyst hard with a heavy object. Avoid doing this, as it will likely only damage the tissue around the cyst.You should also never try to pop or drain the cyst yourself at home by puncturing it with a needle. This will likely only make the cyst worse and could lead to an infection.

