 Most people use an Altoids mints tin to put their kit in. If you can't get Altoids, Marks and Spencers do a brand called Curiously Strong Mints, which have a similar sized tin. If you want something bigger, places like B&Q make plastic containers (intended for keeping stuff like screws in) that are suitable. Any container that you get should clip shut, so that it doesn't spring open.;
, Being able to light a fire can be critical in some situations. A magnifying glass will focus the sun's rays to a point, allowing you to ignite materials. Survival matches have large heads, allowing you to strike them even in windy or rainy conditions. However, they have two disadvantages: first, you can only carry a limited supply of them, and second, they cannot be extinguished by blowing them out, so you need some other method to put them out.
 String is fantastically useful: you can use it to tie stuff together, helping to make a shelter; it's less bulky than rope; you can make a fishing line out of it; there are many uses, limited only by your imagination.
 They're easy to aquire, and you can use them for different purposes, such as bending it out into a fishing hook (or paper clipping stuff together). just use your imagination.
 You never know when you need to cut something.
 You need to drink water, and if you can't boil it, you need to find some other way of purifying it. These tablets are essential.
 Paracetamol, ibuprofen, anti-histamines, plasters. Anything else you can cram in. If you get injured, you'll be glad you included them. Learn how to use items from the environment to replace some of these items and free up space (e.g. willow bark can be used as a painkiller).
 They glow for about ten hours, and can be used as a light source, for signalling, and for night fishing - the light attracts the fish. Some people prefer to carry a beta light - they're reliable for years, but they can be dangerous if they are broken, due to them containing tritium.
 It stops stuff from rattling, and can be used as a firelighter.

