 If you’re starting with a brand-new and empty backpack, you’re way ahead of the game. If your backpack is stuffed full of papers, books, and other stuff from your previous semester, empty it completely.Don’t forget to empty all the little zippered compartments as well as the main compartment.
Tip your backpack upside down over a bin when finished emptying it to get those last few scraps, crumbs, and bits of lint out.;
, Make three separate piles. In one pile, place all your school supplies (mini staplers, pencils, erasers, and so on). In a second pile, place all your papers, folders, textbooks, and notebooks. In the third pile, place things you’ll need on a regular or semi-regular basis (mittens, your lunch pail, and so on).Discard or find a home for anything that doesn’t fit in any of these three categories.
For instance, if your backpack contained a phone charger for a phone that you don’t use, discard it or store it at home along with the phone.
 Choose one compartment for pens, pencils, and erasers. Use this compartment for these materials and nothing else.If possible, assign these materials to a compartment designed for pens and pencils. If present, this compartment will have loops or slots into which you can slide pens and pencils so that they don’t move around so much inside your backpack.
If you don’t have a compartment that secures your pens and pencils nicely, consider investing in a pencil case and putting it in the backpack compartment that you use for school supplies., These will go in the largest central compartment of the backpack. If possible, organize them according to color. For instance, if you have a book that has a blue (or mostly blue) cover, match it with a blue folder and a blue notebook. Stack these materials in a regular order. For instance, place books beneath their corresponding folders, and place the matching notebook on top of the folder. Repeat this pattern for every class.Place all your papers in an appropriate folder. If you find any that you don’t need or want, recycle them.
 To increase your backpack’s level of overall organization, check it each night or each morning to ensure it includes only what you need for the coming school day. Leave the rest of your school materials in your locker or at home. This will keep your pack organized and prevent you from carrying too much., If you get a permission slip or report card that your parents need to sign, you’ll need a place to put it. Add another folder to the pile of folders, books, and notebooks for these communications.Place this folder behind or in front of the other books and folders.
 These will vary depending on your needs. In cold weather, for instance, you’ll probably pack gloves, lip balm, and hand lotion. Other items you might want include sunglasses, an umbrella, and a water bottle. Assign these items to a pocket or compartment of your choice. The beverage pocket typically accommodates these smaller items quite nicely.