 When the final 15-minute period is announced, anyone may enter or exit the pit at their will. If you are missing data from the soil pit, you may go back to collect it at any time during this period. After you are finished with the pit completely, return to your station and complete your analysis.
 Possible master horizons include A, or surface horizon, B, subsurface horizon, E, or eluviated horizon, C, or parent material horizon, and R, or bedrock. These horizons also require either a dash beside them or a subordinate distinction or combination of subordinate distinctions. See Dr. Needlaman’s manual for descriptions of the subordinate horizons.
, The limiting layer is the fragipan or the layer with the highest clay percentage and weakest grade of structure. Use the Official Soil Judging Manual to determine hydraulic conductivity.
 The depth of the limiting layer determines the effective rooting depth.
, Alluvium is deposited by water, colluvium, by gravity, loess, by wind, and residuum is rock weathering in place. More than one parent material may be present, but each parent material must occupy at least 40 centimeter (15.7 in) of the horizon.
 For the lower depth, add 50 centimeter (19.7 in) to the first number. If no argillic is present, the particle size control section is 25–100 centimeter (9.8–39.4 in). Particle size control sections cannot include surface horizons, bedrock, saprolite, or fragipans.
,, See Dr. Needleman’s manual for descriptions of soil orders.
, Limitations for building dwellings with basements, septic tanks, and local roads are all determined by flooding frequency, slope, depth to bedrock, and depth to seasonally high water table. Using the charts, determine whether the limitations are slight, moderate, or severe, and note on the description sheet.
 Assume that he bottom horizon continues to 150 centimeter (59.1 in). Each textural class has a corresponding water retention value. Multiply the water retention value by the percentage of the matrix unoccupied by rocks and the depth of the horizon, in cm. For a fragipan layer, multiply the value by one-half. Add these together for each horizon, and this value is the water retention.
 Hand in the finished description sheet.

