 There are many, many medical field occupations to choose from. You can work with athletes with physical therapy or help diagnose hearing issues as an audiologist. Before you prepare for college education, research what might you want to do.There are many different jobs in the medical field:


Administration positions — medical assisting, medical billing and coding
Nursing positions — trauma (ER) nurse; labor and delivery nurse; hospice nurse; medical/oncology nurse; dialysis nurse; surgical nurse; advanced practice nurse (family nurse practitioner, nurse midwife, Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists)
Doctors — hematologist, general practitioner, oncology, pediatrician, internal medicine, ENT specialist, anesthesiologist
Physical therapy — sports medicine, trainers, post-surgery physical therapy
Counselor — genetic counselor, psychologist, home aid counselor;
, When you’re in high school, it might hard to believe that the job market might change so drastically before you even finish your education and find a job. Some jobs haven’t even been established yet! You should explore what your job outlook is via a government website like the Bureau of Labor and Statistics.


Some jobs, like mental health counseling, have a job prospect increase of 36% by 2020.If you’re in the UK, you can use visit the “Prospects” section of your government’s website., A lot of the same resources that will help you with job prospects will help you learn about the salaries and benefits of your future career.


These websites will give you information such as median income for your area and minimum educational requirements.
 Before you invest a lot of time and effort into education, make sure you are looking at careers realistically. A high-paying medical job may seem glamorous, but be sure of the good and the not-so-good aspects about a job.


Think about the amount of time you want to work. Do you want to work a 40 hour a week, or an 80 hour one?
Do you want a job where you will travel or stay in one spot?
Do you want to work with a team or alone?
Are you okay with working with bodily fluids like blood?
Do you think you can handle a stressful job situation in which you may have to work with the dead and dying?
How will you handle the stress of this career?

