 Mindfulness is being aware of how you are feeling and what you are thinking, as well as, being present in the moment. It is accepting how you are feeling without fighting it or trying to stop the feelings. Some research suggests that practicing mindfulness can help people that are suffering from trauma.Try mindfulness meditation, a mindfulness therapy, or being mindful in everyday life to help you come to terms with the fact that you’re suffering from trauma.


Being mindful can help you become aware of signs of trauma that you might not be noticing about yourself.
You can practice mindfulness meditation by finding a quiet, relaxing place and sitting or lying comfortable. Focus on your breathing and the sensations of your body.
Explore mindfulness therapies such as mindfulness-based cognitive therapy or mindfulness-based stress reduction.
Be mindful in everyday life by focusing on one thing at a time, rather than multitasking. Pay attention to what you smell, hear, see, taste, and feel.
 You may be trying to convince yourself that nothing is wrong or that nothing happened, but this isn’t a good idea. Although it might be difficult, in order to accept that you’re suffering from trauma, you have to be truthful with yourself about what happened and what effects it’s having on you. You won’t be able to heal if you refuse to believe that you experienced something traumatic or that it’s negatively impacting you.


Instead of trying to deny what’s going on with you, use what you learn from being mindful to help yourself accept that you’re suffering from trauma.
Tell yourself, “What happened to me was traumatic. I accept that it may be having negative effects on me. I know I can work through this.”
If you find that you’re trying to convince yourself that you’re okay, stop. You can tell yourself instead, “This is bothering me and I don’t have to pretend it’s not, but I will be okay.”

, This can be a great way to help you accept that you’re suffering from trauma for a number of reasons.Journaling gives you the opportunity to re-examine what happened objectively. It also allows you to honestly explore how you feel about what happened and what effect the trauma might be having on you.


Write about the event from your perspective and the perspective of an objective observer. Look for similarities and differences that may indicate trauma. For example, from your perspective the robbery wasn’t frightening. Thinking about it as an observer, though, you might realize it felt violating.
Use your journal as a way to document any changes in yourself that you’ve noticed after the event. For example, you might write that you have been feeling irritable, tense, and have nightmares.
Write about how you feel about possibly suffering from trauma. For instance, do you feel relieved because you better understand what’s going on with you?

