 One of the key signs of OCD is a persistent limp or lameness in your dog. This is a common symptom in young dogs who have OCD, who may have difficulty putting some or any weight on one leg.The severity of the limp depends on how much damage develops on your dog’s joint lining. Your dog may have a mild limp, where he leans to one side and puts less weight on one leg. Or, he may have a severe limp, where he puts little to no weight on one leg. He may start with a mild limp and over weeks or months, his condition will get worse until he can no longer put any weight on his leg.;
, If your dog has OCD, he may take shorter strides with the affected leg. This is due to putting less weight on one leg.You can also look at your dog when he stands still. He may place weight on his healthy leg and put little to no weight on his affected leg.
 Your dog’s affected leg will likely have less muscle mass than his healthy leg, as he is not working it as hard due to pain or discomfort. The affected leg will likely be less muscular and may also appear swollen.You can use your hands to touch your dog’s legs. Note if one of his legs feels very warm to the touch, swollen, and less muscular than his other legs. These could all be signs that his leg has OCD.
 First, the vet will do a physical exam of your Rottweiler to confirm the affected leg and locate where the joint is painful for your dog. Your vet may manipulate your dog’s joints in isolation to check that your dog’s hock, or ankle, is the sore area, not his hip, knee, or toes. This will allow her to better confirm your dog has OCD in his hock., The vet may then sedate or anesthetize your Rottweiler so she can take X-rays of your dog’s hock and any other areas that may be sore. Usually, two views are taken of your dog’s hock in the X-rays. One view is taken from front to back (anterior-posterior) and one view is taken side to side (lateral).Doing two views in the x-rays will help the vet rule out other conditions such as a fracture, an infection, and cancer. However, X-rays are not a foolproof way to detect OCD in your dog’s hock. In the early stages of the condition, the only clear evidence of OCD is a flap of cartilage on your dog’s hock or a chip off the cartilage. It may be difficult to spot these small issues on an X-ray.
 If the X-rays are inconclusive, the vet may recommend more advanced forms of imaging, such as a CT scan. The CT scan will provide a more detailed image of the structure of your dog’s bone and cartilage. It can also better detect hairline fractures and cartilage damage., The vet may also try to get a better read on your dog’s joint by using an endoscope. An endoscope is a small camera that can be fitted into your dog’s joint. The vet can then get a real-time view of the surface of the joint and make a clear diagnosis.This procedure also allows the vet to remove any troublesome cartilage chips floating in your dog’s joint or trim back a flap in your dog’s joint. Thus, the vet has the ability to actually treat the problem during the diagnosis.
After the surgery, your dog should rest for two to four weeks and avoid doing anything active. Too much activity post surgery can cause a pocket of fluid to build up at the incision site. The vet should prescribe pain medication for your dog and suggest a post-surgery diet so he does not gain too much weight after the surgery. Most Rottweilers recovery from the surgery within eight to twelve weeks and can function normally., Even if the vet treats the problem during the endoscope, she may recommend further treatment to prevent your Rottweiler from developing secondary arthritis later in life. This could include keep your Rottweiler slim through a healthy, restricted diet and giving your dog joint supplements like chondroitin and glucosamine.The vet may also suggest surgery to remove any damage cartilage in your dog’s joint. This can prevent his OCD from getting worse.
 Rottweilers as a breed have a predisposition to developing OCD in their hock joints. You should discuss the health of your dog’s parents with the breeder before you buy him as a puppy. Often, a puppy will inherit genes from his parents, and parents with poor cartilage health can pass that on to their offspring.Dogs diagnosed with OCD should not be used to bred, as they will likely pass on the condition to their offspring. However, there is no genetic screening test available yet for OCD in Rottweilers.
If you considering buying a Rottweiler from a breeder, you should set up an in person meeting with the breeder and the Rottweiler. You should watch how the Rottweiler walks and note any limping or unevenness in his gait, as these can be symptoms of OCD.
 Another risk factor is a Rottweiler puppy who grows too quickly. Fast growth forces your dog’s bones to grow too quickly and can put stress on your dog’s joints. Dogs that will weigh more than 25kg as adults, such as Rottweiler puppies, should be feed large breed growth food.This type of food contains a sufficient amount of calcium for a larger dog, which will not force his bones to grow too fast. Regular growth food can provide too much calcium, which may then force your dog’s bones to grow too rapidly.
 Excess weight or too much weight can lead to health issues in your dog and put stress on your dog’s joints. This can then lead to the development of OCD in your dog’s joint, especially if he is genetically predisposed to the condition.Though larger dogs like Rottweilers should get enough exercise every day, you should avoid doing intense exercise or excessive exercise with your Rottweiler. Too much exercise can put strain on your dog’s joints and force him to do awkward movements that can cause damage to the joint lining your dog’s joints. This could then increase his risk of developing OCD.

