 Some snowshoes are designed to allow running, but most are awkward to move in above a walking pace. If you will be walking on steep terrain, purchase a well-fitting snowshoe with plenty of traction at the toe and heel. You may need a snowshoe with a larger support if the snow is especially loose or powdery.


More detailed information is included in the section on selecting a snowshoe.
 It's safer to travel with other people on long hikes, even if you are familiar with the area. Let someone who is staying behind know where you are going, so you can be found more quickly if an accident occurs.
 Minimize the chance of frostbite or overheating by dressing in several layers of clothing, which can be removed or added as necessary. Begin with a snug layer of thermal long underwear, then put on at least two layers of clothing over both your torso and legs. The outermost layer should be waterproof.


Bring a spare layer as well in case your clothing gets wet.
Avoid cotton, especially next to your skin, as it takes a long time to dry. Synthetic materials and wool do a better job drawing moisture away from your skin, which keeps you warmer., It's good etiquette to stay out of the way of established ski tracks, since snowshoes can ruin them. It's fine to walk alongside these tracks, as long as you move out of the way when cross country skiers go by.
 If you are not on an established trail, walk in a single file line, allowing the person at the front to set the pace by stepping on the untouched snow. Breaking a trail this way is much more tiring than normal walking, so switch places to share the effort among all the participants., Snowshoeing can be more exhausting than it appears, so bring along high-energy snacks or meals to keep yourself going. Hydration is just as important during winter sports as during the summer, even though you may not feel as thirsty in the cold., Always check the weather forecast before you leave, and search for information on avalanche danger zones nearby. Useful equipment for longer hikes includes a GPS unit, a compass, a beacon, and a portable shovel.

