 When you have dry skin on your face, it feels dry and perhaps even stiff when you move your face's muscles quickly or try stretching your face. Your dry facial skin may look flakey or like it needs to peel on occasion. Your dry skin might form cracks that bleed. It may also look noticeably like it needs hydration or moisturizing.Many people get more severe dry skin in the winter because of the climate change.;
, Immediately after you wash your face, oily skin won't stay matte for long. It gets shiny again very quickly. Your face will shine because of the oil produced on the surface of your skin. There will likely be many breakouts on your face if you have oily skin.Oily skin is more common in younger people. Skin typically gets more dried out as we age.
 If your face is oily in the T-zone (the area of your nose, between your eyes and eyebrows, and forehead only) but everywhere else is dry, you probably have combination-type skin.If you have combination skin, then you will need to moisturize the different areas of your face appropriately. Follow guidelines for oily skin for your T-zone and follow guidelines for dry skin for the rest of your face.
Combination skin usually involves pores that look larger than normal because they are more open. This can also lead to more frequent breakouts.
 Frequent washing will cause your face to dry out even more. Additional water will not add hydration. When washing the face, it is best if you wash your face with warm water.When showering or washing your face, use warm or lukewarm water instead of hot water.
Use a gentle cleanser that is fragrance-free.
Avoid using hot or cold water when washing your face. Exposing the skin on your face to these extreme temperatures can cause excess dryness, irritation, or even rupture blood vessels., Start using a moisturizer product that is labeled "for dry to very dry skin." If you think that your skin is only a little dry, pick the product that is labeled "for normal to dry skin."If you want to use a natural ingredient, use an oil, such as olive oil or coconut oil.
A cream is better for dry skin than a lotion because it contains more oil and is, therefore, better at locking in moisture and helping to hydrate dry skin.
 It is important to apply your moisturizer immediately after washing your face so that the cream can help hold in any added moisture remaining from washing your face. Apply evenly and leave it for few minutes, until your face feels more hydrated. After this, you can apply your makeup.Do not apply too much, as this is a waste of product; adding more doesn't do more.
 A hydrating sunscreen that is broad spectrum (protects from both UVA and UVB rays) will protect you from burns and sun damage that ages the skin and will also prevent skin from drying out further.

Apply sunscreen as your morning moisturizer. You shouldn't need more than that, but if you want to supplement with an additional moisturizer, apply the SPF first. Wait a few minutes and allow it to dry, then apply the moisturizer on top.
 Facial masks can treat all kinds of skin issues, including dry skin. For dry skin, do this no more than twice a month. To combat dry skin, you’ll want to use a facial mask that contains one of the following:Olive oil
Argan oil
Coconut oil
Honey
Egg yolk
Carrot
Tomato

, If you have oily skin, you should wash your face a little more often than people with dry skin. It is recommended that you wash your face at least twice a day with a cleansing soap. Don't use hot water or steam to clean your face, as this removes essential fatty acids from your skin.And since oily skin is the easiest type of skin for acne to emerge on (owing to the excessive oil that is trapped inside the pores), it is better to have a cleansing face soap that contains tea tree oil/lemon/salicylic acid.
You may need to wash your face between two and three times daily, but be careful not to overdo it. Over-washing can dry your skin, which can actually cause it to produce more oil to compensate.
 Look for a moisturizer labeled "for oily to normal skin." Having an oily face does not mean you shouldn't use a moisturizer; it just needs to be a suitable moisturizer. Only use a water-based products though; you don't want to add more oil.A lotion is better for oily skin because it doesn’t contain the extra oils found in moisturizing creams.
While some recommend using various types of oil to cleanse faces with an oily skin type, most experts say that this method can do more harm than good — often leading to breakouts and other types of skin damage., To protect your skin and prevent sun damage and burns, you want to make sure you wear a sunscreen every day. If your skin is oily, look for an oil-free preparation made specifically for use on your face.Sunscreen should offer broad-spectrum coverage and an SPF of at least 30.If you apply a sunscreen, that should be enough to moisturize oily skin. There is no need to apply a moisturizer on top of that., Regularly using a face mask/exfoliating mask will help to make your skin feel better. For oily skin, use this treatment method less than twice a week. You can use either mask products or a DIY mask; both can be really helpful.


For more information, check out How to Make All Natural Face Masks.
For oily skin, use a mask that contains one of the following: lemon, avocado, egg whites, cucumber, or milk.

