 Calorie counting is an important part of weight control but does nothing to help the body if the calories are of no nutritional value. Make your calories count by only eating nutritious foods — that way you can eat plenty while fueling your body with the nutrients it needs to stay healthy.


For example, there are 526 calories in a small order (227 grams) of fries at a typical fast food place. 227 grams (8 oz) of chicken breast, however, is only 390 calories.Chicken breast is much higher in protein (over 35 grams higher), which will help keep your bones, muscles, cartilage, skin, and blood healthy and functioning. Many vitamins like Vitamin B, Iron, Vitamin C, and Magnesium are also found in foods high in protein.
Often when people feel hungry it is because they aren't getting what they need nutritionally. Try making sure you are getting enough protein, carbohydrates, and healthy fat. The average healthy diet consists of 40% protein, 40% carbohydrates, and 20% fat.;
, Low glycemic foods and foods high in fiber will help you feel full longer and prevent hunger because they are digested more slowly than refined grains and help keep your blood sugar even.Adversely, carbohydrates that are high in starch send signals to the body to store fat. High-starch (bad) carbs should be avoided as much as possible if you want to curb the spikes in your appetite.


Instead of high-glycemic foods like white rice, instant oatmeal, cornflakes, white bread, baked potatoes, and corn, try lower-glycemic food like brown rice, steel-cut oat, bran flakes, and whole-grain bread., Make a list of all of the foods that you can incorporate into your daily diet. Think about how you might use those foods to alter some of your favorite recipes and keep them in mind on your next trip to the grocery store.


Filling vegetables that are low in calories include: spinach, broccoli, tomato, and carrots. Incorporate vegetables into salads and as side dishes; try to include some in every meal. Produce will help enrich your diet with essential vitamins and minerals.
Filling fruits that are low in calories include berries and apples. Use fresh fruit as your go-to snack throughout the day to help fill you up while keeping calories down
Filling sources of dairy include fat-free milk and fat-free cottage cheese.
Filling carbohydrates that are healthy include: brown rice, quinoa, and whole wheat bread.
Good sources of protein include: grilled salmon, chicken breast, black beans, and red kidney beans.Stay clear of soda and sweetened drinks. Instead drink plenty of water. Oftentimes what you initially interpret as hunger is your body’s way of telling you you’re dehydrated— drinking plenty of water will curb those feelings and reduce your hunger significantly.
Here is a list of recipes to help you on your weight loss journey: https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/recipes-vegetables/.

