 Intentionally spend some alone time with each member of your family so that you can develop a deep bond with each person on an individual level. This might be a time when you explore an interest you both share, or talk about an issue that has been bothering one of you. It can also be a time you express your appreciation and support of this family member., Strong families place a big emphasis on talking to one another in an open and honest way. At times, families that have depth and commitment experience conflict because of this honest communication. However, this conflict can lead to stronger and deeper family relationships.Communicate your needs as well as your concerns in an assertive, yet kind, manner in order to create healthy boundaries and show support for your family members. If you are experiencing a conflict with your significant other, you could say: “When you constantly point out my flaws, it makes me feel inadequate. I know you’re trying to help me improve, but I wonder if you can communicate with me in a way that is more constructive.”

, Being family oriented means caring about the thoughts and opinions of those in your family. Close-knit families frequently ask each other for advice about tough situations and value the perspective of their family members.


You might say: “I’m feeling really undervalued at work and don’t know how to talk to my boss about this. Can I talk to you? I think I need someone to listen and offer an outside perspective.”

, Family members can start to get isolated when everyone lives in the same house but leads separate lives without any connection. Therefore, when working on becoming family oriented, it is important to get to know the people and activities in your family’s lives.


Create a family calendar with important dates and activities. A family calendar will give everyone a glimpse of the “big picture” and will allow all family members to schedule around important commitments. If your partner has a big show coming up, or your son has a tournament in a couple weeks, it is easier to block off these times to spend with your family when you have a centralized location to remind you of these events.Meet significant people in each other’s lives. Becoming family oriented means knowing and understanding important areas in each family member’s life, including other significant people. Tell your husband that you are interested in meeting some of his work friends, or plan a night that your daughter can invite her soccer team over to the house. Showing interest in your family’s friends will communicate that you want to know about all aspects of their lives.