 Healthy chicken ramen has a classic chicken broth-based flavor that is reminiscent of instant ramen, but tastes fresher and is much healthier. Begin by adding two whole eggs in their shells, to a medium sized pot. Add enough water to cover the eggs by 1 inch (2.54 cm), and heat them on medium heat until the water reaches a boil., Once the water reaches a boil, take the pot of eggs off the stovetop. Let the eggs sit uncovered for seven minutes, then take the eggs out of the water using tongs or a large spoon and place them in a bowl of ice water.Only keep the eggs in the water for 7 minutes. If you leave them in longer, the eggs will become hardboiled as opposed to soft boiled. Soft boiled eggs are better in ramen because they have somewhat runny yolks, which add to the flavor of the broth.
 In a medium sized saucepan, add the 4 cups (946.36 ml) of chicken broth and 1 ½ teaspoons (7.39 ml) soy sauce. Heat on medium heat until the mixture reaches a boil., Once the broth reaches a boil, drop the two chicken breasts in the broth and cook for 8-10 minutes until the chicken is fully cooked. Then remove the chicken breasts and let them cool., Once the chicken breasts have fully cooled, shred the chicken into small strips using your fingers. Then add the cooked chicken strips back to the broth and stir to mix them in., Once you shred the chicken, slice the cabbage into thin, 2 inch long (5.08 cm) strips and shred the carrots into thin shreds using a vegetable peeler. Cut the green onion into ½ inch (1.26 cm) rounds and peel the two soft boiled eggs of their shell, then cut them in half., After returning the shredded chicken back to the broth, add the ramen noodles to the pot and cook according to the package, likely from 3-5 minutes. Then remove the soup from the heat., After taking the ramen off the heat, add in sliced cabbage and carrots. Pour the ramen into bowls, adding one egg half and a sprinkle of green onion to each bowl. Add chili oil if you want extra spice and flavor, then serve the ramen while hot.