 As a basic rule of thumb, always check care tags before laundering something. While most pillows are machine washable, some might require dry clean or spot cleaning only, as either the fabric or the pillow’s filling will degrade in the wash.Although you could forego the manufacturer’s instructions and machine wash your pillows anyway, this will void any warranties you might have on your pillows, and could even leach toxic water, in the case of some foam pillows.;
, Pillows are prone to staining due to sweat, dirt, and makeup, primarily, although oils and food stains often find their way onto pillows. Before you toss your yellowed pillows into the washer, spot treat any small stains, using a standard stain removal spray, or a paste of baking soda and water., Instead of laundering your pillows only in your standard detergent, run a load with your standard detergent, as well as vinegar, washing soda, and dishwasher detergent.Use 1 C (8 oz) of dishwasher detergent, ¾ C (6 oz) washing soda, and ½ C (4 oz) of vinegar for every 3 tablespoon (44.4 ml) of regular laundry detergent you use. This mixture was formulated to wash two pillows.
 The mixture above can be thick and grainy, and may adhere to pillows without a thorough rinse. After you’ve run a cycle with the mixture, run a second cycle with only hot water, or hot water and and ½ C (4 oz) of vinegar. This will remove any remaining detergent, and will give your pillows a quick sanitizing session., Remove your pillows from the washer, and check to see if the color has improved. If not, you can place the pillow(s) back into the washer, this time running a load with approximately ¼ C (2 oz) of peroxide as a safer bleach solution.


If the pillow is still yellow following this procedure, the color may not be salvageable. If the color is the only issue, and the pillow does not smell of mildew, mold, or sweat, you can simply place it in a pillowcase to hide its unsightly color.
If the pillow persists in having an odor, it is time for a new pillow.
 Once clean, your pillows should be placed in a clean dryer on the “air dry” setting, with tennis balls thrown in. The tennis balls will “punch” the pillows as they dry, creating a more even dry cycle and giving your pillows a chance to fluff up.Using tennis balls alone may result in a rubbery smell on your pillows. If this is the case, or you are sensitive to smell, you can wrap the balls in socks or an old shirt to mask the smell.

