 Many medications are not safe for nursing mothers to use because they may pass through your breastmilk to the baby.Talk to your doctor about safe medication options to help you manage your pain after an episiotomy.


Paracetamol is often prescribed for breastfeeding mothers who require pain medication after an episiotomy.;
, The perineum is the area between the vagina and anus where the episiotomy was made. You can use an ice pack to help reduce swelling and ease the pain. Wrap an ice pack in a towel and place it between your legs while you are lying in bed or reclining in a chair.Make sure that you do not leave the ice pack on for more than 15 minutes at a time. Take it off now and then to prevent your skin from getting too cold.
 Tightening your buttocks as you sit down will help to pull the tissue together in the perineum, which will help to prevent it from stretching and pulling at your stitches.You may also find that sitting on a pillow or inflated ring will reduce the pressure and pain in your perineum.
 Depending on your situation, your doctor may recommend that you take a daily sitz bath. Sitz baths can help to reduce the pain, swelling, and bruising around the wound area.Fill a bathtub with warm or cool water. Warm water increases the circulation and may feel good, but cool water can decrease the pain a bit faster.
Sit in the bath for up to 20 minutes.
 Urination can cause stinging and pain in your wound area. Any urine that runs over your wound may also introduce bacteria into your wound.


To reduce discomfort and keep your stitches clean, pour water over the area using a squeeze bottle or water bottle as you are urinating. After you have finished going to the bathroom, squeeze a little more water over the area to clean it off., Bowel movements can be a challenge after an episiotomy. To provide support during a bowel movement, press a fresh sanitary pad against your perineum and hold it there while you go.Doing so should help to reduce your pain and discomfort.


Make sure that you discard the pad after you have finished and use a new one every time you have to go.
 Constipation will increase the pressure against the perineum during a bowel movement. This increased pressure will lead to increased discomfort and stretching of the incision line. To reduce your chances of becoming constipated, make sure that you drink plenty of water, eat fiber rich foods, and get some mild exercise during the day.


Drink at least eight 8-ounce glasses of water a day if you are bottle feeding and a few extra if you are breastfeeding.Try not to get compulsive about drinking water because over hydrating can cut your milk supply. Just don’t allow yourself to be thirsty during the day.
Eat foods that are fiber rich. Fiber rich foods will help loosen your stool and make it easier to have a bowel movement.Fruits and vegetables are good sources of fiber.
Get some mild exercise during the day.Exercise helps your colon move food along. Aim for 15 to 30 minutes of mild exercise a day in the postpartum period.
Talk to your doctor if you still experience constipation. Call your doctor if these measures do not make a difference in your bowel habits within a couple of days. Your doctor may recommend a gentle stool softener until your body becomes regular again.Do not take an over-the-counter stool softener without consulting your physician.

