 To play games obtained from other sources, you will need a modded Xbox 360. This is against the Terms of Service for Xbox 360, so mod your system at your own risk.


Downloading games that you do not own is illegal in most areas, and this guide is intended only for legal backups of games you own.

This guide will get you started on modding your 360.
 Games are downloaded in ISO format, which is an image of the original disc. You can find game files on popular torrent sites. See this guide for details on downloading torrent files.


Sometimes games are compressed before being torrented, so you will need to extract the ISO file from the compressed archive after downloading.
You will need a torrent client such as uTorrent or BitTorrent to download a torrent file. These clients are free.
A quick Google search for "torrent tracker" will give you a variety of sites to search for your game on.
Be sure to read the comments for the torrent before you download it to ensure that the file works for others and that there are no viruses attached.
 This program will "stealth patch" your downloaded games, allowing you to connect to Xbox Live and play online.


Once ABGX360 has been downloaded and installed, run it to begin patching the game.
Browse for the ISO file that you downloaded in the Input section of ABGX360.
Click the AutoFix tab and change it from Level 2 to Level 3.
Click the Misc tab and set your console's region code. Make sure that you select the region you are connecting to online.
Click Launch at the bottom of the window. A new screen will appear with details about the patching process.
If the game fails the verification process, DO NOT play while your console is connected to Xbox Live or you WILL get banned.
 Once the patching is complete, a new DVD file will be created by ABGX360 that sits alongside the ISO file you downloaded. Open a burning program such as ImgBurn and burn the newly created DVD file to a blank DVD.


You will need to manually set layer breaks for the DVD. Open the ImgBurn Settings menu by clicking Tools → Settings. Find the Layer Breaks section, set it to User Specified, and type in 1913760.
Lower the Write Speed of your burner to help ensure that there aren't any errors when burning your game. You should also only use high-quality blank discs, such as Memorex or Verbatim.
Make sure to burn the DVD file to the disc, not the ISO file. The DVD file will automatically load the ISO file during the burning process.
 Once the burn process is completed, insert the disc into your Xbox 360. Remember, if it did not verify ion AGBX360, ensure that your Xbox 360 is not connected to Xbox Live. Once you insert the disc, you can play the game as if it was a real copy.

