 If your adopted teen has suffered traumas in their past, there may be certain situations, places, noises, or other things that trigger them. Talk to your teen about what their triggers are so you can be aware of them. If your teen isn’t aware of their triggers, work with them to identify them so they can be safe.You may want to suggest that the teen go to therapy or trauma counseling.
 Your adopted teen may be from the same culture and ethnicity as your family. They may be from the same culture but be a different ethnicity,. They come from a completely different background, and may come from a different ethnicity, culture, or country. You should make efforts to celebrate your child's heritage in your family.To celebrate your child's uniqueness, you can incorporate cultural ideas and traditions from their heritage. If your adopted child comes from a different country, you may cook food from that country or celebrate that culture's holidays or special events. Try to find cultural events in your area, or have your family meet with other people from your adopted teen's cultural heritage.
Encourage your entire family to learn as much about the country as they can. Everyone should understand your adopted child's racial and cultural heritage.
Since your child is a teenager, talk to them about whether they have any culturally or family specific traditions.
 Your adopted teen will be different than your family. While you should celebrate your child’s uniqueness, you should also focus on the similarities you share. This will help them feel like they are part of the family because there are things that bind the family together.Don’t focus on physical traits. Your adopted teen won’t look like you and any biological children. Instead, you can focus on things you do have in common. For example, all your children love to play soccer, you all love to camp, your partner and the teen love to run, or you all love to read.
Emphasizing the similarities can help your teen feel included.
 Your adopted teen may be going through a lot. They may be grieving the loss of their birth parents, they may be confused about the transition, or they may be dealing with feelings of abandonment from being in foster care. Help your teen by being a positive influence in their life.Smile and talk to your teen often. Do things with them one-on-one as well as with the family.
When your teen does something well, tell them. Provide plenty of encouragement and positive reinforcement. Praise them when they do well, like if they bring home a good assignment from school or do well at a sports game. Give them positive reinforcement when they try new things, even if they don’t succeed.
If your child does something wrong, be gentle and loving when you discipline them. Help them understand that you won’t abandon them or give up on them if they make a mistake.
 Some adopted teens don’t feel like they can talk about the adoption process, their time in foster care, or their birth parents. They may feel guilty bringing up these topics or feel like it makes them separate from the family. Help your teen understand that their experience is valid and deserves to be discussed and shared with the family.Encourage your teen to explore their heritage. Help them discover family trees if possible, visit places where their ancestors lived, or find photos of grandparents or other relatives.
If your adopted teen is from another culture or ethnic background, encourage them to learn as much about their cultural heritage as possible. Connect them with other people of similar backgrounds and help them find events to attend.
Be honest about the birth parents, but help them be fair, too. For example, if their birth parents had a substance abuse problem, help them acknowledge that but see past it to learn more about their birth parents as people beyond the substance abuse.
 You may want to help your teen transition by putting them in contact with other teens or people in your area who are adopted. This may help them connect to others who have been through what they are going through.Connecting with other adopted teens or adults may allow them a safe place to vent their emotions to people who can provide insight into the situation.
Consider getting your teen a mentor who is an adopted adult who can help them adjust to the new situation.

