


The only items in your inventory should be some food (Cooked fish, such as sharks, lobsters, and if you're a lower level, trout) and a decent sword and armor set. Full iron doesn't cost too much, even to lower levels.;
,, Skimming along the ocean edge, enjoy the solitude as you head north. Make sure you avoid any yellow dots on your mini-map. Somewhere before level 40 you will probably see a pair of knights guarding a steel dagger.Toggle "run" on and "auto retaliate" off and swiftly nab the dagger, hoping the knights don't kill you. You have just found your first treasure, which could be sold at Varrock's sword shop for about 70 coins. Which, even in the lower levels, in a trivial useless amount of money, so carry on.
 Inside are vicious monsters in excess of level 100 and the Mage Arena. If you are a member and under level 30, don't even bother. What you should be worrying about are the level 80+ Greater Demons that can hit at least 120! That shouldn't be much unless you're lower than level 20. To avoid these, follow the same procedure as before when nabbing the dagger. After you've reached the gates, skim along the eerie fence toward the west.
 If you can, using "the procedure", try to climb up their mound. At the top you may find some rare minerals(emerald, sapphire, diamond, etc.)which can be sold at Falador's gem shop for over 100 coins! Note these still spawn very slowly, and this is still a very trivial amount of money.


Understand that, if you survived the barrage of genetically modified spiders, so far be around level 45 in the wilderness and have passed demons, knights, and spiders as you head west along the fence.
 Some of these monsters can grow in excess of level 50 and have low to moderate strength.
 Once you hit the mountains,head south along the foothills and, once again, enjoy the serene feeling of loneliness.


You are now completing your u-shaped treasure hunt across the wilderness.
 The monsters here mean you no harm, even the level 20+ bears so don't break a limb. You may find some everyday items amongst the ruins, as well as a coin or two(or 15).
 More southward, and you will find a graveyard with some aggressive ghosts around level 20. The "procedure" here you must use.
 You are now somewhere around Goblin Village. You can either trek about half a kingdom or you can use the 'Home Teleport' spell.

