 Try to limit how much fat you eat in your diet — fat is difficult to digest and can cause you to gain weight, which also impacts stomach problems. When you choose meats, avoid tough meats and those with casings like hotdogs or sausages; instead, opt for poultry, fish, or tofu.Lower your fat intake by replacing red meat with poultry and fish, opting for low-fat or non-fat dairy, and cooking with olive oil instead of butter.
 Yogurt contains beneficial bacteria in the form of probiotics and is high in calcium, which can offset the effects of acid-forming foods. Also, try other fermented foods, such as kimchi, sauerkraut, natto, or kefir.If you’re lactose intolerant, try replacing milk with yogurt. Many people who cannot digest milk deal with yogurt better., Fruits and vegetables provide essential fiber to assist with digestion and increase the health of good bacteria in the gut. However, if you have diverticulitis stay away from berries with small seeds like strawberries, corn, and small seeds and nuts – these can aggravate the intestine.Bananas are a great, soft fruit that also provide a lot of fiber.
Ginger is an excellent root to add for flavor, and is also known to calm the stomach.
 These are both very acidic and high in caffeine, which can contribute to heartburn and stomach upset.Caffeine can also increase your stress levels, which may increase risk of other health issues such as ulcers. Try red tea (rooibos) instead – it is high in antioxidants, low acid-forming, and has no caffeine.
 The phosphoric acid and sugar feed unhealthy bacteria populations in your gut. Sugary foods can also result in diarrhea and cause weight gain.Stay away from diet sodas, as well; the carbonation can worsen gas, and many diet beverages contain artificial sweeteners.
 Alcohol can contribute to a number of stomach problems, including ulcers, heartburn, diarrhea, and nausea. Drinking alcohol can also worsen nutritional disorders.If you don’t drink, don’t start. If you do, keep it to a minimum: 1 alcoholic beverage per day for women, and 2 per day for men.
 Many people are sensitive to artificial colors and food additives like MSG, even though they’re “recognized as safe” by the Food and Drug Administration.Try to buy natural, organic foods if you have a sensitive stomach and stay away from products listing artificial additives in the ingredients. Limit your intake of:


”Artificial flavors” or “FD&C,” and anything labeled in the ingredients list as a color and a number like “red no. 4.”
MSG, also sometimes listed as glutamic acid, hydrolyzed protein, and others.Artificial sweeteners like Sweet’N’Low and Equal.
Deli meats and processed, pre-packaged foods.

