 Begin with the assumption that the child is capable, they mean well, and they are trying hard already.Help them rise to meet your expectations. Optimism can lift the child's spirits, and bring positive results.
 Even if it doesn't make sense to you, it is fulfilling some sort of purpose for the child, or expressing something.There is a reason; you just don't know it yet.
 Each person thinks differently, and these differences can be especially profound between autistic and non-autistic people. The child's reasoning may be completely different from what you think it is., Gaining abilities is not a linear progression,and if a child is stressed or worn out, they might not be able to do things that they otherwise could.If a child is resisting your attempts to make them do something, it might be that they can't do that thing at the moment,or that they don't understand.For example, instead of "Jamal is angry and won't tell me why. He's so difficult!," you could think "Jamal is angry and can't tell me why. Maybe he's too upset to speak. I'll help him calm down, and then maybe I can figure out what's going on."
Sensory input, exhaustion, stress, seizures, anxiety, and more can affect ability levels. For example, perhaps your daughter can usually put her plates in the dishwasher, but after a night of bad sleep and hearing pots clanging in the kitchen, it is too overwhelming one day.
 This may be frustrating to you, but chances are, it is even worse for the child. Responding kindly can lessen the child's stress, making it easier for them to communicate or do a difficult thing., Remember, positive strategies help more than negative ones. The child will see you as a friend and ally, not a punisher.


Autistic children might not be able to understand why they are being punished, making it completely ineffective.Be a team. You are not the child's opponent, nor are they the passive object of a project.The child needs to feel that you care about their feelings, that you'll listen to them, and that they can come to you with problems.
Never make basic needs contingent on a certain level of behavior. An autistic person may resort to "behaviors" when under extreme duress, and they may not be capable of producing the desired solution at the time.
 Make it clear that you don't need them to pretend to be "normal."Encourage their strengths, embrace their uniqueness, and make it clear that you love them just the way they are.

