 Do you want a hat to wear every day? For a special event? Are you buying the hat for fashion needs? For warmth or sun protection? What seasons do you expect to wear the hat in? Knowing this in advance can narrow your options from the start.;
, There are all kinds of hats in the world, from casual to Kentucky Derby. Look through fashion magazines, catalogues, or online to get some ideas.
 The first rule of hat buying is that it should be proportional to your body.Your hat should balance out your dimensions rather than exaggerate them.


Tall crowns and upturned brims are lengthening, while wide and down turned brims make you appear shorter.A hat's brim should be no wider than the width of your shoulders.
The larger your build, the more hat you can get away with., See Part 2 for how to determine your face shape.
 If you're not sure about this, notice which color(s) you're wearing when you receive a compliment or simply feel your best when you look in the mirror. Chances are, this is your color!

, Your new hat will be one of the most prominent elements of your wardrobe, so it should complement your personal style.


Boho: berets, floppy wide brims, wide-brim fedoras
Preppy: structured hats with a wide brim, such as picture hats, bretons and boaters; structured berets, cloches, fedoras
Boys and tomboys: newsboy cap, fedoras, bowlers, boaters, ball caps, beanies
Vintage elegance: delicate pillbox styles, fascinators, structured wide brims, wide-brim cloches
Grunge: baseball hats, bowlers, soft berets or beanies, structured rolled wide brimsIf you're buying the hat to go with a specific outfit (for a wedding, cocktail party, etc.), you would do better not to match the hat mechanically to the attire. Find one that complements the look, rather than copying it.Consider your hairstyle. Many hats look best when long hair is pulled back and tucked into the ears.However, if you want to wear your hair loose, this is another factor when making your decision.
Loose and flowing hair: berets, fedoras, floppy, bowlers
Short styles (pixies, bobs, etc.): cloches, picture hats, bretons, rolled brims, floppy wide brims, some pillbox styles
Shoulder-length: cloches, wide brims of any kind, fedoras, pillbox styles (better with curls), boaters, bowlers
Bangs: upturned brims, or wider down-turned ones, such as a wide-brim cloche, Hats can be pricey, but you can often find some great deals at vintage or thrift shops.


If you don't have enough money for your perfect hat earn the money!


, Browse shops in your local area and search online to get a sense of prices and availability.
 Your neck should also be visible, so avoid turtlenecks or collars.
,, The following are characteristics of each face shape, and the hats that suit them:


Oblong: long and narrow, slightly rectangular with wider points at jaw and hairline. Draw attention to your eyes with styles worn forward on the head and round or square crowns. You might also want a hat that can be pulled down to the eyebrows to diminish the vertical. Think cloches, tilted fedoras, or floppy hats.
Oval: longer than it is wide, and slightly wider at cheekbones than at forehead and jawline. Oval faces can wear just about anything, but if you have delicate features look for smaller-brimmed classic styles that accentuate your face. One trick is to make sure the crown is not wider than your cheekbones.
Round: length and width across cheekbones are equal. Balance out the soft shape of your face shape with structured hats, wide brims, angular styles, cloches or fedoras.
Triangular/Pear: widest points at jawline, with rounded chin and narrower forehead. Create length with a high crown and small brim (short, straight or upturned). Decorative additions to one side of the hat has an asymmetrical effect that may be flattering.
Square: hairline is wide and flat, equally wide across forehead and jaw; length and width almost equal. Balance the sharp angles of your face with softer designs like the cloche hat, large, soft brims, upturned brims, and round or curved crowns. Avoid square styles.
Diamond: wide cheekbones with narrow chin and forehead. Like the oval face, the diamond face can wear many styles. Small brims and high crowns accentuate the cheekbones and chin. Avoid a disproportionate silhouette by skipping peaked hats or any crown that's narrower than your cheekbones.
Heart: wider through forehead and cheeks with a narrow chin; cheekbones are prominent. Look for asymmetrical medium to small brims or bucket styles, as these narrow the face. Upturned brims draw attention to the eyes and create the illusion of length to balance a wider forehead. Avoid berets, baseball caps and straight brims, This information can help you find the right size hat.


Use a cloth tape measure (or a length of string that you can later measure with a ruler).
Place the tape measure around your head in a circle about 1/8 inch (3 mm) above your ears, across the middle of your forehead. This is roughly where the hat will sit on your head.
The tape should fit firmly but not tightly.
Remove the tape and note the measurement.
Hat sizing may vary from manufacturer to manufacturer, so always try on your hat or consult their sizing chart for specifics., Don't be shy: ask to try on any style that strikes your fancy. You might also get suggestions from the sales staff, which may (or may not) be helpful and give you new ideas. Remember, the final decision is up to you.


When you go hat shopping, wear an outfit that is typical for your style. Or, if you're buying a hat for a special occasion, bring the clothes you expect to wear along with you to compare.
 When you find a style you like, make sure the size feels good. It shouldn't squeeze your head or pop off. Remember, you want a hat you'll feel great in. If the size is wrong, even slightly, you're much less likely to wear it.


If the hat is just a bit too large, you might try a hat sizer. These are inserted into the inside of the hat's sweatband for a more secure fit.,


Gentlemen, remember to remove your hat indoors. Ladies, you can usually flaunt your hat anywhere you please, but do take it off at audience events, where you might block someone's view (besides the obvious exceptions, such as at the race track).

