 Birth records can be released to the individual named on the birth certificate. They may also be released to people who are directly related to the individual, as well as legal representatives.Check the Arkansas Vital Records website to determine if you are eligible.
The law states that the state "shall upon written receipt of written application issue a certified copy of a vital record" to the "the registrant, his or her spouse, child, parent, or guardian or their respective authorized designated representative."
It goes on to say, "Others may be authorized to obtain certified copies when they demonstrate that the record is needed for the determination or protection of his or her personal or property rights." This means that potentially, anyone with a personal or property interest in a birth certificate may also be entitled to order a birth certificate.
The Arkansas website also specifies that "academic research groups" may also be entitled to these records.;
, The order form is available online and can be downloaded and printed.


If you need a Birth Certificate Resulting in Stillborn Application, download this form here.
 Provide complete information on the order form. You will need to include the full name of the individual named on the birth certificate.


You need to name the person’s birth name. If the person has changed his or her name, provide the original name.
Note your relationship to the person named on the certificate, as well as your reason for ordering the certificate.
 You must include your signature on the form. Otherwise, your form will not be processed.
 You will need to submit a copy of your government-issued photo identification with your application. If you are submitting your application in person, you can show the photo ID to the clerk.
 You will need to pay with cash, check or money order for the exact amount. The first copy of the certificate costs $12. Each additional copy costs $10.


Make checks or money orders payable to “Arkansas Department of Health.”
Credit cards are not accepted by Arkansas Vital Records., Your form and supporting documentation can be submitted to the Arkansas Vital Records office in Little Rock. Otherwise, you can mail in your order form.


Visit the office in person between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. at: 4815 West Markham Street, Little Rock, Arkansas. If you arrive before 4:00 p.m., you may be able to get same-day service.
Mail your form and documentation to: Arkansas Department of Health Vital Records, Slot 44, 4815 West Markham Street, Little Rock, Arkansas 72205.
You will receive a copy of your birth certificate in 4-6 weeks.
 If you need a copy of the birth certificate quickly, you can place an Express Service order over the phone or online. These orders go through VitalChek, a service provider that contracts with state health departments to provide vital records.


Order the birth certificate by visiting the VitalChek website. You can also call VitalChek at (866) 209-9482. Be sure to have all your information ready.

