 Japanese is a popular language that is taught at nearly every university and community college. Check into taking a course at a local school so that you can learn under the instruction of someone who is fluent in Japanese.


Do your Japanese homework. It may seem like it will take forever to learn the 2,000 Kanji characters or get a grasp on Japanese vocabulary, but these are important steps to take if you want to learn how to speak Japanese with fluency.
Participate in workshops and class discussions. The written homework is important, but learning how to converse in Japanese requires that you get out of your comfort zone and let your voice be heard during class. Raise your hand, go to the workshops, and get in as much speaking practice as you can.
 Online courses are a good alternative if you want to save a little money. Many are designed to encourage you to speak out loud by hosting virtual classroom discussions and workshops. Do some research to find a course that fits your needs and take it as seriously as you would any university course.
 Language software produced by companies like Rosetta Stone is designed to help you learn at your own pace by using CDs and workbooks to gradually learn the language. Check out reviews before you decide which software to purchase, since this option can be rather pricey.
 Hire a more advanced Japanese student or a fluent Japanese speaker to help you build a solid foundation in Japanese. You could hire a tutor as a supplement to the courses you are taking or the software you are using, or choose someone who is equipped to teach you the language on his or her own.


Check out the classified listings at local colleges and universities for Japanese tutors. Students hoping to make some extra money tutoring often advertise on bulletin boards and college websites.
You could also hire a tutor who is actually living in Japan. Put up an ad on Craigslist stating that you're looking for a Japanese tutor and would be willing to have tutoring sessions online using Skype or another online video chat program.

