 Wear athletic shoes and flexible clothing. Start each exercise session with these stretches.


Even if you are not working out, try doing these stretches twice each day to improve your flexibility.Try to make them part of your morning and evening routine.;
, Reach your right arm straight out in front of you, parallel with the ground. Your hand should be flat with your palm facing the ground. Step forward to put your weight on your left foot and kick your right foot up towards your hand with your toes flexed. You should work towards touching your toes to your palm.


Repeat while alternating legs.
Go back and forth over the 10 yards (9.1 m) 4 times while repeating the exercise.
 Place a sturdy chair before you. Step back and lean forward onto the chair.


Start with your feet slightly turned out.
Place your right foot straight out behind you with the toe touching the ground.
Kick up as high as you can, while making sure your lower back stays stable. Look straight ahead to keep your spine in alignment.
Repeat, kicking up 20 to 30 times.
Switch legs. Aim to stretch your leg as far as you can backward while you kick.
Always kick with control., Extend your arms in front of you and hold your hands at waist height. Run in place while lifting your quads high enough to touch your hands with every step. Continue alternating your knees as many times as possible for 30 to 60 seconds.


High knee exercises are also good for the core and for cardio training. Repeat during high-intensity intervals.
 Run in place, but keep your thighs straight beneath your body and kick your lower legs back on each step. Bring the heel of your foot up as high as possible with each step. The goal is to kick your glutes with your heels. Run in place for 30 seconds. This exercise will target your glutes which are important in increasing the flexibility and extension of your hips., You should be doing basic hamstring, quadricep and hip flexor stretches before you take these on. Make sure you warm up with at least 5 minutes of cardio before doing them.
 Sit on the ground with your legs outstretched as wide as they can go. Place your hands firmly in front, just above your groin.


Transfer your weight slowly to your arms.
Rotate forward until you start to feel a stretch in your groin. Stop rotating when the stretch becomes too painful.
Hold the stretch for 90 seconds to 3 minutes.
 Get into a hurdle position, with the right leg outstretched and the left leg stretched in the opposite direction. Keep a knee bend in your left leg until you are set up for the stretch.Place your arms on either side of your legs.
Transfer the weight into your arms. Lift your body up and try to unbend your back knee from the hurdle position.
Aim to keep both legs outstretched in opposite directions, with the weight concentrated on your center.
Hold the stretch in a position that isn’t too painful. Stay in the position for 30 to 60 seconds. Switch sides.
Do this stretch every day for maximum benefit.
 Once you have mastered center splits and side splits, you are prepared to increase your groin and leg flexibility for even higher kicks. When you get in the full split position, place a rolled up towel below your front foot.
 Enroll in basic pilates classes, which are known for both core strengthening and flexibility. You can also rent pilates DVDs from your local library.
 Lay down with your back flat. Bring your knees up to tabletop position while you flex your core in and up.


Lift your shoulders, neck and head up from the ground.
Straighten both legs. Move your right leg to a 45-degree angle.
Reach and grasp the back of your left leg.
Kick the right leg toward you while you lower your left leg to 45 degrees. Grasp your right leg.
Kick up twice and switch your legs.
Repeat for 30 seconds to 1 minute.
Once you improve your core strength, try to do this exercise without your arms.
The scissor kicks will improve flexibility and ab strength.
 Get onto all fours with your wrists directly below your shoulders.Stretch one leg back until it is fully extended, then the other. This will transfer your body weight onto your toes and hands. Be sure your body is in a long line.


Hold the position for 30 seconds. Work up to 2 minutes with good form.
The plank exercise will strengthen your entire body. Do it on an exercise mat to increase stability. , Lay on your stomach. Reach your arms and legs straight out.


Lift your right arm and your left leg. Hold them for 3 seconds.
Lower those limbs and lift your left arm and right leg.
Repeat the swimming motion slowly for 1 minute.
Then, kick your arms and legs in a swimming motion quickly for 1 minute.
This exercise will improve your back strength.
 Increasing your balance will greatly improve your ability to maintain control while kicking. You can work on your balance daily with simple exercises such as standing on one foot for 30 seconds each, or walking heel-to-toe in a straight line.If you workout at a gym you can try balancing yourself on the wobble board as well.
 To perform various kicks as high as you can, be sure that you are using the proper techniques by studying your body alignment. If your body is not in the correct position to execute kicks you may not be able to kick very high, and you may increase your chance of injury.


When doing a side kick raise your right arm to the side with your palm down. Lean forward slightly so that your pelvis tilts. Raise your right leg, keeping it bent slightly and kick the palm of your hand with the side of your foot. Increase the height of your hand as it becomes easier to perform the kicks., It doesn't matter if you want to kick higher for dance, martial arts or cheerleading, you need to practice. Regular practice with build the muscles you use to kick while improving your balance and form. Learning to kick higher won't happen overnight, but if you stick with your training you will improve over time.

