 Particularly if you were harmed by a prescription drug, you may receive a notice regarding any existing class action lawsuit.If you receive a notice, it means you've been identified as a potential member of the class.
For example, the attorneys representing the plaintiffs may have received a list of patients who were prescribed the drug by their doctors.
Since information about purchasers is more difficult to find, it's unlikely you'll receive a notice if you were harmed by an over-the-counter medication.
The notice itself may contain very little information about the lawsuit itself or the harms suffered by the plaintiffs. However, it typically will list a website you can visit or phone number you can call for more information.;
, You may have several options available, depending on how far along the litigation has progressed.If you've received a notice informing you that a judge has certified the class, you may have the ability of opting out, being included in the class, or even participating as a named plaintiff.
You may want to consider participating as a named plaintiff if you suffered a serious injury or spent a lot of money on treatment as a result of the harm caused by the drug's side effects.
However, if the notice you receive is a notice of settlement, typically your only options are either to accept the settlement or opt out.
If your injuries are significant, you may want to opt out and sue the company on your own if you don't believe your share of settlement proceeds would adequately cover your losses.
 In most cases a notice is sent to inform you that you have automatically been included in a class, but you still may need to contact an attorney.For example, if you've decided you'd like to participate in the lawsuit as a named plaintiff, you typically will need your own attorney.
You can contact the attorneys listed on the notice to find out more about what you should do if you want to join the harmful drug class action lawsuit.
However, you also may want to talk to an attorney near you who has experience with harmful drug class actions. That attorney can evaluate your case and give you advice on whether you should join the class action lawsuit, file a lawsuit yourself, or do something else.
 The notice should provide details on how to communicate your decision regarding the lawsuit.The notice typically will have contact information for the attorneys or law firm representing the plaintiffs. Depending on the scope of the lawsuit, there may be different attorneys in charge of plaintiffs in different regions of the country.
The notice also may have a phone number you can call, or a website you can visit, if you want to opt out of the class and any settlement. If you were automatically put on the class's registry, you must act to have your name removed.
If you decide you want to pursue your own lawsuit, make sure your name is removed from the class's registry before the deadline listed on the notice. Otherwise you'll lose your right to file your own lawsuit.

