 If you cannot find a lollipop mold, pour 2 cups (250 grams) of powdered sugar onto a baking sheet, then create 10 indentations using the bottom of a spice jar.Alternatively, you can also use a baking sheet coated with cooking spray.







;
, Pour the water into a small saucepan, then stir in the sugar and corn syrup. Turn the heat up to medium and allow the sugar to dissolve.










Make sure that you use light corn syrup, or your candy won't end up clear or take color well.
 Make sure that the bottom of the thermometer does not touch the bottom of the saucepan. If you don't have a candy thermometer, don't worry; you can still make candy., Turn the heat up to high, and wait for the mixture to come to a boil. Wait until it reaches the hard-crack stage, between 300 and 310°F (149 and 155°C). Do not stir the mixture during this time.








If you don't have a candy thermometer, you can test whether or not the candy is ready by dropping some of it into a glass of ice water. If the candy turns hard, it's ready.
 While not necessary, a little bit of extra flavor and color can take your lollipops to the next level. Be careful while doing this, however, as the mixture may splatter.









#* Use clear flavoring extracts and oils. They will allow the color of your candy to show up better.Make sure that you use gel food coloring; liquid food coloring will not mix well into the candy.
 If you are using a baking sheet sprayed with cooking spray, leave about 3 to 4 inches (7.62 to 10.16 centimeters) between each puddle to allow for spreading. If you wish to add some edible flowers, fill the molds half-way first, place the flowers face-down into the melted candy, then fill the molds the rest of the way.Use the tip of a lollipop stick to push the flowers into the molds, if needed.
 Give the lollipop half a turn after you press it into the candy. Make sure that the sticks go about halfway up the melted candy.
 If you used powdered sugar molds, your candy will have a frosted look. If you don't want that, run the candy under warm water for a few seconds to wash the powdered sugar layer off.








Consider sprinkling some sprinkles onto your lollipops before they harden. Gently press the sprinkles down into the melted candy to help them stick.