 You can buy calling cards at most convenience stores and grocery stores, or you can shop online. Pay attention to how many minutes you have available on your card before making a call.If you are buying your card from a store, the clerk will have to activate the card for you before you can use it.When you buy a calling card online you may not receive a physical card. Once you make your payment, you will receive an access number and your PIN.;
, Each card comes with an access number that you must dial before you can place your call. The access number could be a toll-free number, or a local access number., Each card will provide you with a PIN, or personal identification number. Once you have dialed the access number, you will receive a prompt to enter your PIN.Depending on the type of card you bought, your PIN may be beneath a scratch-off coating. In some cases the PIN may be printed on the receipt., When your call is connected, you will you start using the minutes on your pre-paid calling card. The card should give you an update on the number of minutes remaining before the call is connected., After your call has been connected, you can talk as long as you have minutes. When you're finished with your call, just hang up., When shopping for a calling card, it's easy to get overwhelmed. You can find cards intended for a particular region, or cards that are for general international calls. Some cards are only good for one phone call, while others will allow you to make several.Most calling cards have disclaimers on the back of the card. Some of these disclaimers can be quite long, and the print can be small. However, it's worth it to read the disclaimer to find out exactly how the calling card will function., Some calling cards have a fee for everything. You may find that there is a weekly maintenance fee, a connection fee, a post-call fee, and in some cases, a dialing fee.If you end up using your card for a single phone call, fees may not be much of an issue for you. But, if you plan on using your card for multiple calls, be careful. You may end up losing your minutes to fees.Post-call fees can be up to $1 after the first call, or $1 for each week you have the card. Other cards charge a 35% surcharge for having the card.Most cards have a fee for calling from a pay phone. This fee can be anywhere between 59 cents and $1.35. You might also end up paying a fee for using a toll-free number instead of a local access number.Some cards charge a maintenance fee when you use the card to check your minutes, but don't actually place a call. Be wary of cards that do this, as you might use all your minutes checking rates.Before you settle on a card, do some research and make sure you're getting what you pay for. In some cases, you may only get the full amount of minutes if you only use your card for a single phone call., Calling card rates can vary depending on where you are trying to call, and what kind of card you have. For example, the rates to call Mexico City could be between 2/10 of a cent to 40 cents. To call Guatemala City, you could pay between 7-49 cents. These rates are liable to increase if you are calling a mobile number.Check the packaging or the company website for international rates by country.
 If you are buying a calling card for travel abroad, make sure you will be allowed to use it. Some countries restrict the use of calling cards.Read traveler's guides for to learn the best ways to make calls in the country you are visiting.
 There is a lot of conflicting information in the calling card industry. Sometimes the advertised rate on the card doesn't match up with the rate you actually receive. In some cases the rate is lower, but it's just as likely to receive a higher rate.Buy a card that has a customer service number, that way if you have any problems, or find any inconsistencies, you can report it. If you end up with a card that doesn't have a functional customer service line, you may want to alert the Federal Trade Commission., Some cards are only good for a certain length of time, and the countdown to expiration may start as soon as you activate your card.Avoid buying too many cards at once. Rather, buy calling cards as you need them., The packaging of your card will indicate whether or not it can be recharged. If you can recharge your card, follow the instructions on the packaging or visit the company website to do so. Beware of recharging fees, which are not uncommon. Call the company if you are not sure whether you will be charged a fee for adding money to your card.