 Add 1 cup (200 g) of sugar, the finely grated zest from one orange, ¼ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of kosher salt, 2 cups (473 ml) of freshly squeezed orange juice, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of lemon juice, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl of a food processor. Process the mixture for 1 minute, or until the sugar dissolves.If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a blender to mix the ingredients.
You’ll need approximately approximately 2 pounds (907 g) of oranges to get the juice that you need.;
, After you’ve mixed the ingredients in the food processor, pour the mixture into a large bowl. Add 1 ½ cups (355 ml) of very cold whole milk to the bowl, and use a whisk to blend all of the ingredients together.It’s a good idea to chill the bowl that you’re mixing the sherbet in for 20 to 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
To make creamy sherbet, you must use whole milk. You can substitute half and half, though, if you want your sherbet to even creamier.
Make sure that the milk is chilled when you mix it into the other ingredients.
 Once the sherbet ingredients are mixed, cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Place the bowl in the refrigerator, and chill it for at least 1 hour, or until the mixture reaches 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius) or below.If you want to prepare the sherbet mixture the day before, you can refrigerate it overnight.
 When the sherbet mixture is cool enough, transfer it to your ice cream maker. Mix it according to the manufacturer’s instructions so the sherbet has the consistency of soft serve ice cream.If you don't have an ice cream maker, pour the mixture into a freezer-safe container and freeze it for approximately 6 to 8 hours, stirring every hour to achieve the soft serve texture.
 After the sherbet has reached soft serve consistency, transfer it to a freezer-safe container. Cover it with the lid or plastic wrap, and freeze it until it is firm enough to scoop, which should take approximately 3 hours.The recipe will make approximately 1 quart (946 ml) of orange sherbet.
A metal loaf pan works well as a freezer-safe container for the sherbet.

