 Begin with a T-shirt several sizes too large for you. If you want the bottom of the dress to flare out, choose a shirt much too long for you.;
, Take your measurements using measuring tape, including your bust, waist, and hips. Lay the T-shirt flat and measure it at each of the appropriate areas. Measure half the distance of your measurements (since you are only measuring one side), add at least ½ inch (1.25 cm), and mark it in chalk. Connect these measurements with straight lines. Measure the length from your shoulders to the desired length of your dress, and use this measurement to outline the end of the dress. Finally, repeat these steps for the opposite side of the shirt.


Add up to 2 inches (5 cm) for a looser fit. Add extra width at the base if you want the dress to flare.






Curved lines do not work well for this project. Stick with straight diagonals.
 If you want a sleeveless dress, trim off the sleeves, or trim off the entire upper edge of the shirt. This will only work on a tight-fitting dress, so it may not be wise for your first no-sew project.


Trimming knit fabrics will cause the material to "roll."







, You'll need this extra fabric to tie the dress together and adjust the size. Cut out the extra-large outlines on both sides of the shirt. Discard the fabric strips you just removed in between them.
 Make one straight cut about every ½ inch (1.25 cm), all the way up and down the left and right side of the dress. Make these cuts on the undersides of the sleeves as well, if you kept them. Repeat for the other half of the dress, making the same number of cuts in the same places.
 Lay one half of the dress over the other, with matching strips of fabric along the edges. Tie together each pair of strips. Test this partway through to make sure the dress fits. Adjust the location of the knots to change the dress size.


Double-knot flimsy or knit fabrics, but stick to single knots for 100% cotton shirts.
 Once you've tied the dress together, trim the hanging fabric to about a ¼ inch (6 mm) length, just enough to hold the knots together. Optionally, cut the neckline to the desired shape, and trim the base of the dress. Now you're ready to try on your latest threads!


To make your dress more shapely, clinch it around the waist with a tight belt.







