 Never use inappropriate language (swear words, rude words). Avoid rude topics, like discussing bodily functions. You should also replace words in your vocabulary with their innocent alternatives (God with gosh, Hell with h-e-double-hockey-sticks, damn with darn, etc).;
, Never smoke, drink, hang out at night, or take in inappropriate media (tv shows or books with adult themes, like violence or sex). Save yourself, sexually, for marriage and act appropriately around members of the opposite gender. If you struggle with these things, get an adult or friend to act as a chaperone.
 Innocent people don't like to fight with others, so never get into a fight if you can help it. If you do have a problem with someone, get help from an adult or a superior, like a parent, teacher, or boss. Certainly avoid using serious insults with someone. Using childish, harmless insults can make you look more innocent, however (think stinky-pants, butt-face, etc).
 Innocent people are usually very kind and sweet, so do your best to act that way. Ask people about their day and things that you know are important to them. Compliment people frequently and honestly. Help out with anything you can. And importantly: always be polite!

, A good work ethic is also associated with innocent people, so make school, work, or charities your priority. Try to aim for being the best, getting straight A's or making your boss really happy. Help out your local church or religious institution, or choose another charity to help out, like Girl Scouts or Amnesty International.
 If you are old enough to be interested in relationships with another person, try to be chaste in how you interact with them. When you flirt, be subtle and shy. Compliment them politely. Never try to be sexy. Let them do the romancing. Just realize that this makes getting their attention a lot harder!

, When people say something bad or do something bad, react with surprise. Innocent people don't realize that people do bad things, so you should be more surprised than angry. You can even seem a little upset. Averting your eyes or covering your ears can also add some innocence to your attitude.


Having a strong opinion on complex issues, however, is not very innocent! Avoid lecturing!

, Little kids are truly innocent. Spend time with them and interact with them to see how they act. Try to be more like them. You can babysit or volunteer for your church's daycare. If you have young family members, you can try to spend more time with them too. If you're good academically, you can volunteer as a tutor at a local elementary school.
 Try not to think about adult subjects. If you start to think about someone physically, refocus onto something else. If you start to think mean or violent thoughts, refocus onto something else.


There are lots of ways to refocus, but you can try saying prayers or reciting verse inside your head. You can also start singing your favorite Disney song inside your head. If you need to, simply leave the area you are in or the activity you are doing to help your brain refocus.
 Enjoy the things that innocent people enjoy. Children's media and activities are a great place to start. You can watch kid's TV shows like My Little Pony, movies like VeggieTales or Disney films, or activities like board games or crafts.
 You tend to pick up the behaviors of the people around you, so surround yourself with good people. Ditch rude, inappropriate friends and keep friends who are also innocent or are at least good and polite.
 These seem as the most common personality traits of innocent people, so try to stay optimistic and positive. Don't whine or complain when things don't go your way, and when you see other people having a tough time, try to help them see the bright side. Let Charlie Chaplin's "Smile" be your theme song!

, Dress in a way that is appropriate for someone of an "innocent" age. Wear clothing that is conservative and looks nice. Knees and shoulders should be covered and necklines should not be too low. You can also choose younger hairstyles, like two braids for girls, or slicked-back hair for boys.
 Try to get that "Sunday best" look, or a look that is appropriate for church or visiting with your grandparents. Boys can wear pressed pants and a polo, while girls can wear knee-length dresses or skirts and a blouse. Mary Janes (the shoe) for girls or any formal shoe for boys can also drive home the innocent look.
 You want to avoid the "in fashion" colors, jewel tones, and "sexy" colors like red and black. Instead, choose colors that are common in children's clothes, like pastels and some bright colors like yellow, pink, and blue. Very clean, white clothing can also look very innocent.
 Makeup can quickly make you look very adult or sexy, so women should avoid it. If you do need to wear makeup, go for the "natural" look, with just a little pink lipstick, basic foundation, and minimal eye makeup (maybe light mascara and little more).
 Strong scents create a very adult appearance, so avoid cologne and perfume. If you do need to have some kind of scent, try to mimic the smell of laundry or baby (talc) powder. Girls may be able to get away with a light, floral smell.
 To help get that fresh-from-church look, make sure your hair is very carefully kept. Get regular haircuts and keep your hair in a tidy hairstyle, such as braids or slicked back. Avoid popular hairstyles.
 You can get an innocent look by being careful about how you use your eyes. As they say, eyes are the window into the soul. Look away when you see or hear something inappropriate. Look up at people through your eyelashes. You should also look away when people you don't know make eye contact with you, or when someone you like looks at you.

