 If talking to your partner is not an option, you can try using social media to get your partner’s attention and get them to start responding to you online. One way to do this is to tag your partner in your social media posts. Doing this could be a not so subtle way of getting your partner’s attention and forcing them to click on your posts.


You can tag your partner on social media sites like Facebook and Instagram by using the @ symbol in front of your partner’s username on social media. This will tag them in your posts and they will get a notification letting them know you have tagged them. This could force them to then look at your tag and your post.
 Another way you can get your partner’s attention is to share content with your partner on their social media pages. You may post a link to a video they might enjoy on their Facebook wall or you may write a funny comment on their Instagram post. Sharing content with your partner can make them notice you online and put them in the position where they have to at least acknowledge your social media presence.


You may try sharing content with your partner that you think they might find interesting or engaging enough to comment on. Look for videos, articles, and memes online that your partner may like and post it on their social media to get their attention.
 You may resort to this option if you have tried tagging and posting on your partner’s social media to no avail. Only go with this option if your partner is ignoring you due to carelessness or to hurt you, and always try discussing the issue in person with them before resorting to online tactics. Keep in mind calling out your partner online will be public and seen by everyone they know on social media. You do not want to bully your partner online in front of others or shame them. Instead, take on a friendly tone and call them out in a light, fun way so they do not get upset.For example, you may post on your social media, “My partner likes to ignore me on social media because he thinks he’s too cool!” Or you may post a message to your partner on their wall like, “Remember me?”
Try to keep the call out message light and fun. Your partner may get freaked out if you start calling them out a lot online and see it as shaming them into paying attention to you. These types of postings will likely only lead to a fight or a conflict with your partner.

