 The severity of the pain depends upon how deep the crack or break in your tooth is. The surface level of the tooth is the enamel, which is the hardest tissue in the human body. The dentin layer is beneath the enamel, followed by the dental pulp chamber containing the tooth nerves.A crack that goes all the way into the dental pulp layer will be the most painful.
"Craze lines" are cracks that affect only the enamel. Their damage is usually purely cosmetic, though if a craze line is on your front tooth, it may produce sensitivity.
Craze lines can occur when you consume a very hot or very cold beverage, or a combination of the two. They can also be caused by tooth grinding.
 Your dentist should be able to repair most simple chips in teeth. They may also recommend that you seek help from an endodontist for more complex repair.If the tooth requires a root canal, you'll need to see an endodontist. An endodontist is a dentist who has received specialized training in diagnosing and treating oral and facial pain.
Endodontists also are trained in problems associated with the inside of the tooth.
 Treatment for a cracked tooth depends in part on how the tooth was damaged. Common reasons for a cracked tooth include: chewing or biting on something hard (such as an ice cube, an unpopped kernel of popcorn, or fruit stone); a hard blow to the chin or lower jaw; tooth grinding; or gum disease, which has weakened the tooth.Sometimes large fillings serve to weaken the tooth so that it cracks in response to ordinary use.
If you have a habit of chewing pens, pencils or other hard objects, this may also result in chipping your teeth.
 If you tend to grind your teeth, either during the day or at night when you're asleep, you may be more likely to crack a tooth. Biting your lips or inner cheeks may cause enamel to erode.Smoking results in gum problems, which lead to damaged teeth.
Nail-biting is a habit that can result in a chipped tooth, particularly if you bite too hard.
 Grinding is when a person moves their jaw back and forth, pressing the teeth together. You may not even be aware that you grind your teeth at night. Sometimes a chipped tooth is how someone learns they have this bad habit! If you notice any pain in your jaw or tension in your neck, you may be grinding your teeth at night.Every time you grind your teeth, you're injuring your tooth enamel. Over time this will result in weakened teeth.
Over-the-counter mouth guards are less expensive, but may result in difficulty breathing at night.
A good night guard should be comfortable and well-fitted to your teeth. If the guard is working it should relieve any jaw pain in the morning.
 Accidental injuries are a common cause of chipped teeth. Wearing a mouthguard when playing high-impact sports will help prevent this.


Mouthguards come in a variety of price ranges. Recommended mouthguards are comfortable, resistant to tearing, and resilient. Ask your dental care provider for more information.A mouthguard should be long-lasting and easy to clean. It should be fitted to suit the individual's mouth, and should not restrict speech or breathing.
Sports for which mouthguards are recommended include both high-contact sports (such as football, hockey, roller-derby, rugby, etc.) and low-contact sports (such as gymnastics, weightlifting, surfing, etc.).

