 When you receive an EOB from Medicaid, check it against your own records to make sure you received all the products and services listed and that you understand all the entries on the form.If you see any charges or entries that you don't understand, or that you believe are in error, they may be evidence of Medicaid abuse or fraud.
For example, a health care provider may bill Medicaid for services or supplies that you did not receive. If you see anything billed on your EOB that you never received, the listing may be fraud. It also may be possible that the listing was a clerical error., If you notice any suspicious charges on your Medicaid claim forms, bring them up with your health care provider before filing a fraud report.


If a simple clerical error has been made, the health care provider probably will be anxious to have the error corrected as soon as possible.
Fraud can be committed by the health care provider, the insurer, or both. Medical providers may commit fraud by sending duplicate bills, or billing for services that weren't performed. Insurers may commit fraud by, for example, overstating their cost to pay claims or denying valid claims.Health care patients also may commit Medicaid fraud, for example, by providing false information when they apply for services., To file a fraud report, you must have information about the beneficiary as well as the suspicious charges.


Get your information together before you call the hotline. You will be asked the name and Medicaid number of the beneficiary, the names and locations of all relevant health care providers, the dates of service, and the services or supplies at issue.You also should be able to provide the amount of money approved or paid by Medicaid for the services or supplies at issue., The OIG is responsible for investigating reports of Medicaid fraud, and has the authority to levy fines or suspend accounts of those committing fraud.


You may report by filling out the online form, or by calling the toll-free number at 1-800-HHS-TIPS.The OIG also accepts written tips or reports through the U.S. mail at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General, ATTN: OIG HOTLINE OPERATIONS, PO Box 23489, Washington, DC 20026., When your report is investigated, you may be contacted for additional information.


If you chose to file your report anonymously, investigators at the OIG won't be able to contact you, which may result in your report being dismissed for lack of information.

