 There are two to three things you have to do before you start the look. The first thing you want to do is apply a primer.


Apply something like the Mac Paint Pot in Soft Ochre or just a concealer and set it with powder.
Wait for that to set in and then apply a "Base Shadow." This is an eyeshadow that matches your skin tone and that is matte. You can apply these two things with a flat shader brush, or with your finger.
Make sure to also apply the primer on your lower lash line.;
, To help the look build up, grab your favorite black, waterproof eyeliner. Make sure its not something like gel liner or liquid eyeliner, pencil is the best.


Apply this to the tight line, which is also know as the upper water line. If you are not sure what that is, you can look it up on Google, or go up to a Mac store or any other makeup store and they will help you if you have a question.
 Now take a soft brown, matte color on a Mac 217 brush, or any other blending brush you have, and apply that color to your crease. Add some to your "Outer V" and blend that color outwards, but not too far.
 Take a gold color on the same blending brush, apply that to your crease and "Outer V" making sure that these colors stay matte all the time.
, Use a lighter color, that's matte, and apply that to your lid with a flat shader brush.


You can go in with another metallic color and apply that to the middle of your eye to add so more definition and to make your eyes look brighter.
Since you've added your lid color, the color on your crease has faded out a bit. Well, no worries. Just go back in with that brownish gold color, just a little, on the same blending brush and blend that color out, just enough so that it has a natural transitioning thing going on instead of having harsh lines.
 Now taking your favorite black pencil liner, maybe the same one that you used for the tight line, apply some to the inner rim of your eye, and feel free to retouch the upper water line part.


Make sure that you go all the way to your inner corner, and then go back up to your tight line. Be careful though, make sure you are applying this eyeliner to the water line and not the lash line. They are the two different things.



Take your favorite gel liner and an eyeliner brush, and line very close to the upper lash line, starting at the inner corner and towards the edge, almost as if you were using a regular pencil liner.
Take that same brush, or an angled brush if you'd feel more comfortable, and start the wing. To do the wing, you have to start at the edge of your eye and go out, making sure the line is on a slant and not straight up.
Connect the two lines that you created, and fill that triangle in.
Draw a little curved line connecting these two parts and fill that little space in so no one would tell the starting or ending point. If you feel self-conscious or didn't understand anything written here, make sure to watch tutorials about winged liners.



Take a flat shader brush, or an angled brush, and apply some purple to your lower lash line.
Start at the outer edge of your eye and stop at the middle portion of your eye.
Take a clean blending brush and blend that out, then re-apply that purple again.
Repeat this step about three times.
 Now, take a set of lashes that looks natural and apply that to both your top and bottom lashes. Finish off with lengthening mascara, or eyelash booster, and you are done.
