 When a relationship has been going on for a while, sometimes you begin to take your partner for granted. Examine how you prioritize the relationship. Are you paying enough attention to your partner?


Do you set aside regular alone time with your partner? Career, job, and children often lessen the time you have for a relationship. If you've become busy recently, have you remembered to spend time with your partner one-on-one?How often do you communicate with your partner? Oftentimes, we forgot to ask someone about their day or how they're feeling when we're very busy. Make sure you're making an effort to reach out to your partner on a regular basis.;
, The fact is, people have bad habits. When you're with someone for a long time, a mild flaw can start to grate on you. Try to work on accepting those things about your partner that you can't change.


Many believe they can't be happy in a relationship until they work on improving or perfecting their partner's bad qualities. However, this is not the case and can actually be damaging to a relationship longterm. Do you constantly remind your partner to, say, take out the recycling to no avail? If repeatedly talking and nagging does nothing to correct a minor bad behavior, you might have to learn to accept it.Keep perspective. Some days, your partner's constant lateness or sloppiness can seem unbearable, but try to remind yourself this is a mild matter in the grand scheme of things. When you're frustrated, think to yourself, "Yes, my boyfriend/girlfriend is always running behind schedule, but he/she also always remembers to ask me about my dad, listens to my problems when I'm upset, and laughs at my jokes. That's what's really important.", Insecurity on your own part can lessen the spark of a relationship. If you're feeling bad about yourself physically, you may be pulling away from your partner without realizing it. Try to work on feeling attractive.


Changing your style can help you feel attractive. Consider a new wardrobe, hairstyle, or make up. Going shopping and talking to a department store stylist can help.Exercise and eat right. Even if you do not want to lose weight, people tend to feel more attractive when they feel healthy.