 The vet will check your pet's gums, and have a high suspicion of anemia if they are pale and there is no recent history of trauma (shock).


However, some caution needs to be exercised because some cats gums appear pale at the vet's because of fear - adrenaline flooding a fearful cat's system causes peripheral blood vessels in the gum to contract and squeeze the blood out of them. This mechanism redirects blood to the muscles for a quick getaway!

, The standard test is to draw blood the jugular vein in the cat's neck, or the cephalic vein on the foreleg. The blood is placed in an EDTA tube (which includes an anticoagulant to stop the blood clotting), then transferred to a capillary tube (a fine bore glass tube) and centrifuged for 3 to 4 minutes. This packs the red blood cells down under gravity, separating them out from the fluid plasma in which they are suspended. This spun down sample is used to calculate the percentage of red blood cells present.


This is done by laying the capillary tube (a fine tube into which the blood was put prior to centrifugation) on a special gauge. The length of red blood cells is divided by the length of the fluid as a whole and multiplied by 100 to give a percentage. This reading is also known as a packed cell volume or PCV. If this figure is below 33% the cat is anemic.
A PCV between 21-33% is considered mild anemia, between 15-20 % is moderate anemia, and below 15 % is severe anemia, Iron deficiency anemia is rare in cats and usually arises because of chronic blood loss in a cat eating a poorly balanced diet. There is rarely anything to be gained by supplementing a cat with iron.
 Severely anemic cats may need a blood transfusion in order to buy time until the underlying cause of the anemia can be diagnosed and treated. Moderately or mildly anemic cats do not need transfusion because if the bone marrow is working, they will generate new red blood cells. Once the source of blood cell loss or destruction is identified and treated, the cat will make more cells than she loses and the anemia gradually improve.The exception is bone marrow problems which usually carry a grave outlook. Most commonly the bone marrow runs out of "baby" red blood cells because it's used them all up, and so the cat is unable to make new cells. These cats remain anemic, become progressively weaker, and other than repeated blood transfusions there is little by way of treatment and euthanasia may be the most humane option.

