 Before you start looking for work, you need to make sure you are eligible to work. There are some federal and state regulations that say you must be a certain age to work, and others that restrict teens from certain types of jobs. Find out any rules in your state that would keep you from working. You may need to talk to your school to see if you need paperwork from them, as well.Individual companies may also have restrictions about age, so you want to pay attention to those requirements as you are searching and looking at applications. You don’t want to spend the time it takes to file an application if they only hire people who are 18 years or older.;
, One of the most important, and often hardest, aspects of getting a job is learning to ask for it. Talk to everyone you know and tell them you are job searching. Ask them if they know of any good opportunities at the moment. It is great to ask adults like your parents, aunts and uncles, teachers, guidance counselors, and church leaders. These connections can be especially helpful in getting informal jobs like babysitting and lawn care.There is also always the possibility that you know people who work in places that would hire teenagers for assistant type work, filing, or cleaning positions.
Once you have made the initial ask, and especially if the person tells you they will check into something, make sure to follow up with them later on to see if they found out anything.
 A great option for teens is to go the more entrepreneurial route, rather than seeking jobs within a company structure. Going the self-employment route gives you greater flexibility in regards to how often and how many hours you work. When you are using your connections, pointing out your interest in self-employment is always a good plan.The types of jobs you have available in this area include babysitting (which people always need), lawn care (such as mowing, gardening, or even simple landscaping), dog walking, or car washing. You could even offer pickup and delivery services (if you can legally drive) for things like groceries, dry cleaning, or other goods.
People have all kinds of things that they need done, and as a teen, you may be able to offer them lower prices than if they hired an adult. Don’t limit your thinking about what opportunities might be available.
 Volunteering for a while can be a great way to start building relevant work skills that make you more marketable. If you have the time to put into volunteering somewhere on a consistent and long-term basis, you may be able to build enough rapport with them that you can move into a paid position.If the business or organization you are volunteering with starts looking to hire, you will be a better candidate than many others because you already know their environment and goals well.
 In today’s marketplace, online and telecommute jobs are plentiful, and many are viable options for teens. If you have a skill for writing, there are many online platforms that allow you do freelance work. As long as you can perform the writing well, your age would not restrict you. If you have any website design or other graphic design experience, this can be another good option.In many cases, you will still need to meet specific qualification standards. Some freelance jobs will require you to have a degree, some experience, or be of adult age. When looking at potential opportunities, be careful to look for these requirements.
Consider learning to buy and sell things online, such as comics, antiques, or other merchandise. You may need your parents to help set up an account for something like eBay if there is a restriction, but then you would be able to do the work of selling.
Online working options could be great when you are still in school, because they rarely require you to work specific scheduled hours. You would have the freedom to work around your schedule, and do extra work anytime you have days off from school.
 Although jobs may be limited by your age, many great opportunities still exist. Many restaurants, retail stores, or agricultural and labor jobs allow younger employees. Don't say no to these types of jobs, even if they would not be your favorite choice. At 16, this probably won't be your lifelong job, so be willing to do something that you may not love for a while to earn a little money and gain work experience.

