 You can never underestimate the power of appreciating another person for who they are, particularly the special woman in your life. It isn't enough to just say that you're thankful to have her in your life; it's important to spell out why. The details matter because they go to the core of who she is and how her essence is reflected in your eyes.


Notice what she does to help others, including you, and make a comment about how much you value her generosity and kindness. Tell her that you really appreciate her ability to help and care for others.
Pay attention to her appearance changes. Tell her you love her new hair style or her new clothes.
Cherish the little things. Whenever you notice something small that reminds you how much you appreciate her, say it rather than just thinking it.
 One important way of letting her know that you appreciate her is to compliment her. Compliments serve as instant mood-boosters and are an important means for reminding her how much you care about her. Don't compliment her so much that she begins to question your sincerity, but at the same time, don't get into a routine that causes you to forget how much she needs to know that you notice her.


Be specific in your compliments. Instead of making a general remark about how beautiful she is, pinpoint specific aspects of her that amaze you, such as her eyes, her hair or the way she smiles. Singling out a particular reason for why you like or love a person is far more effective than a generalized reason.
Ask questions that are a compliment. For example: "I love your earrings, they are perfect with your outfit. Where did you find them?" A question like this shows that you notice, that you think she looks great and that she has good taste.

Be sincere. If your compliments or comments are not meant sincerely, they won't carry a genuine feeling and she'll pick up on this lack of sincerity. Dale Carnegie once said: ""Flattery is from the teeth out. Sincere appreciation is from the heart out." Therefore, only say things you feel in your heart and believe with all your might.
 Tell her what you love about it. For example: "Darling, you've got such an incredible body. Are you sure we've had three kids and 10 years together?" Let her know she is beautiful, but be specific about what you like. Don't simply tell her she's the most beautiful woman in the world because she won't believe that you're sincere.

