 If your connection with your father is damaged from the past, you may not be sure if connection is something you really want. Ask yourself: how did my father's actions impact my life? Allow yourself to see both the good and the negative effect he's had upon your life.

Allowing yourself to acknowledge that past actions were not okay is part of the process of forgiveness.
Deciding to connect doesn't mean excusing your dad's past behavior. But if you've decided to try to connect, you'll need to find a way to be willing to forgive him for things that hurt you in the past.
 Picking up the phone may be scary, but it's necessary. If you really are serious about connecting with your dad, you'll have to let him know. Say something very simple to break the ice. A simple explanation is the best. For example, "Hi Dad. It's Paul. I was thinking about you and would like to get together sometime. Look forward to hearing back from you."If you don't hear back within the week, try again.
If the phone is too difficult, send him an email.
Include your contact information on everything you send, so that he'll be able to respond.
 Rather than criticize your dad for what he's done to hurt you, stick to your experiences. For example, instead of saying "You always came home drunk," say what you felt: "I grew up feeling confused about what to expect."By using "I" statements, you're avoiding arguing. Your dad can't argue with how you felt.
You're including his behavior in order to share more about your own feelings. For instance, "I used to feel embarrassed to bring my friends over to play," sticks to your own experience, while, "You never had a job and were always hanging around harassing me," might make him defensive.
 If your father did things or made choices that hurt you as a child, you might wonder why he did these things. Perhaps you've made up reasons to explain his actions, but you might be unaware of his real motives. Maybe there were circumstances that you didn't know about as a child that he can share with you now.Examples of questions that you might use include "Can you tell me why you took that job working for the airlines when I was a child?" or "I'd like to understand more about your relationship with your new wife. How did you meet?"
Be careful to keep yourself from asking in a blaming way.
Be open to hearing what he has to say.
 Statements like "You always did this to me..." are provocative and antagonistic: they start fights, not connections. After all, there's nothing he can do to change the past now. Start with the people you are now. If there are lingering feelings from the past, they are yours to work on.If your parents mistreated, abused or neglected you in the past, it wasn't your fault. You can seek help for your wounds in therapy, counseling, or support groups. Your father can't change what's in the past.
The patterns of blaming can be surprisingly deep. If you find yourself getting angry, defensive, or hurt, pause. Take a deep breath. Notice your thoughts, and consider if it seems that you're going into familiar blaming thoughts.
Remember that you can't change him. You couldn't change him when you were a child, and you still can't. Accepting this truth will help you improve your relationship.
 Remember that whatever your father does (or doesn't do) has more to do with him than you. The stories that you tell yourself about your father's intentions are just stories, and aren't necessarily true.If you start to notice patterns in the stories you tell yourself about your father, you'll learn more about yourself. For example, are you finding that you're often the victim of your father's behavior? If so, that's likely a pattern that's continued into other relationships. Allowing yourself new insights into possible alternatives to your dad's behavior provides you with new stories about your own life.
Remember that your dad, like most people, is probably busy. If he doesn't return your phone call, that doesn't mean he doesn't love you. He might have been busy, or simply forgotten. Learning to give your dad the benefit of the doubt will go a long way in deepening the connection you have together.
 Your father will make mistakes. This doesn't make you a victim. It just makes him human. If you let go of the belief that your dad should be perfect, you'll have an easier time connecting with him.A warning sign of believing in a "perfect father" is when you find yourself thinking about what a dad should be like. The belief that there is a right and wrong way to be a father is rooted in setting up expectations that will eventually fail.
Don't compare your dad to other fathers you see, especially when it seems like the other fathers are better than yours. You can't really judge another person's relationship with his father. This is really another way people have of imagining a perfect father.
 To forgive is not the same as excusing your father's actions, and it doesn't mean you're reconciled. But making a decision to forgive is the first step in letting go of the resentments and angers you may still carry from the past.Think about your father's point of view. What was his own childhood like? What pressures was he carrying when you were a child? Try to understand his perspective.
Notice any small feeling of softness that might enter your heart when you think of his perspective. Cultivate that feeling with kindness, knowing that it doesn't mean that you're justifying his behavior.
Try to find some meaning in what you've experienced. Sometimes terrible actions have consequences that bring depth and usefulness to a person's life.
Letting go of the expectations you once had will help you make a stronger connection with your father in today. You may need to talk about things from the past with him, but be willing to forgive him - and yourself - for those things. Holding onto resentments will only get in the way of your connection.If you find yourself obsessing over the past and getting angry about it, talk to someone else, such as a friend, therapist, spouse or religious authority.
Be willing to take this slowly. Forgiveness doesn't come all at once, and relationships can take time to mend.

