 This medicine works by blocking specific body chemicals that cause inflammation.This helps to reduce pain in the joints by inhibiting the production of COX in the brain.
In turn, this reduces the intensity of your pain.
Take acetaminophen (Tylenol), at a dosage of two tablets three times daily.
The maximum dose of Tylenol is 4000mg daily and this should not be exceeded because it can damage your liver.
You can also try naproxen sodium and ibuprofen.
NSAIDs are usually prescribed for about 7 to 10 days, or until inflammation has been relieved.
If you have increased acidity in your body, you should avoid taking NSAIDs.;
, Uricosuric drugs block the reabsorption of urate, thus preventing formation of uric acid crystals in the tissues and increasing the excretion of uric acid from the body.This drug type includes Probenecid and Sulfinpyrazone.
The starting dose for Probenecid is 250 mg two times a day, and can be increased to a maximum dosage of 3 grams daily.
 In severe cases, you can receive intravenous fluid that contains saline to help decrease uric acid in your body.This can be given as a continuous infusion of 2L per 24 hours.
 You can take furosemide (lasix) to dilute your urine.This drug acts by increasing the elimination of uric acid through your urine.
The usual dose is 20 mg once a day but this may be adjusted depending on your condition.
 Xanthine oxidase inhibitors decrease your uric acid production by inhibiting the production of xanthine oxidase, an enzyme responsible for the production of purine.This class of drugs includes Allopurinol.
A maintenance dose for adults is 200 to 300 mg per day.
The use of Allopurinol can result in fatal hypersensitivity, so take it only under the direct supervision of a medical professional.
 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors decrease the solubility of uric acid, which allows the body to eliminate uric acid more efficiently.While taking this type of drug, you must maintain adequate hydration in order to sustain high urine output.
The dosage of this medication varies, and it is best to consult with your physician for an appropriate prescription.

