 In general, both porcelain and ceramic tile are called “ceramic tile”. These tiles are divided into two groups: Non-porcelain tiles and porcelain tiles. The non-porcelain tiles are referred to as ceramic tiles by themselves, separate from porcelain tiles. Now is that confusing? Let’s further define the two groups:


Group one: the non-porcelain tiles are generally made from red or white clay mixtures. They are finished with a durable glaze which carries the color and pattern of the finished tile; although an assortment of tile dyes are used for coloring. They are used in both wall tile and floor tile applications and are softer and easier to cut than porcelain. These non-porcelain ceramic tiles are usually suitable for very light to moderate traffic as they are more prone to wear and chipping than porcelain tiles.






Group two: the porcelain tiles are generally made by the dust pressed method from porcelain clays which result in a tile that is denser and more durable than ceramic tile. The finish is a finer grained and smoother with sharply formed faces. Glazed porcelain tiles are much harder and are more wear and damage resistant than non-porcelain ceramic tiles. They are excellent for light traffic and heavy traffic. Full body porcelain tiles carry the color and pattern through the entire thickness of the tile making them virtually impervious to wear and are suitable for any application. Porcelain tiles are available in matte, unglazed or a high polished finish. Porcelain tile usually cost approximately 10% more than the regular group one ceramic tile.;
, Whichever tile you choose they will add elegance to your home and that is why DIY homeowners prefer tile over other types of wall and floor coverings. Before choosing a ceramic or porcelain tile consider where you are going to use it.


Stay with a good quality ceramic tile if it is going to be in a high traffic area such as an entry way or heavy used hallway.






For bathrooms or laundry rooms, use a porcelain tile. Not only is porcelain tile more durable because of their hardness, they are more resistant to moisture. It is the best choice for tiling bathroom floors, bathroom walls, shower stalls, and when tiling around bathtubs.

