 When you are speak assertively, you should adopt the proper cues in your voice and body. Your body should be relaxed and open, which invites communication. Your voice should be firm, but also calm and clear.Your body should be facing the other person. You should stand tall, but be relaxed.
Maintain eye contact without staring the other person down.
Your voice should be firm, but you should also speak warmly or relaxed. Use short, direct sentences and speak slowly so that you are understood.
 To help you be assertive, you should learn how to speak in facts instead of criticisms or judgments. This helps to avoid any defensiveness or blame, and instead keep the conversation constructive. This is particularly important when you are giving criticism.For example, you may say, “Your grammar needs work and the sources are not cited correctly,” or, “There is mud on your shoes and socks.”

, When communicating what you want, you should use clear, direct language.This helps you assert your needs in a way that others will understand. There will be no confusion. Frame these statements with the word “I.”Use statements like “I want…,” “I need…,” “I disagree. I think…,” or “I won’t…”

, As you deal with situations, you may find that you are angry or frustrated. This is okay, and you should let yourself feel the emotions you feel. If you are angry, you can tell the person you are angry, but in a positive, respectful way. Being assertive means you think of the other’s feelings and rights.For example, you may say, “I am angry that plans keep getting cancelled at the last minute,” or, “I get angry when my significant other ignores my feelings.”

, Part of being assertive is listening to the other person. This includes their opinions, their suggestions, or their concerns. Remaining calm and respectful help keep the conversation constructive, and helps both of your voices be heard and your needs met.Actively listening to what the other person is saying can help you come up with an alternate solution that doesn’t take advantage of either of you. It can also help you come to a compromise.
For example, you may say, “I hear your concerns. Let’s find a way to solve this problem where we both get what we need.”
Listening empathetically does not mean you need to agree with what the person is saying, or that you will concede to the other person's wants/views. Saying "I understand," "That must be awful," or "I see what you mean" are not concessions, but are simply good communication techniques. You can still assert yourself and your needs after expressing understanding or concern.
 Compromise is a large part of being assertive. When you are assertive, you understand that other people’s views and ideas matter, so that means you meet them halfway. If you are requesting something, you may suggest a compromise. If someone asks something of you that you don’t necessarily like, make a compromise with them that both of you are comfortable with.For example, you may say, “You can borrow my shirt if you promise to bring it back clean,” or “I will hang out with on another night.”

