 People who are visibly distracted by their cell phones become easy targets for pickpockets and other criminals. Keep an eye on what is going on around you at all times so that you can better detect suspicious activity and protect yourself and your belongings.


Glance behind you every once in a while to make sure that you are not being followed by a stranger. Your best chance of defending yourself in the event of an attack is to identify the attacker as soon as possible.
You should also avoid reading maps and fumbling through your purse or backpack while walking down the street, as these things consume all of your attention and make you more vulnerable to attacks.
If you are traveling in an unknown city, try to get directions to your destination prior to leaving the hotel or hostel you are staying at.;
, Keep valuable possessions, like wallets, smart phones, and cameras out of sight to avoid attracting pickpockets. Store these items safely in your purse or backpack and only take them out when you need them.


It may be tempting to have your smartphone out at all times to text, play games, or look up directions, but keep in mind that smartphone theft is on the rise for this very reason. If you use public transportation during your daily commute, you may want to consider bringing a book or magazine to entertain yourself.
 Tourists are oftentimes targeted by pickpockets because they tend to carry lots of cash on them and are usually unfamiliar with their surroundings. Avoid dressing too flashy, and if applicable, adopt the local style of dress so that you can blend in with the locals.


Avoid walking around busy streets while reading a map, as this will draw attention to the fact that you are a tourist and suggest to others that you don't know where you're going. If you are using a map to navigate your way around a new city, find a private place that's indoors, like a café or convenience store, to find your way rather than doing it out on the street where everyone can see you.
 Drugs and alcohol can impair your judgment and your ability to defend yourself physically in the event that you are attacked. If you do drink, remember to never leave your beverage unattended, and don't accept drinks from strangers.


Some date rapists use tasteless, colorless chemicals to lace their victims' drinks without them knowing. If a stranger offers to buy you a drink, don't accept it unless you watch the bartender make it yourself.
 Criminals are less likely to attack people in groups as there is strength in numbers. Walking around town alone, especially at night, makes you an easy target for criminals, because there is nobody there to help defend you or to serve as a witness. Protect yourself by asking a friend or family member to accompany you to your destination at night; if this is not an option, then consider taking a cab instead.
 Criminals tend to lurk in dark, deserted streets where there is less law enforcement and fewer potential witnesses. If you are walking down the sidewalk at night, stay as close to the street as possible as criminals may be waiting in alleys for a chance to attack passersby.
 It is much easier for a pickpocket or rapist to attack a person on foot as opposed to a bicycle. If possible, ride a bike to your destination instead of walking, especially if you are traveling by yourself.
 If you are walking down the street and suspect that you are being followed, don't be afraid to look behind you and find out for sure. If possible, look the person directly in the face; this lets them that you are fully aware of what's going on and that you can and will defend yourself in the event of an attack.


Ask the potential attacker for the time; this may help prevent an assault, as criminals prefer to attack people who haven't had a chance to see their face yet.
 The first thing you should do if you think you are being followed is to determine whether you can quickly get out of the situation without having to confront the attacker. Look around to see if there are any groups of people around, and if so, walk or run in that direction. If there is nobody around, or if they are too far away, then you will need to take action against your attacker.
 This is the best way to scare off a criminal, as he or she will be afraid of getting recognized or caught. Scream and yell at the top of your lungs, wave your arms in the air, blow a whistle if you have one; do whatever you can to draw attention to the situation.


Yell things like "Fire!" "Help!" or "Stop following me!" as loud as you can. If there are people around, they will probably come running to see what is going on.
Try yelling something specific, like "Dad!" or another man's name; this will trick the criminal into thinking that there is a man nearby who knows where you are and who will come to protect you.
It is most effective to start yelling before the person has tried to attack you, before they have had a chance to cover your mouth or threaten to hurt you if you scream.
 Run as fast as you can toward safety. If the criminal begins to chase after you, then pull out your wallet and throw it on the ground as you run, making sure that he or she sees it being dropped. If it's your money that the person is after, they will likely stop chasing you and go pick up your wallet instead.
 If screaming and running don't deter the criminal, then continue moving in the direction of safety, and while you do, pull out any potential weapons you have on you. If you carry pepper spray, now's the time to pull it out of your bag and have it at the ready. Other potential weapons include pocket knives, keys, or heavy objects like textbooks. Keep your weapon in your hand as you continue moving toward safety.


Sometimes merely showing the criminal that you are armed is enough to prevent an attack. For example, if you do have pepper spray, pull it out and point it toward the criminal, saying "Don't come any closer. I have pepper spray," out loud.
 If you have a cell phone on you, then pull it out and call the police. Be sure to notify the attacker that you are making the call, as this may scare them away. Say "Leave me alone. I am calling the police," out loud.
 If the criminal grabs you and begins to assault you, use whatever weapons you have to physically harm the other person. Poke them in the eyes, kick them in the genitals, scratch them with your nails, spray them with pepper spray, etc. If you have a heavy object like a textbook, try to knock the person unconscious by hitting them on the side of the head.


Continue screaming and drawing attention to yourself as you fight back against your attacker. The longer and louder you scream, the more likely it is that somebody will hear you and come to your rescue.
 Once you have made it to safety, it's important to notify the police of what happened. Doing so may help save the lives of other potential victims. Describe the attacker's physical appearance, location, gender, and style of dress to the police to help them track the person down as soon as possible.

