 This blush closely resembles the loose, mineral powder blush you might buy in a store, except that it costs much less. You can apply it using a brush or poof. This section will show you how to make your own loose powder blush.
 You will need some sort of to combine all of your ingredients. Because you are working with such small amounts, you can use a small mixing bowl, or even a cup.
 You will need ½ teaspoon of beetroot or hibiscus powder. Pour the powder through a sifter into a bowl and break up any clumps you may find with a fork. If your powder is still too clumpy, then you may have to grind it further using a coffee grinder or a pestle and mortar.


If your beetroot powder comes in a capsule, simple pull the capsule apart and pour out the beetroot powder. Discard the capsule. Keep doing this until you have enough beetroot powder.You can also use freeze-dried or dehydrated strawberries and raspberries as well. Be sure to grind them into a fine powder in a coffee grinder, or by using a pestle and mortar, before using them in your recipe., You will need ½ teaspoon of arrowroot powder. Once you have measured it out, add that into your mixing bowl. Mix everything together with a fork. You can also transfer the ingredients into another bowl through a sifter; not only will the sifter blend everything together smoothly, but it will also break up any remaining clumps.If you do not have any arrowroot powder, you can substitute it with cornstarch., If your blush is too dark, you can lighten it by adding more arrowroot powder. If your blush is too light, you can darken it by adding some cocoa powder.Be sure to mix everything again after you have added your powder.
 You can add a little shimmer to your powder blush with ground ginger or ground nutmeg.You can also use mica powders as well. Once you have added your shimmer, mix the ingredients again using a fork.


Ground ginger will give you a light-colored shimmer.
Ground nutmeg will give you a darker shimmer.
 The essential oil is not necessary, but it will help the powder stick better to your skin.It will also give it a nice fragrance. Simply add a drop or two of essential oil and mix the blush again using a fork. Keep in mind, however, that this might cause the blush to become more clumpy.


Use floral or sweet fragrances, such as chamomile, lavender, rose, or vanilla.
 You can leave your container plain, or you can decorate it with stick-on gemstones. You can also make a custom label for it.

