 Make sure you know what is most important to you in order to live your life they way you want. Things you want need to be consistent with those values. If they aren't, you may not be able to accomplish them, or you may lose something important in the process.These conflicts aren't always apparent at first glance. For example, if your goal is to start a business, that will take up significant amounts of time. If one of your values involves spending lots of time with your family, those ideas may come into conflict.;
, Broad goals like "make more money" or "get healthier" are good starts, but you'll want more detail. Define success clearly, and with some clear measurable signs of progress. This can help you get a sense how you are doing, and the steps you will need to take to get there.For example, rather than a broad goal like "get healthier," pick a specific benchmark like "be able to run a 10K" or "lose 20 pounds."

, Include your reasons for wanting it. This can make your desire seem more concrete, and give you a reminder of what you want. It can also help to clarify if this is something you really want, or if there is something more., Many people, especially women, don't ask for things because they feel they are inadequate or undeserving. Think about why you might feel this way. Examining and acknowledging your fears can clarify what you need to do to get what you want.Don't worry about other people's wants and concerns. Your life, boundaries, and desires are different from others, and that's okay. Recognizing what you want, and how it is unique to you, is an important step to getting what you want., Sometimes, there are things out there that you didn't even know you wanted. Be open to new accomplishments, jobs, and experiences, anything that could potentially broaden your horizons and change your perspective on the world.Listen to other people's suggestions for new things to try, like taking a class, or exploring the outdoors. You may find a new hobby or life goal that you hadn't previously considered.
 Many people don't go for things they want because they doubt their abilities. Identify and question your doubts, and make sure they don't stand in your way., Many things people want, including new purchases, skills, or even a new job, can cost money. Figure out the costs associated with what you are trying to do, and look at your expenses.If you are considering a big purchase, or looking to do something else expensive, putting aside just a little bit of money every month, or every paycheck, can get you there. Doing that regularly can also help you get better saving/spending habits.
Don't just look at the cost of what you want. Take a look at things you are already spending money on. If there are things you can cut out that are getting in the way of your goals, go ahead and do that.
 When you've decided what you want, figure out the steps you will need to take to see it through.


Identify any potential roadblocks or trouble spots, and make sure your plan looks for ways to get around them. This is where you confront those doubts that you couldn't to explain away. These roadblocks could be related to money, time, your abilities, or help from others.
Create manageable milestones for getting what you want. This can keep you on track by accomplishing smaller tasks in a reasonable time, rather than trying to get through one big one all at once. If your goal is to lose weight, for example, set a goal to lose five pounds in two weeks to get yourself started. This is better than crash dieting, and trying to lose twenty pounds in that same amount of time.
Set clear deadlines in your plan. A specific date or time frame to accomplish what you want can keep you motivated and focused. This will also help you stay on track to the end result.Follow your plan. Many people fail because they give up too soon. Setbacks can be a normal part of success, so stick to your plan and push all the way through, even if things don't always go right., Sometimes you won't always get what you are looking for. Instead of seeing that as a reason to stop, think of it as an opportunity for something different, and possibly greater.For example, if you are saving for a big purchase, the item you want may not be available by the time you save the money. That's okay, perhaps there is something different or better you can purchase. Alternatively, it may be best to wait until a better item comes along.
 People aren't mind readers, and unless you tell them you want something, they won't know to ask.People generally want to be helpful, especially if it is a friend or family member.Ask in person. It is always better to ask the person directly instead of calling over the phone, or sending an email. It is much harder for them to turn you down to your face.Give specific details. When you ask for something, give details about what you want and when you want it. Avoid ambiguous words like "soon"; have specific deadlines instead. A specific request also shows the other person that you put a lot of time into considering what you want, and how they can help., This is something you want, something that excites you. Let the other person know it means something to you. Enthusiasm is contagious, and it will be harder for them to turn you down. If you are excited about the idea, they may become excited as well, and want to help., You don't want to dump an entire project on someone. That only decreases the chances they will be willing to help. Keep your requests simple and straightforward, and don't be afraid to emphasize how little they have to do.Alternatively, rather than asking for the other person's effort, ask for the information that will let you do the task yourself. If your goal is to improve your performance at work, the other person's help might be telling you where to you can learn more about certain programs, rather than demonstrating it for you.
 If someone is doing something for you, promise something in return. It can be something simple like owing a favor, or paying them back if it involves money.


For friends or peers at work, sometimes it can be as simple as offering to buy lunch, or perform another favor. In a work setting, you can always offer to help with some of their work in return.
If you are a kid or teenager asking your parents for something, don't think that you don't have anything to offer them. Your promise can be something like doing chores around the house, or getting better grades., Sometimes others will reject your request, or will need some convincing to accept. Consider what the other person's objections might be, and prepare some responses.Their doubts might be similar to some that you had and worked through, so that is a good place to start.


If you are turned down, don't be afraid to ask why. If the answer is vague or not specific enough, ask for more details. A question like "What can I do?" is a good way to get more detail, and find how to turn a no into a yes.Avoid sulking or insulting the person. They didn't help, but that doesn't make them a bad person. That kind of reaction will only make people less likely to help you in the future.
 If someone gets you something, you should be thankful. Be sincere, and specifically reference what the other person did. In addition, expressing thanks is also a good way to get people to do things for you in the future.


A formal thank you note can be appropriate, especially in a work setting. Just remember to keep it brief and sincere.

