 Whether you're aiming to recreate the armor of a samurai with precise accuracy or simply looking for a good idea for a costume party, knowing the parts of a samurai's armor will help give you an idea of what you'll need to look for. The most important pieces of a samurai's armor are:



Do: Chest armor plate made from iron and/or leather. In later centuries, it was common for samurai to use European-style cuirasses as these provided better protection against gunshots.Kusazuri: Iron or leather plates hanging from the waist like a skirt to protect the waist and upper legs.

Sode: Shoulder pads made from iron or leather plates.
If you are looking for authentic Japanese armor, try browsing the sites of antique armor dealers or re-creators. Beware — these rare collectibles can be quite expensive.On the other hand, if you are simply looking for a costume, it will probably easiest to sew or glue thin metal pieces to an old, sturdy shirt. See How to Make Costume Armor for more information.
 A samurai's unmistakable helmet instantly set him apart from the people around him on the battlefield. The characteristic kabuto samurai helmet typically had a visor, a decorative emblem in the front, and a low brim (called a shikoro) that extended down from the edges of the helmet to the samurai's neck in rows of interlocking metal strips designed to protect the samurai's neck. Helmets also generally had a small hole directly in the top to hold the samurai's "top-knot" hairstyle.If you're making your own helmet, a good idea is to start with an old bike helmet as your base. Coat the helmet in papier-mâché, then paint it a fierce color like black, red, brown, or bronze. Cut a decorative emblem out of cardboard or sheet metal and glue it to the front. Finally, cut many thin strips of paper or metal and hang them from the back and sides of the helmet in a half-circle.
 Imagine the terror of a samurai's enemy when he turns to face his attacker and stares into the cold eyes of an iron face frozen in an angry grimace! Samurais generally wore masks into battle not just to protect their face and neck but also to intimidate their opponents it was not at all uncommon for a samurai's Mempo mask to be in the shape of something terrifying like a snarling demon.While real mempo masks were usually made from metal or leather, you can make your own from plaster. Simply form it around your neck and chin up to your cheeks and paint it the color of your armor once it dries. See How to Make a Plaster Mask for more information.
 Outside of battle, samurai often wore a traditional outfit which consisted of a Kimono (a robe which many Westerners are today familiar with) and a Hakama. The hakama is a type of pants or trousers that hang loosely about the legs and are worn over the kimono. Hakama are secured in place with several knots tied about the waist and typically have five pleats on the front: three to the right and two to the left.


While kimonos and hakama aren't sold in most modern clothing stores, it's not usually hard to find them online simply browse retail sites like Amazon and Ebay for deals.
See this guide for instructions on tying a hakama.
 Samurai men typically had long hair which they wore up in a tight bun on top of their head.This bun was sometimes tied in place with decorative fabric or bands, though a simple string was most common. See How to Make a Top Knot Bun for steps on tying your hair in a similar modern hairstyle.


If you're very serious about achieving the samurai look, try shaving your pate (the top of your head) and leaving your hair only on the sides and back, which you can then tie in a small bun. This traditional hairstyle was once a sign of high status in Japanese society, but it requires lots of confidence to pull off today.

