 This can be rather expensive, and especially if you are just starting out in the world of modeling, they are not required. The average professional headshot photo shoot can cost $600-1,000, depending on the number of wardrobe changes and photos taken.;
, Take a look at some of their previous work and decide whether the place is right for you. If you decide to avoid high prices and go non-pro, find a friend or family member that is a moderately good photographer. You want to make sure they own a good camera - preferably an SLR-style camera from a brand like Canon, Nikon or Panasonic.
 Make sure it's a free day when you have nothing else planned - you don't want to rush to or from the shoot, it could affect the quality of the pictures you get. You'll also want to select your outfit. Headshots are meant to focus on the face, not the wardrobe, so go for something simple and non-distracting. Avoid spaghetti straps, although tank tops are okay. The best shirt is a solid color that complements your body and face. Stud earrings are okay, but stay away from necklaces, dangle earrings or other jewelry.
 Take super good care of your face, it's the only one you have. On the day of the shoot, eat a good breakfast and get plenty of sleep! No one wants baggy eyes! If you are doing pro photos, head off to your appointment early and arrive ready to smile!

, The best are gray, white or black, or a very simple home or nature setting. The focus should be on your face, not the stuff behind you! Make sure you have good lighting- natural is best, but studio will do. Avoid dramatic shadows on your face.
 Try to look as sophisticated but natural as possible. Hair should be worn natural- don't straighten or curl. The agency wants to see the natural YOU!

, Let it be natural- have a friend tell a joke or a funny story if you are having trouble. Look at the camera. If you like, you can turn sideways, but always have your head facing the camera straight-on. It is generally best to not have your body straight-on, though- turn at a slight angle to the camera.
 Always get the whole head in the picture, with the face generally centered. You'll want options later on, so take lots of photos to choose from! You can even change wardrobe or backdrop if you like, so more options are available.
 You can do some extremely minimal editing- adjust light, slightly crop- but overall the pictures should be left natural.
 Some people prefer black and white, and others color. See if the agency has a preference. If not, go with what suits you best. You can print your pictures with or without a border and that's also your choice. Remember, an agency isn't going to reject you just because your pictures don't or do have a border.
 You have completed your head shots!

