 Everyone in the house needs to wash their hands often. You should especially wash your hands after doing a tape test or after coming in contact with your infected child. Wash your hands before you eat or put your hands in your mouth. Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly with lots of soap.Start by wetting your hands. Lather your hands well. Make sure you get the soap between your fingers and around your fingernails.
Use a soft brush to scrub under the fingernails — eggs can get lodged under fingernails, especially if the patient has been scratching.
After washing, rinse well with warm water. Then dry your hands thoroughly.
Keep fingernails short and clipped to prevent irritation and decrease the possibility of spread.
 When you or your child has pinworms, you should shower after waking up. Pinworms lay eggs at night, so the anal area will have thousands of eggs on it. These eggs can be spread to others, or they can hatch. As soon as you or your child wakes up, remove the contaminated clothing and take a shower.Take a shower instead of a bath. Bathing carries the risk of the eggs getting into the water and then on the body or in the mouth, which can lead to reinfection.
 Since the pinworms lay eggs on the anus, you need to make sure that the infected person changes her underwear every day. Don’t put the soiled underwear in the hamper with other clothes. Keep the infected person’s underwear separate to reduce the risk of spreading any pinworms or pinworm eggs.Wash all clothes, bed sheets, and towels in the hottest water available. If you don’t want to wash them every day, keep them in a sealed plastic bag until you wash them. Rinse all the clothes at least twice.
Make sure no one reuses towels during this time to help reduce the risk of spreading the eggs.
Consider using disposable gloves when handling potentially infected material.
Don’t shake any of the contaminated clothing or linens before they have been properly washed. This can cause the eggs to travel and spread, which may lead to reinfection.

