 Determine the exact size and shape of your room. If you are sharing with one or more people, what spaces are yours, and which are the common areas? Is there a kitchen? Where is the bathroom? What will you need to bring for yourself? What is already provided for you? Don't be shocked on move-in day.;
, It is really useful to know what other students think about that place.


, Most people will be glad to know they aren't the only one with bodily quirks, and it's a good icebreaker. Tell them where to find your family's phone number. If you have a medication or allergy list keep it in your purse or wallet, and tell your roommate where it is.
 Chances are, you are moving from a larger living space at home, into a smaller space at college. If you have time, and room in your house, mark off an area that is the same size as your new space (not to be confused with the entire room), and fit your things in it. Don't forget the furniture that will already be provided there!

, Do you plan to eat in the cafeteria all the time, or do you plan eat in the dorm? Even if you plan to have a few weekly meals in the dorm, you will probably need some sort of silverware and plates (paper ones rock!). Some colleges send lists of suggested items to pack in their orientation mailings.
 Keep separate lists for the things that you already have, and the things that you need to buy. Decide whether you want to buy new items beforehand , or buy them when you get there. The things that you buy there will be a better fit to that part of the country/world, which is important if you are moving to an area that has a much different climate than your hometown.
 Most colleges provide information on how to do this in their orientation packets.
 You'll be able to find your own stuff in the communal bathroom if it's all in one place, and carry it to your room easily if you have to.
, Some things HAVE to be the same. And remember you may not find a supplier of your favorite lotion or hot sauce for a while. If you can't live without it, bring a little with you.
 The campus health service is extremely busy after beginning of the year, and it may take some time for your first appointment.
 Unless your room is a palace, you probably won't need a gigantic trailer. Read your orientation packet or ask for this information.
 Do you know if you have any forms to fill in or hand in? Do you know where to pick up your key? Do you have to go to a specific place on campus first, or do you go straight to your dorm?

,