 This requires at least 15 thieving, but the high thieving and agility you have the higher odds you have to get a clue scroll. Wearing full HAM robes increases the odds of you not getting stunned from a pickpocket. You may want to keep the arrows you get from the members as they stack up quite quickly.
 This can technically reward you with any clue throughout elite, but the effort it takes to get these corpses are almost not worth the effort. These are obtained by using the respective keys on their chests. The purple key is statistically the best chances to get clue scrolls., These require the Zogre Flesh Eaters to be completed, and an ogre coffin keys. You will most likely make a profit on the bones you receive from the coffins, so buying keys is a viable option., Men have one of the highest easy clue drop rates, along with the easy ability to be one hit by kills., Guards are located in nearly every city, however the guards in Falador seem to have the best drop and fastest drop rate, however all guards are good options, and varrock guards have decent drops as well., These are best killed in the Asgardian dungeon south of Port Sarim. These are aggressive, so you can leave the computer and come back while still being safe. They also have lots of other drops likes runes and herbs., These can be accessed after the Rockin' Out quest, and to get there you must be arrested in the Rimmington Customs Offices, and steal from the files. Note getting a medium clue here is very rare., Once you have received 5000 pieces o' eight, you can buy a medium clue scroll. Note, finding a game is extremely rare to find, and getting 5,000 tokes will undoubtedly take many months., They can be found in the Taverly dungeon, just north of the black demons. These have a 1/64 chance to drop a hard clue scroll, and they give incredible experience for kill and drop lots of gold charms, but aren't much good for anything else., These are located in the Canfis slayer tower or in the Chaos Tunnels north of Edgeville. These drop clues surprisingly often, along with many alchables like rune full helms and rune platelegs, along with the coveted granite maul., These can be found the Canfis Slayer tower. These drops lots of noted grimy herbs, lava battlestaves, and ghostly essence to go along with the clue scrolls, so large profits can be made here along with the clues., These can be found in the Fremennik Slayer cave, just before the Turoths. They don't have many other drops, but their hard clue scroll rate is decent, and the exp rate is good considering their level required., These can be obtained in a number of ways, primarily from killing high level slayer monsters and pickpocketing elven clan workers, but once you collect all 3 pieces, you are guaranteed to get an elite clue scroll, along with another reward., After completing the quest "Do No Evil", you can dig up one elite clue scroll in the location depicted by the alerter., Mutated Jadinko Males and Eddimus are noted for their relatively high rate of dropping these., Using elder pyre logs with the highest tier of remains, you can almost always get a gold key from burning the remains. These can give you elite clue scrolls at a pretty decent rate if you buy the items on the G.E. They also can give you fine cloth, which is valuable and can negate your investment price., These can rarely be obtained from getting prawn balls while fishing in your POH, and will give you an elite clue once a week, resetting every Wednesday., If you've completed the Odd Man's wishlist, then once a week you can kill the Skeletal Horror, which as a 1/20 drop rate for elite clue scrolls., These can easily be AFKed for great EXP and loots, as well as the uncommon drop of an elite clue.