 Soot and ash can be quite harmful to the body, regardless of whether it is inhaled or if it settles on exposed skin. Proper precautions must be taken to avoid exposure to soot. This includes wearing gloves while handling or cleaning up soot and ash.Try to use rubber gloves (like the dishwashing gloves) to protect your hands.
You should also wear long sleeves and pants while cleaning up soot to help protect your skin even more.
 The largest health risk, when dealing with soot, comes from the possibility of inhaling the soot and ash particles. These particles can get into your lungs and cause a great deal of damage, especially over prolonged exposure.You can purchase dust masks at any home improvement store and even most larger grocery stores.
If you can’t find a dust mask, use a bandana or t-shirt tied around your head to cover your mouth and nose.
 Whenever you are cleaning up soot, you want to make sure the area is properly ventilated. It can be harmful for you to breathe in the dust particles from the soot, as well as any cleaning solutions you may be using.If possible, try to clean up sooty items outdoors. But if you must clean it inside, open all the windows you can and take frequent breaks.
 This method of cleaning should only be attempted in outdoor areas. Use the low-pressure sandblasting machine to spray off any soot residue from your hard surface. Try to use the lowest velocity spray possible to keep the soot from flying everywhere.You should be able to rent a low-pressure sandblasting machine at any major home improvement store.
You can also hire a professional to do this kind of cleaning.
 If you are unsure about what to do, or cleaning the soot seems like too big of an undertaking, consider calling in a professional cleaner – particularly one that specializes in soot cleanup. Don’t attempt to clean the soot yourself if you are uncomfortable with the process.Professional cleaners can make the hassle of cleaning up the soot much easier to handle, but they can be a bit pricey. Consider price checking several places before deciding on a service.

