 Certain animals—such as hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, lizards, and snakes—require a cage to live in. You may be tempted to let your animal friend run freely around the room, or you may try to make a shelter out of a drawer or cupboard. Do not do this. Your pet may get loose, or there may not be enough air for your pet to breathe. If your parent sees them running loose in the house, they may think it is a wild animal and get rid of it. Always get a proper pet cage, hutch, or tank.


Guinea pigs and rabbits can have hutches or cube and coroplast cages.
Hamsters and mice can live in wire cages.
Fish live in tanks or aquariums. Some fish will require aquarium lights.
Reptiles live in glass terrariums. They will need a basking lamp with a UVB lightbulb., You can place the cage in a corner and arrange your furniture around it so that it cannot be seen. Similarly, if your closet is big enough, you can try fitting it there. Be sure to leave your closet door slightly open so there is plenty of air getting to your pets.


Some pets do not like being in the dark constantly. Leave a closet light on, or make sure that there is a small light attached to your cage.
 Few cages are small enough to fit under a bed, but you may be able to keep it out of view on a shelf. Make sure you that you can easily reach the cage without trouble. Use books and other items to hide the cage on the shelf. This works best for smaller cages, such as hamster cages, reptile terrariums, or small fish bowls.
 If you have a guinea pig cage or rabbit hutch, you can drape a blanket over the cage to hide most of it. Make sure that there is at least one wire/mesh wall free so your pets can breathe and look out. If the cage can support it, place light objects, such as notebooks or jewelry boxes, on top to disguise it.


If you have a fish tank, a wire hamster cage, or a reptile terrarium, this is not a good idea, as the top may need to be left open for oxygen, lamp wires, or exercise.
 You should scoop out any poop every day, but at least once a week, do a thorough cleaning. Remove your pet into a separate box or cage. Scoop out the hay or litter into a plastic garbage bag. Take it to the curb immediately. Wash the cage down with dish soap and water or a mixture of vinegar and water. Let it dry, refill with shavings, and put your pet back in.If you have a reptile in a terrarium, be sure to spray down the glass with a disinfectant.
If you have a fish, take the fish out to another bowl or a cooler full of water. Scoop out any debris, and replace the water with fresh before returning the fish to the bowl.
 For pets that need light, you can switch off the light when it gets dark. Most reptiles need sunlight during the day but complete darkness during the night.The same goes for most types of fish. You can give them a few hours of light at night before shutting off their aquarium light.This is convenient for you as it ensures that your parents will not be alerted by any lights at night time.


Always double check the guidelines for the specific breeds or species you own. Some need more light than others, and some may require light at night.

