 In middle school, you’re at the point when your body begins to do weird things that cause you to feel that your reputation is in danger around other kids. If you haven’t previously been doing it, it’s time to take a shower every morning. This washes away body odor, sweat, and grease in hair. Use a small amount of bathing product, work it into a lather, and gently rinse with warm water.Be sure to wash your hair. If oily hair is a problem, choose shampoo and conditioner that is designed for oily hair.
If you plan on using perfume or cologne, avoid bath products that leave a strong scent.
 This is optional. You may not even have much hair that you want to shave, but other kids make you feel self-conscious. Unfortunately, quite a few people look down upon natural body hair and shaving is an adult activity many others are eager to try.


Ask your parents if you haven’t started yet, and let them show you how to shave properly.
Lather up shave gel on the damp, freshly-washed areas you will shave. Take a safe but sharp razor and move in the direction of the hair growth. For underarms, for instance, this requires moving the razor in all angles.
For girls, gently stroke up your legs. For the upper lip, stroke downwards.For boys, start from the side of the face and move in the direction of the hair growth. This is most often downwards until you get to the throat., When you sweat, your body produces odors. Deodorant is necessary to stop that. After taking a shower, apply your chosen deodorant to your underarms and consider using it on non-sensitive areas such as your feet. The spray or roll-on deodorant should go on evenly and last until you get home.Avoid deodorant that is very smelly. Smell is a powerful sense, and a bad smell is a sure way to be considered uncool.
Try antiperspirants if needed. Many deodorants are also antiperspirants, which prevent sweating. For excessive sweating, choose a brand that has more than ten percent aluminum in it., This is optional, but helps cover up the body’s natural odors. The fragrance doesn’t have to be expensive to be good. Find one that smells nice to you in nearby retail stores and begin applying them right after you’ve dried your skin after a shower, as that’s when they’re best able to get into your skin. Stand still and spray or dab a little bit onto you.The best areas to put on fragrance are warm areas such as the neck, lower jaw, chest, and shoulders.
Start with one spray or dab at first and let the fragrance rest. Rubbing it in makes the smell weaker.
Go slow. Avoid using too much. Your fragrance should not be detectable from far away and it should not smother those around you.
 Everyone in school can see your hair. A style that looks trendy will announce your coolness factor and one that looks lame will hurt your appearance. The most important factor is to work with your natural hairstyle and frame it in a way that emphasizes your features.


For inspiration, ask your hairdresser or parents. Also look at what celebrities and cool kids around you do, but remember that the best style will be uniquely you.
Products such as gel or straightener devices are an option, but be wary of copying a bland style that those around you try., Makeup is far from a necessity. There’s no reason to cover up your natural appearance, but you’ve most likely witnessed your mother and other adults applying makeup. If you do choose to use some, use small amounts. Going overboard on lipstick, eyeliner, blush, and foundation isn’t appealing.Try to stick to minimums, such as small containers of lip gloss and eyeliner.
Have your parent or a makeup counter clerk show you how to apply makeup properly.
Instead of covering your face, get used to your own skin. Learn to love it and gain confidence from your natural appearance. This will give you a coolness factor that makeup cannot provide.
 Appearance is important. When you dress well, you start feeling better and others view you better. Many students shop at expensive retailers and may look down on general stores like Walmart, but instead of spending all your money, find what looks good on you and work that into your own style.Find clothes that fit you well. That means your jeans shouldn’t be skin-tight, but they also shouldn’t be baggy. Girls, avoid short skirts and thin tops that will get you in trouble.
Try not to look like a typical student. This means limiting wearing what others are wearing, such as school logos, bland jeans, or worn-out shirts.
Look to others for ideas, but remember to make your own style instead of copying that of a popular kid.
If you wear a uniform, all you can do is try to change the uniform in alternative ways. Accessories are a good way to make an individual statement.
 If you have to wear a uniform, chances are you’ve already started this, but everyone can benefit from choosing accessories that look unique and individual. Choose ones that speak to you rather than ones that are simply expensive or popular. They should stand out enough that they catch the eyes of those around you but shouldn’t be over the top in brightness or design.Instead of wearing flip-flops or worn-out sneakers, find shoes of different designs and materials and match them to your outfit.
In winter months, try to avoid puffy coats, but don’t sacrifice warmth.
Choose a backpack, handbag, and school supplies with designs and colors that appeal to you and compliment your clothes.
Hair accessories and jewelry provide a great opportunity to apply color and designs in a way that displays your individuality.

