 Nato watch straps come in either single or double loops. With a single loop, you secure the strap first and then place the watch on your wrist to tighten. This makes for a less bulky appearance and raises your watch slightly. For a double loop, you insert your wrist after both looping and tightening the watch. This will raise the watch a little more and helps it stay more secure around your wrist.The double loop is the more standard form of wearing a nato watch.;
, To start applying the strap, take the long end of your nato watch's strap. Slide it through the buckle on the other end. Use the right hole for your wrist size to secure the buckle.If you find, after putting the watch on, that it is too tight or too loose, you can repeat the process using a different hole.
 The keepers are the loops near the watch's buckle. Slip the tail end of your watch's strap through both of the loops. With a nato watch, there will be a lot of excess strap sticking out after you slide the tail through the keepers., With nato watches, it's fashionable to fold the excess strap and then tuck in the tip of your tail. Fold the excess watch strap backwards and push it under one of the keepers. Then, fold the small bit of tail remaining and tuck it into one of the keepers. You can fold the tail either outwards or inwards.Tucking the tail inwards gives the watch a neater look, but with a smaller wrist there may not be enough wiggle room for an inward tuck. If your tail will not tuck inwards, you may have to tuck the watch outwards.
 Nato watches come in different colors so make sure you coordinate your watch's color with your outfit. Watches either come in a solid, neutral color or in three different stripes of color. For a sleeker, more professional look, go for a single color. For a more casual look, go for three different colors.Make sure to match your colors with your outfit. For example, pair a solid blue strap with a blue shirt.
If you're going with a watch with multiple colors, choose colors that go with your outfit. If you're wearing an orange shirt, for example, you could opt for a watch with a yellow, blue, and orange stripe.
 For the most part, nato watches pair well with casual outfits. You can wear a watch with jeans and a t-shirt, a casual slip dress, a flannel button down top, or other casual attire.If your casual outfit is in neutral shades and solid patterns, a nato watch can add some flare. A striped nato watch, for example, can look great with a plain colored t-shirt and jeans.
 It's best to go for a solid colored watch strap for a formal or stripes in more neutral, played down shades like dark blues or reds. A nato watch can look great with something like a slim-fitted suit or a blouse and skirt. It's appropriate to wear a nato watch strap to the office if it's paired with appropriate business attire.However, nato watch straps almost always add a small amount of casual flare to an outfit. You may want to forego them for more formal occasions.
If you want your watch strap to look more formal, go for a strap made from a material like leather over cloth.
 When it comes to accessorizing with a nato watch, you want something that brightens up your look without distracting from the watch. Footwear is a great way to mildly accessorize your look. Add a little color by pairing a nato watch strap with brightly colored shoes, like red or yellow shoes.It can be great to do some color coordination with your watch strap and shoes. For example, if your watch strap has a red stripe, pair it with a red pair of shoes.
 Once you get the hang of wearing a nato watch strap, invest in a variety of different straps. Straps come in a variety of colors, both solid and striped. If you love nato watch stripes, get colors to match multiple outfits in your wardrobe., Nato watch straps are made from a variety of different materials. Get straps in different materials, such as leather, suede, and mesh. As nato watch straps come in so many different styles, it's easy to find a material within your specific price range., If it's in your price range, buy nato watch straps that are handcrafted. These tend to come out the best, with great detail and patterns. If handcrafted straps from large suppliers are not within your price range, see if you can find cheaper nato straps on sites like Etsy.