 As a general rule of thumb, you should be drinking eight 8-oz (250-ml) glasses of water and other hydrating fluids each day.


Staying hydrated gives your body the resources it needs to produce the amount of saliva needed to keep your throat moist. Additionally, drinking fluids can also thin and loosen mucus, thereby preventing it from clinging to the interior walls of your throat and causing irritation there.
Tea can be an especially good beverage choice for those suffering with dry throats.Many herbal teas offer natural relief for irritated throats, and teas made from actual tea leaves contain antioxidants that boost your immune system. Avoid caffeinated teas since caffeine can cause dehydration, though.;
, Soak or mix dry foods with broths, soups, sauces, gravies, creams, butter, or margarine before eating them. Doing so is an easy, effective way to coat your throat with additional moisture and get more fluid into your body.Aside from offering additional hydration, moist foods can also be easier to swallow for people suffering with dry throats. This is especially true if these foods are also soft and served no warmer than room temperature.
 While typically recommended for sore throats, honey can also soothe dry, irritated throats just as effectively. It coats the lining of the throat and protects it against irritants and drying agents.


Try dissolving 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of honey in 8 oz (250 ml) of warm to hot water.Considering adding a squeeze of lemon to help boost your immune system, as well. Drink the mixture one to three times daily.
Proceed with caution, however. Honey and lemon may increase your risk of developing tooth decay if you've suffered with long-term dry mouth problems. Honey is also unsafe for children under the age of one year.
 Salt water is another remedy more commonly used for sore throats than dry throats, but under the right conditions, it may also help combat throat dryness.


If your dry throat is caused by seasonal irritants like dry air or allergies, gargling salt water can be a good idea. Salt water may irritate chronic dry throats caused by other conditions, however.
To prepare a salt water rinse, dissolve 1 tsp (5 ml) of salt in 8 oz (250 ml) of warm water. Gargle the mixture for at least 30 seconds before spitting it out.
Alternatively, you could gargle licorice water instead of salt water to achieve a similar benefit. Choose licorice powder that contains real licorice and dissolve 1 tsp (5 ml) in 8 oz (250 ml) of warm water. Treat the remedy like a salt water rinse.
 Either option will stimulate the flow of saliva in your mouth and throat. Once saliva production increases, your throat should gradually become more moist.


It's best to opt for sugarless varieties of gum and hard candy, especially if you're dealing with chronically dry throats. Having too little saliva in your mouth and throat puts you at a greater risk of developing tooth decay, so throwing too much sugar into your mouth at a time like this would be a bad idea.
Similarly, you can suck on ice chips, sugar-free popsicles, or throat lozenges to help keep your throat adequately moist. Lozenges that contain numbing ingredients, like menthol or eucalyptus, may provide more relief than standard varieties do.
 Dry throats can be caused or further agitated by dry air. Make a more conscious effort to breath in moist, humid air throughout the day. It's best of the air you breathe is consistently moist, but briefly breathing in steam can at least offer temporary relief.Use a humidifier. Place a humidifier in your bedroom any any other room you spend a considerable amount of time in. Humidifiers add warm moisture to the air, and breathing in that humid air will help soothe and hydrate your dry throat.
If you don't have a humidifier, consider filling a deep pan with warm water and placing it near a heat source (other than a space heater). As the water heats up, it should gradually make the air in the room more moist.
Take a hot shower and spend several minutes breathing in the steam. Similarly, you can position your face over a bowl of hot water and breathe in the steam it produces. These options may at least provide temporary sources of dry throat relief.
 These products can usually be purchased without a prescription and may come in the form of sprays, swabs, and rinses.


Even though artificial saliva isn't as effective as natural saliva, it can still make the tissues in your throat more moist and may soothe any discomfort associated with chronic dryness.
Look for products that contain xylitol, carboxymethyl cellulose, or hydroxyethyl cellulose.Each option has its own strengths and weaknesses, and one may work better for you than the others, so you might have to try several products before finding one that works for you.
 Air inhaled through the mouth is unfiltered, so it's more likely to dry out the membranes in your throat. Breathing through your nose, on the other hand, will filter the air and make it more humid.


If your nose is too congested to breathe through, try taking over-the-counter nasal decongestants to help remedy the problem., Foods that fall into these categories are more likely to aggravate the dryness you already feel, so it's best to avoid them until the problem is fixed.


In addition to making your throat feel more dry, spicy or salty foods can actually make a dry throat feel painful.
You can probably tell when foods are salty or spicy, but you might consume plenty of dry foods without even realizing it. Examples of dry food consumed in many households on a daily basis include toast, cookies, dry breads, dried fruit, and bananas.
 Both alcohol and caffeine actually dehydrate you instead of hydrating you, so they strip valuable moisture away from your throat and the rest of your body.


Both alcohol and caffeine directly dry out the mouth and throat, but they can increase overall dehydration by triggering more frequent urination, too.
On a similar note, you should also avoid acidic beverages, including most fruit juices and tomato juice. While these fluids may not increase overall dehydration, they can irritate an already dry, sensitive throat. Moreover, acidic beverages are more likely to further encourage tooth decay, and people who suffer from dry throat and dry mouth are already at a higher risk of developing decay.
 Many common medications can be classified as "anticholinergic" drugs. These decrease secretions, including saliva production, and may result in an excessively dry throat.


Some examples include antihistamines, tricyclic antidepressants, and antispasmodics. Many drugs used to treat Parkinson's disease, overactive bladder, and chronic bronchitis can also cause a problem.
If you're suspicious of a certain medication, it's best to consult your doctor about it before taking action. Do not quit using any prescribed medication unless your doctor tells you to do so.
 Many standard mouthwashes and toothpastes can actually aggravate the problem, so you should consider switching to formulas that are specially formulated for people with dry throats or dry mouths.


The wrong commercial mouthwash or rinse can be especially harmful for a dry throat. Most formulas contain alcohol or peroxide, and either ingredient will only cause your throat and mouth to experience further dryness.
You can ask a dentist for recommendations, but if you'd rather look for a good alternative yourself, know that most mouthwashes and toothpastes formulated for dry throats and mouths will be labeled accordingly.
 If you currently smoke, quitting should help remedy your dry throat. The smoke you inhale drags drying agents and other irritants into your throat, and those irritants might be partially or fully responsible for your chronic dryness.


Cigarette smoke paralyzes the hair in your nose and lungs. As a result, your respiratory system is unable to move mucus, dust, and other irritants out of the body. This leads to coughing and more significant dryness in your mouth, nose, and throat.
 If you have a persistent dry throat that worsens or doesn't go away with home treatment, you may need to schedule an appointment with your physician or dentist. Your condition might warrant professional attention.


Untreated chronic dry throat can lead to some noteworthy complications. For instance, you may eventually find it difficult to swallow food. When accompanied by dry mouth, a dry throat can also make it difficult to chew or taste food, and you may experience more tooth decay if you are unable to produce enough saliva to protect your teeth and gums.
Moreover, dry throats that develop into sore throats might be caused by viral or bacterial infections. When left untreated, these conditions can develop into more serious health problems.
 Certain medical conditions can cause a chronically dry throat, and if one of them is to blame for your current difficulties, your doctor will need to diagnose and treat that condition to improve the dry throat itself.


Some illnesses, like Sjogren's syndrome, directly impact your saliva glands and cause saliva production to decrease. Other conditions, like oral yeast infections, colds, allergies, and diabetes, may increase throat dryness indirectly.
 If your dry throat is caused by immune disease or saliva gland damage, your doctor may choose to prescribe pilocarpine, a drug that increases natural saliva production by stimulating associated nerves.Alternatively, if your dry throat is caused by Sjogren's syndrome, your doctor may prescribe cevimeline to help treat it and other associated symptoms.

