 If you want to create an animated GIF from still images, make sure you have the images on your computer or mobile device. If the images are online, download them first to your PC or to your Mac.
 There are lots to choose from, such as GifCreator and GIFMaker Video Maker. Both of these apps, and many others, are accessible on the web—no downloads required.


These converters generally have similar features, including the ability to modify the size of each frame and control animation speed. They can also be used on all mobile devices with web browsers.
There are also apps available for download that allow you to create GIFs, but many of the free ones are bogged down with ads. If you want to download an app, make sure you read reviews of each product before downloading.
 With the converter open in your browser, find the button that says something along the lines of “Upload Images” (depending on which converter you’re using). A browse box should appear, allowing you to select your first image. Double-click the image or select it and click “Open.” You should see a thumbnail appear in the converter.
 Most converters will also display some adjustable settings below the image, such as size or repeat times. You can move the sliders around to adjust these aspects now. You can also come back to them later by clicking the thumbnail of the image.
 Upload additional photos by clicking the “Upload Images” button. Most converters allow you to drag the images around to arrange them in different orders, so don’t worry if you upload them out of sequence. You can also adjust the size of each image. If your converter doesn’t already show a preview of the animation, look for a button that says “Preview” or “Play” to check your work.
 Once you’re done making adjustments to the order and size of your animation, click “Create GIF animation” or “Create GIF” to open the Save dialog. Select a memorable file name, as well as a folder on your device that you’ll remember. Click “Save” or “Download” to save your creation.

