 This cone, also colloquially known as the "cone of shame," is a cone that wraps around your dog's neck. It physically stops the dog from licking its body. However, the cone may not work well as a long-term solution, so make sure you talk to your vet about what may be wrong with your senior dog.You may need to take the cone off so the dog can eat and drink.
You can find alternatives to the hard plastic cones, such as collars designed to keep them from biting (which look like soft neck braces), inflatable "cones," and soft cones.Remember your dog will still be itchy but is now unable to scratch that itch. This is frustrating for the dog, so a cone should only be used if the dog is on treatment and has not yet stopped itching, or if there is no other option and he's in danger of seriously damaging the skin.;
, You can find pet-safe sprays that you can apply to your dog's coat, such as bitter apple. These sprays taste bad to your dog, so they discourage your dog from licking the area. You can find such sprays in your local pet store.If you need to spray bitter apple directly on a wound, choose one without alcohol in it so it doesn't sting.On the other hand, if your dog has a hot spot, which needs to be kept moisture-free, an alcohol-based product may work better.
 Aloe can soothe irritated skin, so apply where you see your dog itching.In addition, it tastes bad, so it may deter you dog from licking the area. However, if you use a plant at home, make sure to only put the clear green gel from the center of the leaf on your dog. The white sap around the edge of the plant can be toxic.Make sure to use 100% pure aloe vera gel. Look for one without additives.
 If your dog won't leave a certain area alone, try wrapping it in a bandage. The bandage will provide a physical barrier, keeping your dog from licking and scratching it. However, if your dog is licking and scratching all over, that may not work., Older dogs are more susceptible to having a dry coat and skin, which can lead to itchiness. Try keeping your dog indoors more in the winter, as the cold outdoor air can increase dryness and itchiness., Some shampoos can be drying, especially to older dogs, so try skipping shampoos altogether. Alternatively, use a moisturizing shampoo meant specifically for dogs that has humectants in it, followed by a dog conditioner. Also, skip the blow drying, as that can dry out your dog's skin and coat., One way to help moisturize your dog's skin is to brush your dog's coat every few days with a general grooming brush (such as a pinhead brush), as that will help increase oil production.With a senior dog, its coat might still be dry, in which case, you can use oils like olive oil, coconut oil, and sweet almond oil. Start with massaging it in about once a week, but you can apply it more often if you need to.You can also add olive or coconut oil to your dog's diet. Start with 1/4 teaspoon per 10 pounds of your dog a day, though you can go up to as much as a teaspoon per day (per 10 pounds). So a 30 pound dog could have 3/4 teaspoon to 3 teaspoons per day.
 Sometimes, an elderly dog may have dry skin and coat because it's not getting enough of some essential nutrient. You may need to add an essential oil supplement, for instance, which you can find at the pet store or your vet's office.Another option is flaxseed oil. You can give your dog 1/2 a teaspoon of oil a day for every 15 pounds of your dog's weight.You could also add supplements like nutritional yeast, kelp powder, or alfalfa, at a rate of a teaspoon or so a day.
Talk to your vet before adding supplements.
 Sometimes, itchiness on your dog's body is caused by allergies, and allergies (or the effects of allergies) can worsen as your dog ages. Try switching your dog's food, as sometimes foods can be causing your dog's allergies. Common food allergens include corn, wheat, and beef, so try picking a food without those allergens in it., Your dog can take antihistamines to help deal with its allergies. However, you need to discuss giving an antihistamine with your vet before giving it to your dog. This treatment is effective, but it can take months to start working., Fleas can make your dog itch like crazy, particularly if your dog has an allergy to the bites. Getting rid of fleas can help relieve your dog's itchiness. You can use topical treatments that you buy from a pet store or internal treatments that you get from your vet. Just make sure that the treatment is meant for dogs.You can also use flea prevention medicine to prevent your dog from getting fleas in the future.
 Sometimes, when an older dog is licking its skin repeatedly in certain spots, that could indicate the dog has hot spots. Hot spots develop from a bacterial infection, which the dog proceeds to lick and scratch into a sore. One sign of hot spots is dry, scaly skin that your dog won't leave alone.Other symptoms can include aggression (because of the pain) and lethargy or sadness.
You might also notice crusty areas (scabs) or places where the skin is oozing, as well as hair loss and matted areas of fur.
 Hot spots can appear after your dog has been around water. It can be as simple as being in the rain, having a bath, or swimming. Any moisture left behind can lead to a bacterial infection if something breaks the skin, which can happen with something as simple as your dog scratching itself.Even something like flea bites can lead to hot spots, particularly if your dog has an allergy to fleas.
Matted fur can also lead to hot spots, as it can trap moisture close to the skin.
Objects caught in the dog's fur, like stickers or thorns, can break the skin., If you suspect your dog has hot spots, taking it to the vet may be best. Your vet knows how to best treat the condition without harming your dog further. If you treat the condition yourself, you may make it worse., Cut back the hair near the hot spot, as that exposes it to air, letting it dry out. Use an astringent or antiseptic spray; pick one that is fairly mild, meant for use on dogs, and water-based. To prevent your dog from licking it further, you can use a cone around the dog's neck. Keep watching the area to see how it's faring. If it doesn't seem to to be healing, take your dog to the vet.You can also use a hydrocortisone cream on the area to help with itching, but you should consult your vet first before applying one.

