 As fantasy stories can include a lot of twists and turns, outlining ahead of time can be helpful. Before writing your story, draft an outline.


You can create an outline with headings and subheadings. Headings are traditionally marked by roman numerals, while subheadings are marked by lower case letters or numbers. For example, something like, "I. Introduce Ramona, a. Ramona is in the fields working, b. She is interrupted by the spirit of her Aunt Jean."
Think of basic story structure. Your story should have a beginning, introducing the characters and the world. Then, there should be a turning point where your character's course of action much change. There should be rising action, building up to a climactic moment where the conflict is defeated. From there, the story should move towards a resolution.
 You should introduce the central problem early on in your story. This is a twist in the story where your main character is suddenly forced into action, setting them on the path to heroism. Katniss Everdeen volunteers as tribute for the Hunger Games. Buffy Summers realizes she has to accept her duty as slayer when her friends are attacked by vampires. An event should occur, early on, that provokes your hero to action.


If you include a mentor, it's often the mentor's arrival that marks the beginning of a story. For example, Harry Potter realize he's a wizard when Hagrid shows up at his aunt and uncle's cabin. Creatively introducing your character's mentor can serve as the turning point of your story.In many fantasy stories, the character leaving home is the turning point. Maybe your character needs to go on a journey. Ramona, for example, could receive news that her mother, who lives in another country, is ill. She has to travel across a desert, smuggling the medicine that's banned in mother's home across the border., Each event in the story should help develop your hero. Your hero's strengths, skills, and special talents should be tested by each event and conflict.


Pay attention to how this occurs in your favorite fantasy stories. What trials and tribulations does Harry Potter face that help him accept his destiny as the boy who lived? How does Katniss come to accept she has to lead the revolution?
A lot of mini-conflicts should lead up to the climax, each one testing your character's strength and helping her use her skills and powers. For example, Ramona has to deal with rival smugglers attempting to steal her medicine. She's able to outwit them with the help of a wayward ghost and then continues on her journey.Mini-conflicts should build up to a main climax. The character should face the villain and succeed or fail, using the skills he or she has developed in the process.
 Once your character has faced the climax of the story, choose an appropriate ending. How you choose to end a story depends on where you want to go next.


A fantasy story can have a happy or sad ending. You can end with the conflict ultimately unresolved or the hero losing. You can also end with a partial victory. Some evil has been defeated, but there are still unresolved conflicts. This can be particularly useful if you want to write a sequel. There will be challenges for your hero to face the next time around.
If you do not want to write a sequel, you can still have an unhappy ending. However, keep in mind audiences often crave victory in a fantasy story. An unhappy ending may not go over well.
Try to tie up emotional loose ends as well. A character should learn something on his or her journey. For example, Ramona may reconnect with her mother, some of her abandonment issues lessening. Audiences want to see characters grow emotionally during the progression of a story.

