 If you just need the drum set for home practice, you can chiefly concern yourself with how the set feels and plays rather than how sophisticated its electronic module is. To use drums for recording or performance, you will need to pay more careful attention to the degree of control you have over the module. Check the module for various connections, including a MIDI output and a USB output. Check the drum set specs to see if the module allows each pad to be mapped individually to a separate sound, which will give you more complete control over your drum set's sound.;
, Electronic drum sets typically have pads made from either rubber, mesh, or a cheaper material like plastic. Rubber pads are very durable, but don't provide a very realistic response due to the high amount of stick rebound. Mesh pads perform better, but are more expensive. Cheaper plastic pads should be avoided.
 Single-zone kits only have 1 sensor (or "trigger") per pad. Therefore, a single-zone crash cymbal will produce the same tone whether you play it on its edge or on the bell. These kits are cheaper, but don't provide the more realistic response of a multi-zone kit. At the least, you should ensure that the snare drum pad is dual-zone, so that it can produce both regular strikes and rim shots.
 While you may want to use an external amplifier for recording applications, you still want to make sure you have a way to quickly plug in a set of headphones and hear yourself play. This option is crucial for silent practice as well.
 The module is the part of the electronic drum set that actually handles the signals and turns them into sounds. A cheap practice set will not need anything other than the most basic functions. However, for recording applications, make sure that the module will work well with your recording software or digital audio workstation (DAW). This means offering the right connections and offering flexibility over each drum pad's sensor. Being able to individually adjust the volume, sensitivity, and sound of each sensor is crucial to recording high-quality audio.
 After considering what is important to you, you can browse drum sets at music retailers or online stores. Some of the top manufacturers of electronic drums are Roland, Pintech, and Yamaha. Make sure to read the specifications carefully for each set to make sure it has the features you want.

