 Go through your belongings and set aside the items you no longer want or need, or simply put items back where they belong. For instance, put clean clothes back in their drawers or hang them up. Make sure dirty clothes end up in a hamper. Toss out broken or badly worn items.Go through your closets and remove clothes that no longer fit. Any clothes with stains, rips or tears should be put in a bag as well.Old toys, games, broken items and unwanted items should be set aside to be given away or sold. Seek obvious clutter -- clutter on the floors and counters. For instance, if you have two knife blocks, you can probably give one away to make more counter space.
Once you have set aside the items you don't want, separate them into a sell pile and give away pile. You may need separate bags or boxes for each category of item.
List the gently used items on Craigslist or give them away to charity, a family member or friend

, Disorganized drawers and closets offer the illusion of a clean and tidy room because you can simply close the door and hide the mess. Yet, once you open the closet door, items come tumbling out, or you’re unable to find anything in the messy closet. So, if you have drawers that you can barely close, then it’s time to go through them and sort them.Empty out the drawers completely and toss out anything broken. Set aside items that you may need like keys, and place stray items, such as batteries, that have been rolling around in the drawer in a basket for organization later.Once you have it sorted, neatly place the items back in the drawer. Note if you need an organizer to help keep everything together neatly., You don’t need to keep every bill or piece of mail forever. Stacks of mail piled up on your counters or inside desk drawers creates a mess -- both hidden and unhidden. Go through the stacks of mail, newspapers and coupons while sorting out recent mail you need to keep from expired coupons and tattered newspapers. Toss out or recycle the old stuff.


Like a pile of dishes in the sink, stacks of mail make a room look untidy and unkempt. Utility bills and paycheck stubs don’t need to be kept longer than a year. ATM receipts can be tossed out after a few days.Set aside the coupons and mail that you need to keep. Throw away the rest.
Once you have sorted the mail you’re going to keep, neatly place the items back where they belong. Make a mental note about if a mail organizer is necessary., Piles and piles of clothes strewn across a room make it appear messy even if everything else in the room is tidy. Set aside the clean clothes and place them in drawers or hang them up. Fold clean unfolded clothes and put them away. Put unwanted clothes in a bag to be given away or sold.Shoes strewn across the room or piled up in a corner is no less of a mess. Set shoes upright in the closet, and put any unwanted shoes in the “give away” or “ to be sold” bag.
 As you clean, make a list of organization materials that you might need to keep everything tidy. For instance, you might need a shoe rack to keep your closet neat. Do you need more hangers? What about a desk organizer? Do you need another bookshelf?Baskets with lids are great for storage and hiding clutter. You can store items inside of them without having to look at everything you own.
If you don’t have a lot of floor space, then make use of your wall space. You can put up more shelves or bookcases, and this will help to free up some space to help keep everything organized.