 There are certain factors that can make you more prone to lightheadedness. Knowing these can help you and your doctor identify the cause of your lightheadedness and the best way to rid yourself of it.If you are over the age of 65 years, you are more likely to have a medical condition or take medications that causes lightheadedness.Medications including drugs to lower blood pressure or pain, prevent seizures, sedatives and tranquilizers can cause lightheadedness.If you’ve experienced past episodes of lightheadedness, you're more likely to get them in the future.;
, Lightheadedness is often easily treated through self-care, but if you experience unexplained, recurring, or severe lightheadedness, see your doctor. This will help rule out more serious conditions and find the best way to get rid of your lightheadedness.If you have unexplained, quick onset, and severe lightheadedness accompanied by the symptoms such as head injury, severe headache, a very stiff neck, blurred vision, sudden hearing loss, trouble speaking, leg or arm weakness, and chest pain or rapid slow heart rate, call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room to rule out a serious condition.Your doctor will ask you questions about the symptoms of lightheadedness you have as well as about any medical conditions you have and medications you take. Keep a log of the times you feel lightheaded to share with your doctor. Your doctor may order tests or an MRI to pinpoint the cause of your lightheadedness.If your doctor doesn’t find a cause and your lightheadedness continues, your doctor will discuss possible medications you can take or self-care measures you can use to make your symptoms manageable., Depending on the results of your doctor’s visit and possible tests, your doctor will prescribe treatment to manage your lightheadedness. Your doctor may prescribe medications or suggest managing your lightheadedness with self-care.


If your lightheadedness is cause by an inner ear conditions, your doctor may prescribe balance retraining exercises, which is also called vestibular rehabilitation. You may also get a prescription for meclizine (Antivert), diazepam (Valium), or dimenhydrinate (Dramamine) to help immediately alleviate nausea and lightheadedness.If you have Meniere's disease, which causes the sensation of spinning, your doctor may prescribe a diuretic and dietary changes, such as a low-sodium diet, to minimize how much fluid your body is retaining.If you have lightheadedness because of vestibular migraine, your doctor may help you figure out what triggers your attacks, such as diet, stress, sleep and exercise. Your doctor may also prescribe to help prevent attacks or relieve nausea.If you suffer from an anxiety disorders, your doctor may prescribe medications and psychotherapy that may relieve your anxiety and dizziness.If you have anemia, or low iron levels, your doctor may suggest self-care through dietary changes.If you have hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, your doctor may suggest self-care through eating regular, healthy meals and carrying a snack.Heart conditions such as abnormal heart rhythm, or arrhythmia, may decrease your blood volume causing orthostatic hypotension, or low pressure when you stand up from lying or sitting down.Your doctor may suggest the self-care treatment sitting down and allowing your circulation to stabilize when this happens.Some medications, including anti-seizure drugs, sedatives, and tranquilizers can also cause lightheadedness and your doctor may re-evaluation your use of these treatments if they’re causing your lightheadedness., No matter the cause of your lightheadedness, stop what you're doing and rest for a couple of minutes. This will help your circulation and brain adjust.Continuing to move or moving suddenly can make your lightheadedness worse, and may cause you to lose your balance.If you are not laying down and are able, consider putting your head on or between your knees. This will also help stabilize your blood flow and stop your lightheadedness., Making sure that you are getting enough oxygen can help relieve lightheadedness. Taking deep, steady breaths will help to get your body vital oxygen, but also calm you down.Try breathing to a count to help you focus on stabilizing your oxygen levels and pulse. For example, you can inhale for a count of four and exhale for a count of four. Choose a count that suits you best.Breathing slowly and deeply will help decrease an elevated heart rate, which also can make you feel lightheaded., Both low blood sugar and low iron levels can cause you to feel lightheaded. Making sure that you are eating healthy and regular meals can help you avoid feeling lightheaded.Natural, whole foods including lean proteins, fruits and vegetables, and legumes will help you maintain normal blood sugar throughout the day, making you less likely to have a spell of lightheadedness.
If you often suffer from lightheadedness because of low blood sugar, consider carrying a snack like a granola bar or an apple with you to combat any symptoms that might flare up.
If you have low iron levels, incorporate more iron-rich foods into your diet to maintain safe levels of iron and help decrease the likelihood of lightheadedness. Examples of iron-rich foods are red and organ meats such as beef and liver, spinach, and dried beans.In some cases, not having enough sodium in your diet can cause lightheadedness. Dissolve a teaspoon of salt into a glass of water and this may help regulate your circulation and relieve your lightheadedness., Consuming enough liquids every day can keep you from feeling lightheaded. In hot weather, staying hydrated will also help you from overheating.You should drink at least 10 glasses of liquid a day to prevent dehydration. Drink 2 US quarts (2,000 ml) or 2 liters of cool liquids every 2 to 4 hours to relieve dehydration and overheating.Water is the best way to stay hydrated, but you can also drink other liquids such as tea, fruit juice, sports beverages, or non-caffeinated soda.Hyperthermia, or overheating, and dehydration can make you feel lightheaded. Resting in a cool place and drinking water or a sports drink (Gatorade, Powerade, others) will usually help ease the dizzy feeling.Remove as many clothes as possible to keep yourself cool and from losing any more fluids., Certain stimulants including caffeine, alcohol, tobacco, illegal drugs, affect your circulation and increase your pulse. Avoiding these substances will help you prevent lightheadedness or keep it from getting worse., If you are experiencing frequent episodes of lightheadedness, especially unexplained lightheadedness, avoid driving a car or operating other heavy machinery.In addition, you may need rest to help relieve your symptoms of lightheadedness. Arranging for friends, family, or colleagues to help you with transportation and other activities while you’re experiencing lightheadedness can ensure that you don’t seriously injure yourself or someone else.Keeping your home well lit and free of hazards that might cause you to trip or fall will also help you avoid serious injury.