 You must decide on a setting for your world. Is it Victorian steampunk? Futuristic? Medieval? Egyptian? Is it populated with hunter-gatherer societies? Or is it covered in gigantic, bustling mega-cities?;
, Is your world separated into different countries, or is there only one? Or, are there no countries at all?

, What are the trees like? Do the plants flower? What do they look like in different seasons? Are they green, or are they some other color?

, What kind of animals live in your world? Your imagination is the only limit. You can make up strange creatures of your own, or populate your world with dragons and phoenixes.
 What do the people look like? Are they human? What color is their skin? Do they have horns? Fur? Scales?

, Create a map of your country. It can be any shape or size. Create a key and mark forests, deserts, mountain ranges, and other biomes that appear in your world.
 If they live in cities or villages, name them and place them on the map. If they are nomads, you can mark where they've travelled.
 You can make up an alphabet, or an entirely new language. Or, they could just speak English or another language you know. What are their gods? Do they worship multiple gods, or only one? What are their festivals? What do they wear? Are they patriarchal, matriarchal, or egalitarian? What is their government like? What are some foods that they eat? Do they have pets?

, Have there been any great wars, or is your country strictly peaceful? Who have been the leaders? Have any natural disasters happened?

, Finally, think of a name for your world. Think of one that's fitting. You could use real words, like Bliss, Yellow, or Frost, or you could make one up. If you're stuck, think of the attributes of your world. If your cultures have gods, you could name the world after an aspect of the religion. For example, if your culture believes that the gods fall down on them every winter in the form of snow, and their words for 'Where the Gods Fall' are 'Anj qui omse juil', then you could call it Anjquiomsejuil, or Anj-qui-omse-juil.

