 Your investment goals will depend largely on the time frame you intend to be investing to achieve a certain financial goal. This is called your time horizon, and will dictate the amount of risk you will need to take on in order to have a chance at getting the reward you’re shooting for.Stated simply, if you’re working with a long time horizon - such as saving for retirement - you can get away with risky - though well-diversified - investments that are likely to survive the inevitable lulls and surges of the market.
On the other hand, if you’re working within a shorter time frame, you may favor less risky investments to ensure the value of your investments is available soon. For instance, if you're saving for a child's college education, you may want to invest in bonds or certificates of deposit.
 Even if you have no experience investing, it’s important to decide upon an investment strategy you’re comfortable with. This is in part because it is especially risky to simply make various investments without considering your broader investment portfolio.Read up on examples of proven investments strategies online. There are many stock trading strategies that offer different advantages, ranging from potentially quick gains, to more trustworthy, long-term pay-offs.
Use the online “asset allocation” calculator provided for free by the Iowa Public Employees Retirement System. This will help you determine the important factors relevant to your individual financial scenario., Initially, limit your investment portfolio. For instance, only invest in companies that produce products related to harnessing solar energy. This is only recommended when you’re just starting out, as it will help you acclimate to what it’s like to have and maintain active investments.There are industry-specific mutual funds that operate under the same principle, specializing in a certain type of investment. While specified investment portfolios are not an advisable long term savings strategy on their own, they can help you learn a lot about investing in a short time, with only a small investment.
 If you fear you may need the money you want to invest with back in the short term, or don’t want to ride the risk of stock investments, consider a high-yield online savings account, a certificate of deposit (CD) from your bank, or other “cash equivalent” investment.This type of investment also includes savings deposits, treasury bills, money market deposit accounts, and money market funds - and all essentially amount to putting money in the bank.
While these investments are often guaranteed to produce a return, returns are generally quite small.
With a CD, you’re essentially promising to leave the money in the bank for a certain amount of time, and are rewarded with higher interest for doing so.
 As your investment portfolio grows, it’s important to diversify to protect yourself from abrupt changes in certain types of investments. Following this logic, mutual funds often have diversification built in - they allow you to invest in dozens, or even thousands, of stocks by buying into a single fund.Note that there are both narrow-focused and extremely wide-ranging mutual funds. As such, owning shares in a mutual fund does not necessarily provide you with sufficient diversification.
The most reliable mutual funds are “balanced” mutual funds, which include both stocks and bonds. While bonds are extremely reliable investments, it’s worth noting that stocks often offer a higher potential reward.
In short, be sure your portfolio diversifies both within and between asset categories. Within the asset category of stocks, for instance, invest in large company stock funds, small company stock funds, and international stock funds. Diversify between asset categories by investing in stock funds, bond funds, and cash equivalent investments.
 If you’re worried about having to constantly monitor your investments, choose an option that will allow you not to. This is like the route you should take anyway, if you don’t have the time and expertise to analyze individual investments.Look to reassess your investment every six to twelve months. Or, set up accounts that will make adjustments if certain stocks fall below a certain amount.
A total stock market index fund, for instance, is a good option for reliable hands-off investing. These funds contain multiple asset categories in the interest of offering long-term, built-in diversification.
History has demonstrated that not all three major asset categories will suffer losses at the same time. In fact, the conditions that lead to losses in one category often lead to gains in another, meaning that well-managed, well-diversified funds can be trusted as reliable investments.
 The U.S. Securities and Exchanges Commission hosts an “Investor Information” web page that can help you learn more about investing. Further, take advantage of any resources made available by a company that manages mutual funds you invest in. These resources often include portfolio investment software that can tell you whether your investments are diversified enough, whether it’s time to re-balance your investments, and more.