 While it is easier said than done, avoid scratching as much as possible. Scratching can further irritate the skin by releasing substances such histamine and other cytokines, which increase and spread itching. In addition, the action of scratching an itch causes the brain to release a chemical messenger that intensifies the itch. Also, if the skin is broken because of scratching, the skin can become infected, which will only further irritate the area. Finally, long term scratching can alter the skin’s structure and result in scarring, changes in thickness (lichenification), and skin color (hyperpigmentation).If any area begins itching, use one of the quick treatments above to “spot treat” the area.
Keep your nails short and if you get particularly itchy at night, try wearing gloves to bed in case you have the urge to scratch.
 Use only unscented detergents; some brands even have detergents designed for sensitive skin. In addition, trying putting all your clothes through an extra-rinse cycle to remove any lingering traces of the detergent.


In addition, you may also want to consider using all-natural or organic cleaning products that minimize added chemicals., For example, try to wear pure, 100% cotton clothing as much as possible, especially for undergarments. Cotton is hypoallergenic and a natural fiber without added chemicals, thus decreasing the likelihood of adverse skin reactions and irritation.Cotton and linen also allow your skin to breathe, enabling sweat to evaporate and air to flow through it. As an added bonus, cotton is easier to wash, dry, and maintain than many other fabrics.
Other fabrics made of natural fibers include linen, hemp, silk, and silk.Be careful with wool, though, as many people find it irritates, rather than soothes, the skin., Avoid using perfumes, soaps, lotions, shampoos, and any other personal care or beauty products with fragrances and added chemicals. In many people, these products irritate the skin and worsen itching symptoms.Use mild soaps made with plant glycerine-- these can be found in most pharmacies and grocery stores. Examples of popular brands include Clearly Natural, Pears, and Sappo Hill. These soaps will not irritate or dry out the skin. Glycerine is a non-toxic, odorless, colorless thick gel used for centuries to moisturize and clean skin.Always be sure to completely rinse soap off of your body and apply moisturizer after using soap., A humidifier will help ensure that the air is not too dry, which can dry out your skin and cause itchiness.If you don't have a humidifier, don't rush out to buy one. You can make a DIY-humidifier right at home! Put bowls of water around the room -- make sure to place them out of the way of small children and pets. During colder months, place the water bowls near the heat source. In the warmer months, leave them near windows and exposed to full sun. This will help the water more efficiently evaporate and humidify the air.
Check your humidifier, whether commercial or homemade. Make sure it is always full of water.
Routinely clean your humidifier according to its instruction manual. The moist environment allows bacteria, mold, and mildew to thrive if it is not cleaned regularly.
 Consult your physician before you take or add anything to your diet. While vitamins, minerals and most supplements are generally safe when used according to directions, there are supplements that can cause side effects, particularly if you are taking any medications. The following may be useful supplements to consider taking in pill form or adding to your diet:


Plant polyphenols (flavonoids). Flavonoids such as quercetin and rutin are natural anti-histamines and help to protect against DNA-damage.The typical dosage of quercetin is 250-500mg and 500-1000mg for rutin.
Vitamin A. Vitamin A is needed for healthy skin and is present in high concentrations in sweet potatoes, beef liver, spinach, fish, milk, eggs, and carrots. Most people, however, have a difficult time getting enough vitamin A just from their diet, so you may want to consider a pill supplement as well.Vitamin B. The B vitamins are also necessary for healthy skin. It is easiest to take a B-complex vitamin containing all the B vitamins, but you can also get vitamin B from chickpeas, fish, and poultry.Omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids are important in maintaining moist skin and also help to reduce inflammation. Omega-3 supplements and vitamins can be purchased at any health food store or drug store. Leafy greens, nuts and fatty fish (like salmon and mackerel) are excellent sources of omega-3 fatty acids., Because of its effect on our hormones, stress can worsen itching so it may be useful to consider different stress management techniques, such as meditation, yoga, and exercise.