 Premature babies may be more susceptible to the negative side effects that may accompany a particular medication. Newborns and babies with other health problems are also at elevated risk for reacting badly to medication in breast milk. Older, healthier children whose immune systems and kidney functions are more robust are more likely to withstand the presence of a small amount of harmless medication in the breast milk.If your doctor suspects that your child’s age or health place them at an elevated risk of absorbing medication through breast milk, they will prescribe an alternative to medication.
 There are several occasions in which you should contact your doctor. If the medication you’re taking is not alleviating the severity or frequency of your symptoms, you should contact your doctor. For instance, if you’re on pain medication and your pain gets worse even while taking your medication, your doctor should know. Another case in which you should contact your doctor is when your symptoms actually get worse – that is, they increase in severity or frequency., If your doctor believes that your breast milk contains medication in concentrations that make it unsuitable for your baby, or if you are taking a medication that makes your milk unfit for the baby’s consumption, you should use a breast pump to remove the milk you’re producing. Once you’ve pumped the milk from the breasts, dispose of it safely by pouring it down the drain. This way, you can keep milk production up for when you stop taking a short-term prescription.Feed your baby a high-quality formula mixture during periods when you’re taking medication and cannot provide your baby with breast milk.
If you have concerns about the safety of a medication on the health of your baby, express your milk into bottles, label them with the date and time pumped, and refrigerate until you have confirmed whether or not it is safe. If it is not safe to use, dispose of it.
Breast pumps are also useful for pumping “good” milk – that is, milk that is uncontaminated by the presence of medications – before you begin a medication regimen.Pump enough milk for several days into bottles and label them with the date and time. Feed your baby this milk while you’re taking the medication.
There are two main varieties of breast pumps – manual and electric. Both are safe and easy to use. Follow manufacturer's directions when using your breast pump.