 You may feel uncomfortable with your body in a swimsuit, but most everyone has a body part they love. Perhaps you have great hair, a pretty smile, or toned legs. Admiring positive aspects of your physical appearance will help you find the confidence to put on a swimsuit. Discern what parts of your body people compliment. Also recognize what parts of your body you try to accentuate on a daily basis.
Everyone has positive physical traits. You just have to recognize them.;
, The ideal body is often portrayed as a thin man or woman in a small swimsuit, but remember that there is no true ideal body. Choosing a swimsuit in a size that seems less than ideal can be intimidating, when in fact, the ideal size is the one that fits you best. Remember that the only size that matters is the one that you feel healthy and happy in., Choose a style of swimsuit based off of your favorite features. A swimsuit that is made for your body type and accentuates your features will be easier to feel comfortable in.If you like your collar bone, wear a bathing suit that has crossing bands in the front. This type of bathing suit will emphasize your manubrium (upper part of the sternum).
If your legs are what you feel most confident about, choose a high cut bathing suit.
Try a “modestkini” that covers up most of your body if you feel most confident wearing modest clothing.
Alternatively, pick a bathing suit that makes you feel more confident about an insecure area. If you are insecure about a small bust, choose a swimsuit top with ruffles or a triangle top to create the illusion of curves. If you are insecure about your thighs, try a bathing suit with a skirt.
 If the thought of wearing nothing but a swimsuit makes you nervous, consider a swim cover-up that accentuates the part of your body that you are insecure about. Cover-ups are a quick and fashionable way to ease into wearing your swimsuit around other people.High-waist shorts are a good cover-up if you are insecure about your lower back and hip area.
A sarong wrap is a cute cover-up for your legs and thighs.
A sundress or terry cloth robe are great cover-ups, too.
 Chances are that no one is looking at the parts of your body that you perceive as flaws, but accessories can take the attention away from your swimsuit. Accessories are fun to wear and a great confidence boost. Choose fun sunglasses, cute wedges, or a floppy sunhat, and match it with your swimsuit.Practice moderation when you choose accessories. Too many accessories at once can be distracting.
Choose the right accessories for the occasion. It’s okay to wear wedges to a pool party, but they aren’t great to wear at the beach.

