 Before you start any herbal remedy plan, you should talk to your doctor. Most herbal treatments are not harmful in ordinary circumstances, but they can interact with certain medications or cause problems with conditions.If you are pregnant, do not take any herbal supplements before you talk to your doctor.
When you take herbal supplements, always follow your doctor's dosing instructions as well as the manufacturer's instructions about dosing.;
, Ginger supplements and tea can help with your heartburn. Ginger is an anti-inflammatory and a soothing agent for your stomach. Look for ginger supplements to take. You can also drink ginger tea. To make ginger tea, grate or cut 1 teaspoon of fresh ginger and add it to eight ounces of boiling water. Let the ginger steep for about five minutes, and then let it cool.


Drink ginger tea at any point during the day. You can also drink it about 20 to 30 minutes before meals to help prevent heartburn.
If you don't have fresh ginger, you can buy ginger tea bags.
Ginger can also help with nausea and vomiting, which are symptoms of severe heartburn.
Ginger tea is safe for pregnant women. , Fennel helps settle your stomach and decreases its acid levels. You can take a fennel supplement each day to help your heartburn. You can also make fennel seed tea to help with the heartburn. Drink two to three cups a day about 20 minutes before your meals.


To make the tea, crush about a teaspoon of fennel seeds and add it to one cup of boiled water.
You can add honey to help with the taste., Mustard seed is an anti-inflammatory agent as well as an acid neutralizer. You can take it as a supplement, a powder, or as prepared mustard. Take the supplement to help reduce your heartburn. You can also drink mustard seed tea to help with it as well.


To make mustard tea, either dissolve a teaspoon of mustard powder or prepared mustard in boiled water to make a tea.
If you have the stomach for it, you can also eat one teaspoon of prepared mustard by mouth., Chamomile is can help calm your stomach and acts as an anti-inflammatory agent. You can take this as a supplement daily to ease heartburn. You can also drink chamomile tea to help calm your stomach if you have heartburn.To make this tea, you can use loose leaf chamomile tea or buy premade bags of tea.
 Deglycyrrhizinated licorice root (DGL) helps heal your stomach and control your heartburn. DGL comes in chewable tablets that are safe to take every four to six hours. These chewable tablets have a strange, unappealing taste, but they are effective for heartburn.


You can take two to three tablets per dose.
If you can't take the taste of the tablets, try drinking licorice tea with honey and lemon., Slippery elm coats and soothes irritated tissues in your stomach. It is available as a supplement in tablet and liquid form that can help with your heartburn. Look on the label to see how much to take of each form of the supplement.


Slippery elm is typically considered safe during pregnancy., Aloe vera acts to neutralize the stomach acidand helps decreases inflammation. To help ease heartburn, drink ½ cup of organic aloe vera juice. You can drink this all at one time or sip this throughout the day.


Since aloe vera can act as a laxative, you may want to limit how much aloe vera juice you drink to one to two cups a day., Although drinking an acidic substance may seem strange, it works with your stomach acid to treat heartburn. Mix one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to eight ounces of water. Drink this when you have heartburn.


Don't use any other vinegar than apple cider. These do not work as well as to help the heartburn. The additional pectin from the apples act as a natural antacid.
You can also eat more apples to increase your pectin intake to reduce stomach acid., Herbal tinctures are herbal mixture suspended in alcohol or glycerite. These, sometimes called bitters, can be used to help reduce heartburn and improve digestion.Try common brands of tinctures, including Nature Works Swedish Bitters, Flora’s Swedish Bitters and Herb Pharm Digestive Bitters.


Always read and follow manufacturer’s instructions for these tinctures.

