 This is especially important if you're visiting from outside the US. This will save you time when you arrive at the park - you won't have to wait in any queues at the ticket offices!;
, Try previewing each ride on YouTube, or take a peak at the ride through photos from others. Learn from what others see. This can help decide which rides and attractions will take priority during your visit.
, You are usually allowed in through the barriers before opening; however you won't have access to most rides until opening. Getting through the barriers as early as possible will give you time to pick up a park map and plan your route to the first ride of the day.
 The address to Universal Studios Hollywood is located at 100 Universal City Plaza, Los Angeles, Universal City, CA 91602.. Be on the lookout for the parking garage for the Universal Studios Hollywood resort, as the Jurassic Parking garage and Curious George parking garage and Woody Woodpecker lot are for CityWalk guests only. Parking rates vary by time of entry costing about $17 to park before 3PM and $10 after that time period up until park closing., This area with the theatre area gate with accompanying red carpet is what gives this park its memorable appearance.
, This park is divided into two areas, based on whether or not the item is on the "Upper Lot" or the "Lower Lot". The Upper Lot hosts most of the rides, shopping and food establishments, while the backlot (Lower Lot) hosts the TV shows that are taped here. Each ride inside of the park makes up its own "land" and is placed in an almost circular pattern around a replica Universal Box Office tower.,, Although this show has changed over the years, this show may still be dazzling. Just beware that the show features loud noises and includes water and splashing.
 Love the Shrek movie? Watch this interesting attraction's movie. Thanks to the "4D" elements, you'll feel like you really are there with Shrek and the crew right inside the movie.
 You'll come across this as you walk towards the Studio Tour attraction as well as the Simpsons area all set off to the side. Take plenty of pictures here, as this is a popular spot for these types of family gatherings at the most central area of the Upper Lot of the park.
 You'll find this across from the diorama for Springfield (Simpsons).
 Whether Homer, Bart, Marge, Lisa or Maggie is your favorite, you'll want to ride alongside them.
 Although Universal Studios Orlando in Florida (2000 miles away) once had a tour like this, this park still has the Studio Tour which allows you to take a studio tram through all these different places, showing you just some of the backlot. The tour features many houses and cars from all different movies, and you may be able to see the house that the new "Home and Family" TV show (Hallmark Channel) uses to tape, so be prepared to look out for it.
 Even if you are an adult, this funny and comical show gets everyone to have a great time.
 This area is bound to let your kids run off all the excess energy that they may have, so the parents can wind down and ready themselves for the rest of their time in the park.
 This motion simulator animated adventure will have your heart pumping, particularly if you like the movie Despicable Me.
 The entrance to the Lower Lot is between the Universal Animal Actors and Super Silly Fun Land attractions. If you don't mind stairs, you can climb down several flights of escalators near there or near the Special Effects Stage, or there is a shuttle that can take you from one lot to the other; it is provided in an area marked "Lower Lot" that is in between the entrances of the Special Effects Stage and The Simpson's Ride areas of the park.
 This daring raft ride is part raft ride and extreme log flume combined, so only those who are up to the challenge should take this ride.


When this ride was built, it was the highest, steepest incline water flume in the park at 84 feet tall.,, Either take in this ride or pass on it and move on to Transformers:The Ride 3D.
 Strap on a pair of 3D glasses the movie provides and you'll be in for a thrill of your life.

