 Open a web browser and navigate to the Windows Insider home page. The home page will display a purple “Get Started” button on the left-hand side of the screen, near the middle.;
, Click “Get Started” to continue. You should be taken to a sign-in screen. Simply enter your email address and password into the given fields and hit the blue “Sign in” button underneath to move on.


If you don’t have a Microsoft account (Hotmail, Live, Outlook, etc.), you will need to have one before continuing. However, all that is require to sign up as Windows Insider is an existing MS account. Under the “Sign in” button you should see a blue “Sign up now” option. Click this to begin the signup process. A new page will load, and you will be asked to enter basic information like email, password, what country you live in, birthday, and gender. Click the blue “Create account” button when you are finished.
 The first screen that you will come to should be updating you on the changes being made to your user agreement and other policies. As you are going to be a part of the Windows Insider team, you will want to read over what your input on the OS may require, as well as how your feedback will affect the project. Click the blue “Continue” button, and you will be taken to a page with a dark gray box on it. Inside is the user agreement and terms. Once you are ready, check the box to the left of “I accept the terms of this agreement (required).” After that, you will need to chose from among the different reasons given for your use of the Windows Insider program. Check the boxes next to the options that best fit your reason for participating, and then click the purple “Submit” button to continue to the next step.
 You should now come to a page that will have a few different purple buttons on it. The top two are the ones you are going to be the most interested in. One should be marked “PC” and the other “Phone.” If you would like to run the PC version of the OS, and would like instructions for continuing on with it, go ahead and click the “PC” button. If you are more interested in the Windows Phone version of the OS at the moment, click the “Phone” button to continue.
 Regardless of the option you have chosen, there is going to be a page full of information. Please take a moment to read through it. As an Insider, you are going to be downloading a piece of unfinished software that can cause unexpected shutdowns of your PC, as well as loss of personal information. When you are done reading through the information, click the “Get the preview” button at the bottom of the page to continue.
 There are a few different ways to run the Windows 10 OS. You can run it on an older PC, as long as it meets the system requirements that you just read, by downloading what is called an ISO image. You can download the upgrade for the device you are currently running by clicking the “Start upgrade now” button. A download will begin. Simply follow the installation prompts as they are given. You can also run Windows 10 on what is called a virtual machine. This is basically running a new OS in a sandbox environment and not as a replacement OS. Think of it as running an OS inside another OS (e.g., Windows 10 inside XP). This may require you to download a few different pieces of software in order to effectively run the virtual machine (like VirtualBox, VMware, etc.)


If you are upgrading instead of using the ISO file, your PC will be scanned ahead of time to figure out if your system is compatible. However, if you are using the ISO to install, you will need to confirm that the system you will install it on will be able to handle it. Microsoft has said directly that if the system can run Windows 8.1, it will run Windows 10, as the requirements are nearly identical.
If you are trying to check if your system is compatible with Windows 10, you can try checking out the MS Upgrade Assistance website. Click the purple button that says “Download Windows 8.1 Upgrade Assistant.” Once it finishes, go ahead and double-click it and let it finish running. It will let you know in clear terms if your system is able to handle the upgrade to Windows 10.
 Scroll down once the page loads and choose your language from the given list. Chose either a 32-bit or 64-bit ISO, depending on your current system configuration, or the system you are planning to run the ISO on.


If you are running a virtual machine, like Virtualbox or VMware, go ahead and open it up. Start a new machine and select the Windows 10 ISO you just downloaded and begin creating your new virtual machine with Windows 10.
 Once you are finished installing Windows 10, make sure to look through the things you are most interested in as a user, even small things like graphics, icons, colors, or features that you would like to see added. Microsoft has, so far, shown themselves to be willing to listen to user feedback and make some pretty good changes. When you are ready to give your feedback, click Start, type “feedback” in the search field, and click the top result, which should be the Windows Feedback app. Once it loads, click the blue “Add new feedback button at the bottom of the page. Enter your feedback in the given fields and follow any further instructions.

