 Audrey Hepburn wore clothes that never really went out of style. Avoid following the latest trends in fashion. Instead, stick to the basics. One of Audrey's best-known outfits was the little black dress she wore in Breakfast at Tiffany's.Choose clothing that is timeless and durable so you can wear them for decades.

Because Audrey was already quite tall, she usually wore a pair of flats. Buy several pairs of flats, especially a black pair for any occasion. If you wear heels, choose a short and understated pair.;
, Audrey Hepburn generally wore neutral colors, like black, beige, and white. These three colors don't go out-of-style and can work in most occasions. Hepburn also wore pink for a splash of vibrancy on occasion. By focusing on one color in her outfits, she was able to highlight her figure., Stay away from loud or busy designs, which will draw attention away from your natural beauty. Instead, pay attention to fit. Audrey Hepburn's clothes complimented her figure well. Record your body measurements, know what your body type is, and try on clothes before you buy them to ensure a good fit.Ignore clothing sizes, as these can vary between companies. A small at one brand could be a medium elsewhere, or vice-versa. Focus on measurements and sizing charts.
 Audrey Hepburn cultivated an elfish and delicate beauty, which you can mirror by bringing attention to the delicate parts of your body.Choose high-waisted pants or a midriff belt to draw eyes to your waist. Three-quarter length shirts can make your wrists stand out. Halter necklines can draw attention to your neck and shoulders.Audrey Hepburn also liked wearing scarves to draw attention to the neck. Buy several in neutral colors and accessorize as needed., Audrey is known best for wearing a string of pearls around her neck, a formal look that never goes out of fashion.But don't overload yourself with lots of clunky jewelry. Choose one item to wear at a time so it stands out.

A pair of large, dark sunglasses is also acceptable, as Audrey often sported a pair on hot days.
You can also buy a pair of simple stud earrings to mirror her style.

