 According to Romans 10:17, "So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God."


Faith does not come mainly by praying, begging or fasting or Daniel and Romans 10:17 would only be a suggestion.
The Bible does say "pray always"; so, an attitude of prayer is essential, but faith comes by hearing and then applying the Word of God.
You must continue to read and study the Word of God (The Bible) so that your faith will grow. II Thessalonians 1:3, "your faith grows exceedingly." by living in God's promises in the Bible.;
, He is the living word of God.Faith is called a "fruit of the Holy Spirit" that Jesus promised to send after he went to the Father. This may be noticed in the reborn person's spirit even at difficult times; not just on your best days:
~ "...the fruit of the Holy Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, ...".
 That means that if you have been born again, then you will have some portion of the nature of God as the Word says. So no one has an excuse: Do not think of yourself more highly than you should, but rather think of yourself soberly, in accordance with the measure of faith God has given to each person. (Romans 12:3)Let faith arise in you, and it can in the area of unseen things that you believe -- within God's will, so then it can be applied to you and actualized by you. You will see results by faith. This is not just a hope; it is the way of God for access to the things of God.
 How can you love God whom you have not seen -- if you cannot love your brother whom you have seen. God will reveal Himself to you through His people, His love, through His son, His Word, and by the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Christ.


Galatians 5:6 says that faith works by love.
 Believe that God cannot lie. You cannot trust God without knowing Him through fellowship of God's presence. This fellowship is quality time spent alone in study, praise and prayer with God, getting to know Him and His life, way and truth (presented in The Bible).


Abraham in Romans 4:19-21 had extremely strong faith by 1) Not concentrating on his circumstances, 2) trusting that God could do what God promised and 3) by Praising God.

~ "Where two or three agree together in my name as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. For where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them."(Matthew 18:20), You will know Him as He lives in your life. Fellowship with the invisible God gives birth to your spirit with a measure of the kind of faith that can change things in your visible, physical reality.
 Faith is expressed by actions not just thoughts and words, as you believe then you can receive through that, and then you will seek results like you expect real outcomes as you have expectations of favor with God. God told Joshua that we must be faithful to the scriptures: 
~ "Never stop meditating on these teachings. You must think about them night and day so that you will faithfully do what is in them.
Only then will you prosper and succeed." (Joshua 1:8).


Notice in Mark 9:23 that Jesus said that all things are possible to him that believes. "To believe" is a verb and requires action. If no action were necessary, Jesus would have said, "All things are possible to him that has faith." Faith is a noun. Faith is a gift to us from God.
 That meditation on the Word then reveals how to act upon the Word. Your confessing, testifying of the Word and things of God is part of that prayer and meditation. When you read, digest and speak the Word to yourself, you are meditating on the Word.
 God's Word is already happening but not for you unless you truly believe it. What you meditate upon consists (is formed) of and constitutes (forms) what you believe: 
"Be careful of what you think.
What you think determines what you do.
Be careful what you do with your opportunity.
Those actions determine your faith, identity and character.
Be careful of those aspects of your character, for they determine what occupies your being.
That content occupying your being determines who you are.
So, it is true that: 'We become what we think about.'" (Based on a common saying.)

, *Praying in other tongues is a kind of spiritual exercising according to the New Testament.
 Scriptures say:
~ "But ye, beloved, building up yourselves in your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost." (Jude 1:20), Meditating on the Word and agreeing together can cause you to be able to believe God's Word enough to act upon it in faith.
 Begin to praise God when negative thinking comes to your mind then replace that with praising God. If you do believe Him, then you will have plenty of praise for Him. He lives in and through His people who believe Him:~ "God inhabits the praises of Israel ." ,
Heaven is his throne, the earth is his footstool; also, none of man's service can profit Him, yet he seeks the faithful to serve him.
