 Feeding your calf high quality food is the best way to prevent vitamin deficiencies. Formula that is at least 25% protein and fresh grains usually provide adequate amounts of the necessary vitamins and minerals calves need to remain healthy.
 Younger calves are most susceptible to vitamin A deficiency because they have not yet built up a reserve supply of vitamins in their bodies.If your calf has a loss of appetite, rapid breathing, joint swelling, and even weight loss, it might be deficient in vitamin A. Consult a vet who treats cows and calves before starting any treatment.
To correct a vitamin A deficiency, administer a shot of vitamin A or add powdered vitamins to its bottle.
Grains that have gotten wet or moldy lose some of their vitamin content and might not offer enough nutrition. Replace with fresh grains immediately.
Calves that are deficient in one mineral like vitamin D are often deficient in others, like vitamin E, copper, manganese, selenium, or zinc., Vitamin D helps calves absorb both calcium and phosphorus, which keeps their bones strong. A vitamin D deficiency can lead to the development of rickets.Regularly provide alfalfa that has been cured in the sun to prevent rickets in young calves.Allow the calf time outside in the sun whenever possible for additional vitamin D exposure.
 If you observe your calf chewing on rocks, wood, or other similar substances, that could be a sign of calcium deficiency.Adding limestone to the grain is a simple way to increase your calf’s calcium intake.


For every ton of grain, add 40 pounds of finely ground limestone.Continue adding limestone only for as long as your calf shows signs of a calcium deficiency.
 Cows get magnesium from eating grains. Calves who are bottle fed only milk or milk replacement formula without the addition of grains at the right time, can become magnesium deficient.Signs of magnesium deficiency include nervousness, irritability, and loss of appetite.To correct a magnesium deficiency, feed the calf more grains. Good choices include alfalfa, pasture grass, hay, wheat bran, soybean meal, and even legumes.