 A web page is a great place to centralize information about your book, such as teasers, launch dates, book readings in your area, and author information. When the book is out, you can also include links for people to purchase the book directly from the site.


Your webpage should include the title of the book as its URL, if possible, or be closely related to it and easy to remember. For example, if your book is titled "How to Kiss a Frog," you might want to use the web domain www.kissafrog.com. This makes it easier for people to remember the site address.
If you're not familiar with webpage design, a simple template website that provides free blogs should work fine. Check out this helpful wikiHow article for more information on how to build and design your own website.
You can also use a Facebook group or product page in addition to, or in place of, a more traditional website. This is probably a good idea if your audience is younger and tech-savvy, and likely to appreciate having updates on your book in their Facebook feed.;
, You should start marketing your book among family and friends before it is even completed, in order to build anticipation before your launch date. The book cover can be used to represent your book every time you post about it online. It should catch the attention of potential readers and give a hint about the genre, contents, and appeal of the book itself.Since your book is digital only, its book cover is also digital only. In other words, it is just a representative image that you can use online to represent the book itself. It can be any photograph or image.
If you have digital media skills and can use tools like Photoshop without much trouble, you might consider doing this yourself. You can also contract the work on websites like Fiverr.com, where it only costs $5.
 Before the book is available, create a blog or vlog (video blog) entry to post to the book's website. Don't be afraid to brag; now is the time to talk up how awesome this book will be and why people will want to read it. Talk about its unique features and what makes it helpful, interesting, entertaining, or useful.


Don't just write one entry; post about the book frequently. Remember that your website is a reflection of you as a writer, so don't hesitate to make your blog writing engaging, fun, and similar in style to the book itself.
Be sure to proof read; having a blog can backfire if your writing is rife with typos and grammatical errors that might make readers question your writing skills!

, Your book's website should have a feature where individuals can sign up for email updates about the book. Get people to sign up for the email list in advance of the book's release, and that way you will have a ready-made client list when the book is available.


Try not to overuse the email list, as most people will not appreciate it and probably view it as spam. Instead, save the email list for important announcements and to drum up business when the book is ready.
 Once you have a solid presence including a web page, Facebook or other social media presence, book cover, and email list, it’s a good idea to start spreading the word among your family, friends, colleagues and acquaintances.


Try posting on Facebook or Twitter about your book progress and link to your book's Facebook group or website. You can also ask family and friends directly to support you by "sharing" the URLs to your pages on their own social media feeds, or through email or word of mouth.
Although it's important to post and talk about your book, be careful not to overdo it; you don't want to drive people away with your zealous promotion.
 Since many people put a lot of stock into other customer's reviews, any product purchased online needs to have lots of high reviews. You will sell more books if your book has great reviews and a high star rating.


The majority of people say that they are more likely to buy a product or read a book if there are positive reviews.There are many ways to get reviewers for your eBook, but the best place to start is to consider giving free copies to friends and family. People who know and love you are more likely to help you out with positive reviews.
 There are many types of writers' clubs, from in-person groups that meet at the local community center, university, or book store; to online groups that communicate via social media. Writers' clubs have many benefits, and one of them is that the members generally read and critique one another's work, and when a member finishes a book, other members can provide reviews to help bolster sales.


It's a great idea to find a group with a skill level similar to your own. This way, they will be more likely to appreciate your book, and help you spread the word about it through positive reviews.
When group members read your book, ask them to leave reviews on your ecommerce website (such as your Amazon product page or your own website if you are publishing it yourself).
 Giving away your book can be a great way to drum up reviews, but it can also help you secure more business in the longterm. Perhaps you could use it as an incentive for website visitors to subscribe to your newsletters and build up your mailing list, to get leads for other products and services, or even to gain credibility and to expand your reach as an author and expert. When you give your eBook away remember these three techniques to maximize your returned value:


Opt-in email required in order to receive your free eBook. Be sure that you require customers to provide their email address, which will help you follow-up later and promote more
Use auto responders for follow-up. Software like Infusionsoft can automatically send a follow-up email to people who download your book, saving you time and money.Actively promote your website or other products within the eBook.
 People always like to get something free. You can offer some related item or incentive to increase the odds that people will purchase the eBook.


This is a particularly good strategy if you have other eBooks that you've written. You can offer access to one of these books for free with the purchase of your new book.
Keep in mind that you should never offer something for free that will cost you a lot of money. If the cost of the free gift is more than the profit you'll make on the eBook, you will put yourself in the hole financially!

, An affiliate program is a system to gain referrals in exchange for a commission. Members of your affiliate program will receive a small incentive to promote your book for you.. For instance, a popular lifestyle blogger might recommend your eBook and provide a referral link to her readers, and she will earn a 10% commission on sales that result from site traffic and purchases using that referral link.


You need to ensure that the price of your eBook can justify paying commissions. A book that sells for $0.99, for example, can only afford a few penny's worth of commission for referrals.
You can ask friends, family, or members of your writing club to serve as affiliates, but the most affective online affiliates are those with a substantial blog or social media presence.
 Search engine optimization (SEO) is a way to ensure that when people search the internet using popular search engines, your eBook will show up in the suggested results. For instance, if you've written an eBook about changing tires, your eBook website would show up in the first page of search results when a person typed in the search query "how to change a tire."


To take advantage of search engine optimization, you need to make sure your eBook or author website uses the right terms and phrases, known as keywords, to drive traffic to your site.Start by creating a very extensive list of all the possible search engine queries a person may use who would benefit from your eBook. In the example of an eBook on changing tires, you might include makes and models of cars included in your guide; popular brands of tires; words like tire, car, maintenance, mechanic, service; and others.
Next, update your website using these words as much as possible, in the actual text visible to readers (the "front page") and the indexing system you use on the "back page" as you write the website. You still want your website to be helpful, reader-friendly, and attractive, so be careful to keep it sounding natural.
If you are uncomfortable with website design, you can hire a consultant to build your site and ensure that SEO drives traffic to your site..

