 This may be Coco Chanel’s most enduring gift to women’s fashion. Before she popularized the black dress in the 1920s, it was mostly used for mourning periods., Choose pants that fit the current fashion trends, but be willing to try high-waisted and mid-rise versions in white. She wore these pants with espadrilles in the summer.
 This should include a jacket without a collar and a pencil skirt. The jacket often featured a ribbon trim.


Thanks to Chanel and Jackie Kennedy Onassis, these tweed suits are still sold today. The most elaborate versions include a matching hat.
 Knits were not considered fashionable for the upper class until Chanel took them on. Take advantage of their prevalence in fashion today by combining knits with other textured fabrics, like tweed and denim.
 Coco Chanel wore single and multiple strands of pearls as an everyday accessory.
 Often in black and white or pastels, Coco Chanel’s pillbox hats were structural and often matching the rest of a woman’s outfit perfectly.
 Chanel’s jewelry always made a statement. Not every piece of jewelry needs to be expensive; however, statement pieces were also a big part of her design., She was often seen with studs, necklaces and rings.
 A great pair of heels is the icing on the cake. Shine the shoes and keep them well heeled. Patent leather is a great choice for work or evening wear.


Coco Chanel is quoted saying “A woman with good shoes is never ugly.”

, Chanel believed in embracing new fashion and trying unusual combinations. She believed fashion was made to eventually become unfashionable, so take chances.
 This was her favorite color combination, as shown by her little black dress. Color blocking hats, scarves, sweaters, shirts, pants, shoes and coats creates definition and classic style.


Once you have color blocking perfected with black and white, start adding brighter colors.
 Coco Chanel said, “Fashion is architecture. It is a matter of proportions.” She liked jackets, purses, skirts and hems with straight lines.A cropped coat or a blazer can instantly add a designer look to an outfit.
 It doesn’t have to be a Chanel fragrance, but it should be something that defines you as much as your clothing. Consider switching fragrances between summer and winter.