 Normally players would play start Story Mode but playing Party Mode will help introduce the flow of the game.


After selecting Party Mode, pick Battle Royale and pick a character. In this game there are no differences between the characters so pick anyone.
Once you have selected your character pick the stage Wiggler's Garden. It is the first map of the game and has a basic rule set for the map which is great for beginners.
Now before going any further you will be given the option to change your settings. tap the bottom screen that says "Settings" and go to mini game set then change it to simple. this will give you simple mini games that literally anyone can play.
You can change the other setting to your own liking but it is also recommended to change the CPU difficulty to something you can handle. Normal is not too difficult for a beginner but change to easy if you want to start off small.;
, Now we start the game flow of the Mario Party series. The famous first dice roll! This dice roll will determine the turn order of all 4 players.


When the numbers are the dice get going, just simply press the "A" button to hit the dice to see what number you got. If your lucky you will get to go first.
After determining the turn order everyone will get 10 coins to start off (I will explain the use of coins later) and the location of the star will be revealed on the map.
 Before going any further you will need to know about these four main items in the game. By mastering these concepts you will get you will step closer to dominating this game.


Stars are the main goal of the Mario Party Series. The player that has the most stars after the game ends wins the game! (After the game end players will be awarded bonus stars for completing certain unknown goals that could tip the scales).
Coins are the currency of the Mario Party Series. You use coins to buy items, hexes, and most importantly stars.
Items are bought in the various shops around the game board. These items have various awesome abilities that can help gain the advantage over your opponents!
Hexes can also be bought from shops but you can get hexes for free by passing certain areas of the game board.
 Once your turn arrives (or you were lucky enough to get first turn) you can hit the dice block and the number that appears will determine the amount of spaces you get to move. The flow of Mario Party works like this.


Roll Dice to move forward the number you landed.
Wait for everyone's turn to end.
At the end of everyone's turn a mini game will be selected for everyone to play. The best part is that the winner gets 10 coins as the prize for winning.
These basic steps are repeated until the game amount is reached and the player with the most stars in the end will be the winner! (Depending on your setting from earlier the game might last from either 10-25 turns.
 After the turn, depending on the spaces, a Mini game may be picked to play. Each one has its different set of rules so practice them by pressing the "X" Button. You will get 10 coins for winning the Mini game which will give you the money to purchase a star next turn! Also many people do not realize this but the space color the player lands on determines the mini game that will be played. It works like this:


If all the players landed on a Blue Space then the mini game will be a free for all 4 player Mini game.
If one person landed on a Red Space and the others landed on Blue Spaces then the Mini game will be a 1vs3 Mini game.
If two people landed on a Red Space while the other two players landed on a Blue Space then the Mini game will be a 2 vs 2 Mini game.
Different Colored Spaced such as the Mystery Space will randomly change color at the end of the turn to determine the mini game played.
 If you won the mini game then you will be able to purchase the star. Depending on how far away you may be from the star you will need to determine how many spaces you will need to get to it. This could take this turn or possibly more! It really depends on the number you hit:


Blue Space: Land on this space to get 3 coins!
Red Space: Land on this space and you will lose 3 coins!
Green (Mystery) Space: Land on this space to trigger a mystery event! It will be a mystery until its triggered and it could be a good or bad event to be careful!
Duel Space: Land on this space to challenge another player to a duel! The winner gets a prize from the other player ranging from coins to a star!
Friend Space: If you land on this space then  you get to pick an opponent as a friend and you both get 5 coins!
Star Space: Depending on the game board, you will have to get to this space to get a star for 20 coins!
Bowser Space: Do NOT land on this space! Landing on it will summon Bowser who will cause trouble! He will take away something from you such as coins or stars; so do not land on this space unless you like pain!

, Even if you can't get to the star in time you can make sure your opponents will have a hard time. As stated earlier you can buy items and get hexes to create favorable advantages and create disaster for your foes in the following ways!


Buy items! Using this items will help you gain back some momentum. On this map the shop will be shown by the mole icon. Get to that icon to buy an item for an amount a coins.
Collect Hexes! Hexes can be used to cause misfortune to your foes. Just place a hex on a nearby space and it will show your character's likeness to show its your space now. These hexes can steal coins and more! Just give your opponents a bad time.
Use Mystery Spaces! Mystery spaces can be very fortunate or unfortunate landings. They can give coins or even take some away. It really depends on where you land but sometimes it can be a dead giveaway! On Wigger's Garden the best space to land on is the three flower Mystery Space. It can give you up to 30 coins if you pick the right one!

, When there are 5 turns remaining until the game ends then a special event begins; The Final 5 Frenzy! Bowser in all his glory will give the current place standings in the game to show what place every player is in. The person in last place will be summoned to Bowser himself who will pity the loser and grant them a bonus of some sort. If you are in last place this bonus can help turn the tide of the game! The bonuses are the following:


Get 20 coins!
Get 30 coins!
Get 1 star!
Get 10 coins from the other players.
Stars for 5 coins! (Depends on the map)
Get 100 stars!
Get 300 stars!
The last two will never happen, Bowser teases you with this but it will ultimately land on another choice.
 Even if you are in last place you can still make a comeback! Keep trying to get to the star space and if you can not them buy items and hexes. Try to keep a high amount of coins it will help. Use these last 5 turns to gain absolute momentum. There may also come an opportunity to play a Battle Mini game. Use these opportunities to make the comeback that you need to win!


In a Battle Mini game (each player pays a certain amount to add to the winning pot, each player placing will get a certain in the following order, winner gets most of the pot, second place winner gets a good amount while the 3rd and 4th place gets scraps (ouch)).
So if each player paid 6 coins the pot would be 24 coins would be rewarded in this manner.
1st gets 15 coins, 2nd gets 7 coins and 3rd and 4th gets only 1 coin

, After the game ends you will get the results and the winner will be declared. Wait! Here is where things get interesting!. Now players will be rewarded bonus stars! Bonus stars are stars rewarded to players for completing a hidden objective. If you complete this goal you will be rewarded 1 star! This can single handily  give someone unexpected the win or make you lose. This can be very annoying to some players which is why this part can actually be turned off when you are setting the settings of the game. These are the hidden objectives that can net you a free star!


Mini game Star: Rewarded to the player that has the most wins in all the Mini games during the game.
Green Star: Rewarded to the player that landed on the Mystery Space the most during the game.
Running Star: Rewarded to the player that traveled the most space distance during the game.
Hex Star: Rewarded to the player that placed the most Hex traps on spaces during the game.
Friendship Star: Rewarded to the player that landed on the Friend Space the most most during the game.
Item Star: Rewarded to the player that used the most items during the game.
 After the bonus stars are rewarded to the players the dice will spin throwing off the players the did not win in reverse order starting from 4th place until the winner is revealed on the top of the dice. If you made it to the end then congratulations! You are a Superstar!

, If you had fun with the game then there is much more you can do. You can tackle:


Story Mode (A solo adventure across all the party boards with a boss!)
Party Mode (Have another go in this mode.)
Mini game Mode (You can just play mini games here; you will not be on the party board rolling a dice to move)
Puzzle Mode (Play puzzle games with twists.)
Multiplayer (Play with friends! The best part is that this game has DS download, so your friends will not have to own a copy of this game to get into the fun!)
Gallery (Used points earned from playing the game to buy cool collectibles!)

