 Especially if you’re a recent high-school or college graduate, unemployed, or have just started a new job, claiming you’re too cash-strapped to participate is a valid excuse. Being a bridesmaid is expensive! On average, a bridesmaid will spend at least $1,500 by the time the bride says “I do.”You can’t afford to purchase the dress. Bridesmaid’s dresses are not cheap and if the bride chooses especially high-end couture you may not even be able to afford the fabric. Bridesmaids typically pay $50 to $250-plus for their dresses.You can’t afford to join in on the bachelorette fun. If you suspect your friend's sendoff will be elaborate, be honest with her. "Jenny, you will always remember your bachelorette party and you deserve one that's truly epic. I simply can't afford to pay hundreds of dollars on airfare, hotel, dining out, etc. I know how incredibly thoughtful you are, and I don't want you to be tempted skimp on the fun to accommodate my finances."
Be prepared in case she offers to pay your way. The bride-to-be might offer to subsidize your bridesmaid expenses so you can participate. If you truly don’t want to be a bridesmaid, have a reply ready in case she offers. “You are such an amazing friend to offer to pay my way. I am so touched, but I would feel guilty accepting your incredibly generous offer. After your wedding, once I’m back on my feet financially, let’s plan a girl’s trip!”;
, Even if you have a good job (and the bride-to-be knows it), you may not want to spend your income on bridesmaid duties. There are valid reasons why you may not want to allocate your disposable income to bridesmaid expenses:


You are trying to pay off your student loans.
Your car is on its last legs and you need to buy a new one soon.
You are saving up the down payment to buy a home.
You, your child, or your pet needs to have an expensive medical procedure performed in the near future.
 Tell the bride-to-be that your husband is the breadwinner, and he’s stingy. If you’re married and your husband makes the money, he has a say in how it’s spent. He may not actually care if you spend money on bridesmaid duties, but he’ll probably be fine playing along with your ruse because it will save both of you money. You could say, “Jim has been feeling stressed out at work and he’s worried his job may be in jeopardy. He has been strongly encouraging me to save money right now.”

