 The inch measurement here will likely be close but not exactly what the room is measured at on your floor plan. Write this information down to use later.;
, Upholstery weight fabric is good for this project, although lighter fabric could possibly work. Don't pick something too heavy, faux fur or leather aside from being insanely expensive are likely too heavy for this project.
 Be choosy, pick something you know; you will like for a while! All rules about good taste, tackiness, and matching your decoration apply here.
 Wider is better in this case so if you are torn between two designs, choose the wider one. Now, figure out how many "widths" of fabric it will take to add up to the height of your wall plus 2 inches (5.1 cm) at the top, 2 inches (5.1 cm) at the bottom, and an inch for every seam that will have to be sewn. For 2 widths- 5 inches (12.7 cm). For 3–6 inches (7.6–15.2 cm). The width of your wall * how many widths you just calculated will be the length of fabric you will need. If you are trying to match a pattern or stripes so they line up, you will need extra (how much you may want to ask a sewing friend for help if you can't figure out yourself - it will vary depending on the pattern in your fabric). Add about 12 inches (30.5 cm) to this measurement to be on the safe side.
 Try to avoid having any other lengths as it means extra seams. If you allow the person at the counter to cut your fabric, make sure they're reasonably consistent and straight with their cuts. (Some places are lazy and try to get away with otherwise).
, Match all the sides up on one end, and if the others are a little uneven trim after sewing. Remember that we allocated an inch per seam of fabric total, so each side gets 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm). Sew one straight line over each seam to hold it better than the pins, then a triple straight line, followed by a zig zag stitch. This is a lot of weight to hold. Be careful, go slow, this is a lot of fabric to work with and handle, and a lot of seam to take out if you mess up. It's pretty simple though.
, If you overbought fabric for reuse on a larger wall later you can make a huge hem to just fold it back.
 These need to be heavy-duty enough to hold the fabric and you may need anchors depending on your wall. If you have a choice of colors pick something that will match your fabric. You'll also need a drill and drill bit, a staple gun, and staples for the gun. If you used lightweight fabric, you may want to pick up some small nuts to sew into the bottom hem to weight it down if needed. You'll also need some 1*2" boards, length total to the width of your wall (you'll probably have to cut one of the pieces but most hardware stores will make a cut for free like this- a handsaw will also do if you do it yourself.)

, Place the boards on top of the fabric at the top, so that you can fold the edge of the fabric over the side and onto the top of the boards. Use the staples and staple gun to secure the fabric, starting at one end and working to the other, and holding it taught (width wise not height.)

, Have 1-2 people hold the boards, while another person will be doing the securing.
 Take the boards down and mount anchors if you're using them. Put the screws into these holes. You will be able to see the head of the screw on the "nice" side of the wall. If the color matches, or coordinates, nobody will ever notice. If it doesn't, once you're finished mounting them take a bit of acrylic paint that matches your fabric and paint the screw heads. (Ok, we lied, you might use $1 worth of paint that never touches your wall).
 Only use enough to weight it down to hang straight.
 Tiny nails, staples, or thumbtacks will all do the trick. Whatever looks best and will do the least amount of damage to the wall behind it.
 To take it down gather your friends again and go in reverse, untack, then unscrew it, then take the fabric off the board and roll it up to cart off for whatever. A bit of DAP and touch-up paint will take care of the screw holes.

