;
, Make sure you have read, reviewed and rated some books.
 Become familiar with the subtleties; for example, you'll want to know when a book should be added as "new" and when it's just a new version of an existing book, instead.
 Although most Amazon sources, as well as WorldCat and some other sites, are okay, most Barnes and Noble sites aren't okay to take book information from.
,, Recognize that Librarianship is a responsibility and that all changes you make to the pages will affect what others see on the book pages.
 Enter this into the box underneath the label "Why do you want to be a Goodreads Librarian?"


Show Goodreads that you can be trusted with the rights of a librarian; you can say it outright or demonstrate it with the rest of your answers. If you've taken on admin/moderation roles on other sites or in other communities, you might want to mention that, too.
Address why you want to do it . Explain that you see inaccuracies in the site and would like to help out with correcting these inaccuracies. For example, you can start out explaining that you'd like to help correct page numbering issues.
Give them reason to believe that you take the role seriously and are willing and able to get it right. For example, you might highlight tasks you've done like adding cover pictures from on your own scans (ISBN to ISBN versions) or (for Amazon Kindle/book information. You can use the phrase "I will do the best I can to provide the most accurate data possible" to reinforce the point that you will take the responsibilities seriously.
Demonstrate that you understand their policies. For example, explain that you can merge and unmerge items responsibly. If you've commented in the Librarians group, you can highlight that participation; this is a great place for them to understand that you have learned what can be and can not be merged or unmerged.
Give them an idea of the status of your shelves. Demonstrate that you understand the workings of the Goodreads site, including how books can be reviewed, shelved to other shelves, and updated.
 If you can attest to that, check the box. If not, you might want to hold back and wait until you can.
, It should have a subject line of "librarian status". Hopefully you'll be approved!

