 It’s tempting to fire off a reply, but calm down with a few deep breaths. Then ask yourself if the email really deserves your attention. While you may feel offended, don’t let this person dictate how you feel or the tone of your day.Focus on what’s right for you.
Ask yourself, “What am I accomplishing here? What will happen if I confront this person? What will happen if I don’t?”;
, We all communicate in different ways, and writing isn’t a strong skill for everyone. What one person believes is a professional, direct statement can come off as brash or rude to someone else. Don’t assume right away that they meant to be rude.Language or regional differences can cause miscommunications.
When people try to use sarcasm or humor in an email, it is often misconstrued as rudeness., Respond asking for more information, citing specific statements that you’d like clarified. Sometimes rude messages are just poorly worded. For example, your coworker may have sent you a message saying, “I hope you find time to actually get your reports done today."


You could respond, “All of my reports are complete except the one that's due tomorrow. Are you needing a draft copy for a project today?”
Don’t demand to know what they mean or be curt. For example, don’t ask, “What’s that supposed to mean?” or “What are you trying to say?”

, Talking to the person will allow you to better hear the tone of their words. Visit their workspace or call them to discuss your shared work or topics related to the email. Ask them to explain the rude statements from the email.Say, “I had a follow-up thought about the project and thought it’d be easier to say it in person. Do you have a minute?”
You could also say, “Your email suggested that the specs were supposed to be ready already, but the due date they sent me said they weren’t due until next week. Am I working off of the wrong timeline?”

, If the email does not require a response, not sending one could be the best option. Consider not responding if you receive emails that are off topic and don’t require your attention.


For example, coworkers may sometimes make assumptions about your work habits. Don’t respond to an email that says, “It must be nice to get to take extra long lunches,” or “Everyone knows that your meetings don’t last all afternoon.” As long as your manager knows the truth, you're better off staying out of office drama.
 If a response is needed, the tone should be professional, even if the sender was not professional. Read your email out loud before sending it to make sure that it sounds professional rather than rude or emotional.

Avoid being blunt in your response, as that can sound rude., Your response needs to be calm and professional, so don’t write it in a rush. Most emails are not time-sensitive, so you can take all day to respond if you need to.After you write your response, set it aside for about an hour.
If you know that you’re writing out of emotion, switch to a different task until you calm back down.
Add the email address last to avoid accidentally sending it early., Don’t try to respond to everything, and don’t provide a long personal defense. If you want to squash the rude behavior, you need to keep your email focused on work topics.Choose one work-related topic to focus on.
 One way to ensure that your email is professional is to only discuss facts. Facts include specific things like what work has been assigned and completed, due dates, timelines, data, and related topics.For example, if the rude email asked about the status of a report, say, "Thanks for checking in. I received the new data this morning, so I'm updating my report. The new report will be available this afternoon."
This keeps the focus of the response on the work you were assigned and the progress of your project, not on your reaction to your rude coworker.
 It’s tempting to get defensive or rude in response to an offensive email, but it will only worsen the situation. Instead, take the professional high road.Don’t accuse them of being rude.
Keep your feelings out of the email.
Before you hit send, ask yourself if any part of the email is a defense of yourself.
 If the email contains threats or a personal attack, then you should make a copy of it and discuss it with your manager and HR. Make sure that the incident is documented by your workplace, and ask that an investigation be done.

Tell them if you feel that the contents of the email create a hostile work environment.
 Make a record of each time an incident occurs to help show a pattern of behavior. If you are receiving frequent rude emails that are affecting your work environment, then take your records to your manager or HR department. Bring copies of the emails with you to show them what you mean.When deciding who to report the issue to, think about the politics of your office. As an example, if your manager is really close to the offending person, it might be best to go to HR.
 HR or your manager’s supervisor can help if your manager is the sender of a rude email. Before you report the incident, be prepared to explain why you thought the email was rude. Depending on what was said, you may be asked to fill out an incident report, be asked to attend a mediation meeting, or be reassigned to a new department.

Reporting the rude email(s) to HR will be the only way that anything can be done about your manager’s behavior toward you if it continues. You need to establish a record on file.

