 A big part of being a competent strategist is knowing when to switch tactics. Developing goals is wonderful, but you also must be willing to terminate a plan or incorporate new strategies if you are not getting the anticipated results.


If, upon reassessment, you find that you do not see the progress you would like, go back to step one. Consider what and why your methods are not working. Examine what resources you currently have at your disposal. Then, come up with some new ways of meeting your objectives.Know that it takes time to meet many goals. Don't switch strategies until you can confirm that the tactic is, in fact, not working. In some cases, you may not have given your methods enough time to show results.
Consider this scenario: you are aiming to build up a long-term savings account. You were able to consistently deposit a set amount into the account every week. After successfully moving towards this goal for a period of time, you might decide to increase the amount you are depositing each week to meet your long-term goal faster.
 If you are closed to new ideas and techniques, you limit yourself. An essential part of your arsenal as a strategist must be a willingness to be wrong, to be surprised, and to find inspiration in the most unlikely of places. If keeping an open mind poses a challenge for you, try the following tips:Listen more, even to those with lesser titles than you.
Reinforce those who have the courage to try new things or make changes.
Gather all the facts before making a decision.
 A good strategist is like a sponge, constantly soaking up knowledge and experiences. Because science and technology are always evolving, you must understand that you, too, must educate yourself to stay abreast.Learn by reading books, watching films and documentaries, and completing online and in-person training in your given area. Regularly acquire new skills.
Observe others to see how they are doing things.
Ask questions; never assume you know everything.
 A capable strategist has mastered the notion of foresight, or he has someone on his team who has this skill. Many great leaders and businesses are toppled because a new trend or technique rendered their old methods useless. In order to prevent this, one must anticipate and plan for challenges. Do this by:Staying connected. Keep your finger on the pulse of the people. Know what their challenges are.
Researching your area of expertise. Stay abreast of new trends, products, and the users' response to them.
Consult with the customer or end-user. Consider their opinion on new initiatives.
Develop special teams to anticipate and respond to challenges.

