 Using resources, like oil and coal, to create power comes at a cost. Byproducts of many kinds of energy harm the world we live in. Clean water, too, requires treatment to make it safe. Wasting these resources puts strain on the local community.Teach conservation through:


Reducing your greenhouse gas emissions
Saving water while doing dishes
Managing water usage in your laundry room
Decreasing your electricity usage

Recycling used goods, like empty cans and used paper products, Compassion is your ability to connect with another person’s feelings and identify with them. This is also called empathy. With compassion, you can better recognize the suffering of others. Compassion also helps you share in the joy and excitement of the victories of others. Teach compassion by:Assisting others in their daily life. Some examples of this might include things like taking food to a sick neighbor, helping with home projects, opening doors, lending out tools, and so on.
Discussing other points of view. You might ask your child “What do you think that person is thinking?” about TV or book characters, friends at school, people on the street, and more., To be honest, you must care more about your relationship with others than your own personal benefit. Lying can ruin trust between people and harm your relationship. Fairness requires decisions to be made on evidence, and not on personal feelings.Talk about the meaning of honesty with your child. Ask them what they think it is, and offer more explanation if necessary.
Illustrate the consequences of honesty without compassion. Telling a person you think he’s fat might be honest, but is unnecessarily cruel.
Involve your child in a conversation about fairness. You might ask questions like, “How do we show fairness at school? At home?” Explain this concept further if necessary.
Discuss your personal experiences with honesty and fairness. Talk about your struggles to show your child you understand how hard this can be. This way, your child will be more likely to come to you when they struggle., In many cases, it can be difficult for even adults to decide between right and wrong, good and bad. Teach your child to pause before making a decision and consider its consequences. Acting on impulse can lead to poor decision making.


Help your child discern between fact and feeling. Feeling strongly about something, hitting someone else, for example, does not mean it’s OK.
Tell stories from your life about situations where you had to exercise sound judgement. Point out how other people were affected by your actions so your child can learn to think in this way.
Everyone has rules they don’t like. With your child, brainstorm a list of reasons for the rules they dislike. By doing this, you’ll help them get into the habit of thinking of the reasons behind rules., One of the best ways to learn respect is being treated with it.Even if you are frustrated or tired, try to use respectful language (please, thank you, excuse me) with your child, listen attentively to them, and inquire about their thoughts, feelings, and opinions.Speak with your child about different ways of showing respect and how different people have different ideas about what is respectful. This can be especially important when showing respect to elders.
Even if your child is wrong in their thinking, you might say something like, “Thank you for sharing that, Jane. I appreciate your input, but I’ve made my decision.”, It can be difficult keeping promises and honoring commitments that have been made. Failing to do these things can create mistrust in relationships or make people think you don’t care. Accepting responsibility is an important part of being a family or community member.Follow up with your child on agreements you’ve made. Agree on consequences beforehand and be faithful to these when agreements are broken.
Be a responsibility partner with your child. When they have to take responsibility, encourage them and be supportive. Help them make plans for how to act should the situation arise again., Everyone needs a little help every now and then. Helping others could involve things like carrying groceries, offering spare change to a homeless person, doing yard work, or giving directions. Even a small gesture could have a big impact on someone’s day.By offering to help others in your daily life, you’ll be modeling this behavior for your child. Involve your child by saying something like, “Let’s go help that nice woman with her groceries.”
If you notice somebody struggling with something, you might say, “Excuse me, could I help you with that?”

