 Peppermint is considered safe for children and adults. Peppermint can be used as a tea. Put 1–2 teaspoons of the dried herb in 1 cup of boiled water and brew for two to four minutes. Peppermint can also be used as a steam treatment.


To use as a steam treatment, add 1–2 teaspoons of dried herb to 2 cups of boiled water in a bowl. Being careful to avoid scalding, place your face over the bowl of water (make sure there is at least a distance of 12 inches between your face and the water), cover the back of your head with a towel, and breathe the fumes in through your nose and mouth.
As with all herbs, there is a chance you can have an allergic reaction. Try a small amount of tea or steam and wait 30 minutes. If there is no reaction, you can proceed.
 Marshmallow root is not the soft, spongy candy but, like the candy, it is considered safe for children and adults. It is also known as Althaea officinalis and has been used for centuries as a cough suppressant. In herbal medicine, it is known as a demulcent, which is an herb that relieves irritation, usually by decreasing inflammation.


Like peppermint, marshmallow root can be used as a tea or a steam treatment.
To make marshmallow root tea place 1–2 teaspoons of dried herb in 1 cup of boiled water. Brew for a few minutes and then remove the herb. Sweeten with honey if you want. Because there is a small risk of allergy, as with all herbs, try a small amount of tea and wait 30 minutes. If there is no reaction, you can proceed.
 Thyme has been traditionally used as a cough suppressant and for sore throats. It is considered safe for children and adults and can be used as a steam treatment as well.
 Ginger root has been used for centuries as a cough suppressant and to increase salivation, which can relieve a dry throat. The easiest way to use ginger is to cut off a small, quarter-sized slice of fresh ginger root and simply chew it. If the taste of ginger is too strong, try making a ginger tea or a ginger steam.Ginger root is considered safe for children and adults

, Turmeric milk is a traditional treatment for cough.Mix ½ teaspoon of turmeric in one glass of warm milk. If you don’t like milk, try soy or almond milk.
 Combine ½ ounce of fish oil with the juice of one lemon or one orange. They won’t mix very well. The fish oil provides Vitamins A, D and E and the citrus provides Vitamin C, all of which can be beneficial in relieving your cough. In addition, the citrus does a pretty good job of covering the fishy taste of the oil.


Hold your nose as you drink the fish oil and juice mixture. The perception of taste is based on a number of senses, and if you can’t smell it, the taste won’t be as strong.

