 Your brand is your promise to your customers. It tells them what they can expect when they buy your product or service. It also serves as a mark of quality, value, and/or consistency, and, if done properly, is the reason why a customer will choose you over one of your competitors. Building a strong brand is crucial to creating customer loyalty and, in doing so, increasing repeat business.

Start by figuring out what your business does well. Consider your skills, the positive qualities of your product/service, and other qualities of your business. This is the basis of your brand.
Then, think about how that ties in with what your customer wants or needs. You need for one or more of your business's attributes to meet the needs of the customer.
Finalize your brand by figuring out what makes your business superior to your competitors. Focus on this "competitive advantage" to build up your brand.;
, Use a free online webpage-building platform offered by a free hosting service like Heliohost or AwardSpace. Free hosting sites also provide you with free subdomains, so that you do not have to purchase a domain name, and you can include your subdomain URL on all of your email messages, blog and forum posts and directory listings., A bad design often suggests that the company is disreputable or could be a scam (even when it's perfectly innocent). Make the fonts big enough to read on a device, and keep the color scheme simple (preferably building from your logo colors), and make sure the website design is user-friendly. All of these aspects affect the marketability of your business. Check out a book from your local library about web design for ideas on how to improve the design your website., Your website is only useful if you can get people to visit it. You can drive such traffic to your site by optimizing your content for search engines and using website analytics to improve your strategies. Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is the process of creating optimized content on your website so that the web pages show up higher on related internet searches.


Writing SEO content requires following a set of practices that use keywords in the right quantity and places to drive traffic to your site.Website analytics tools such as Google Analytics allow you to get a better look at traffic going to and from your site. For example, you might check where traffic is coming from (both geographically and from what sites) or what device type is being used to access it (mobile or desktop).
With this information, you can optimize your marketing efforts, content, and site mechanics to meet your customer's needs., Begin a blog on your own website and regularly fill it with relevant, interesting content. You'll want to create a persona that customers identify with, so they'll be more likely to invest time in reading your blog. For instance, if you have a homemade cleaning products business, then you'll want to talk about how you've solved problems with different products, or by giving them advice on cleaning solutions.


There are many free-to-use blog sites that allow you to set up, run and interact with visitors on your very own, customizable blog.
Blogging on topics related to what you offer is not only a great way for how to advertise at no cost to you, but also to build a reputation as an expert in your field.This can be a great way for a niche market to let their potential clients know about them, such as unique wedding cake designs or specialty clothing.

