 Everyone expresses and receives comfort in different ways. To be thoughtful, learn what makes the most difference to your loved ones. Your mother may want a call every day, for instance, while your father doesn't care if you call much but would be hurt if you didn't mark his birthday with a thoughtful gift.


What kinds of loving acts mean the most to your loved one? Do they respond most to acts of service, to gifts, to quality time, to affectionate words, to physical touch?Do they need to feel like you understand their motivations? Is it important to them that you are physically present at certain kinds of event?
If you're not sure, ask yourself what you have done for your loved one that they speak of often, or that made them cry. If you're not sure, ask them.
Brainstorm things that they like, and work them into your routine. For instance, if your parents feel supported when you do housework, assign yourself more regular chores. If your kid gets clingy when they need comfort, get into the habit of giving them regular hugs.
 Take a moment every day to consider the things you are given. Express your appreciation to those who give to you: from the barista who makes your drink to the spouse who stays calm while you panic about your missing keys.Notice the small things. You might not notice all the things people give to you—apart from materials goods, someone may give you time, emotional energy, or even thoughtful attention. When a loved one does something that affects you, think of their motivation. They may be doing it to make you feel good.
Ask yourself if there are things your loved one does for you that you could do in return. Oftentimes, the things you think to do for other people align more with your own needs than with theirs. Therefore, if you want to find out what your loved one needs, you might look to what they give you.
For instance, if your partner always gives you nice shoulder massages, you might offer them a massage in return. It's possible that they have shoulder pain and are unconsciously assuming that your shoulders hurt too.
 When you greet one another and when you have a moment alone, try to see how your loved one feels. Ask, but also observe. Do they look focused and alert? Do they look tired, sad, or worried? Are they frowning, tapping their hand, or checking their phone every three minutes?Ask your partner how they are feeling. "How are you? Have you had a good day?"
Ask specific questions about things you think they might want to talk about
If your partner seems distant, anxious, or sad, ask: "is anything bothering you?"
You can say what you perceive: "You seem a little preoccupied. Is there something on your mind?"

