 The Investor perk is available when your Speech skill reaches level 70. This enables the Dragonborn to give 500 gold to a merchant to permanently increase the funding available to them.


You can increase your Speech skill by selling items.
Selling items to a merchant based on the cost of the item will only count for the first item, so sell expensive stacks of items at a time to quickly increase your Speech skill.;
, This will raise her disposition high enough to make her a candidate for marriage. Just speak to Taarie and select “I want to invest in your business.”


Taarie’s shop, Radiant Raiment, is located near the main gates of Solitude.
Make sure you invest in Taari, not her sister Endarie.
 You can only marry Taarie if you complete the “Fit for a Jarl” quest. To start this quest, talk to Taarie until you will come to a point when you will ask her “So what should I wear to the Blue Palace?” She will then ask you to model some clothing, after which she will give you some gold for your trouble.
 Wait for Elisif the Fair to finish the court meeting and then approach her.
 She will then complement the outfit and say she will order clothes from them.
 She then gives you a reward of gold.
 Maramal is in Riften; he can be inside the Bee and Barb tavern or at the Temple of Mara. Talk to him about marriage and he will instruct you to get an Amulet of Mara.
 You can purchase the amulet from Maramal after speaking to him.


You may have picked up an Amulet of Mara from loots; if you have it already, just equip it.
 Talking to Taarie while wearing the Amulet of Mara will result in a dialogue concerning marriage.
 In order for Taarie to say yes, she must have a high disposition towards you, hence investing in her store and completing the “Fit for the Jarl” quest.
 Maramal will be delighted to wed the both of you and will announce that the ceremony will take place the next day between dawn and dusk.
 Early the next day, Taarie will be at the Temple of Mara; enter the temple, walk down the aisle, and say your vows.


Congratulations, you’re now legally married in Skyrim!
Though Maramal tells you that the ceremony is to be held between dawn and dusk, you can actually hold the ceremony at any time of day as long as it hasn’t been over 24 hours since you proposed.

