 If you are installing laminate on a countertop or other surface with edges, begin with the edge pieces. If you cut them from the laminate yourself, apply the contact cement with a brush or roller to both surfaces. Allow it to set until it feels tacky, according to the manufacturer's directions.


If you are using pre-glued end caps, all you need to do is heat a clothes iron, place the laminate against the edge, and iron back and forth. Let sit for one minute and gently tap it along its length with a rubber mallet or shoe heel. You can now skip to Trim the edge strip.
 When you are sure you have it placed properly, press it to the surface. Once the two surfaces come into contact, the contact cement is already bonded to 50% or more of its final strength.
 Push a dry roller back and forth across the laminate to adhere it completely and to remove air from between the laminate and the surface.
 Use a fine file to remove the excess material, applying pressure only on the up strokes. You may use a laminate trimmer or router instead, but if you do you should lubricate the edge with petroleum jelly (Vaseline) first.This minimizes the chance of breakage.


Use a carbide drill bit when trimming laminate.
 Before continuing, protect your finished edges while you install the remainder of the laminate sheet.
 Allow it to set according to manufacturer's instructions. As a general rule, the contact cement should be left until it becomes tacky and dry to the touch, but no longer.


'Note: If your Formica came with an adhesive already attached, follow the manufacturer's instructions to activate it before installing. Often, these adhesives activate when moistened with water.
 Place lengths of 1/4-inch thick (.64 cm) or larger dowels every 10 to 12 inches (25 to 30 cm) apart across the surface to prevent accidental misalignment. These should lay flat across the full width of the surface to hold the laminate up until it is aligned.


When applying laminate to vertical surfaces, you will need to position them by hand.
 Align the laminate as accurately as you can, then continue to adjust it as you move from one end of the surface to the other. Shift the dowels out of the way once you've aligned each section, then press it down to adhere it to the surface.
 Push a roller across the sheet to eliminate air pockets and strengthen the contact bond.
 Use a flush trim carbide drill bit. Stop frequently to allow the router to cool, as the laminate will melt if exposed to high heat., Use a fine wood file to methodically file down the sharp edge of the laminate. File downward at an angle along the entire edge.