 You can double-check your printer's eligibility in order to make sure it will allow you to print wirelessly from your iPhone.


Your printer and your phone must be connected to the same Wi-Fi network.
If you don't own an AirPrint compatible printer, you can still use AirPrint by finding a network that has an AirPrint-supported printer at your workplace, school, etc.
Your printer may need to be set up before you can print wirelessly. Since this process will vary depending on your printer model, consult your printer's manual to see what you need to do in order to set up your printer.;
, Most apps from Apple fit this category, including Mail, Safari, and iPhoto. You can also print emails, documents, and pictures from your phone.For example, open Photos to print a photo.
 If you're trying to print a photo or note, for example, tap the item in question., It's a box with an upward-facing arrow in one of the corners of your phone's screen.


For example, the "Share" button is in the bottom-left corner of the screen when you have a picture open in Photos and the top-right corner of the screen when you have a note open in Notes.
If you're trying to print an email, you'll tap the backward-facing button at the bottom of the screen (right of the trash icon) instead.
 It's in the bottom row of options in the "Share" button pop-up menu. Depending on the item you're trying to print, you may have to swipe left over this row of options to see the Print option.

For an email, simply tap Print at the bottom of the pop-up menu.
 It's at the top of the screen. Doing so will cause your iPhone to scan for a printer on your wireless network; as long as you have a connected AirPrint printer, its name should appear in the menu here.

You can also tap - or + below the Select Printer option to decrease or increase the number of copies you'd like to print, or you can tap individual pages of a multiple-page document to select or deselect them for printing.
 It will appear on the screen after a few moments., It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will prompt your selected item(s) to begin printing from your connected printer.