 When it comes to using a computer, quitting cold turkey is no longer an option. We're increasingly dependent on the internet and email for work, our social lives, paying bills, and making purchases. Making an online schedule is a more viable option. Limit the time you spend online without completely eliminating the habit.


Plan what times you will go on your computer. For example, say you find yourself mindlessly passing the hours after dinner on the Internet. Limit the time you go online to one hour and, after that hour is up, find other ways to pass the time.List the websites you plan to visit. The reason many of us fritter away hours online is because of unplanned websites visits and, as many sites link you other relevant sites, you end up getting drawn in for hours. Go online only with specific intentions. Plan to check your email, Facebook, read a news article, and then turn off the computer.If you crave the occasional spontaneous internet searches, set a timer for how long you can search aimlessly. Give yourself one to two hours of unplanned internet usage and then disconnect for the remainder of the day.
 There are a litany of applications and add-ons available that can block your access to time wasting websites. Invest in some of these if self control alone isn't cutting it in terms of lessening your time on the computer.


If you're a Firefox user, there is an add-on called LeechBlock. You can block time wasting websites for specific time periods, ranging from a few hours to a few days. If you use Chrome, there is a similar add-on called StayFocused and Internet Explorer simply allows you to block certain sites by manipulating your blocking settings.There is a MacOS application called SelfControl that allows you to black list certain websites. You set a timer and you are unable to access the listed websites during that time. For PC users, there is a similar application called Freedom., If your computer time is caused primarily by gaming or using certain application, it might be time to simply uninstall.


What do you absolutely need your computer for? For most of us, we need our computers to check our email for work and access calendars and schedules. You might have different needs, depending on your location and occupation. Figure out what you need versus what you don't need and go from there.
It can be difficult to uninstall a video game you're prone to playing frequently, especially if you have data and information stored that will be lost. You might not have the personal will power to do so. Talk to a friend or loved one about how you feel you're spending too much time on the computer. See if they can come over and uninstall the game for you.
 Sometimes, out of sight out of mind is an effective tool to lessen your computer time. Simply making it difficult to access the internet or your laptop can give you added time to consider what you're doing and make the decision to take a break from the computer.


Rearrange your computer's screen. This is a simple but effective trick when it comes to lessening screen time. Remove browsers from your dock, as well as short cuts to websites like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. If you have your email set up in a mail application, remove the application.Change where you keep your laptop or computer. If your computer is easy to access, you're more likely to use it. If, for example, your computer is on a desk near your bed you're likely to start off the morning by checking Facebook. Have a designated area in your home where you keep your laptop and/or computer and do not use those electronics outside of that space.Unplug your modem. If you have to wait for the modem to start up, this will give you added time to consider whether you really need to go online. Unplug the modem after your designated daily internet usage.
Turn off your computer when you're not using it. The added start up time helps you slow down and reconsider how you're spending your time., Sometimes, even if we're wary about screen time, we have to be on a computer for work or school. If that's the case for you, schedule breaks to save yourself the physical and emotional side effects of too much computer time.


Schedule regular breaks if you're using the computer to complete a project. We are often tempted to take breaks on the computer. For example, after an hour of work we allow ourselves to check Facebook or Twitter. Instead of online rewards, go for a 10 minute walk every 50 minutes or take a break to have a snack or listen to your iPod.There are many 10 minute workouts you can do during your designated break time. Exercise helps us cope with stress and can counter some of the negative health effects of sitting in front of a screen too long. Push-ups, pull-ups, and squats are great options.Ten minutes of meditation can also help relax you. You can find meditation techniques online or ask friends who you know practice meditation.