 Since an SMSF is so complex, you can’t do it all by yourself. You are going to have to hire professionals to help you run the fund. Even if you hire professionals, however, be aware that you bear the sole responsibility for compliance with legal and tax regulations. Every year you have to hire an approved SMSF auditor to audit your fund.
Accountants and professional advisors can set up and run your fund.
An accountant can also prepare annual financial and operating statements.
You can hire a tax agent to prepare and file your SMSF annual return, provide tax advice and represent you in your dealings with the ATO.
You can hire a fund administrator to handle day-to-day accounting responsibilities.
You need a lawyer to prepare and update your fund’s trust deed.
It’s a good idea to have a financial adviser to help you devise an investment strategy.
 You can choose from two different structures for your fund. The first option is to have four individual trustees. The other option is to appoint a corporate trustee. This means that a company acts as trustee for the fund. An SMSF professional can help you make this decision., Creating a trust means that a trustee (a person or company) holds property (or trust assets) in trust for the beneficiaries. A super fund is a type of trust. It is set up and operated for the purpose of providing retirement benefits to its members (who are the beneficiaries).To create a trust, you need trustees, assets, identifiable beneficiaries and the intention to create a trust.
 This is a legal document that details how you will create and manage your fund. It provides information about the fund’s objectives, who can be a member, and how benefits are paid to beneficiaries. Together with super laws, the trust deed documents the governing rules of the SMSF.Since it is a legal document, the trust deed must be prepared by a lawyer.
It must be signed and dated by all trustees.
 Trustees are usually appointed by the trust deed. All trustees must consent in writing to their appointment. They must also sign a trustee declaration indicating that they understand the duties and responsibilities of being a trustee.Trustees should keep these documents on file. They should also understand that penalties may be imposed if tax laws and regulations aren’t followed.
 SMSFs receive tax concessions. Therefore, it’s important to ensure that your fund remains an Australian super fund all throughout the financial year. Your fund must meet residency rules in order to remain in compliance. If these rules are not followed, the fund becomes non-complying. Then its assets and income are taxed at a much higher rate., To register your fund, you need to set aside assets for your members. You can do this with a nominal amount of money, such as $10. Once all of your trustees have signed the trustee declaration, you have 60 days to register with the Australian Tax Office (ATO). You register by applying for an Australian Business Number (ABN) at the Australian Business Register., The bank account must be set up in your fund’s name. This account will accept cash contributions and income from investments. Also, all expenses and liabilities will be paid from this account. This bank account should be separate from any of the trustees’ individual bank accounts. You don’t need a separate account for each member, but you do have to keep separate records for each member.
 This is a special internet address that allows your SMSF to receive contributions from employers electronically via SuperStream data. SuperStream is the standard vehicle for employer contributions to any super fundTo make contributions via SuperStream, an employer will need your SMSF’s ABN, bank account details (BSB and account number) and electronic service address.
 You must give some thought to what will happen when your SMSF ends. This is called “winding up.” You can specify wind-up requirements in your trust deed. For example, you can explain how members’ super will be paid out or rolled over when the fund winds up. You can also specify what happens when a member dies.