 To style your angled bob in a high fashion 1960’s look, wash and air dry your hair to give it a natural texture. Then take the very back section of your hair and hold it straight up. Backcomb it from the midsection to your scalp to give it extra volume. Lay your hair back down on your head and comb the top of your hair to smooth it. Then comb your bangs or the hair framing one side of your face across your forehead and over to another and pin the hair there so that it stays.This style is extra mod and high fashion if you have a dramatically angled bob that is longer in the front and shorter in the back.
 If you already have a pixie cut, make it extra 60’s-esque by brushing it to make it straight and sleek. Add shine pomade to give it an extra sleek, mod look and brush your bangs to the side to give it a 60’s flair.The pixie cut look was popularized by the model Twiggy.
 If you already have a mop top style haircut with long bangs and hair that falls to the ears and just touches your shoulders in the back, maintain it by adding product and straightening it. If you have curly or wavy hair, use a straightening iron to straighten it, then add mousse or styling product and work it through your hair for a little extra volume. Instead of wearing your bangs to the side, comb them straight down so that they cover your eyebrows.This is a boyish look that was popularized by The Beatles in the early stages of their career.
 To do this late 50’s, early 60’s hairstyle, make sure you are working on damp hair. Apply a hair cream or gel to give your hair extra texture, pushing the hair backward and working the product through your hair. Spray your hair with heat protectant, then blow dry hair, aiming the dryer so that it blows your hair away from your face. Brush your hair backward with your fingers, then apply a styling aid such as a wax paste to keep your hair in place., To do this style, your hair should be about one inch (2.54 cm) on the sides and 4 inches (10.16 cm) on top. Blow dry your wet hair, aiming the dryer so that it blows your hair back. Add pomade with your fingers when your hair is almost dry, and comb the sides of your hair diagonally toward the nape of your neck. Use the comb to make a straight side part on one side of your head and brush your hair to either side.Put your hand on the very top of your head and gently push it a little toward your forehead to make a slight bump. Then spray with hairspray to make the style last extra long.

