 If you enjoy having more freedom during the outlining stages for your novel, you can use freewriting to generate ideas and details for your novel. A freewrite is also a good way to get plot ideas that you can then integrate into an outline. Use an idea you have for the novel to create a freewriting prompt that you can write about to get started.You can use a simple prompt, such as “I want to write a novel about…” or “My novel will be structured based on…”. Or you can use a prompt that is more specific to your novel idea.
For example, you may have the prompt, “Susan lives in the jungle and is visited by her long lost daughter. Then…”.
 You may use a timer to set aside a certain amount of time to write on the prompt. Writing on the prompt for 15 minutes can help you focus and let your ideas flow on the page. Try not to re-read what you have written during the freewrite or correct your writing. You want to have a sense of freedom and exploration during the freewrite.


You may try writing on the prompt in a quiet, private spot in your home or at work. Minimize any distractions around you and stay focused on the prompt so you can get the most out of the freewrite.
 Once you have completed the freewrite, read it over and analyze the content. Look for any details that seem interesting or engaging to you. Note any details that surprise you or help open up the structure of the novel. Ask yourself, “What does the freewrite tell me about the structure of my novel?” “How does the freewrite explore plot, character, and setting?”You may make notes on the freewrite about plot and structure or highlight lines that seem to explore these elements. You can also underline or note any details that focus on character and setting, as you can then integrate this information in your outline.
 After you have analyzed your freewrite, you should expand on any ideas that you found interesting to create a loose outline. The outline may be based on the narrative structure or the snowflake method. Or you may create a loose outline that reads like a sketch or a summary of the main events in the novel.Another option is to create more freewriting prompts from lines you liked in the text and doing freewrites on these prompts. Doing more freewriting using your own texts can help you explore and expand your ideas for the novel.

