 First straighten your photo, then make it look attractive with exposure adjustments, starting with contrast. Crop to simplify. Use Windows Live Photo Gallery or Microsoft Office Picture Manager (Windows Live Photo Gallery is free), or whatever photo program you usually use.
 When you have two people in a photo, eyeball a center between them, and place this center according to the golden mean.

Look at the photo below and notice the dead space at the bottom. The interesting part of this photo is the area where the two men are looking (besides what is in their mouth and their facial expressions) and there should be more space there.
 In this image, notice how the space to the lady's right, even with the lines, does not balance the rest of the photo. Asymmetry is many times vertical in Asian art and in this photo the asymmetry is horizontal.
Again, take many photos and ask the person to pose differently. Your photo must be pleasing to look at––trust your instincts on what is pleasing, even if you cannot explain why exactly.
 For a peaceful composition, use a horizontal line. With objects of the same size, arrange them so they appear different, such as in this photo:
, The approximate ratio of the golden mean is 6/10, so a vertical placement of a subject would be 6/10 in height on your frame.
If your subject matter is the moon, imagine a dot at the center of the moon, and place it there, according to the golden mean.






When you have two or more objects, find the center of those objects and place this center according to the golden mean.
 In the image shown here, the people in the bottom section and the plants frame this photo; this enhances the speaker who is the center of interest. The bottom, left corner should be cropped a bit in this graduation picture, and the bottom left corner in the previous step's picture could do with having a bit more space.
 The visual path is from left to right, just as we read from left to right. The lines from the building converge at the sunset.
 Contrast will ensure that the viewer's attention is on the center of interest. Take pictures from different heights––you do not have to be looking at the preview directly. Take some pictures with the camera held above your head and held low, below eye level.


The contrast in this photo is with light. In this scene, if the camera was held lower (perhaps the top part of the photo), it would look less compacted. The top part of the photo has a science fiction look–-okay if that is what you want, but not if you want a professional-looking photo.


