 As the old saying indicates, it will be more difficult to change the habits and behaviors of an older dog. Let patience and persistence be your allies.
 If your dog tends to bite your forearm, for instance, spray your shirt sleeve in that area while playing.


You can also search for homemade versions of this deterrent.
 Beating your dog is never the best way to handle any situation, and in the case of biting only tends to instill fear, aggression, and an invitation for rougher play, all of which promote more biting. Use the following negative association methods in combination with the “yelp and stop” methods.


Spray your dog in the mouth with a peppermint breath spray (like Binaca) when she bites. She will like neither the taste nor the sensation of the spray.Utilize a choke/pinch collar, if you are comfortable with doing so.Keep a leash on the dog while you play, and give a firm but not excessive tug when a biting or mouthing incident occurs. There are differences of opinion on whether choke collars are acceptable for use on dogs, so use your best judgement.
 All dogs are different, and training a puppy or older dog can be a frustrating and seemingly fruitless task. There is no shame in seeking out help from trained and experienced professionals.


The ASPCA recommends that you seek out a Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist (CAAB or ACAAB), a Veterinary Behaviorist (Dip ACVB), or a Certified Professional Dog Trainer (CPDT) with demonstrated experience in dealing with dogs who bite.Train your dog in your home as opposed to sending him away to a training school if possible. Training is most effective when done in the familiar environment in which the trained behavior will be most commonly expected., Even the best-trained dog who has never shown a proclivity for biting can unexpectedly bite you, a family member, or a guest. Pain, sometimes pain of which you may not be aware, can be one cause of unexpected biting behavior.


If there are behaviors, such as rough play or head-patting that can trigger a biting response from your dog, inform your family and guests to avoid doing so.
Teach those around you to be aware of signs of an impending bite, by your dog or any others. These include ears pinned back, fur standing up, body stiffening, widened eyes with a direct gaze, and showing of teeth that can look like a yawn.Teach those around you how, in the worst case scenario, to respond to a threatening dog: remain calm, be assertive but avoid eye contact, and if attacked, ball up and protect your face, throat, chest, and fingers (by making fists).