 Carefully unfold your dinner napkin and lay it on a flat surface.


If you would like to decorate your parachute sail, place the napkin on top of a piece of newspaper, cardboard, or scrap paper. Use felt tip markers to draw on your sail.;
, Unwind the string and cut off a strand that is approximately 1 foot (0.30 m) long. Unwind the string. Lay the cut strand next to the unwound string as though it were a ruler. Cut the second strand the same length as the first. Cut 2 more strands in the same manner.You could also use a 12 inch ruler.
 Gather and twist the napkin’s top left corner ½ inch from the edge. Tie 1 string tightly around the gathered corner—create the knot near the top of the strand. Repeat this process on every corner, making sure to tie all of the strings at approximately the same spot.


This will result in long tails that are the same length., Gather all four strings together 2 to 3 inches above the bottom and tie the strings in a knot. Select an object to add weight to the parachute, such as a rock, an action figure, or paperclips. Use the 2 to 3 inch (5.1 to 7.6 cm) tails to secure the object to the parachute., Now that you have created your paper parachute, it is ready for action. Decide where you will drop your parachute from—this may be over the banister of your stairs, from a play structure, or even from the top bunk of a bunk bed. You may even simply throw it up into the air. Once you have reached the top of your launch zone, release the parachute and watch it glide to the ground., Note the rate at which your parachute is falling? Is your parachute falling quickly to the ground or gliding slowing to the ground?If it is moving towards the ground at a rapid pace, the weight it too heavy or the parachute sail is too small. Try attaching a lighter object to your parachute, such as a feather or paperclips, or create a larger sail.
If your parachute is moving too slowly towards the ground, the weight is too light or the the parachute sail is too big. To change the speed, attach a heavier item to your parachute, like a rock, or create a smaller parachute sail.Feel free to experiment with different weights and sail sizes.

