 Utorrent (or µTorrent - it's the same program, but is called by different names) will work well for anybody who uses a Windows or Mac operating system. Google or use your favorite search engine to search "bit torrent client" for a list of additional program choices. Install as per instructions included with the client.;
, You can see many of them via a web search for "torrent tracker." Search for the websites that list many of the most popular torrent trackers for movies, eBooks and music.
 The more seeds per leech, the better. Torrents with few seeds - regardless the of seeds : leech ratio - will take longer to download. It may take longer if you have a slow internet connection, if this is the case, you might want to consider upgrading to your ISP's higher speed option since torrent transfers generate a lot of network traffic.


Torrent files work in a "peer to peer" (P2P) fashion rather then a server to client (S2C) fashion. This means you will not download the desired file(s) from a server, but rather from a number of other people who are "hosting" parts of the file needed. These hosts are called seeds. If a torrent has "0" seeds, it means no one has the file or program and you shouldn't bother attempting to download it.
 Look for torrents with file types that you are more familiar with. If you are not familiar with any of them, spend a few minutes reviewing file types such as MKV, RAR, SHN, ZIP etc. in order to figure out how to open and extract them. Download video formats compatible with your display ie: 480 or SD types will display on standard definition TVs and those that are 720, 1080 or HD will require an HD display or computer monitor.
 Once the client of choice is installed and properly configured, simply double clicking a torrent file listed on a website should download the torrent file, which will then start the client program automatically. Once the client program has started, it should begin to download the program or file desired after it connects to the hosts that have the parts of the file needed (may take up to a minute or so).
 Your upload speed can reduce your download speed. If set too high, you might want to experiment with different upload rates to find the speed that does not adversely affect download speed. Similarly, setting your upload speed to "0" will cause download speeds to slow to a crawl and eventually stop completely. Choose a speed that does not reduce download speed.
 After the download is finished, moving the file will cause the upload to other people to fail so if you wish to seed (which is strongly encouraged but not mandatory), you shouldn't move the file. You can, however, open or use it. Remember, you can only download the file because of other people seeding. So give back to the community!

, Some files - will be playable / watchable directly, while others will need to be unpacked / unzipped etc. Some file types found and their ways of extraction are:


ZIP, RAR: you can extract with the help of WinRAR
ISO: these files are extracted using daemon tool which can be downloaded easily by searching through Google.
These are the main type of files.

