 The need to moisturize your skin when it's dry may seem like a no-brainer, but it's important that you know how to moisturize effectively. For instance, piling on an inch-thick layer of moisturizer once a week isn't going to do your skin much good. You need to be moisturizing frequently and consistently in order to effectively combat dry skin.


Keep a facial moisturizer beside your bed. This will make it easier to remember to moisturize every night before you go to sleep. Make it a part of your nightly routine.
If you suffer from dry hands, keep a small tube of hand cream in your hand bag or beside your sink. Use every time you wash your hands.;
, Moisturizing when your skin is still slightly wet helps to seal in more hydration.After you wash your face, pat off the excess moisture with a towel before applying your moisturizer. For your body, do the same thing. Pat your skin with a towel until it's just slightly damp, then apply a good moisturizer. Allow your skin to dry naturally so it can absorb all the moisture.


If you're skin still feels dry, apply a second layer of moisturizer once the first layer has soaked in.
 You may need to change the products you use, according to changes in your skin or the time of year. In colder months, you may to switch to a richer moisturizer. In summer, you should use one with an SPF. If you have combination skin, it may be necessary to use a lighter moisturizer on the parts of your skin that gets oily (like your t-zone) and a heavier one where your skin gets dry., Be careful when choosing a facial or body cleanser, as some cleansers can strip moisture from the skin. Opt for a gentle cream or milk cleanser that will moisturize the skin as it cleanses. Also try to stay away from heavily-fragranced cleansers as the chemicals behind scents can be drying., Exfoliating can be great for sloughing off dead skin cells and for smoothing the skin. However, many facial scrubs can also strip the skin of moisture and irritate dry skin. This is why it is important to exfoliate gently, using the right products and techniques.


The ingredients in many facial scrubs can strip the skin of essential moisture. Instead of a facial scrub, use a damp baby's washcloth to massage your face in small, circular motions in order to gently, yet effectively exfoliate.Get rid of gritty, abrasive body scrubs and try using a loofah, exfoliating gloves or a dry skin brush to gently exfoliate the skin.Always moisturize your skin directly after exfoliating.
 A lot of times, dry skin is a side effect of using certain treatments, like ones for acne and wrinkles. If you are trying to clear your skin or fight off aging, this doesn't mean you have to stop using those treatments completely. It simply means you should use them less frequently because certain active ingredients in such treatments can exacerbate dry skin, especially in the winter., Dry skin often leads to itchy skin, but scratching can make dry skin worse, and even damage the skin. Sometimes moisturizing alone will help to ease any dry-skin related itchiness, but if you need some extra relief, try a hydrocortisone cream or over-the-counter anti-itch lotion.