 Use a tape measure to get the height and width measurements of the space on the wall where you will hang or mount your mirror. Mirrors in the store will often look smaller than they do when you get them home and into your bathroom.


Keep the mirror from 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) from the ceiling. The mirror should not be taller than your vanity. Leave 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of wall space on each side of the mirror as well.;
, Depending on the size and simplicity, the cost of a bathroom mirror can range from under $50 to over $1,000.


Set a budget before shopping so you know how much you can spend on the mirror. If you are buying a mirror just to update the space, decide on a range or a specific dollar amount that you will not go over.
Cut your budget in other places if you are remodeling the whole bathroom and you find an expensive mirror that you love. Reduce the amount you plan to spend on paint, lighting, or other fixtures to accommodate your mirror budget.



Create a custom frame using a designer at a frame shop or specialty store. You can select separate glass and frame details to create a unique look to the full mirror.
Choose a mirror without a frame if you prefer. Bathroom mirrors can be unframed, with only the mirrored glass to hang.
Purchase a mirror with the frame already built around it. The frames can be constructed of wood, metal, glass or other materials. Choose something that matches your bathroom décor.
If you are looking for a small, framed mirror that will mainly be used for shaving or applying makeup, you can purchase a mirror with extendable arms. It can be pushed against the wall to be out of the way, and pulled out into the position of your preference.
 Buy a simple mirror if you want it only to provide a reflection as you use your bathroom. If you want a mirror that does more, consider those that allow for storage, additional lighting, even a built-in television that reflects its picture on the mirror.
 This will keep the entire bathroom looking uniform and organized.


Adopt a current trend by selecting circular, unframed and beveled mirrors. This style will work well in a modern, updated bathroom that has neutral colors and polished brass or steel fixtures.
Use a wood or metal finish on your mirror and frame that coordinates with what you already have in your bathroom. If other parts of the bathroom are a light wood or a deep cherry color, match that with the mirror frame. If you have wallpaper, consider a painted frame that matches the pattern.
 If you plan to keep your mirror on the wall for a long as you are in the home, use permanent installation, such as glue or liquid nails. Use wire or mirror brackets if you plan to change the mirror or move in the near future. The hardware is less expensive, and much easier to install and take down.
 Check out hardware stores, bathroom design showrooms, online retailers and home and garden magazines.


Read product reviews, and talk to design professionals and sales associates in stores.
Ask about return policies and warranties. If you get the mirror home and into your bathroom and you hate it, or it breaks before you get it installed, you will want to be able to exchange it for something else.

