 Whether you're throwing or going to a party for New Year's, planning is always important. If you're throwing the party, make sure to have it under control and try to stay sober. You'll be in charge of organizing things and helping people have a fun and safe time. Sending out invites a while in advance is always good, and including the right information is good too. If you are not planning to let your friends chill at your house overnight, make sure they have a safe, sober ride home.


If you're the one going to a party, you have some planning to do as well. Plan out what you're going to wear, how you'll be going to the party, and from the party, who will be driving, how long your going to be there, and what your going to bring. It is polite to bring something for a party when you attend, such as special chocolates, a bottle of wine, or some music for the hosts and party. It is also important to know what other friends or family members are doing for New Year's Eve before you make any plans.;
, At the beginning of a party, it is a good idea (as a host or guest) to make sure everyone has a way of getting home if they are not staying at the host's home.
 Even if you're not where you want to be on New Year's Eve, make the best of it. Even if you're home by yourself, you can still have a great time. Stay on the phone with friends or, if possible, join close family or neighbor's parties (if you are close to them.) If you're at at a boring party or stuck at a party with someone you don't like, try to liven things up. Play the music, get some food, dance, set up games for children at the party, let the teenage children play video games, socialize with the others there. Play music for everyone.
 If you're hosting a 'bad' party, then try to liven things up (as stated before) or ask a close party guest for advise. It's always a good idea to have a few close friends help you out at a party. If things get really slow, do a "Round the Room Resolutions" game by having everyone share a little about their goals for the new year. It's a fun way to quickly pass the time, and a great conversation starter.
 Be prepared with sparklers, noisemakers, drinks, hats, poppers, or anything else festive for the countdown.
 If a host is serving food you're not fond of or cannot eat (like a vegetarian at a steak dinner), there are a few things you can do. You can eat before you come or bring in a food both you and the host like as a party gift. As a host make sure to have a large selection of food and drinks, and non-alcohol drinks as well. Snacks as well as small, light meals should be served and available throughout the night.
 If hosting a party, make sure you have a separate room or bathroom set aside for people that become to drunk or 'partied out.' If someone becomes too intoxicated, ask one of their friends to watch them in the separate room or bathroom while you look for a sober ride for them. Try not to attract too much attention to events like this.
 There is not much a guest can do about this, except bringing some décor or music as a party gift. The host should make sure their home is neat, clean, and properly decorated for a party. Music is always good to play at a party. Lighting should be bright enough for everyone to see yet not to bright to hurt people's eyes.

