 Dilution makes the the flavour less, and as a bonus, makes the the juice last longer.;
, If you find your orange juice could use a bit more sweetness, feel free to use sugar, honey or a sweetener of your choice.


If you don't mind salt, you can also try adding a pinch of it to the orange juice. The salt should help to bring out the orange juice sweetness.
 If you're looking for a bit more flavor, this should help!


You can also use lemon juice.
 This will make the orange juice creamier and more wholesome tasting. It'll taste a bit like a morir sonañdo, but requires much less effort. Serve iced.


Start with two parts orange juice to one part milk.
If you want it a little sweeter, add in ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract per glass.
 Not only does mint go great with orange, but this will also make the glasses much more photogenic.
 Mash banana with a fork and mix well.
 There are many recipes online for orange juice mocktails. If alcohol is your thing, orange juice combines well with amaretto, vodka, gin, tequila and many fruit based liqueurs.


Mocktails:

Mockmosa: 2 parts orange juice + 3 parts sparkling white grape juice
St. Clements: 1 part orange juice, 1 part sparkling, clear lemonade.
Fuzzless Navel: 1 part peach nectar + 3 parts orange juice
Poinsettia: Make a Poinsettia, substituting the champagne for dry sparkling white grape juice (or ginger ale), and substituting the Cointreau with some orange juice.
Strawberry banana margarita: Remove the tequila and substitute the triple sec with orange juice.
Luscious Lou: Remove the vodka and Cointreau, and increase the amount of orange juice.


Cocktails:

Screwdriver: Just use vodka and orange juice!
Bocce Ball: This is similar to the Screwdriver, but uses amaretto instead of vodka.
Fuzzy Navel: Mix peach schnapps with orange juice.
Tequila Sunrise: Layer orange juice, tequila, and grenadine into a highball glass. Serve with ice.
 This is a bit like the morir sonañdo (next step) but uses more ingredients and has more variations. It's commonly made with orange juice and milk, but can also be made with ice cream and sometimes alcohol.
 This is a drink from the Dominican Republic that's quick, simple, and will leave you wanting more. It combines orange juice with half-and-half, and works great as a summer or breakfast beverage.

