 The Falconet is a type of light infantry that is useful during a siege attack by enemy infantry or for destroying enemy buildings when used in groups. Falconets are available in Age of Empires 3 (including The Warchiefs and Asian Dynasties expansions). Before you start training, make sure you have at least 300 Wood to create an Artillery Foundry by checking your resources stockpile. This is displayed on the bottom left corner of the screen next to the map. If you don’t have it, command your villagers to gather.


Also make sure that that you have enough resources to create a Falconet. One Falconet costs 100 Wood and 400 Coin. If you don’t have enough resources, select a Villager, and instruct him or her to gather the resources.
 Once you have enough wood, left-click a Villager to select him (or her) and then click the “Artillery Foundry” button (a square icon with crisscrossed mallets on it) from the build panel that appears in the bottom right corner of the screen.


Move your mouse to position the building’s foundation where you want and then left click to place it. Your Villager will now construct the Artillery Foundry.
 To select the building, simply left-click it. Alternatively, you can select the Artillery Foundry by pressing Ctrl+A. A panel with icons representing the different types of units you can train from the Artillery Foundry will appear in the bottom right corner of the screen.
 The second button, one with a picture of a real-life Falconet on it, is the button for creating a Falconet. Click it once to create one Falconet or multiple times to train many.


It takes 45 seconds to create one Falconet. Unlike other military units, Falconets cannot be created in batches. You can only create one Falconet at a time, and as such, creating 5 Falconets would take 45 x 5 seconds.
Once the process is complete, your Falconets will appear outside the Artillery Foundry.
 You can do this by clicking the Artillery Foundry and then looking at the training progress icons that will appear in a panel in the bottom left corner of the screen. These icons show the type of unit(s) being trained, the number, and the progress of the training using a green progress bar.

If, for example, you chose to train 5 Falconets, the panel will show 5 Falconet icons. Clicking on any of the icons means you have cancelled the training of one Falconet and will remove the icon from the panel. This will reduce the number of Falconets in training to 4, and so on.
Clicking all 5 icons off the panel means the entire process is cancelled—no Falconet will be created—and the total resource cost for the 5 Falconets will be returned to your stockpile.

