 Have you ever had a friend that says, "First round on me!" and your immediate thought is, "I got the second then!"? That's because we're conditioned to return favors; it's only fair. So when you do someone a "good deed," think of it as an investment in your future. People will want to give back.If you're skeptical, there are people using this technique around you all the time. ALL THE TIME. Those pesky women in those kiosks at the mall handing out lotion? Reciprocity. The mint on your tab at the end of dinner?Reciprocity. The free 1800 Tequila shot glass you got at the bar? Reciprocity. It's everywhere. Businesses the world over employ it.
 It's human nature to want to be cool and to "fit in." When you let the other know that other people do it too (hopefully a group or person they respect), it reassures them that what you're suggesting is right and lets our brains off the hook of analyzing something for whether it's good or not. Having a "herd mentality" lets us be mentally lazy. It also keeps us from being left behind.


An example of the success of this method is the use of information cards in hotel bathrooms. In one study, the number of customers who reused their towels increased by 33% when information cards in hotel rooms read "75% of customers who stay in this hotel reuse their towels," according to research conducted at Influence at Work in Tempe, Ariz.It gets more intense. If you've ever taken a Psych 101 class, you've heard of this phenomenon. Back in the 50s, Solomon Asch conducted a whole bunch of conformity studies. He put a subject in a group of confederates who were all told to say the wrong answer (in this instance, that a visibly shorter line was longer than a visibly longer line (something a 3 year old could do). As a result, a shocking 75% of participants said the shorter line was longer and completely compromised what they actually believed, just to fit in with the norm. Crazy, huh?



, If you're a parent, you've seen this one in action. A child says, "Mommy, mommy! Let's go the beach!" Mom says no, feels a bit guilty, but doesn't have the option to change her mind. But then, when the child says, "Okay, fine. Let's go to the pool, then?" mom wants to say yes and does.


So ask for what you actually want second. People feel a sense of guilt when they refuse a request, regardless of what it is generally. If the second request (i.e., the real request) is something they have no reason not to comply with, then they'll grab the opportunity. The second request gives them freedom from guilt, like an escape route. They'll feel relieved, better about themselves, and you get what you want.If you want a donation of $10, ask for $25. If you want a project done in a month, first ask for it in 2 weeks.
 Studies have shown that the reassurance of "we" is more productive in persuading people than other, less positive, approaches (namely the threatening approach (If you don’t do this, I will) and the rational approach (You should do this for the following reasons). The use of "we" conveys a sense of camaraderie, commonality and understanding.


Remember how we said earlier that it was important to establish rapport so the listener feels similar to you and likes you? And then how we said to mirror your body language so the listener feels similar to you and likes you? Well, now you should use "we"...so the listener feels similar and likes you. Bet you didn't see that one coming.
 You know how sometimes a team can't really seem to get going until someone "gets the ball rolling?" Well, you need to be that person. If you give the first bit, your listener will be more inclined to finish off.


People are more likely to be willing to finish a task as opposed to doing the whole thing. Next time the laundry needs done, try throwing the clothes in the washer, then asking if your significant other would pick up your slack.It's so easy they can't justify saying no.
 People want to be consistent with themselves. If you get them saying "yes" (in one way or another), they'll want to stick to it. If they've admitted they'd like to address a certain problem or are a certain way and you offer a solution, they'll feel obligated to see it out. Whatever it is, get them agreeing.


In a research study by Jing Xu and Robert Wyer, participants showed that they were more receptive to anything if first shown something they agree with. In one of the sessions, participants listened to either a speech by John McCain or Barack Obama and then watched an ad for Toyota. Republicans were more swayed by the ad after watching John McCain, and Democrats? You guessed it -- were more pro-Toyota after watching Barack Obama. So if you're trying to sell something, get your customers agreeing with you first – even if what you talk about has nothing to do with what you’re selling., Despite how it may seem sometimes, people do have independent thought and they're not all idiots. If you don’t mention all sides of the argument, people will be less likely to believe or agree with you.If weaknesses are staring you in the face, address them yourself -- especially before someone else does.


Over the years many studies have been done comparing one-sided and two-sided arguments and their efficacy and persuasiveness in different contexts. Daniel O’Keefe at the University of Illinois went through the results of 107 different studies (50 years, 20,111 participants) and developed a sort of meta-analysis. He concluded that two-sided arguments are more persuasive than their one-sided equivalents across the board -- with different types of persuasive messages and with varied audiences., Ever heard of Pavlov's dog? No, not the 70s rock band from St. Louis.The experiment on classical conditioning. This is just like that. You do something that subconsciously evokes a response on the other's part -- and they don't even know it. But know that this takes time and a whole lot of diligence.


If every time your friend mentioned Pepsi you groaned, that would be an example of classical conditioning. Eventually, when you groan, your friend thinks of Pepsi (maybe you want them to drink more Coke?). A more useful example would be if your boss used the same phrases for praise with everyone. When you hear him congratulating someone else, it reminds you of the time he said it to you -- and you work just a little bit harder with the surge of pride lifting your mood.
 If you're in a position of power, this method is even better -- and an absolute must. Make it known that you have full confidence in the positive attributes of your underlings (employees, children, etc.) and they'll be more apt to comply.


If you tell your child he is smart and that you know he'll get good grades, he won't want to disappoint you (if he can avoid it). Letting him know you're confident in him will make it easier for him to be confident in himself.
If you're the boss of a company, be a source of positivity for your employees. If you give one a particularly difficult project, let her know that you're giving it to her because you know she can do it. She's exhibited X, X, and X qualities that prove it. With the boost, her work will be even better.
 If you can give someone something, great. But if you can prevent something from being taken away, you're in. You can help them avoid a stressor in their lives -- why would they say no?


There was a study in which a group of executives had to make a decision on a proposal involving loss and gain. The differences were huge: Twice as many of the executives said yes to the proposal if the company was predicted to lose $500,000 if the proposal wasn't accepted, compared to the project leading to a profit of $500,000. Could you be more persuasive just by outlining the costs and skimming over the benefits? Maybe.This works just as well in the home. Can't pry the husband away from the television for a nice night out? Easy. Rather than packing for your guilt trip and nagging him about needing "quality time," remind him that this is the last night before the kids get back. He'll be more persuaded knowing he may be missing out on something.This one should be taken with a grain of salt. There is opposing research that suggests that people don't like to be reminded of negative things, at least personally. When it hits too close to home, they freak out at the negative implications. They would rather have "attractive skin" than "avoid skin cancer," for example.So keep in mind what you're asking for before you frame it one way or another.



