 Lana's raven hair is perennially long and naturally straight with an occasional feathered or layered cut to frame the face. Hair can be dyed a deep chestnut colour and the use of straightening irons or permanent straightening chemicals will achieve a sleek look if hair has a natural wave or curl. Keep hair always clean as greasy hair is anything but fresh, and interesting with the use of exotic clips to pin hair back.;
, That means washing/showering daily with soap.
 If you want soft skin like hers, moisturize with a body lotion after showering. This help make you skin look and feel super smooth.
 Lana wears a kryptonite stone that is similar to an emerald which brings out the colour of her eyes. Birthstones are also a good option.
 Keep them in prime condition by cutting them back to promote healthy growth and using a cuticle and hand cream regularly. File them across and rounded off at the edges and keep neat with a coat of clear base. Never wear bright or outlandish colours.
 Lana uses Neutrogena Deep Clean facial cleanser followed by Aveda Tourmaline Charged Hydrating Creme or a moisturizer by Kiehl's. Drink eight glasses of water daily to clarify skin, and use specific acne treatment to combat blemishes (Clinique's Anti-Blemish Solutions is a good beauty system to use for a clear, healthy complexion) However skincare need not be expensive, by simply using a cleanser and moisturizer regularly, this will help to make skin clear and bright.
 Use a light foundation or tinted moisturizer to disguise any blemishes, but only use where needed or else it looks too obvious. The idea is to fake natural skin perfection. Finish with one coat of brown mascara, a peachy cream blush, a lip balm, and a sheer brown eye-shadow. Use blotting sheets during summer.
 Wear a fitted vest but make it more appropriate with a loose shirt on top.
 Boot-cuts flatter her petite figure, and are unsurprisingly teamed with leather boots.
 Clothing need not be designer or high-end, simply easy, comfortable clothes that are appropriate for school and hanging out with friends. Pretty floral shirts and classic henleys, tanks and t-shirts are every day essentials.
 Read classics such as Dr Zhivago and Shakespeare.

