 A minor must have been a resident of the county in which the application is filed for one year prior to the filing of the application., Common reasons for changing a minor child's name include marriage, partnership, or divorce of the parents, and adoption. A child's name can be changed for other reasons as well.
 The process for changing the name of a minor child is substantially the same as applying for a name change as an adult. Each county uses its own forms, but the Supreme Court of Ohio provides a standard Application, which you can download here.
 If the judge grants your Application, he or she will sign and date the Judgment form. Each county uses different forms, but the Supreme Court of Ohio provides a standard form, which you can download here. Do not sign and date the form yourself. That space is for the judge to fill.
 This form must be signed by any parent who is not submitting the application. By signing, that parent gives his or her consent to the name change and waives his or her right to receive notice of the hearing. If the parent does not sign, then you or the court clerk will need to send a notice of the hearing to the other parent. Each county uses different forms, but the Supreme Court of Ohio provides a standard form, which you can download here. The form must be signed by the parent in the presence of a court clerk or notary public, who will also sign the form. The parent should bring a valid form of identification to verify his or her identity for the clerk or notary.


To find a notary online, visit the Notary Public Directory.

You can also find a notary public by visiting your local bank. Most banks do not charge a fee for notary services if you are a bank customer. If you are not a bank customer, you can use the bank's notary service for a small fee.
 As each county in Ohio has its own forms and requirements for changing a minor's name, you may need to fill out additional forms. Consult your court's website or ask the court clerk about any additional required forms.


Other forms may include a Name Change Supplemental Affidavit, an Affidavit for Unknown Address of a Parent, a Notice to Parent, and/or a Certification of Judgment Entry., Bring your documents to the court clerk's office at the courthouse. The clerk will stamp your documents, issue a case number, and give you a hearing date. Bring a valid photographic identification. The clerk will ask you to pay a filing fee.


You may also be required to present a certified copy of the minor's birth certificate., Ohio courts generally require that notice of an application to change the name of a minor be published in a county newspaper.Each county has its own forms, but the Supreme Court of Ohio provides a standard form, which you can download here. Fill out the form, then contact your county newspaper and ask how to get your Notice published. The Notice must appear in the newspaper at least 30 days prior to your court date. Keep a copy of the newspaper in case the judge asks for proof that you published the Notice.


You may be required to file your completed Notice of Hearing on Change of Name form. Ask the clerk about your county's policy.
 If one parent is not available (the parent's location is unknown, or he or she does not consent to the child's name change), the parent is entitled to receive notice of the hearing. In some counties, the court clerk will mail a notice to the parent.Other counties will require you to give notice. To give notice, send a copy completed copy of the Notice of Hearing on Change of Name via certified mail to the parent's last known address. Keep the green return receipt card to prove that the notice was sent.The parent will have an opportunity to object to the name change at the hearing.
 Change the child's name on Social Security cards, driver's licenses, bank accounts, medical records, passports, and others, as applicable.


To get a new Social Security card, locate your local office here. Mail this application or deliver it in person, along with the court order, birth certificate, and photo ID.
To change the name on the child's driver's license, visit your local BMV with the new Social Security card, court order, and old driver's license. There is a $24.50 fee to have a new license printed.

