 When you first notice your hairline starting to recede in front, it will help to put on a little extra length. You can then slick the hair back, presenting a full, sleek look. As an added bonus, slicked hair will naturally appear thicken when it’s laying in the same direction.Though most style experts advise against longer cuts on men with thinning hair, with the right length and arrangement they can work wonders.
Just be careful not to let the hair get too long, or you could end up looking like you’re trying to overcompensate.
 Arrange your fringe so that it drapes over your forehead. The result is a casual mid-length style that neutralizes a retreating hairline without being too conspicuous. Men with straight hair can stick with a modest length, while those with wavy and curly locks should plan on going a little longer to make the most of the screen that the added volume provides.Like piled-up styles, this look will be most successful with hair that’s longer on top and shorter on the sides.
Work with your natural part or let the hair come together in a precise point rather than simply letting it hang in your face., Undercuts are a throwback style for men in which the hair on the sides is closely cropped or buzzed, leaving all the length and thickness on the crown. This may be just what you need to fight back against a hairline that’s receding at the temples. Undercuts draw the eye to the fuller hair on top while making thinner areas look intentional.High blended hairstyles are also a popular choice among many actors, models and celebrities, making them a timely and fashionable solution.
As an alternative to a more exaggerated undercut (which can look somewhat dated), consider a close and clean military-inspired high-and-tight., Trim the hair in sections along the crown and let them fall loosely together. The overlapping layers will help reinforce thickness in places where it’s needed most. Textural depth is also useful for making hair appear more plentiful.The basic idea behind layers is that they “stack” on top of one another, enhancing volume.
Layered cuts will work best for a more playful, casual aesthetic, as they can be tough to style neatly for dressed-up situations.

