 Deciding to come out to your friends and family is a big step forward, but it's not necessarily one you have to make right now. If you feel comfortable coming out, do it. You will find people who love and support you and it will also be a lot easier to find and enter into a queer relationship.If you don't feel comfortable coming out yet, that's okay too! The most important thing is to come out when you feel ready.
If you're looking for a compromise, come out, but only to your closest friends and family.;
, If your school already has an LGBTQ club, getting involved is an easy way to meet and surround yourself with fellow queer teens. Not only will you find a support network within the group, you will have access to fellow students who are already out, and, like you, presumably looking for a relationship.If your school does not have an LGBTQ club already in place, consider working with an advisor to start one.
Even if you don’t click with anyone in your club, chances are your friends have their own gay friends. Try to meet as many as you can and see if you find someone you’re attracted to.
 Many theater and art programs value diversity, allow for creativity, and give people a chance to escape the problems in their everyday lives. By auditioning for plays, joining your school’s chorus or volunteering for stage crew, you put yourself in a position to potentially meet other gay teens, plus, you may avoid much of the homophobia that is traditionally found in more mainstream high school experiences.As you continue to get involved in theater and the arts, look for programs outside your high school to extend your network.
Keep in touch with your older friends after they graduate. Visit them at college and meet their friends – you may click with someone you meet on campus.
 Statistically speaking, there are other gay teens in your high school – they just might not know it or feel comfortable talking about it yet. Pursue the things you love in high school and chances are you’ll meet another gay teen who is similarly interested in the things you care about.If you’re already out, you may find that closeted gay teens flock to you, simply because you’re approachable and represent something they desperately want. Be a good friend to them and it may turn into something more.
If you’re not out, don’t worry. Come out when you’re comfortable and use this time to focus on your studies and developing your personality.

