 Your good behavior shouldn't necessarily begin and end in the classroom - most schools have a selection of extracurricular activities you can sign up for. By devoting yourself to your extracurricular, you'll have an opportunity to enlarge your circle of friends (in terms of both students and faculty members) and develop a reputation as a hard worker. Here are a just a few extracurricular your school might offer:


Sports teams
Musical ensembles or bands
Vocal groups
Plays or musicals
Special interest clubs (debate, cooking, robotics, etc.)

, It's sad but true - many students and teachers are shallow - they'll judge you based on your looks. If you really want to get a reputation as a goody two shoes, try to dress and groom yourself so that you look as clean-cut as possible. Avoid ripped denim, baggy pants or jerseys. Don't wear piercings on your face or body. Keep a smile - don't try to look tough or menacing. Sadly, these changes to your surface appearance will cause some people to view you differently.


Boys should be clean-shaven, with a short, conservative haircut. Tend towards button-up shirts and clean, good-fitting pants or slacks. Don't wear earrings.
Girls should avoid ostentatious makeup, revealing clothing (a bare midriff, low-cut shirts, etc.), and excessive jewelry.
 One great way to get a saintly reputation is to go out of your way to be friendly and welcoming to unpopular students. Volunteer to show new kids around the school. If you see someone sitting by themselves at lunch, pull up a chair next to them. Stand up to bullying. You can even try taking social pariahs to school dances. Above all, be a friend to the friendless. You'll definitely be noticed. Plus, it's a really nice thing to do.
 By finding in a leadership role, you have more potential to do good (and a greater audience to notice your good deeds.) Run for student government, start your own after-school club, or become the captain of an intramural sports team. Whatever you do, lead by example - well-behaved leaders can quickly gain the respect and admiration of students and teachers alike.
 Word travels fast at school - the things you do outside of school can affect the way you're seen at school. Be an active volunteer at homeless shelters or charities. Enroll in a community-outreach program. Spend a Saturday building affordable housing through a program like Habitat for Humanity. Become a mentor for an at-risk youth. Encourage your friends to do the same. All of these things will count towards your goal of cultivating a noble goody-goody persona at school.
 It's almost unavoidable - some people are going to resent you for trying to be good at school. Ignore any teasing or insults that might come your way. By doing so, you display maturity and restraint. In turn, you make them look immature. Don't let the haters get to you - the rewards of behaving well aren't worth the instant gratification of retaliation.


Don't stoop to your haters' level by hurling your own insults back at them. The best revenge is to live happily while continuing to do good - it'll frustrate them to no end.

