 Many people display their Canadian pride on Canada day by dressing up in the nation’s colors of red and white. You can keep it simple by wearing a shirt with a maple leaf or a Canadian flag, or get creative with your attire. Show off your Canadian pride by dressing head to toe in Canadian-inspired outfits.


Dress from head to toe in red and white clothing.
Wear buttons or pins that bear the Canadian flag.
Wear a Canadian flag hat.
Put on your most stylish Canadian tuxedo, a denim jacket and denim pants.;
, If you want to go a step further to show your patriotism, you can use body paint or temporary hair color. Get creative with Canadian-inspired body paint, temporary tattoos, or nail art. Be bold with your Canada Day look!


Apply temporary tattoos of the Canadian flag or red maple leafs to your cheeks, arms, or legs.

Paint your nails red and white, or go a step further and use nail art to depict red or gold maple leafs and Canadian flags.
Use temporary hair coloring spray or hair chalk to put streaks of red and white in your hair.
 Whether you are planning on attending Canada Day events or hosting your own celebration, proudly display your Canadian flag. Hang a flag outside of your home or wave a flag at a Canada day parade, or drape the flag over your shoulders. The size of your flag doesn’t matter, so long as you display it proudly!


If you are planning on attending a large Canada day celebration, you may be able to find small novelty flags for purchase.
 Invite your friends and family to come and participate in the celebration of Canada’s independence. Decorate your home with Canadian themed party supplies, such as red and white streamers or red maple leafs. Ask everyone to wear their favorite Canada-inspired outfits, and offer Canadian themed drinks and food.


Host a potluck in which guests bring their foods native to each of the Canadian provinces.
Purchase small Canadian themed party favors to offer to your guests, such as novelty Canada flags or maple leaf temporary tattoos.
 Whether you are hosting a party, attending a party, or celebrating Canada day on your own, eating your favorite Canadian foods is a great way to celebrate! Research recipes for poutine, beaver tails, or Canadian Pizza, and make them at home. If cooking isn’t your strong suit, head out and grab some of your favorites at local Canada celebrations! See below for some of Canada’s most notable dishes.


French fries with gravy and cheese curds, or try making berry poutine

Deep fried bread dough with cinnamon and chili (beaver tails)
Lobster rolls or fried clams
Baklava
Canadian flag cupcakes or cake
Cupcakes made to look like beavers
Canadian Pizza

, Whether you’re belting out the Canadian National Anthem with your friends or attending the Montreal Jazz Festival to celebrate Canada Day, make sure your playlist is filled with Canada’s best musicians.Celine Dion, Rush, Alanis Morissette, Drake, and Leonard Cohen all hail from Canada.


The Montreal Jazz fest happens from June 28 and goes through July 8, 2017. Tickets may vary in price, so check out the official Montreal Jazz Fest's website at http://jazzfestival2016.com/events/jazz-festivals-in-july/montreal-jazz-fest/ to purchase your tickets., In order to properly celebrate Canada Day, take some time to explore the country and see all the all of its natural and man-made marvels. Whether you prefer an indoor attraction or outdoor experience, every city has great options. Take this opportunity to learn more about Canada’s history, natural wildlife, and beautiful countryside.


Alberta is a great destination for outdoor adventures. Hike through the Canadian Rockies in Jasper or take a horseback ride to see fields of wildflowers, or check out the badlands in Calgary.Take in beautiful views of the Atlantic Ocean while visiting the Cape Spear Lighthouse. The historic Cape Spear lighthouse is the oldest surviving lighthouse in Newfoundland and Labrador, with spectacular views of humpback whales and pods of porpoises.Learn about the history of Canada’s most popular sport at the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto. You can play against today’s top hockey players in a virtuality reality model Hockey rink!Spend some time learning about the important events and people who shaped Canada’s history by exploring the Canadian Museum of History in Quebec. The Canadian Museum of history is one of Canada’s oldest public institutions and is expanding with new exhibits every day., Many cities in Canada will hold parades on Canada day, large and small. Parades are often attended by The Royal Canadian Mounted Police, an important symbol of Canada, and may include local floats or marching bands. Parades vary by city and province, so check online to find parade route nearest to you.
 Many larger cities in Canada host huge events with many free attractions. Festivals may have magic shows, stilt walkers, bouncy castles, and great food options. Some cities put on free concerts and shows to celebrate, and almost all events have fun activities for everyone. Visit Canada's official website at http://canadaday.gc.ca/ for more details on Canada Day Festivals.


Consider visiting the nation’s capital city of Ottawa to attend Canada Day festivities. Ottawa throws a spectacular event on the grounds and surrounds of Parliament House, with activities all day long and a huge fireworks show in the evening.The City of Toronto hosts an annual Canada Day celebration that includes circus acts, celebrity appearances, and musical guests., No Canada Day celebration would be complete without bright and vivid fireworks. Many cities put on their own unique fireworks shows, which can be seen from many spots in the cities. Check online for venues that put on fireworks shows closest to you, and keep in mind that some cities offer specific viewing areas that may require purchase of tickets.If you are unable to attend the fireworks, purchase sparklers or small fireworks to use at home. Always be careful, safe, and follow all directions for using fireworks at home.

