 If you haven’t done this yet then make sure that your Shelter has a living quarter/s.;
, Now that you have a residential quarter, it’s time to assign a pair of dwellers who’ll occupy it for the meantime. To increase the chances of getting a baby, make sure that either the male or female dweller has a high rating for Charisma (at least 7 or up).


Be careful with male dwellers who have high stats in Charisma. They can easily impregnate their partners, and before you know it, your shelter will be overrun by babies.
Initially, you will want only one male dweller to father the babies in your vault to make it easier to identify them later on.
 Once you’ve assigned dwellers to the living quarters, you’ll just have to wait for them to get to know each other. Once this happens, they’ll move out of sight for a while and when they get back, the female dweller will almost always be pregnant., After a dweller becomes pregnant, you’ll need to wait for 3 hours before she’ll deliver the baby.


Although pregnant dwellers can still work, you’ll need to assign 1-2 male dwellers to work with them. Since the game won’t allow you to equip them with weapons/arms to defend themselves, they’ll be at a disadvantage when your vault gets attacked.
If possible, place your pregnant dwellers in quarters/stations found the end of your vault where raiders would have a hard time getting to them., Once the dweller has delivered her baby, you can then proceed to naming him/her. A baby will take after the father’s last name so as to make it easier for you to differentiate him/her from other dwellers.Naming a baby is optional and will not have any effect on his/her future stats as an adult dweller.
 You’re then going to have to wait for 3 more hours for the baby to grow up so that you can then assign him/her to a station/quarter. At this point, it would be good to monitor your shelter’s production of resources since babies are going to require these as well.


Due to the cost of rearing them, having too many babies in your shelter at once can drain your resources. Plan your baby making at all times.
 Once babies have grown up, you can then treat them as you would any other dweller and assign them to stations/quarters that would best fit their traits.


A baby inherits his/her trait from her parents. If the parents have high stats in Charisma, then the baby will almost always have similar stats as well.

