 Make sure you know where emo came from, and the original bands from when the scene first started.
Doing this will make you prepared for when someone says you're emo. A best way to reply is "I'm not emo, that's a type of music."
Check out some bands from the late 90's through early 00's. This is when emo music became popular.;
,


It might seem like you already know what scene is all about, but it's good to learn all you can about it!
Scene is not like emo. It is a life style, a fashion, and even sometimes a personality.



Emo isn't goth either.

Try listening to some bands like Suicide Silence, Bring Me The Horizon, Bullet For My Valentine, The Devil Wears Prada, Skillet, Asking Alexandria, Fall Out boy, Yellowcard, and other bands like that. Those would be considered Screamo, Hardcore, Emocore, or Pop-Punk.



Get your hair styled by a professional. Do not do it at home unless you are experienced.
Ask if there is anyone who is good at cutting layers and alternative hair styles, if there isn't then go somewhere else. Hair stylists who just do bland hairstyles will almost never do your hair right.
If someone looks alternative there, ask the front desk if you can see that guy/girl.
 Even though they're emo, emo and scene hairstyles are the same for scene guys without going overboard.
A Faux Hawk hair style is great for a emo guy that doesn't look good with long bangs, or is 17+.
Get your hair cut by a professional. Try to get it done by a girl, guys will try to make your hair more manly looking, and emo hair is quite feminine.
Red and black or blue and black look super scene without trying too hard. Blonde looks great for people that are on the pale side, black looks good for both skin tones. Buy manic panic colors, and streak your hair, those sections you want to dye to be bleached in order for the color to stand out.
Try getting some hair wax or a pomade. Two you'll need : A clean cut look one, and a messy style/bed head one. Use the clean cut one to slick your hair down and then use the messy style for the bangs and the bottom of your hair to show off your edgy style.
 Find a photo you like and get it ready.
Is her hair overly teased? You might want to get a new photo. (Overly teasing your hair makes you look poser like, overly teased hair is when it sticks out more than an inch from your head.)
Rainbow hair is cool, but I suggest only using up to 3 colors in your hair. This doesn't make you go overboard.
Make sure you're bangs aren't covering cover both of her or your eyes.
Blunt bangs are a good way to go but..
Asymmetrical hair styles and side swept bangs look 100% scene. Look up asymmetrical scene hair on Google if you're unsure of what that means.
 This gives your hair the teased look without damaging your hair a lot. This is best for girls with naturally wavy hair. You'll need four things for this hairstyle : A straightener, baby powder or dry shampoo, styling wax or a pomade and Powder Play by Big Sexy Hair. Got2b's messy look is one of my favorite pomades. Straighten your hair, get the pomade/styling wax and put about a penny size drop in your hand. Put it slicked down all your layers, one at a time. Put some baby powder or dry shampoo in your hand and fluff your hair up. Add extensions if you want.
Straight scene hair. This requires less work and is pretty easy to obtain, but will only look scene if you have bleach blonde, black, or bright colored hair. If you have a medium tone blonde to dark brown hair, the first one is for you. What you'll need : Heat protection spray, ( my favorite is guardian angel flat iron balm by got2b) a messy pomade ( my favorite is got2b playful pomade ) and a straightener. Wait about a day till after you wash your hair so your hair can have a natural grease and make it easier to get it straighter. Apply the flat iron balm all over your hair to where your hair is a little damp, straighten all your hair, use the flat iron balm again all over your hair and pull each strand down. Slick it all down with the pomade (each strand, not the whole head at once) and there you go! These are the best ways to do your hair without it being damaged.

Straight leg jeans are awesome, and are emo/scene.

Colorful hoodies are amazing.
Check out the brand Tokidoki, almost everything they sell is scene.
Never ever, use BIG bows. Cute small ones are adorable, avoid big ones that'll make you look like a poser.
 Parents won't allow you to wear heavy makeup? That's okay! There are lots of styles of scene makeup that aren't over the top.
 You can apply it like genard way, but it might make you look like a poser.



Scenes have funny, cute personalities. Some scenes are shy and some are outgoing. Either way, they're nice people. Being mean isn't scene.
Bullies aren't good people and aren't fun to be around. Some scene people are very rude, just ignore them. They might call you names (poser, weird, ugly, fat, etc.) just to get on your nerves because they want to be the scene kid around there. As stupid as it may seem, it really does happen.



If you're being scene for other people or to get attention, then don't become scene. People will think you're a poser, because that's what posers are. Wait a little bit and see if you still want to be scene later on.
Only become scene if you think scene is you. If you're not ready to go all out, then maybe wait a little or dye your hair and not go full on yet.

