 If your bedroom is dirty or chaotic, this is perhaps the most important thing you can do to make it look better. It's also an important first step before you do anything else in this article — it's hard to redecorate when you're stepping over piles of clothes on the floor.


See our article on cleaning your room for tips. If your room is just a little out-of-order, you may just need to put away whatever you have laying out. However, if it's been a while since you last cleaned, be ready to dust, vacuum, and clean your surfaces to get them looking as good as possible.;
, Are your walls bare and boring? Give yourself something more pleasant to look at. Artwork is great for giving your room a more vibrant appearance. Paintings, sketches, posters, and similar decorations all work well for covering up boring walls. You can even get creative here — for instance, a cardboard cutout from your favorite movie can be quite a conversation piece.


If you're an artist, don't be embarrassed to put your own artwork on the walls. You can also find wall art for fairly cheap at flea markets, thrift stores, and similar places.
 Since your bed takes up a lot of space in your room, sprucing it up can change the look of the whole room. Pick a new set of linens for your bed that pair well with each other as well as the other decorations you have in your room. Picking something dramatically different from your last set of sheets will usually give the most noticeable change.


The changes you make here depend on your budget. If you have the money, you can get new covers, new pillows, a new bed frame, or all of the above.
As a general rule, you won't want to pair too many eye-catching designs with each other. Try picking a blanket with a bright color or bold pattern, then using neutral colors like white, black, grey, and so on for the rest of your linens.
 One way to decorate your room and simultaneously make a statement about yourself is to show off things that you enjoy. For instance, if you're a track and field athlete, you might try displaying a competition javelin on top of your bookcase. If you're a musician, use a stand to display your guitar in the corner. If you love reading, fill a bookcase with antique hardcover books.


What you choose is up to you — only you know what you're interested in.
 If you have a hardwood floor, rugs are a natural choice of decoration. Old, intricately-designed rugs are sometimes for sale at flea markets, but furniture stores also sell good-looking modern rugs at reasonable prices as well. Rugs can also make rooms warmer and reduce annoying echoes from having lots of hard surfaces.If you buy a used rug, you may want to clean it before using it in your room. See our guide to cleaning rugs with vinegar for one low-cost option.
 Small houseplants can make rooms seem lively and inviting. Flowers can even add splashes of vibrant color for visual variety. Try placing a small potted plant near a window where it will get plenty of sun. Water the plant regularly and prune unwanted growth to keep it looking tidy. Pay attention to any special instructions provided with the plant when you bought it.


Be sure to discard any dead leaves as the plant loses them to avoid a mess.

