 Some people believe tarot cards can uncover truths about the physical, mental, or spiritual state of someone or something. Use a guidebook, your deck’s instruction manual, or consult a psychic to practice learning the cards and their various meanings.


There are seventy-eight standard tarot card images divided into various subclasses (minor and major arcana). Each card is a symbol and represents a certain meaning situation.Familiarizing yourself with these cards and their associated meanings will make interpreting them easier later on. Carry a deck with you at all times -- on the bus, at school, and to doctor’s appointments.
Many cards have multiple meanings. Learn them all in order to give your reading context and depth.;
, Palm reading (palmistry) is a psychic skill which analyzes the hand to reveal individual personality and character traits. There are two varieties of palmistry: chiromancy and chirognomy.Chiromancy looks at the lines of the palm and is a more traditional palm reading technique. By analyzing major and minor lines of the hand, you might be able to discover things about someone’s physical and emotional condition.
Chirognomy uses the shape and texture of the hands and color of the skin in order to potentially draw out similar truths. By studying the hand’s shape and classifying it into one of four categories -- earth, air, fire, or water -- you might be able to discern a person’s characteristics.
 Some people, for instance, believe that numbers in your birth date, or numbers which you encounter regularly like your address, indicate your purpose in life, motivation, and fate. Practicing numerology is an arcane psychic reading practice.


Numerologists believe each number has a special cosmic vibration which, in combination with others, can reveal certain truths. For instance, a popular numerological analysis is the lifepath number. This number adds the day, month, and year together, then adds the individual digits in this number in order to arrive at the lifepath number. Each number (1-9) has a different meaning.For instance, if you were born on 04/27/1986, you’d add 4 + 27 + 1986 to get 2017. Then, adding 2 + 0 + 1 + 7 you get 9, your lifepath number.
 Lithomancy is a divination method which uses rocks and stones. Some people believe lithomancy can reveal someone’s energy and offer omens about the future.Using smooth precious gemstones, cast the stones to interpret their meaning. You can either assign meaning, or use the rocks to interpret someone’s fortune along the lines of the zodiac.If interpreting the rocks in a predetermined way, assign one rock as “yes” and one as “no” before answering a question. Drop both rocks in front of you using one hand. The rock which falls closer to you is the one which provides your answer.
You could also drop three rocks, one for “yes,” one for “no,” and one to indicate which answer is correct. Drop all three rocks. If the indicator rock drops closest to the “no” rock, your answer is negative; if it drops closest to the “yes” rock, your answer is positive.If interpreting the rocks along the lines of the zodiac, you will need to use twelve stones, each unique so that it can be identified. A list of these so-called birthstones can be found at https://www.americangemsociety.org/birthstones. Place the stone which corresponds to your zodiac sign on the table or ground in front of you. Place the other stones in a small pouch or purse and close it tightly. Shake the stones up within the bag and drop one out. Practitioners believes that the stone which comes out indicates that someone born under that sign will soon cross your path in an important role.
For instance, if you were born in February, you’d place your birthstone (amethyst) on the table. If after shaking the bag of stones and dropping one out, you saw it was an emerald, you’d know that someone born in May (the month which corresponds to the emerald birthstone) was going to cross your path soon as a lover, friend, or enemy.
Natural stones like those found on beaches are best for lithomancy. If possible, procure natural stones.

