 Take 4 pounds (1.8 kg) of skinless chicken and carefully cut it into small pieces. The pieces should be the size you'd like to serve. For example, you might want to just cut a thigh in half while cutting a breast into 3 or 4 pieces, depending on the size of your chicken.You can use boneless chicken which will make it easier to cut or you can use bone-in chicken for richer flavor.;
, Place your chicken pieces in a large bowl. Sprinkle the chicken with 2 teaspoons of salt, 1 teaspoon of ground black pepper, 3 tablespoons of the curry powder, and 4 cloves of minced garlic. Use your hands or a spoon to stir the chicken so that all the pieces are completely coated with the seasoning. Refrigerate the chicken for 1 hour.You can mince the garlic with a sharp knife or use a garlic press.
You can use any kind of curry powder you like, although Jamaican curry powder works great in this recipe.
 Carefully chop 1/4 of a small red bell pepper and 1/4 of a small green bell pepper into fine pieces. You should also chop 1 large onion. Heat 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Add 1 teaspoon of cumin seeds to the pot and saute them for 30 seconds. Add your chopped vegetables., Continue sauteeing the vegetables over medium-high heat and add 1 teaspoon of dried thyme or 1 sprig of fresh thyme, 1 teaspoons of salt, 3 tablespoons of curry powder, 1 tablespoon of ketchup, and 1 tablespoon of West Indian hot pepper sauce. Saute the vegetables until they're tender, about 6 to 8 minutes.If you don't want your Jamaican curry chicken to be too spicy, you can leave out the West Indian hot pepper sauce.
 Carefully measure out 1 cup (235 ml) of boiling water and add it to the pot with your sauteed vegetables. The water should quickly come to a boil. Add your refrigerated chicken pieces to the pot and stir the mixture. Add the remaining 2 cups (470 ml) of boiling water and let it come back to a boil.The sauce should coat and almost completely cover the chicken. This will help to keep it moist as the chicken cooks.
 Turn the heat down to medium and add 2 medium potatoes that you've cut into 6 pieces each. Cover the pot with a lid and let the Jamaican curry chicken simmer for about 30 minutes. The chicken should be tender and the sauce will thicken up when it's ready to serve.The curry should be lightly bubbling as it simmers. Avoid a rolling boil since this could cook the chicken too quickly and make it tough.
 Prepare the Jamaican curry chicken by seasoning and sauteeing the chicken and vegetables. Instead of simmering the curry on the stove, transfer the curry to a slow cooker. Cover the slow cooker with the lid and turn it on to low. Let it cook for 45 minutes to an hour.If you want your vegetables firmer, consider keeping them separate from the curry when you're sauteeing. Then you can add them to the slow cooker to cook.
 If you find that the Jamaican curry chicken is too spicy for your liking, try stirring in about 1/2 cup of shaken coconut milk. Taste the curry again and add more coconut milk as you need to make it creamier and less spicy.


You can use full-fat coconut milk or lite coconut milk (which is a little runnier).
 You can serve the Jamaican curry chicken with steamed white rice or with traditional Jamaican rice with peas. Jamaican rice and peas are made with rice, coconut milk, kidney beans, and seasonings.


You can make the Jamaican rice and peas using canned kidney beans or you can soak dry beans overnight to use in the recipe.
 You can also round out a meal of Jamaican curry chicken by serving it with a green salad and flatbread like roti. You could also serve steamed vegetables or mashed potatoes on the side.


You could also serve the Jamaican curry chicken with rice noodles.
