 Turn the oven on to 410°F (210°C). Get out a baking dish or roasting pan that's large enough to hold all of the chicken in a single layer. Put the dish in the oven to heat up as the oven heats.Putting the chicken into a hot pan will create a crispy crust.
 Crack 1 egg into a shallow prep bowl. Pour in 1/3 cup (80 ml) of milk and whisk the egg and milk together until the egg is completely incorporated. Set this mixture aside., In another prep bowl, place 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour and 4 tablespoons breadcrumbs. Measure the baking powder and seasonings into the bowl and combine them. You'll need to whisk in:1 teaspoon baking powder
1 tablespoon salt
2 teaspoons ground paprika
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon onion powder
1/2 teaspoon ground pepper

, Take 2 pounds (900 g) of boneless skinless chicken breast and use a sharp knife to cut each breast into three or four pieces. Place the chicken strips into the dry mixture and toss them until they're coated. Shake off any excess from the pieces.You'll need to coat them in batches, since all of the chicken won't fit in the bowl at the same time.
 Transfer the chicken to the bowl with the egg mixture and cover each strip in the egg mixture. You'll need to do this in batches, so you don't crowd the chicken., Put the coated chicken strips back into the bowl with the dry coating. Toss the chicken strips again, so they're completely covered with the dry mixture., Use hot pads to take the baking dish out of the oven. Put 1/4 cup (60 g) of butter into it. It should melt quickly in the hot pan. Once the butter melts, lay the coated chicken strips in the pan., Put the hot pan back into the preheated oven and bake the oven-fried chicken for 10 to 12 minutes. You should see the chicken crisp up and become golden brown.Using boneless, skinless chicken and cutting it into strips helps the chicken cook quickly.
 Remove the pan from the oven and use a thin spatula or tongs to carefully flip the chicken over. Return the pan to the oven and bake the chicken for another 5 to 10 minutes. This will help the other side become crispy. Remove the pan from the oven and serve the oven-fried chicken.If you want an even crispier crust, consider broiling the chicken for a few minutes until it's as crunchy as you like it.

