 Michael Scott is humorous in both the things he says as well as the ways he says them. Some of Michael's go-to phrases include: "that's what she said," "TMI," and "shut it." Affirmations he spices up by saying "abso-fruitly," "yesh," and "yeppers.";
, Michael sees his calling as being a friend first, and an entertainer second. Even when he is in charge of others, his desire to be liked takes priority over his desire to be a good manager.
 Michael does tend to leap deeply into relationships in an unrealistic way. He often sees more than is really there, and this causes him to make grand romantic gestures. Though you don't have to propose to your girlfriend of a few months at a Diwali celebration, we can still learn from Michael's ability to leap without looking (when necessary).
 Michael is a generally clean, well-groomed man. Barring a single-episode goatee in season five, Michael is clean-shaven. He also keeps his hair neat and combed (aside from when he tries to look like Jim).
 Michael wears affordable, one-size-too-big suits in the office. However, he loves to wear jeans outside of work (or on casual Fridays). Don't get too upset if you accidentally wear a blouse, as Michael has accidentally cross dressed before, too.
 Michael's shameless demeanor has its downsides, but no one can say that he doesn't have fun. Michael never takes himself too seriously, and always bounces back from disappointing situations. This emotional resiliency is not something to take lightly, as it can benefit all of us at times.
 Michael is incredibly sensitive, and isn't afraid to mourn the death of his previous boss, and even a random bird. Though you don't have to weep for every dead animal on the side of the road, it is healthy to acknowledge the frustrations and sadness in your life.
 One of Michael's most redeeming qualities is his ability to laugh things off. He doesn't stay in the dumps for long, and understands that keeping things light reduces stress and keeps his peers happy. This is a great lesson to learn when trying to maintain a positive presence in your workplace.

