 The oven needs to heat up a bit before you stick the steaks in. Turn the broiler on to preheat the oven while you complete the other steps. You need the broiler because the high heat helps brown the outside of the steak without overcooking the steak., You can really use any seasonings you want, but a good steak seasoning should do the trick.Coarse salt, or salt of any kind, is always a good choice, as is freshly ground pepper and a bit of garlic powder. Make sure to season both sides of the steak with a heavy douse of seasoning., Place a cookie cooling rack on top of a sheet pan. A cooling rack is just what you use to put cookies on when they come out of the oven. The rack helps elevate the steak so it cooks more evenly. Put the steak or steaks on top of the rack., Place the steaks in the oven. Set a timer for 6 minutes. When it dings, take the steaks out so you can check them with a thermometer. They should be at about 100 degrees Fahrenheit, and they'll need about 3 more minutes. Flip them over, and place them back in the oven.Use tongs when flipping the steak, so you're not piercing it over and over with a fork.
Always push the thermometer into the side of the steak to get a more accurate reading.
 Pull the steaks out of the oven after 3 minutes, and use the thermometer to check the temperature again. See if it's at your desired doneness. If it's not, you'll need to stick the steaks back in the oven for another couple of minutes. Remember, the steak temperature may rise 5 degrees Fahrenheit or a bit more (up to 10 degrees) in the resting period after the oven, so aim for the lower end of your desired doneness.A rare steak is 120 degrees Fahrenheit to 125 degrees. Rare is 125 to 130 degrees, while medium rare is 130 to 135 degrees. Medium is 140 to 145, and medium well is 150 to 155. Well done is 160 or higher.
Let the steak rest. Once your steak is at the desired temperature, you need to let it rest outside the oven for 5 minutes or so with aluminum foil loosely over it. The resting period is important because it lets the steak continue cooking, and it helps the steak retain its juices. If you cut it too soon, you'll release much of the juice onto the plate.