 The process for this will vary from printer to printer.


If you are connecting your printer via Ethernet, connect the Ethernet port on the printer to an open port on your router or network switch. This is typically all you'll need to do for an Ethernet printer.
If you are connecting a wireless printer, you'll need to use the printer's display screen to connect to your wireless network. You'll need to select your wireless SSID (network name) and enter the password if it is secured. The exact process will vary depending on the printer, so refer to your documentation for exact instructions.;
, Once the printer is installed on the network, you can connect to it from your laptop. These instructions work for all versions of Windows.


Open the Control Panel. You can access it from the Start menu. Windows 8 users can press the ⊞ Win key and type "control panel".
Select "Devices and Printers" or "View devices and printers".
Click Add a printer.
Select "Add a network, wireless or Bluetooth printer". Windows 8 users will not need to select anything.
Select your network printer from the list of available printers. Follow the prompts to install the drivers automatically. If Windows cannot find the correct drivers, you may need to download the from the printer manufacturer's support site.
 Once the printer is installed on the network, you can connect to it from your laptop. These instructions work for all versions of OS X. Note that the network printer must support AirPrint or Bonjour (nearly all modern network printers do).


Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences".
Select the "Print & Scan" option from the System Preferences menu.
Click and hold the "+" button at the bottom of the list of installed printers.
Select your network printer from the list of nearby printers. If your printer isn't listed, you may need to download the software from the printer manufacturer's support site first.
Click the Download & Install button if it appears. While OS X comes with the software for most printers already installed, your printer may require additional software from Apple. If it does, you will be prompted to download it after adding the printer.
 Once the network printer has been added to your operating system, you can print to it just like you would if the printer was connected directly to the laptop. Open the "Print" dialog in any program and select the network printer from the list to print to it.

