 This can be done through your university’s website. Go over your unofficial transcript to make sure that all of your grades, accolades, and the classes listed are correct.


The information on your unofficial transcript will be reproduced on your official transcript. If you receive your official transcript and there is an error, it will take time and money to correct the mistake.
Make sure your most recent information is on the transcript. If you have just recently graduated, or will be graduating shortly, your most recent grades should still be on your official transcript, so long as the professor has turned them in on time.
Double check that your grades are correct. Go over each grade on your unofficial transcript and make sure that they match the grades that you know you received for each class.;
, You will need your student ID as well as your user ID and password for your online university profile to order your transcript. Go to your university’s website, type in your information, and look in the enrollment and admissions section to order official transcripts.


If you forgot your ID or password, click on the applicable “forgot my password” option and follow the steps listed. If you do not have an ID or password, you may have to print out the request form and mail it in or bring it in person to the enrollment office.
In general, most universities require two to three working days to process official transcript requests after receiving the request in the transcript or records office. However, this period of time may be longer if you request your transcript close to the end of the semester.
 If you require additional documents for applications for the Law School Admission Council (LSAC), the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS), or the Pharmacy College Application Service(PHARMCAS), complete them and upload them to the online transcript request. You may need to scan the original documents to then upload them., During the online ordering process, you will need to pay the fee for the transcripts, usually around $10-$15 per transcript.


You can pay this fee by credit, PayPal, or through your student account.

