 When your horse is sick or injured, you will need a reliable vet to turn to. Make sure that you are prepared for any eventuality by having a vet you trust on call. Take steps to make sure you have a doctor you and your horse can rely on.Ask for recommendations. Talk to friends and family to see if they can refer you to an excellent equine physician.
Talk about treatment options. Will your vet always try the most aggressive option? Or does he take a more cautious approach?
Find out who will care for your horse if the vet is unavailable. It's always a good idea to know what the back up plan involves.
 It is important to be prepared for any eventuality. If your horse cuts himself, you will need to be ready to take action immediately. Write down your action plan.Post the number for the veterinarian in more than one place. Try posting it in the barn, in your kitchen, and keep it in your cell phone contacts.
You should also write down the number to the back-up vet. Keep this number handy in various places, including inside your first aid kit.
Have a list of friends and neighbors who can help you in case of an emergency. It can be difficult to care for a scared and wounded horse. Call for help while you wait for the vet.
No matter where you are, you should know the way to the nearest equine vet. If you are traveling with your horse, make a list of treatment facilities along the route.
 When you contact the vet, it is important that you give a detailed description of what is wrong with your horse. Take note of the symptoms that your horse is exhibiting. It's a good idea to be able to recognize common signs of distress.When your horse has a cut, there are some obvious signs of trouble to look for. Bleeding and swelling are visual cues that something is wrong.
If your horse is acting anxious or scared, that is also a sign that he his hurt. Lethargy and going "off-feed" are also indicators that there is a problem.
Contact your vet no matter how minor you think the issue might be. Even if you take steps to heal the wound at home, call your vet to confirm that you are doing everything right.
 It is important to understand how your vet is treating your horse. Whether he visits you in person, or just offers advice over the phone, make sure you are clear on what he is saying. It's a good idea to ask a lot of questions.Be specific. Try saying, "What is the best way to treat this cut? Is there anything I should be doing differently?"
Ask for a clear time frame. Say, "How long do you expect the healing process to last? When can my horse resume normal activity?"
Don't be afraid to ask questions. Your vet knows you have your horse's best interests at heart.
 After all of your questions have been answered, it is time for you to listen carefully to your vet. Remember, he is the medical expert. Take care to follow all of the guidelines he gives you.If your horse requires medication, make sure that you learn how to administer the proper dosage. Ask if there are any potential side effects.
If your vet recommends that your horse rest, make sure you listen. Follow his instructions to the letter.

