 If the pregnancy came as a surprise, you'll need to decide if you want to keep the baby or not. Think about whether you're in a place to raise a child, both physically and financially. If you're not, could you make the necessary changes to care for the child? A child is a big responsibility, emotionally, physically, and financially. While no parent is perfect, you should at least want the responsibility of caring for another human life., Think about whether you would want to raise a child with the father of the baby. Your relationship needs to be mature enough to handle the responsibility of caring for and raising a child.If the father is someone you would considering raising a child with, discuss your pregnancy with them to see how you want to move forward together.


If the father is not around, discuss the pregnancy and your situation with someone who cares about you, such as a parent or a sibling, just to have someone to bounce ideas off of.
 If you decide to go through with having the baby, you'll start prenatal care.Prenatal care is basically keeping the baby healthy through regular checkups at the doctor. Your doctor will check on your own health, including screening for sexually transmitted diseases and diabetes, and the health of the baby at your first visit. Your doctor will help you set up a schedule for the rest of your visits., You may decide that you don't want to have the baby, and that's a valid choice. If that's the case, your main option is an abortion, though the morning after pill can work up to five days after you've had sex.Research abortion clinics in your area. They can help you with your options. Keep in mind, though, many states and countries have laws in place that require doctors to tell you certain information, which is intended to discourage you from having an abortion. Don't let it discourage you if an abortion is what you desire - just make sure you are fully aware of all the risks involved in having an abortion. Some states may require an ultrasound before you can have an abortion. Depending on the state, you may need to get your parent's permission if you're under 18.The two main types of abortion in the first trimester are medical and surgical. Don't let the word "surgical" scare you, as it generally doesn't involve any cutting. Usually, a tube or forceps are used to open your cervix, and then a suction action is used.A medical abortion is when a pill is used to induce abortion., If you want to have the baby but feel like you can't raise it yourself, then giving your baby up for adoption can be another option. It is a difficult decision to make, and it is one that is binding, once the papers are signed. If you think this option is for you, begin by reading books about it, researching on the internet, talking to close friends, and talking to an adoption lawyer or an adoption professional.Talk to the father. In many states in the United States, the father has to give his consent before the adoption becomes official. If you are under 18, you need to talk to your parents before making a decision.
Decide what kind of adoption you want. You can go through an agency or you can hire a lawyer to arrange an independent adoption outside of an agency.
Choose the adoptive parents carefully. You may want a family who raises your child in your faith tradition, or you may want a family that's open to you being in the child's life. Also, in some adoptions, the parents may pay for your prenatal care and other medical expenses.

