 These exercises will strengthen your quads for better split jumps. To start, stand with your feet directly beneath your hips, your toes facing forward. Lower your torso, like you're sitting in a chair, without letting your knees angle forward beyond your toes. When you've reached about a 90 degree angle in your knees, pause, then come back up to standing.Do this 8-12 times to start with.
If you want to add some challenge, hold dumbbells in each hand while you do this.
 Doing short, fast runs or sprints greatly improves your quads as well as your aerobic conditioning. You don't need to go long distances, and you can do sprints just about anywhere. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced athlete, add 3-4 sets of 40 yard sprints to your daily workout.Try to find a softer surface to sprint on, such as grass or a trail. This will prevent any possible injury due to stress from running on harder surfaces.
When sprinting, lift your knees high to maximize your workout. Pump your arms to give yourself momentum.
 Current research shows that the best way to increase core strength is to hold your body in a plank position. A plank position is holding the body parallel to the floor, balanced on your toes and your elbows or your hands. Hold the plank position as long as you can, neither lowering your body nor raising your buttocks.You can also hold your plank for a set amount of time before lowering gently to the ground. You should control your descent so that all of your body touches the ground at the same time.
Sit-ups employ only a few muscles, and may result in back injury. Plank positions use a wide variety of core muscles and are more effective at overall strengthening.
 Jumping rope, or doing box jumps will help strengthen your core, and support your split jump practice. To do a box jump, use a small platform. Stand in front of the box with both feet on the ground. You'll use your core strength, your quads and your calves to jump with both feet from the floor to the surface of the platform.You should land on your right foot, followed by your left. When you've landed, immediately jump back off, onto the ground, again landing first on your right foot.
Your platform, or box, can be any height but most people prefer a platform that's 12-24 inches from the ground.
It might feel natural to swing your arms slightly when attempting this jump.

