 Sing it at circle time, sing it while waiting on the bus, sing it whenever you can.
 Do bubble painting for the letter B, make dog puppets for D, make prints, for P, make collages for C, etc., Encourage children to find as many items as they can that start with that letter and put them in the can., Do cooking projects and have snack go with the letter. Apples for A, bananas for B, carrots for C, etc., Write letters in sand, shaving cream, paint, and mud. Write letters on the chalkboard or whiteboard. Write with colored pencils, pens, oil pastels, chalk, markers, crayons, and regular pencils., Fill your sensory table with soapy water. Then, put letters designed for bath time in the sensory table. Children can hide the letters, wash the letters, or make the letters stick to the side. Encourage them to tell you what letter they are holding or point it out for them if they don't know. Yo can do the same with dry rice and sand., Point to each letter as you sing or say the alphabet each day., Make a puppet that is an animal that starts with the letter of the week. Have the friend talk to the children and do puppet shows throughout the week., Attach and take off magnet letters from a cake pan or magnetic board. Do the same with felt letters on the flannel board. Make tactile letters for children to manipulate and feel by cutting out paper letters and gluing on sand paper, glitter, felt, etc., Do puzzles of things that start with the letter of the week. Make puzzles out of paper where you match the uppercase and lowercase letter together., Circle all of one letter in the newspaper. Find letters on signs throughout the day. Hide any kind of letters around the room for children to find and identify., Write letters on the backs of children's hands for them to identify. Hold up a letter for them to identify before they line up. Go over letter flashcards when you have a chance., Lace letter lacing cards and make letters with pegs on a pegboard., Make letters with masking tape and tape it to the floor. Children can play on it, walk on it, drive play cars over it, etc., Pretend to be an elephant for the letter E, a snake for letter S, etc.