 Before you go shopping, consider creating a shopping list of all the items and products you are wanting to buy. This can make it easier to find everything you will need, and will help you to avoid forgetting any products.If you have some vision, you can just jot the list down in writing; if not, consider recording it with an audio recording program or text-to-speech on your mobile device.


If it helps, consider splitting the items you will need in different sections to identify them easier when it's time to shop (i.e One section of dairy products, another section for fruit, etc.) Be specific when creating your shopping list. Instead of granola bars write 'Gluten-free strawberry granola bars'. If you will be having someone help you with shopping (i.e family member, store employee, friend, etc.) you need to specific and indicate clearly what you want.
If there is a specific brand you need to get feel free to mention it as well. Always be as specific as possible.;
, Try to know ahead of time whether it's likely to be busy or not, when it's open, how the store is laid out, etc. Having a better overview on how the store works will make it easier to shop. Know where the customer service counter is to get help if you need it.


Consider calling the store ahead of time to make arrangements for you when it's time to shop. , If you can't walk to the store or take public transport, ask a family member or friend to give you a rideYou can also hire a driver and have them take you to the selected store as well. , Shopping with a friend or family member is not only enjoyable, but also extremely helpful. A friend can help you find exactly what products you are looking for and can help you with other shopping tasks such as purchasing, getting the grocery bags, and finding the exact ingredients and brands needed.


Plan ahead. Tell your friend when you will be going shopping and what time you will be there. Ensure that your friend will be able to meet at this time to help you shop.
 If you are in a large store, you may be able to ask for help right when you walk in. For a smaller store, you may need to call the store ahead of time and ask for assistance with shopping. It's usually best to have a shopping list with you so the employee or clerk can find the products you need right away. The costumer service counter also provides assistance for those who are blind or visually impaired.When meeting the employee or clerk, be friendly. Introduce yourself and explain that you need help shopping by asking politely. Saying 'thank you' and remembering your manners goes a long way to get more assistance and help in the future. , It's highly recommended to organize your money ahead of time. Have a small pocket purse or bag with different pockets to organize different coins (i.e One pocket for pennies, another pocket for quarters, etc.). Have a large pocket to store all the dollar bills, organizing them by the largest amount to the smallest. This makes it easier to find and locate the cash you need.


Consider folding the dollar bills to identify which bill it is. For example: You can fold all the dollar bills in a half, fold all the ten dollar bills into fourths, etc. Try using apps to identity the money you have. Some examples include LookTel or EyeNote. If you're using a credit card, consider placing a tactile mark to identify which credit card is needed when shopping.
 It may help to have someone with you to point out where each aisle is. Finding each aisle will ensure that you get the products you are looking for. While every store is different, many stores have aisles placed in this order: The frozen food aisle is usually located in the center of the store in freezer cases.
The packaged baked goods aisle is usually located near the dairy aisle.
The high-demand items are usually located at the entrance or at eye-level.
If the store has one, the bakery is usually near the entrance or the rear.
The produce is usually located near the store entrance.
 Perishable foods include fish, meat, poultry, seafood, and dairy products. These foods have a high chance of spoiling on the ride home. Consuming these foods while they are spoiled can cause food poisoning. , Feel fruits and vegetables by touching them. Identify them by feeling the smooth, rough, or bumpy surface. You can also figure out if a product is frozen or heated or not by feeling if it's cold or hot.


Packaged goods will feel differently by their material such as plastic, cardboard, or paper.
 It may be hard to smell a packaged product, but you can identify different fruits or vegetables by sniffing them. You can smell the sharp scent of mint or the fruity smell of strawberries.
 Shopping for clothes with a friend or family member is not only helpful; it can be fun, too. A friend can help you find exactly what clothes you are looking for and can help you with other shopping tasks such as purchasing, picking out the clothes, and finding the exact brands needed.


Plan ahead. Ask your friend when they're free and try to set up a shopping date ahead of time.
Consider shopping with the store employee. Whether it's a department store or a smaller boutique, they're often happy to help.
 Identify different garments by feeling them to figure out if they buttons, collars, zippers, snaps, and/or laces. Feel the type of cloth by smoothing it out with your fingers. You can also try identifying different pieces of the clothing that it would normally not have such as the rough surface of glitter or sparkles and the hardness of any attached beads.


If it helps, consider bringing a small, hand-held magnifying glass to see clothes more vividly if you are visually impaired.
 Know what size you are ahead of time before you go clothes shopping. Make sure you find clothes that fit you, but are not too tight and not too loose. It may help to try out your clothes before purchasing them to ensure they fit you well.
 Avoid buying clothes that include highly colored synthetic fabric cloth. These can be very irritable and, for those with allergies, cause allergic reactions. Choose clothes that are "pure and natural" and contain 100% cotton for at-home clothes. Try the clothes out before purchasing them to ensure they feel comfortable on you.
 Thankfully the Internet makes it quite easy to shop for clothes online. You may find it easier to purchase the clothing needed using a computer. Search for what you exactly want (i.e black sweater, heavy coat, thin stockings, size 8 skinny jeans, etc.) to get the results you need when shopping for your clothing. If you're visually impaired, trying making the computer font and wording bigger to read easily. It may also help you have a goose-neck lamp next to you while you type. When purchasing clothing always remember to:


Consider the size. Know exactly what size you want your clothing to be. If you do not know your size have a trusted family member or friend measure you to find out.
Consider the type of clothing. Are you looking for a short-sleeved shirt or a long-sleeved shirt? Do you want yoga pants or sweatpants? Be specific when mentioning the type of clothing you are looking for.

