 Mushrooms love damp and humid places. If your lawn holds too much water, you will need to make sure that it drains properly. Here are some ideas on how you can introduce proper drainage to your lawn:








If water is flowing down a slope, build up soil to redirect excess water to a more desirable location.
Add a pond or water garden to catch excess water. They are easy to maintain and can act as a decorative feature to your garden.
Place rain barrels beneath waterspouts to collect excess water during storms. This will prevent the water from soaking into your lawn.
Consider adding an underground drain, such as a French drain (an underground ditch filled with gravel) to help disperse water and prevent it from becoming stagnant.
 If your garden has a clay base, the water will have nowhere to go once it soaks through your lawn. It will sit and become stagnant. If you can, try mixing some sand or other well-draining material into your lawn to help disperse the water better.









When watering your lawn, try to water it in the morning instead of at night. The sun will help the excess water evaporate instead of sit and become a breeding ground for mushrooms.
 Do not leave any stubs. Angle the cut downward, so that rainwater does not collect in the hole and cause rot.









Keep your trees fungus free by trimming out any dead or diseased branches.,
Use a power rake. You can rent it from some hardware or home improvement stores. Once you are done power raking your lawn, you will need to use a regular rake to sweep up the debris.
If you have cool-season grasses, de-thatch the lawn between late summer and early fall.
If you have warm-season grasses, de-thatch in late spring.
 Not enough air circulation will lead to moisture being trapped—and where there is excess moisture, there will be mushrooms. Get an aerator from a home improvement or hardware store, and go over your lawn with it. The aerator will pull out plugs of earth out of your lawn. This will help loosen the soil and let more air in.Consider aerating the ground with an aerator to prevent the mushrooms from sitting in a stale, moist environment.
 Remove decomposing wood chips and small branches, a favorite of many mushrooms. Also keep your lawn clear of pet waste and any other decomposing matter the mushrooms could feed off. Keep grass clippings off your lawn by raking them up after mowing, or by attaching a grass catcher to your mower. Clean up pet waste. Have tree stumps ground and removed.








