 Your teen may be off in her own world and oblivious to those around her. Try to be empathetic and tolerant of her lapses. But, on the other hand, do not forget and don’t allow them to build into worse manners.Low-level lapses in manners are things like forgetting to say please or thank you. Or, perhaps your teen forgot to help clean the table in her rush to go out.
Take more care when it comes to talking back, making snarky comments, rolling the eyes, or refusals to cooperate. Be less willing to tolerate this sort of behavior.
 Reward your teen when she does well. It doesn't have to be something big, but let her know that you’ve noticed her effort and appreciate it. Praise her good manners and encourage more of the same.


Say something like, “Thanks for helping me take in the groceries, Alex. You’re so helpful today!” or “You’ve been so polite today, Alex. I appreciate it.”
Note automatic and deliberate good manners equally. If your teen was on auto-pilot, you will end up drawing her attention to the behavior that earned praise.
 In the absence of other signs, assume that your teen’s rudeness is simply a part of self-absorption. Point out when she might have shown better manners, without being overly judgemental.Some studies show that negative rather than positive reinforcement is more effective on teens.To a teen, however, any unsolicited advice sounds preachy. Try to phrase your prompt as a polite request.
Say something like, “Please try to say excuse me, Sam” or “Please ask me before you take my things, Sam.”
Phrasing the prompt in question form will make it sound even less judgmental. I.e., “Can you please say excuse me, Sam?” or “Can you please ask me before you take my things, Sam?”

, If your teen continues to behave uncivilly – and you know that it’s deliberate – keep cool, but make the penalty swift, clear, and consistent. Sometimes a teen need to learn the consequences of bad manners directly.


Behavior that merits a punishment might include talking back or refusing to cooperate, hurling insults, or picking on siblings. Minor lapses will probably not need to be punished.
Unless the behavior is really serious, consider giving a final quiet warning: “Stop that, Max. If you do it again I will ask you to leave.” Or, take the teen aside for a private chat., How do you punish a teen? One common strategy is deprivation. You might take away his privileges on the computer, cell phone, television, or other electronic device. You might also “ground” him, restricting his social life for a short period.Another way is restitution. This involves naming a penalty or specific task for the teen to “work off” the offense. For example, you could assign your teen more chores for a week. I.e. “You’re going to have to make up for your behavior with some extra work. I want you to clean all the house’s windows before you see your friends – to my satisfaction.A final way is reparative punishment. This can work if your teen’s bad manners have a “victim.” Did he offend Grandma by not writing a thank you note for Christmas? Arrange a meeting where Grandma can air her hurt feelings, and where he can apologize and make amends.