 Usually, if a cat is angry, it will flatten its ears when you try to pet or interact with it. This means, "Stay away! I'm not in the mood." It can also hint annoyance or anger in cats, and is not very hard to distinguish from the normal habits of your feline. Flattened ears are occasionally accompanied by baring of the teeth or a hiss.


Some cats will flatten their ears only slightly but, nonetheless, the meanings are the same.
Flattened ears will normally look as if the cat is pressing their ears against their head. The same reaction can be obtained by gently tapping the ear-of course, however, you should never intentionally provoke your cat.;
, If they are scared or feel threatened, they may either arch their backs and fluff their fur to appear larger, or lower their backs and appear as if they are cowering in a corner. Body language is everything to animals, humans and cats alike, and most creatures use their positions to express emotion.
 If they are skittish, they might bare their teeth at you, or try to bite you. This one is probably the most obvious, because often a cat with bare its teeth at you, or snap at you. If a cat wants to be left alone, it will also occasionally run away from you.


They are trying to look more threatening when they do that. 'Maybe if you see my teeth, you'll run!' is what they are "thinking".
 Usually when a cat meows, it's because they want your attention.


A typical cat meow could mean anything, from just wanting to be cuddled to wanting food. Make sure they have clean food and water.
High pitched yowls or howls means the cat is in serious distress. Whether it be extreme hunger or pain, make sure to examine your cat or bring them to the vet if they seem abnormally aggressive and loud.
 Normally, a cat will have narrowed or sometimes slightly dilated pupils, but if a cat is feeling angry, their pupils will be small and their eyes widened.
 Cats will almost always run into a dark place, such as under a bed, when they want you to leave them alone.
, He might be more snappy with other animals and scratching. Your cat will not only be frustrated with you, but with other pets. They will scratch people and other things, including your couch.


He might slowly get more aggressive. That is why you need to be careful to interpret the signs to ensure they are healthy as well as to prevent you and others from being injured.







