 If you've ever taken a dance class, you're probably familiar with isolations. This is when you're moving a part of your body but nothing else -- hence isolating it. It may sound simple, but it's very difficult to move any part of your body without at least minimally affecting another. With the robotic like sounds of dubstep, it's essential.


Stand in front of the mirror. Start with your head and neck and move down your body, attempting to rotate each part of you independently. Go counterclockwise and clockwise with every part -- your shoulders, chest, abs, hips, down to your ankles. Work with the smallest bits -- finger, fingers, wrists, forearms -- once you get the hang of it. Nothing else should be moving.

When you get the hang of moving in circles, experiment moving up and down. You'll be moving on different planes while isolated for the majority of the time. For example, when moving your arm up and down, you're not using your wrist or elbow. Hold it strong, but move your arm leading with your shoulder; in fact, only your shoulder should be working.

;
, There are many helpful YouTube tutorials that take you through this process. Basically, you are moving your abs outwards and back in at a fast paced rate or to the beat of the music. With dubstep, that's pretty quickly.


Think of your body like a clam shell that's opening and closing. Your top and bottom halves should be coming in to meet at the middle. Practice this until you have it down, as it forms many of the basic moves to dubstep.
 You'll be doing a lot of work in slow motion. This means that the majority of the time your weight will not be evenly spread on both legs. And because of the smooth flow of the slow-mo parts and the choppiness of the glitchy parts, there is no wavering in dubstep.


There will be times when you're on your toes or the sides of your feet. Start practicing now! Yoga will help, too.
 Unlike something classic like the waltz (a simple 1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3), dubstep goes very fast; often you'll be hitting 1/8 notes and the likes thereof. If you can't hear it, you can't dance to it.


Find a song you want to dance to and start drumming it. When you can hit all the filler notes (the small ones aside from the 1, 2, 3, 4) with your hands, you can start doing it with your body.

