 Even if you think they have no right to think or say what they are ranting about, let them rant. It won't make any difference to you in the long run, and the teen will feel better once they have been able to express their feelings about the subject. Listen and let them feel heard.


This works when you've said "no" to your teen. You have the right to say no to them, and they have the right to express unhappiness about it. Accept their feelings without changing your answer.;
, If they are in danger, talk to them and see if they will let you move them out of the way. Even if they are jumpy and excited don't let that affect how you act with them. Remain calm and gentle, and try to avoid startling them. If necessary, you can be very assertive and firm about moving them if they are in imminent danger of extreme injury or death.


If they begin self-injuring (e.g. headbanging), see if you can soften or redirect it. For example, place a pillow under their head, or have them hit their head against soft couch cushions instead of a wall.
 Nobody likes to break down in public in front of spectators. Move them somewhere quieter, or ask other people to go elsewhere. Turn off music and reduce noise in the area.


If they have a comfort object, give it to them.
 This technique can help relax them and de-escalate the situation. Help them feel that their emotions are understandable and important. (You don't have to agree with them to do this.) Examples of validation include...


"That sounds really difficult."
"I'm so sorry to hear that. Is there any way I can help make it better?"
"You look really upset right now. It must be stressful to go through this."
"Of course you're angry. You've had to put up with a lot today."

, Agitation is contagious, so try to keep a level head. Often the teen is responding to stimuli you don't understand or process the same way. So remain calm and in control regardless of the teenager's response. Convey acceptance, comfort, and calm.
 Tell them that they are safe and you're here for them. This can lessen feelings of panic and make it clear to them that you're unconditionally there for them.
 Your teen may say things that you disagree with, or delusions that are obviously false. While it may seem nonsensical to you, to your teen these things are very real. Avoid escalating the situation by telling them they are wrong. (You won't change their mind.)


Keep validating their feelings, no matter how nonsensical they sound. "It must be stressful to feel that the CIA is moving all your things around."Challenging their view of reality may strengthen their delusions. If you voice disagreement, phrase it as your opinion, not as an absolute fact."I don't see any dogs in the room."

, Never hit or lose control physically. You are the adult and have a responsibility to stay in control while your teen is out of control. Never become violent; all that does is escalate the situation and worsen your teen's mental state.


If you have explosive urges, then leave. Say "I need to calm down," leave the room, and ask another adult to handle your teen.
 Your teen may be in full panic mode, so if you try to touch them, they may misinterpret it as an attack and lash out. Give them as much space as they need. You can offer a hug if you want, but don't intrude upon their personal space.


If you want to offer a hug, hold out your arms and let them come to you. This way, they can anticipate it and evaluate whether they're ready for it. If they don't come, you can hug them later.
A tight hug provides deep pressure, which can be calming (especially for autistic teens).
 Sometimes the teen will threaten not to take medication, or run away, or hurt themselves. These are all ways they are trying to process their emotions. It's not healthy and you can talk about it when they are calm. But at the time they are only words; the majority of teens will not follow up with actions. Once they've calmed down they will often say they are sorry and that they did not mean any of it.


Nevertheless, ask them about it once they are calm. This way you can be sure, and they have the opportunity to open up to you (if running away or hurting themselves really has been on their mind). Keep validating their feelings and listening to them.
 Even if it feels as though you are being criticized or berated, do not take it personally. Remember that mental illness is a chemical imbalance, and that it is not the fault of the teen or yourself. This illness is part genetic and perhaps part environmental. Don't blame yourself any more than you'd blame yourself for a broken bone.


Sometimes mental illnesses cause affective flattening, or not showing many feelings. This is an illness symptom, and it's not personal. They still love you.
 Sometimes all a teen needs is time to process and then they will be okay. So check on your teen frequently, about every half hour, but leave them alone otherwise. They will process their anger, maybe yell and scream a bit, but a little while later they will be able to talk and not actively melt down.
 If your teen apologizes, accept their apology. If they don't remember what happened, give a brief, nonjudgmental explanation. Make it clear that you still love them and don't blame them for the outburst. The mental illness caused it, not them.


If you feel that you mishandled the situation, apologize to them.
Talk about why they became so upset. Did something in particular trigger it? How might the two of you work together to avoid a similar happening?
Ask how they would like you to respond in such a situation. Try coming up with a plan together.

