 Nitrates relax and open up the blood vessels in the body. This helps more oxygen reach the various parts of your body. This helps to relieve heart muscles of the heavy pumping they have to do when you don’t have enough oxygen, which then relieves chest pain.#*Some examples of nitrates include nitroglycerin, isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN), and isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN). These will be discussed in detail in the following steps.
 Nitroglycerin is the oldest known nitrate. NTG’s reputation of rapid symptom relief has led to its use for more than a century. NTG is taken sublingually. The tablet is placed under the tongue. Sublingual medications go into the blood system faster than typical oral tablets; consequently, it gives faster relief.The medication will melt on its own and directly reach the heart blood vessels faster.


The typical dose is 0.3 or 0.6 mg tablets placed under the tongue when angina sets in., The recommended dose is 30 to 60 mg once daily for oral tablets as maintenance.The recommended dose is 5 to 25 mg/day for patches., ISDN is also given as oral tablet or skin patch. The recommended dose is 10 to 60 mg two or three times a day for oral tablets as maintenance. The recommended dose is 5-25 mg/day for patches., Beta-blockers slow down the heart rate and reduce the intensity of your heart muscle contractions. This prevents the heart muscles from tiring out and indirectly prevents chest pain. Some examples of beta-blockers are metoprolol and propranolol.


The recommend dose for metoprolol is 50 to 200 mg twice daily. The recommended dose for propranolol is 80–120 mg twice daily., Calcium channel blockers act by reducing the role of calcium in heart contractions and arteries thereby causing relaxation. CCBs are second-line treatment for angina when nitrates and beta-blockers do not provide symptomatic relief. Some of the examples are amlodipine and verapamil.


The recommended dose for amlodipine is 5 to 10 mg once a day.The recommended dose for verapamil is 80 to 160 mg three times a day.