 In other words, a site might ask you to pay to paypol.com and includes a link on the site. This is NOT a PayPal site. The misspelling is on purpose, and used to lure people in. Another example could be lastfm.com, which is a site that sells music. However, there is also last.fm.com, too. Apparently, the latter name takes you to a mock/scam version of the site.;
, For example, the mock site last.fm.com entices you into downloading by over-using the word FREE. Certain cases of similar sites go along the lines of "Get your FREE music. Click now." or "FREE file viewer. FREE download." and should be avoided.
 90% of the time, this is a scam that sends plenty of spam, and seriously slows down your computer. Don't give it to them if it is optional. If it isn't, just don't go on the site. If you REALLY want on the site, use sites like guerrillamail.com, which creates an address that lasts only an hour. This can be helpful, but not practical for most people.
 What that means is to look out for specific signs of a worm or other virus in an e-mail. Older versions of e-mail sent viruses that had an attached link, with an uncommon ending. For example, a famous form of this targeted at male users was the "nude" mail. It said that the attachment was a picture of naked, but the ending, instead of a .png or .jpeg, was .ho, which is not a picture format and thus not a picture. Other newer and more dangerous forms of the virus were that you didn't even have to open the attachment to get your pc infected. Look out for signs like the message being forwarded many times before you, as most of these viruses automatically send themselves to everyone in your contacts. Also look out for messages from an unknown sender.
 For example, there are pop-ups that say things like "you have # viruses and # worms." and they look legit with a name either realistic for anti-virus software or they are based closely off of real anti-virus programs. Advised sites include avg.com and can be trusted. Just make sure you get it from avg.com because many sites have avg anti-virus downloads.
 Young children and the elderly tend to be very trusting in the internet and can inadvertently get dozens of viruses on their, or your, system.

