;
,


Open Advanced Installer by either double-clicking on its desktop icon or going through the Start menu and finding it in Programs.
When the application starts, you will be given the option of choosing a project type. Choose the "simple" option.
Uncheck the Wizard checkbox. This will allow you to edit the project to your specifications.
Save the project, taking note of its destination folder. This will be where your MSI package will be created.



Choose the "Files and Folders" options on the left side of the Advanced Installer screen.
Click on "Application Folder," then on "Add Files."
Browse until you find the file you want to install, then double-click on that file to add it to the Application Folder.
Click on "Application Shortcut Folder" to add a shortcut file or any help or URL file you created to accompany the file in the Application Folder.



Click on the "Build" toolbar button on the Advanced Installer screen. A dialogue box will appear to show you the build process.
Click the "Run" toolbar button once Advanced Installer notifies you that the build is complete. This will open a setup wizard.
Let the wizard guide you through the completion of your Microsoft Installer package project.
,


Select (click on) your MSI package in the Advanced Installer dialogue box to highlight it.
Select the "Product Details" option on the left side of the screen. This will open a panel in which you can edit the company and application details as they appear on the name of your file.
, Use Windows' Add/Remove Programs interface, or remove it directly through the Advanced Installer application.



Choose the "Files and Folders" option in the Advanced Installer dialogue box.
Click on the file you want to add shortcuts to in order to highlight it.
Click the "New Shortcut" toolbar button. A dialogue box will appear, allowing you to create a shortcut customized to your file. The new shortcut will then be added to your Application Shortcut Folder, meaning it will become part of the Start menu in the target computer.

