 If you are calling from another time zone, make sure to call at a convenient time for your Saudi contact.


Saudi Arabia is eight hours ahead of U.S. Eastern Standard Time (EST) and seven hours ahead of Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) from April to October. Thus: if it is 8 AM EST in New York City, it is 4 PM the next day in Riyadh or Jeddah.;
, If you are calling a business or a government office, be sure to call during their workday. If you are making a personal call, try to call before or after work.


The Saudi workweek typically runs from Sunday through Thursday. The weekend usually comprises Friday and Saturday.
Some business are open continuously from 9 AM to 5 PM. Some businesses open at 9 AM, close down for a three-hour break at 1 PM, and re-open from 4 PM to 8 PM. Some businesses open from 8 AM, close for a three-hour break at 12 PM, and re-open from 3 PM to 6 PM.Before you call, check the hours of the business you are calling.
Shops typically open up between 9:30 AM and 10 AM, close for a mid-day break at 1 PM, and then re-open at 4 or 5 PM until about 10 PM.
Government offices in Saudi Arabia open at 8 a.m. Most government offices close by 2:30 PM, or 3 PM at the latest, so plan accordingly.
Saudi Arabia is a predominantly Muslim country, and Friday is the Islamic day of prayer. Avoid calling on Friday unless you have been explicitly asked to do so.
 You need to enter this code in order to make an international call.


If you are calling from the U.S. or Canada, the exit code for international calls is (011).Run a web search to find your country's exit code, if you don't know it already. For example, search for "China international call exit code" or "South Africa international call exit code".



Fixed (non-mobile) numbers are usually eight or nine digits long, including the area code: 966-(local code)-XXX-XXXX.

Mobile numbers are usually nine digits long, and (5) replaces the local code: 966-5-XXXX-XXXX.

Refer to the Tips section at the bottom of this article for a list of local codes, or run a web search for "local calling code (insert city)".
 Make sure that you've included your country's exit code, the country calling code for Saudi Arabia, the local code for the number that you are calling, and the actual phone number.


If you are calling a fixed number in Riyadh, for instance, where the local code is (11), the full number should look like this: 011-966-11-XXX-XXXX. Replace the Xs with the phone number that you want to call.
If you are calling a cell phone, the full number should look like this: 011-966-5-XXXX-XXXX. Replace the Xs with the phone number that you want to call.

