 That's the most important point. In fact, unless you want to lose tons of fat, that's the only thing you have to do! Simple . . . and it's free!;
, Because your stomach is like a balloon - deflates when without things in it, inflates when with things in it - it can't feel what you put inside, only whether it's full or not. Water is a good idea because it takes up tons of space in your tummy, but has no calories. Examples would be cabbage and spinach.
 Make an exercise plan if you think it works for you. If it doesn't, easy. Take more walks around, sleep earlier and wake up earlier. Fidgeting bit by bit will help you lose calories as well, it it'll do to check your weight frequently to monitor your progress.
 No, not Hershey's Kisses, but a manicure/pedicure or, if you've enough money and are sure about it, an electronic handheld game. Just remember not to spend too much time on it.
 People say, "Early to bed, early to rise." You say, "Early to bed, early to lose weight." Depriving yourself of sleep gets you hungry and panda eyes. Keep this in your mind always: when you're sleeping, you're not stuffing food into your mouth.
 Is it too much? Will you be unbelievably bloated if you finish the entire thing on your plate? If your answer is Yes to both questions, try your best to lessen your serving. If your answer is no and you are quite, quite sure it is just right, lessen your serving just a little bit.
 Plain water (not soda!) not only makes your skin glow and make you look pretty, it also is healthy to your body and you don't gain any fat from it. Isn't that a win-win situation?

, Toss public and/or private transport away for once and save the world by walking to your destination. Enjoy the scenery, smell the roses . . . even without having a nature lesson, you learn - more, in fact!

, Not only does it normalizes your blood pressure, it decreases chronic pain and detoxify your body. Additionally, it fights fatigue, helps with insomnia, reduces aches and pains and more. And . . . (here it comes) loses fat!

