 Ever since the July 2013 Light and War update, it is not possible to get a 100% Pure Dragon through breeding. They are now much more common, but must be purchased from the shop as described below.


If you're looking for a challenge, try to breed a legendary dragon instead. Ever since the update, these are the rarest dragons in the game. Breeding two pure dragons together gives a moderate chance at a legend, so consider this method a stepping stone to the rarer dragon.;
, This is the required level to see Pure Dragon show up as an option in the store.If you have gold to spare, keep building a farm and selling it for XP. The Huge Food Farm gives the most bang for your buck, if you can afford it.Be careful not to spend too much, since you'll also need plenty of gold to buy your pure dragon.
 (Note, In current version of Dragon city it costs 2.2 M for habitat and Dragon) Yes, this is how much a Pure Dragon will cost you. If this seems like an impossible amount, try building and upgrading as many farms as you can. This will pay out in the long run., Visit the build menu's dragon store and purchase your first Pure Dragon. Many players call this the "Pure Unicorn" due to its original horned appearance, but it will be labeled as a Pure Dragon.
 In almost every case, breeding a Pure Dragon with another "generation 1" dragon has only one possible result, a hybrid of the two types. For example, a Pure and a Dark Dragon breeding together will always make a Pure Dark dragon.


Two of these hybrids have special names. Breeding Pure with War makes a "Kratus Dragon" and breeding Pure with an Archangel (Light) makes a "Zen Dragon.", There are three special dragons in the game that can be bred from Pure ancestry:


Breed a level 15+ Pure Dragon with a level 15+ Terra Dragon to get an Ivory Dragon.Breed any dragon with a Pure element along with any dragon with a Light element in a level 7+ Sanctuary for a chance at a Core Dragon. Some unusual combinations involving Sea elements will also work.Breed any dragon with a Pure element along with any dragon with a Flame element in a level 8 Sanctuary for a chance at a Basilisk Dragon., Any time two dragons with a Pure element are bred together, there's a 6% chance that one of the Legendary dragons shows up. If you're trying to maximize your chances of getting a Legendary dragon, breeding two plain Pure Dragons together is your best bet, since each attempt will take 12 hours of waiting.Other combinations will take a longer time on average, and still only have a 6% chance.


The downside of this strategy is that you'll end up with another Pure Dragon 94% of the time. If you'd rather get new, exciting dragons, just keep breeding combinations of dragons that both include Pure elements, for instance Kratus Dragon + Pure Dark Dragon. You'll have to wait longer on average each time, but when you fail to get a Legendary you might end up with a cool new dragon.
If you only have one Pure Dragon, instead keep breeding a Pure Flame and a Pure Terra Dragon together, until you get either a Legendary dragon or a second Pure Dragon to breed.