 Dry rubs add flavor to meat without ruining their tenderness, letting you customize your meat to fit the meal. Mix the following spices together with 1/2 tablespoon salt and crushed black pepper before massaging the rub into both sides of the meat. Use equal parts of each spice, roughly 1-1/2 tablespoons, and don't be afraid to mix and match. These rubs are enough for 2-3 steaks.


Onion powder, paprika, chili powder, and garlic powder.
Dried rosemary, thyme, and oregano, garlic powder.
Cayenne, chili powder, paprika, Mexican oregano, garlic powder.Brown sugar, chili pepper, paprika, garlic powder, and ground coffee (adventurous cooks only!), Wet marinades are usually effective overnight, so don't try do make one at the last minute and expect a lot of flavor. The acid in wet marinades (vinegar, lemon juice, etc.) also breaks down some of the tissue, making the meat more tender.Be careful though, too much acid can ruin the texture of a steak and make a crispy exterior impossible. Place the steaks in a bag with the marinade and leave them in the fridge overnight to get the best results. Experiment with additional spices or different combinations to find the marinade you love.


1/3 cups of soy sauce, olive oil, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, plus 1-2 tablespoons garlic powder, dried basil, parsley, rosemary, and crushed black pepper.1/3 cup red wine vinegar, 1/2 cup soy sauce, 1 cup vegetable oil, 3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons Dijon mustard, 2-3 cloves minced garlic, 1 tablespoon ground black pepper.
 There is a reason that most steakhouse steaks come with a pat of butter on top. Butter can seep into the cuts of the meat and elevate it with a delicious, moist flavor. You can even make "compound butter" (butter mixed with spices and herbs) to get a little extra flavor. To make compound butter, mix 6 tablespoons butter with the following herbs in a food processor, then freeze the mixture until it is time to put on your steak:


1 teaspoon thyme, sage, rosemary, chopped.
2-3 cloves minced garlic
1 teaspoon chili powder, cilantro, and cayenne pepper.
 Most steaks can stand by themselves as delicious meals, but a little something extra can make them even better. Things to try on top include:


Caramelized onions, peppers, or mushrooms.
Fried onions.
Blue cheese crumbles.

