 You’ll need a neodymium magnet, a wood screw, a spool of thin-gauged (1.3 millimeter / 16 gauge) copper wire, wire cutters, needle-nose pliers, and a AA battery. Ensure you’re using wire which is uncoated, nonmagnetic, and somewhat pliable. Coated copper wire is generally made of multiple thin copper filaments woven into a rope-like wire. This type of wire is too weak to maintain a bendable shape, a quality which you’ll want it to have later.


The magnet should be a flattened cylinder with a diameter no larger than about one centimeter. Be careful not to let small children play with the magnet. Also, do not place it on or near electronics equipment, including tablets, phones, or MP3 players.;
, In other words, the point of the screw should be sticking straight up from the magnet, whose flat head is affixed to the magnet. The head of the screw should be perfectly centered on the magnet, with an equal amount of space along the entire perimeter between the edge of the magnet and the edge of the screw’s head.


If you want to adjust the position of the screw on the magnet, you should be able to slide it around. If you want to use another screw for some reason (or suddenly realize you need to hang up a picture with the screw), try pushing it off the magnet rather than trying to pull it straight out.
 Pinch the battery between your thumb and middle finger. Lower the battery onto the screw so that the point of the screw makes contact with the approximate center of the battery’s positive pole. The battery should now be above the screw, which should be above the battery, in a vertical line.
 With your free hand, bring one end of the copper wire up to the negative pole (the flat end) of the battery. Pinch the wire in place on top of the negative pole with your index finger. Bring the other end of the copper wire down to the battery and make contact with it. The nail and magnet assembly should spin.


You may hear a low hum or buzz when the circuit is complete.
If it does not spin, try reversing the polarity of the magnet by removing the screw, turning the magnet over, then reattaching the screw.

