 Companions, or casual friends, typically spend only a couple hours together every week.It’s okay to spend more time with him than that, but people will assume something else is going on if you are always alone together.
 Talking about your feelings is something that only girls typically do. Guys do not discuss their emotions or personal thoughts with other guys often, if at all. Although having a platonic female friend may offer him a chance to do so, make sure it’s the exception and not the rule.


Sharing feelings establishes intimacy, and it is difficult to maintain romantic indifference to someone you feel really ‘gets’ you.
Specifically avoid talking about your appearance or other friendships.
 Guys can’t talk about relationship issues with their guy friends and may see an opportunity to do so with you. But sharing doubts and struggles about your romantic relationships with another member of the opposite sex blurs the line between being friends and thinking about each other romantically. Save these talks for your girlfriends.


If he needs to talk to someone and has no one else, be a good friend by listening, but resist the urge to give advice. He may start wondering if you are trying to replace his girlfriend.
Encourage him to talk to her about their issues instead by explaining why girls crave this type of intimacy with romantic partners. Be sure to do it from the perspective of his own growth and emotional development, not from any opinions about the girl he is dating., Guy friends don’t hug each other every time they get together. Touching him often feels like intimacy, even if you don’t mean it that way, and may either create anxiety that you might want to date, or make him think about you as a potential partner. Don’t treat him like a stand-in boyfriend., You have a right to feel comfortable in how you look and what you wear, but remember that your guy friend is still a guy. If he hasn’t thought of you as a potential girlfriend yet, dressing provocatively could bring up new feelings.
