 Before you travel anywhere during the winter, make sure to check the weather. Depending on how long you will be gone, you should check the projected weather for at least 48 hours from the time you leave.If you are travelling from one place to another, check the weather at both places. Even if you are only driving an hour or two away, the weather might be drastically different and much harsh depending on weather patterns and where the destination is located.
You can check the weather via the internet or mobile weather apps. Many sites will have weather as well as road conditions. If the site you are using does not have road conditions, the state's Department of Transportation should have this information.;
, Before you travel anywhere, monitor the travel conditions. You can find this via mobile weather apps, the local Department of Transportation, and local news stations. Look for road closures, airport delays, subway or bus delays, mountain pass closures, and even state and national park closures.If you are flying, check conditions at the airport. Make sure there are no flight delays or cancellations.
If you live in a metro area with mass transportation, you may want to check on the status of the buses or subway trains. Many major city mass transits have apps that provide alerts, schedules, and alternate routes. You can also check the mass transit website for your area, or check the local news.
 No matter what kind of travel you are doing in the winter, let someone know where you are going. Leave a friend, family member, or co-worker a list of places you are visiting and when you should return.(This is is a good practice in general, regardless of the season.)

, If the roads are bad and you don’t want to drive, consider alternate transportation. Ask if you can carpool with others to work or school. If your area has mass transit, consider taking the train or bus so you don’t have to be on the roads.Carpooling with a more experienced winter driver can help keep you and others safer.
 You should plan all winter travel ahead of time. This includes winter driving, cycling, destination travel, subway travel, or walking.


Check current weather conditions. Winter weather can change quickly, so the forecast predicted a week ago might change within four or five days. Keep updated and make any necessary adjustments.
Pack accordingly. Winter weather brings dangers that spring, summer, and fall travel do not. Make sure you pack emergency kits, extra clothes, and any other needed items before you set out on your journey.
Even if you are only going around town, you should pack in case of emergencies. Subway trains can break down, you might get stuck on a blocked interstate for hours due to ice, you might end up in a building with no power, or you could be delayed at an airport. Always wear warm clothing or carry extra layers. Pack extra food and drink in case you get stuck somewhere for a long time. Always keep cell phones charged. Consider carrying non-cell phone sources of entertainment, like mp3 players, tablets, or books.
 No matter where you are travelling, you should dress for winter weather. Checking the temperature, the wind chill, and weather conditions before you leave your home can help you travel safely and warmly.You should always dress in layers. If you get too warm, you can remove them. Wear fleece-lined tights, sweater tights, or thermal underwear under pants. Wear thermal shirts or other long-sleeved shirts beneath your main shirt. Make sure you have warm coats, gloves, hats, and ear coverings. Wear warm socks, and add an extra pair if you need to.
Wear appropriate shoes. Snow boots can help keep you from falling and keep your feet warm in snowy or icy conditions. Consider galoshes or waders in heavy rain or wet conditions.
Think about choosing a coat based on the weather. If it’s raining or snowing a lot, you may want a weather resistant coat to keep you dry. If the wind chill is extremely low or there are wind warnings, a wind jacket might be better.
 If you are planning to travel and the weather service has issued an advisory, reconsider your travel plans. Travelling during adverse conditions puts you and others at risk.If possible, move your travel plans so you can travel during better weather conditions. This not only helps you stay safe, but keeps you from getting stuck in traffic due to the weather or facing flight delays.
If you have to travel, let people know where you are going. Take caution while traveling.
 In the event that you lose power or your car breaks down and you need to create a heat source, do so safely, and keeping in mind the potential of carbon monoxide poisoning. Never use a generator or grill indoors (including in a basement and garage) and make sure fireplaces, wood stoves, or other combustion heaters are properly ventilated to the outside and there are no leaks.Carbon monoxide is colorless, odorless, and deadly. Keep a carbon monoxide detector in your home.
If you are in a car or a tent, don't try using something like a camp stove or grill to generate heat, as this puts you at great risk for carbon monoxide poisoning.
 There are any number of scenarios — from your car breaking down to getting lost while on a walk — in which you or a companion might be susceptible to hypothermia. Knowing how to recognize hypothermia and how to treat it is important when traveling in the winter and may save a life.Signs of hypothermia in adults include shivering, exhaustion, confusion, fumbling hands, memory loss, slurred speech, and drowsiness.
Signs of hypothermia in infants include having bright red and cold skin and very low energy.
If possible, take the person's temperature. If his temperature has dropped below 95°F (35°C) then it is a medical emergency and he needs immediate medical attention.
If medical help is not available, try the following: move the person into a shelter or warm room and remove any wet clothing. Focus on warming the center of the body (chest, head, neck, and groin) before the extremities. Use an electric blanket if one is available; if not, use skin-to-skin contact and cover the person with layers of dry blankets, clothing, towels, or sheets. Try giving the person warm beverages (but not alcohol).
A person with severe hypothermia may become unconscious and may not appear to have a pulse or be breathing. Perform CPR while the person is being warmed — the person may still be resuscitated.

