 Identify yourself to the child by directing their attention to an aspect of yours that is consistent. For instance, if you have long hair you might brush your child's hand with it, or if you always wear a ring you can let the child feel for your ring.There can be a sign that you make to tell the child it's you, but it's also helpful to direct the child's attention to an identifying feature that they can find on their own, in case you forget to give them your name-sign.
 A child may become disheartened or fail to learn active engagement if they are approached randomly and given no warning of what is to come.You might always pat them in the same place when you are going to interact with them, or always tug on whatever object you are about to adjust (i.e. changing a diaper, putting on a bib, helping a child untie shoes, etc).
Let them know when you are going to lift or otherwise touch them. It's respectful to identify yourself and give a preliminary touch before you interact with an infant or a child who is deaf-blind.
If you constantly pick up or manipulate a child without warning, you will train them to feel helpless.
 A deaf-blind child may struggle to communicate, especially in early childhood or with those who do not understand tactile signing. Pay attention to the child to understand when they are signaling interest, when they need a break, or when they are trying to get your attention. A child may grab your hand to participate in what you are doing, go and sit by the door if they want to go out, or turn their head away if they are tired of a game you are playing with them., You will frustrate and overwhelm older children if you do not know how to ask them for permission. Make sure you understand how they say "yes" and "no." Before you interact with a child, identify yourself with your sign and alert them as to what you are about to do. If they have any choice about it at all, ask them for a yes or a no.

If they are too young to say yes or no, try to read their body language. A child who is turning their head away or fussing might need you to slow down or stop what you are doing. A child who is kicking their legs, burbling, or otherwise showing signs of positive engagement may enjoy the activity.

