 This is a useful way to measure concentration when you're dissolving a solid into a liquid, and when you're talking about solutions that involve human scale measurements. If the solute is much less than a gram or the solvent is much less than a liter, you'll probably want to use one of the other methods instead.



Example problem: Find the concentration (in grams per liter) of a solution made by dissolving 3 mL of table salt in 2000 mL of water. Write the answer in the form of grams / liter.
 If your solute (the substance dissolved into the larger container) is already measured in grams, skip to the next step. Otherwise, you'll need to convert it. Converting from other units of mass (such as the kilogram) should be simple if you look up the conversion rate, but converting from volume units (such as the liter) is more complicated. Each substance has a density which determines how much mass can fit into a certain volume. Look up this density and multiply it by your volume measurement to get the measurement in grams, after making sure your units match.


In our example, the salt is the solute. It is measured in a unit of volume (mL), so we'll need to convert it to grams.
The density of table salt is 1.15 g/mL.If this information is not included with the problem, you may need to look it up in your textbook or a database of chemical substances. We need to make sure to find the density in the units we are using (grams per mL), or convert it to the right unit.
To find the mass of salt in 3 mL, calculate 3 mL x (1.15 grams / 1 mL) = 3.45 grams salt.
 The solvent should just about always be measured in a unit of volume already so conversion is pretty simple. If it's already written in liters, skip to the next step.


In our example, we have 2000 mL of water. We'll need to convert this to liters.
There are 1000 mL per liter, so convert by calculating (1 L / 1000 mL) x (2000 mL) = 2 liters of water.
Note that we arranged the conversion so that the mL units canceled out (one on top, one on bottom). If we had written it as 1000 mL / 1 L x 2000 mL we would end up with a nonsense result.
 Now that we have the gram measurement of the solute and the liter measurement of the solvent, calculating the g/L concentration is as easy as dividing:


In our example, 3.45 grams of salt / 2 liters of water = 1.725 g/L salt concentration.
 Technically, we should calculate the concentration using the volume of the entire solution, meaning the solvent and solute volumes added together. When dissolving a small amount of a solid into a large amount of liquid, this rarely makes much of a difference, so you can safely ignore the solute and just use the volume of the solvent, like we did above. If the solute volume is enough to visibly change the volume, you'll need to change the formula to (g of solute) / (L of solute + L of solvent).


In our example, 3.45 grams of salt / (2 liters of water + 0.003 L salt) = 1.722 g/L.
The difference between this and our previous answer is 0.003 g/L. This is a tiny difference, most likely smaller than the accuracy of our measurement tools.

