 Amps with a simple layout will have a single volume knob. More commonly, you will see 2 knobs, labeled "Pre" and "Post,” or “Drive” and “Master.” The first knob in each of these pairs adjusts the signal before it enters the power amplification stage, while the second knob adjusts the signal after power amplification. Start around 2 on the dial of your master volume.
 The pre or drive knob will have a much more dramatic effect on the overall tone of your guitar. The pre knob allows you to produce a distorted tone. This is because the power amplification stage cannot cleanly handle input signals past a certain level. Turn the "Pre" knob higher to achieve a distorted signal.The post or master knob has a less dramatic effect on tone, but handles the overall volume of the amp. The master knob will not affect the distortion of the signal. If the pre knob is set high, set the post knob low to achieve a distorted sound at a reasonable listening volume. If the pre knob is set low, turn the post knob higher to produce a clean tone.
 All guitar amps contain some form of equalization (EQ), often in the form of bass, mid, and high frequencies. Experiment with the EQ on your amp to find a tone you enjoy. The best way to get an idea of the amp’s natural tone is by setting each EQ to “twelve o’clock.”Twelve o’clock means that the knob is set directly in the middle. The term comes from the face of a clock.
Some amps simplify the equalization to a single knob, labeled “tone.” Adjust the knob high to produce a higher frequency to give your guitar a brighter tone.
Move the knob to a lower position to emphasize low frequencies that will produce a warmer, darker tone.
 Some guitar amps will have a button labeled "Channel." This button is used to switch between clean and distorted channels, which will provide you with a quick way to increase the level of distortion. Pressing this button has the same effect as turning up the pre-gain knob and turning down the post-gain knob.


Some guitar amps come with a pedal to switch between channels on the fly., The gain knob on your amp is designed to increase the distortion of your guitar's sound. In effect, the gain knob also increases the volume. Not all guitar amps come with gain settings. Some guitarists value this effect so much that they purchase several pedals that produce this sound like, overdrive and distortion effects pedals.Gain is particularly useful if you play rock or blues music.
Some players like to increase the gain on the amp right before a guitar solo.
 Before settling on an amp, you should visit a music store and try out multiple amps. Each model and brand has an unique sound that is worth being experimented with. You'll see difference in the "American sound" with brands like Fender, and the "U.K. sound" with brands like Marshall and Vox.


Some guitarists even prefer to play out of a bass amp.
Determine if you like the tube sound over solid state amps or vice versa - tubes tend to give a more classic, warm tone to your playing but require additional maintenance and care.

