 If you have been hired by a family, your student's parent likely have specific learning goals for their children. They may be able to communicate with you what the concepts are that their child has been struggling with. If you are working for a school, speak with the subject or classroom teacher and get informed on what the classroom is working on, what the student is struggling with, and things the teacher things your student might respond to. Stay in communication with the parents and teacher of your student, so that you call update one another on milestones and roadblocks.If you are working for elementary and secondary students, keep up with the learning standards of their grade. You can usually find out what the Learning Standards are for each grade on the school district website.
 Some students will be motivated to do well just by a desire to please their parents, their teacher, you, or themselves. Others will need some encouragement. Praise good work to encourage them, and give a little praise for good effort as well.Smaller students respond well to stickers that signify the completion of a lesson or a task.
Older students might enjoy greater responsibility or a change of routine. You might tutor them outside for one session if they achieve a certain improvement in their grade, for instance.
Some students will be incentivized if you let them set the learning goals for each lesson with you.
Some students want you to be in control of their learning, but will feel rewarded if you explain what they have learned and how that has affected what you are going to teach them next.
 Children, especially small children, need to move. Transition activities every 15-20 minutes, and provide movement breaks and a few minutes for free play every 45 minutes or when needed. If you only tutor your student for half an hour or so, you can just give them breaks as needed. If they need to move but your time is limited, try switching locations or give your students a short but intense physical movement break.Offer regular opportunities for dancing, jumping on a trampoline, running around the yard, or doing some quick pushups.
Let the student cue you when they need to move. They may ask to get a glass of water, to go to the bathroom, or to get something to show you from their room.
Watch for squirming, kicking, head-in-hands—this could mean a student has physical energy that is distracting them.
Some students may prefer to work standing up or sitting on the floor.
 One way you can gain experience is by volunteering as a tutor. Contact local schools or family friends and volunteer to take on short-term tutoring projects. Get in touch with your local library-they may have a volunteer program for reading buddies or some other low-key tutoring experience.


Set up a language exchange with someone who speaks a language you are learning. You can take turns tutoring one another.

