 Palm wax has a pearlescent appearance. It takes fragrance easily and it is very easy to shape.
 As explained above, try to find one that has a reputable growing policy. If you can't, ask the store why it can't sell such palm oil and explain that you are concerned about the impact of palm oil on rain forests., A glass container is the most appropriate so that you can see the candle's qualities as it burns. Salsa jars are a great size, or you could make a series of smaller candles in baby food jars., You can go wild here and choose whatever scent pleases you most! Make a combination if you're clever enough. Just make sure it isn't overwhelming., It should be enough to fit your chosen container to almost the top but leave about 2 inches (5.1 cm) space. As a guide, for a container of about 4–10oz, use about 2 pounds of palm wax., Place the palm wax into the top level of the Bain Marie, water in the base level, and place over the heat. Wax is a little like chocolate in the melting; it should never be in direct contact with either heat or water., Using a thermometer, check the wax. It should be heated to 200 °F (93 °C). The time for this to happen will be up to half an hour, so be patient and stay near it at all times. Never leave wax unattended while it is being heated!, Make sure they are bone dry; wipe with a paper towel if needed., Place it on its lowest temperature and place the containers into the oven. The reason for this is that the containers need to be warm when the wax is poured in but not so hot as to crack them, of course!, This will be the area for placing the warm containers when you remove them from the oven., Measure out the appropriate amount of oil, for example, if you are using 1 pound of palm wax, then use 1 oz fragrance oil, 2 pounds of palm wax, then use 2 oz of fragrance oil, etc. Measure by weight, not volume. Have this ready for pouring straight in., Add the candle wicks using a wick bar to keep it in position. Keep them spaced apart evenly; the containers should not be touching if you are using more than one container., If you are coloring the candle, do so at this time as well (use suitable wax colorant)., Once stirred well, pour into the warm, prepared containers. The temperature at pouring must be 195 °F (91 °C), so check this prior to pouring., Once cool, tidy the wick by trimming neatly to around 1/4" height. Add any decorative elements to the outside of the jar., After this time, the candle is now ready to use or to give away.