 This can be the hardest step. Professionals indicate that men are typically afraid to talk to doctors about their health problems. They shouldn't be; low libido is, according to Doron Stember, MD, "a medical condition."While low libido or erectile dysfunction (ED) might seem like a personal issue, they are medical conditions. Both can be symptoms of serious underlying health issues and failing to disclose them could hinder the diagnosis of any illnesses you might suffer from.
Remember that your condition is neither rare nor embarrassing. Twenty percent of all men have almost no interest in sex and half of all men over 40 experience some form of erectile dysfunction.When talking to your doctor indicate whether you still have desire but cannot get an erection of if you do not have any desire. If you are uncomfortable lingering on the issue, mention it casually, possibly as part of a list of ailments. You might say something like, "I haven't been as interested in having sex as I usually am." This may be enough to open the discussion with your doctor.
 There might be a medical problem interfering with your sex drive. Explain your symptoms or lack of interest to your doctor and see if there is a physical explanation.


A variety of physical conditions can reduce sex drive, including obesity, anemia, hyperprolactinemia, diabetes, high cholesterol, head injury, or an underactive thyroid gland., Many drugs will reduce sex drive. Discuss the side effects of your proscriptions with your doctor.


Antidepressants (SSRIs), tranquilizers, and blood pressure medications have all been shown to reduce libido., Erectile dysfunction is not the same thing as low sex drive; some people with ED still have a high sex drive. But if you have trouble getting an erection, it can foster anxieties that will reduce sex drive.Talk to your doctor about ED medication like Viagra, Cialis, or Levitra, which increase blood flow to the penis.Your doctor may need to assess if your heart is healthy enough for sex and if you are on any medication that can interact with the drug.
 Ask your doctor to test your testosterone levels if you believe that you have a physical problem. Your doctor will administer a shot once every two to four weeks until your condition has improved.The long term effect of testosterone treatments are still unclear and many professionals believe the risks are much greater than the benefits. Be leery of testosterone treatments and use it only as a last recourse.Testosterone may also be delivered in the form of a gel, applied once daily to the shoulders, upper arm, or abdomen.