 It is best to avoid taking a photo of the face straight-on. This allows for no shadows, which makes the face look wider and adds the extra “ten pounds” cameras are known for.


Angle your face slightly away from the camera, so that shadows are created along the cheekbones and the nose.
Tilt your chin down. Having a high chin looks unnatural, but also position the camera to look up to your nose. Try extending your chin, too. Or think about bringing your ears forward as you pose. This helps avoid a double chin and creates a line below the jaw.Avoid severe angles. Move you head comfortably, so that your pose does not look forced.;
, The camera should literally be focused on the eyes, but the composition of the portrait should also draw the viewer to your eyes as well.


Keep your eyes wide open, without looking scared. Avoid droopy eyelids which give a sleepy appearance.
If you want to look to the side, avoid looking fully away from the camera. This will close the eyes more and make mostly only the whites visible. Instead, look to the side only slightly off-center. Have the nose follow the eyes.The eyebrows are equally as important as the eyes in conveying emotion, so make sure that both are relaxed and match what they are expressing.
Keep your eyes closed for the few seconds before the photo is taken, to help avoid blinking mid-shot.
 Because the focus of portraits is the face, the camera should be positioned in such a way as to accentuate it. Higher camera positions are most flattering, though eye-level works well for most situations.


For the most natural photo, have the camera shooting at eye-level.
To convey power or dominance, shoot with the camera slightly below eye-level looking up.
Position the camera slightly from above to create a slimming effect and a stronger jaw line., Nothing can ruin a photo faster than a fake smile. Forced emotion will make the photo look just that - forced. Ignore your possible insecurities and smile naturally.


Always smile with your teeth. People with crooked, yellowed, or somehow imperfect teeth can have the tendency to want to try to smile with their mouths closed to cover them up. Don’t do this - natural smiles always show teeth. For your portrait to look real, bare your teeth a bit, even if only through parted lips.
When possible, have someone make you laugh. Real laughter produces some of the most beautiful photos and keeps you from having to think about your smile.
Wet your lips before smiling, either by licking them or applying lip balm. This will prevent any unsightly cracks and will add a little more light to your face.