 Don't speak unless it's really important or you are answering something that is worth your time. Only talk when you know you have all of your facts straight. Only talk when you are pretty much done with your research, your report is on the table, or after you already have all the information you need to get your point across.;
, Associate mostly with people you can benefit from. Small talk is senseless; only talk to people in order to get to your destination. If you are at a bar sitting alone, ignore people who try talking to you. Gain knowledge by using your own sources. Read from books and internet sources to learn.
 Don't give out information about yourself without knowing who you're talking to. Is this person really trustworthy?

, Even though you talk to barely anyone make sure you talk to the right people. Research a bit about the person you want to network with, why they would be useful for you to have in your network, and always have them on the back burner in case you ever need them. You never know when you'll need a famous boxer to help you or your loved ones out of a situation.
 Or "Powerbook." A good quality laptop is essential since much of your knowledge and access to everything revolves around that. Learn how to navigate the Internet and use it to your benefit.
 You want to look competent in what you're doing. If it's a school project, it needs to be perfect. If it's your dissertation, it needs to be flawless with no points missing. Learn how to write in MLA or APA format, whichever your school/class requires, and know how to cite your sources perfectly. Use books and internet to help you do this.
 You never hear of Lisbeth watching tv or going to the movies or doing something that is "wasting time". Instead read to improve your knowledge and to research.
 Find articles and methods that teach you how to improve your memory. Lisbeth had photographic memory. Even if you are nowhere near that, you can practice and try to improve your own memory.
 As soon as the assignment is given, your brain should be already churning. What to do? Where to go? Who to see? Do not procrastinate. Get to work and don't sleep until you're finished.
 Don't let anyone say you're not good enough. Don't take no for an answer. Be persistent. If someone puts you down, stand up for yourself.
 Try to know a little bit about everything. Read the paper/current news. Know a little bit about astronomy, math, chemistry, biology, etc. Take a self-defense class. Learn to box. Do things that would make you not rely on other people for help.

