 Eating fruit as part of your daily diet can help you maintain a healthy weight and reduce the risk of heart disease, strokes and some cancers. Also, fruit contains a great variety of vitamins and minerals, carbohydrates and fiber. So, eating the right combinations of fruit is particularly good for you. For instance, an apple is high in fiber but low in vitamin C, but if you add an orange and some strawberries, then you will get all the vitamin C you need for that day.;
, Many countries have national or regional programs in place to encourage everyone to eat at least 5 portions of fruit and vegetables a day (and often more). See "External Links" for a guide to portion sizes. A glass of fruit juice counts as one portion, but drinking five glasses will still count as just one portion. If you aim for about a third of your diet to be made up of fruit and vegetables, then you're well on your way to a healthy diet.
 Adding sliced banana to your cereal or dried fruit to your porridge (oatmeal), or whipping up a fresh fruit salad are all brilliant ways to brighten up breakfast. Grabbing a handful of blueberries and raspberries can be extremely beneficial, as apart from the usual benefits of fruit, they also contain antioxidants which reduce DNA damage. This includes things such as slowing down the skin's aging process, and helping to prevent skin damage from the sun; a good start to any day.
 Fruit is the perfect food for on-the-go and can easily replace biscuits, cakes and chocolate as your snack of choice. Fatty and high sugar snacks are low on essential vitamins and minerals, as well as fibre and can lead to poor digestive health. So keep some fruit in your car, in your bag or on the desk at work to dip into to beat those mid-morning, or mid-afternoon energy lows.
 Lots of food manufacturers are keen to push the fruit content in their food, so as to make you think that the food is great for you. But be careful; not everything with 'fruit' in the title is as it seems. Remember to check the frozen fruit desserts for their fat and sugar contents. Canned fruit in fruit juice is usually fine, but beware of tinned fruit in syrup, as the syrup can be full of sugar.
 See just how good it makes you feel.
 Your body goes into starvation for almost 8 hours during sleep. Eating fruit within 20 minutes of waking up rehydrates your body and furnishes it with low GI carbohydrates that keep your metabolism fired up throughout the day.

