 Add 1 ⅓ cups (125 g) of all-purpose flour, 2 teaspoons (10 g) of baking powder, and kosher salt to taste to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully mixed.You can substitute any coarse salt for the kosher salt.;
, Add 2 cups (473 ml) of milk, 2 large eggs, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of white wine vinegar, and ¼ teaspoon (1 ml) of hot sauce to a separate large bowl. Whisk the mixture together until it is completely combined.You can substitute ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground cayenne pepper for the hot sauce, but you should add it into the dry ingredients in the first step.
 Once you’ve mixed the wet ingredients together, pour them into the bowl with the dry ingredients. Whisk the mixture until it is just blended.Be careful not to overmix the batter or you may wind up with tough, chewy fritters.
 After you’ve mixed up the batter, add 2 large Vidalia onions that have been sliced lengthwise from top to bottom to the bowl. Mix the onions in well so they’re fully coated.You can substitute any type of onion that you like for the Vidalias, but sweet onions, such as Maui or Bermuda, usually work best.
 Once you’ve mixed the onions into the batter, let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. When you remove it from the fridge, the mixture should be just a bit thicker than heavy cream.Cover the bowl with plastic wrap before putting it in the fridge.
If the mixture isn’t thick enough, stir in a little more flour.
If the mixture is too thick, stir in a little more milk.
 When the batter mixture is nearly done resting, you should preheat the oven to ensure that it is hot enough to keep the fritters warm when you’re frying in batches. Set the temperature to the lowest setting, and allow it to fully preheat., Place a large, heavy-bottomed pan on the stove, and pour in approximately 4-inches (10-cm) of vegetable oil. Set a deep fryer thermometer in the pot, and heat the oil on medium-high heat until it reaches 375°F (190°C).If you don’t have a deep fry thermometer, you can substitute a candy thermometer.
 When the oil is hot enough, begin dropping the batter into the pot by the tablespoonful (18 g). Allow the fritters to cook until they are golden brown on both sides, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.Only add 3 to 4 fritters to the oil at a time .
The fritters will have an irregular, spider-like look when you drop them into the oil. It’s normal for some loose pieces of onion to fall free too.You can tell that a fritter is done by breaking it open and making sure the center is done. If it’s not set, allow it to cook for another minute.
 After the first batch of fritters is finished frying, use a slotted spoon to lift them out of the oil onto a paper towel lined plate to drain for a minute. Next, place them on a cookie sheet in the preheated oven to stay warm.It’s a good idea to sprinkle a little more salt over the fritters after you’ve drained them to ensure that they’re properly seasoned.
 While the first batch stays warm in the oven, add a new batch of fritters to the hot oil. Continue working until you’ve used up all of the batter., Once you’ve made all of the fritters, use tongs to transfer them from the cookie sheet to a platter. Set them out as an appetizer or side dish while they’re still warm.Pair the fritters with your favorite dipping sauce. Ranch dressing, ketchup, barbecue sauce, or garlic aioli are all tasty options.

