 You will need 1½-inch (38-millimeter) ribbon in four different colors. You will also need ⅝-inch (16-millimeter) ribbon in four different colors as well. You can use the same colors for both sets of ribbon.The ribbons can be solid-colored or patterned.
Use matching patterns to prevent clashing.
 This includes the table part and the back of the chair, plus a few inches/centimeters. ⅝-inch (16-millimeter) ribbon would work the best for this. This is your base ribbon.It is always better to cut the ribbon longer than you need to in case it ends up being too short in the end.
 Take the length of your ⅝-inch (16-millimeter) ribbon, and divide it by 1.5. Next, divide the answer by 4. The answer you get are how many ribbons you need to cut of each color. This includes the 1½-inch (38-millimeter) ribbon and the ⅝-inch (16-millimeter) ribbon., Measure down from the high chair's table to where you want the tutu to end. Cut the 1½-inch (38-millimeter) ribbons down to that length. Next, cut the ⅝-inch (16-millimeter) ribbons down 2 inches (5.08-centimeters) shorter than the 1½-inch (38-millimeter) ribbons., If you don't do this, the ribbon may fray. Light a candle, then hold the end of each ribbon close to it for a few seconds. This will melt the end of the ribbon and seal it, preventing it from fraying.
 Place a ⅝-inch (16-millimeter) ribbon on top of a 1½-inch (38-millimeter) ribbon. Make sure that it is centered and that the top edges of both ribbons are aligned. Secure both ribbons along the top edge with hot glue or fabric glue. Repeat this step for all of the ribbons.Make sure that the right side of each ribbon is facing out.
Don't glue down the entire length of the narrower ribbon. You want it to be loose so that it can flap around.
Mix and match different colors and patterns.
 Take the long, ⅝-inch (16-millimeter) base ribbon from before. Flip it over so that the back is facing you. Hot glue the layered ribbons to the base ribbon, right-side-down. Make sure that they are all facing in the same direction and that the top edges are aligned.


You can leave small gaps between the ribbons. ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) would be ideal.You should only be seeing the backs of the ribbons now.
 You should now have the base ribbon on top, and the layered ribbons hanging down from underneath it.
 Place small strips of double-sided tape around the table and back parts of the high chair. Wrap the tutu around the high chair. Press the ribbon into the tape so that it is secure.If the tape is not strong enough, use self-adhesive Velcro. You can remove any residue later using an adhesive remover, such as Goo Gone.
If you have excess base ribbon, overlap the two ends, and secure them with another strip of double-sided tape.

