 If you know what information has been provided during a reference check and you feel this information is negative and inaccurate, it is best to contact that company’s HR department. When you contact HR:


Explain your situation—“I am looking for a job, and they have chosen to contact this company for a reference check.”
Describe what you know was said and by whom it was said—“My previous manager John has said that I was repeatedly late for my shift and sometimes had to leave early.”
Tell your side of the story to prove inaccuracies—“I had to take my mom to physical therapy after she broke her leg. I expressed interest in changing my shift time, which I was told I could not. John then made arrangements with me to work additional hours to make up for work time missed. We had an understanding that this was a temporary situation.”
Express that the false information is having a negative impact on your job search—”In saying that I have been repeatedly late gives the wrong impression and is effecting my job search. John and I had an understanding due to the temporary situation and should not be a factor moving forward.”
At this point, many HR companies will fear a lawsuit and handle this situation in a manner to minimize their risk. Therefore, the bad reference most likely will be asked to modify their response for further reference checks.
 When you have done all you can do to prevent a bad reference from being contacted or given, it is best to speak honestly about the situation to the potential employer. By choosing your words carefully when discussing the reason for a bad reference and telling your side of the story, you can reduce the negative impact it may have.


For instance, instead of saying, “I was fired because my boss hated me,” you can say, “We parted ways because of our differences.” Then explain why this would not be a factor in your next job: “At this point, I am looking to find a company that cares about its employees with managers who help others succeed.”

, If you have received a bad reference, it is important to not let that stick in the potential employer’s mind. You should provide 3–5 good references that will negate or diminish the bad reference.


For example, if you get one bad reference about punctuality but 3 other references explain that you have been punctual in the past, it raises doubt that you have an issue.
 Following the steps above will help you identify and counteract a bad reference. Unfortunately, you may still be stuck with a bad reference because of your work history. At this point, it is not good to dwell on a bad reference.


Also, don’t give up on your job search! Eventually, you will find a company that will hire you regardless of this reference.

