 The government allots grant amounts according to the size and type of organization or business. Grants are given to individuals, nonprofit organizations, education organizations, housing organizations, and Native American organizations. Small business grants are allotted according to the size and standard of the business. Assess the categorization and size of your business and check it against government guidelines found at grants.gov.


For example, many opportunities for grants involve medical research or early childhood education. Choose a grant opportunity that most closely matches your organization's size and expertise. Stay true to your mission and don't try to create a program just for grant funding.;
, At grants.gov you can browse requests for grant proposals by category, by government agency, or by eligibility. Choose "Browse Eligibility," and then click on "Small Businesses." Review all grant opportunities and choose the one that best fits your organization's purpose and capabilities., You must register your organization with the federal government's grant program before you can apply for grants. The application process is done online at grants.gov and can be completed in three days to three weeks. Be sure to complete all steps of the process in full, because incomplete information can make the process take much longer. In order to apply, you must have completed the following:Obtain a DUNS (Dunn & Bradstreet) number by calling 866-705-5711 or access the Dun & Bradstreet website.
Register with the System Award Management (SAM). Go to https://www.sam.gov. You'll need the authorizing official of your organization and an Employer Identification Number (EIN). Obtain the EIN number from your state's Department of Finance.
Complete the Authorized Organization Representative (AOR) profile and create your username and password. You'll need your organization's DUNS Number for this part.
Obtain approval for the Authorized Organization Representative (AOR). Log in to grants.gov to confirm you are the AOR.
Log in to grants.gov and look at the Applicant Center welcome box for your current status in order to track the progress of your registration.
 At grants.gov, click on the "Learn Grants" tab and read all information on eligibility, grant terminology, how to find funding, etc. Knowing this information will greatly improve your chances of obtaining a grant., At grants.gov find the grant for which you're applying, click the "Application Package" tab, then download the application package and instructions. As you are applying as a business, it's important to make sure the grants you apply for are intended for organizations, not individuals, and that you apply as a business entity and not as one person.These types of grants are categorized separately by the government and applying for grants that are intended for sole individuals on behalf of your business will slow down the application process and could cause your grant to be rejected.
 Write your proposal and fill out all the required forms, fields, and certifications. Save frequently, as the website does not automatically save changes. Common questions you will be asked when applying for a government small business grant will include: why you are applying for the grant, how much debt your business has, the nature of your business, how the grant money will be used, which financial managers within your company will be handling the grant money, and how the work done by your company or organization with the grant money will benefit your community., Nothing succeeds like success, as the old saying goes. If you can demonstrate you were successful in performing similar work in the past and can measure the positive results, you will have a better chance of receiving a government small business grant.
 The grant administrators will be looking for financially healthy organizations that can describe in detail how the grant money will be spent. You will also need to be able to demonstrate you have the manpower to follow all the guidelines and reporting requirements to do what you propose in your grant application., Go to grants.gov and use the name, password and identification number given to you upon completion of the registration process. This will allow you to see the status of your grant application and to get information about how to proceed with the process once your grant application has either been denied or approved for funding., If your application is denied, your local Small Business Administration office will have information on how to obtain a low-interest loan or other financial assistance programs. Your state or county may also offer grants for employee training, new construction, or tax abatements, especially if you can show you will be creating new jobs. Contact your state's Department of Finance for more information.
 As one example, the Small Business Innovation Research Program (SBIR) is a grant program that helps qualified small businesses involved in research and development. The program was designed to encourage high tech innovation, and is limited to American-owned and independently operated for-profit businesses that have a principal researcher and less than 500 employees. Currently there are 11 Federal departments and agencies that are required to reserve a portion of their R&D budgets for SBIR grants to small businesses.