 A happy horse’s nostrils will look relaxed. They’ll also appear soft and round. Horses that are unhappy may have tense nostrils that appear thin and rigid., The horse’s lower lip should curl down slightly and appear relaxed. This is an overall indication that the horse is relaxed and in a good mood. If the lip looks tense and tight, the horse may be stressed or unhappy., When your horse is happy, their jaw should be relatively loose and relaxed. This signifies the fact that they are not stressed out. In addition, you may see the horse drooling a little bit., A happy horse should have a relaxed tail that is not tense. Their tail should swing back-and-forth in an even manner. If the tail is not moving or appears tense, the horse may not be happy.If the tail is moving back-and-forth very quickly, it may suggest that your horse is stressed out.
Watch to see if there are a lot of flies or other insects present, if this is the case, your horse’s tail movement may simply be an effort to swat them away.
 Horses are often happy when they graze. If you notice your horse walking around the pasture and slowly grazing, this is a good indication that they are happy. Unhappy horses may stand still or gallop along fence lines., If you see your horse rearing their front legs upward or pawing/scratching at the ground, they may be happy. Ultimately, these are signs that the horse is in a playful mood. Unhappy horses won’t play., Observe how your horses interact together. If two or more horses are engaged in grooming behavior, they’re likely relaxed and happy. Ultimately, grooming is a behavior horses will do when they are at ease and want to bond with others., When a horse breathes out rapidly through its nostrils and makes a light snort sound, they’re likely happy. This is often a sign that a horse is relaxed and satisfied. The horse may make this sound while they’re being ridden or interacting with a person or another horse., If your horse does a light nicker while being alert, having a raised head, and pointing their ears in your direction, they may be happy. Your horse may nicker when you’re bringing food or treats to them. They may also nicker if they’re excited to see you or another horse.

If nickering becomes more intent, high pitch, or seems stressed, it could be a sign your horse is unhappy., Cribbing is when a horse bites something with its teeth, arches its neck, and then makes a sort of grunt. Cribbing is a sign that a horse is stressed out and unhappy. If your horse chews, gnaws, or cribs, it is likely stressed. You should consult a veterinarian if your horse exhibits this behavior often.Horses will usually bite onto stall doors, poles, or other hard objects when cribbing.
 If your horse is walking around the pasture and defecating or urinating, they’re likely relaxed and may be happy. This is important, as stressed horses will often not go to the bathroom., With horses, as with humans, appetite is closely related to happiness and general health. A poor appetite may be a good indication that a horse is sick or unhappy. As a result, monitor your horse’s eating habits. Take note of their feed box, their grazing routine, and any other source of food they consume., Illness is probably the biggest factor that could cause a horse to be unhappy. As a result, be diligent about watching your horse for signs of sickness. Common ailments include:

Skin conditions like ringworm, mud fever (associated with wet and muddy conditions), and cracked heels (similar to mud fever).
Respiratory problems like a cold or a cough. To identify a cold or cough, listen for coughing sounds and watch for nasal discharge.
Colic, which could be a result of many things, but almost always manifests in abdominal pain., If you are concerned about whether your horse is happy, you should talk to your veterinarian. As a professional who deals with a lot of horses, your veterinarian will likely have a good idea as to whether your horse is satisfied or not.

Schedule regular appointments with your veterinarian. Your horse should see a vet at least once a year.
Contact your vet if your horse has any sudden health changes.
Talk to your vet if your horse seems lethargic, depressed, or otherwise unhappy.

