 There is little that fuels anxiety and self-doubt like the unknown. Your boss’s insecurity may be aggravated if they are unclear about who you’re talking with, what steps you’re taking to complete a task, or what your vision is for the future. While it may seem unnecessary and time consuming, get in the habit of letting your boss know what you’re up to by sending emails, showing them records or receipts, and talking with them in meetings.Try not to be too obvious, as that may have the exact opposite effect that you want. Instead, establish a routine between you and your boss, such as checking in every other day via email to let them know your progress and your agenda for the next day.
You can send an email that says, “Dear Ms. Brown, I followed up with the rental vehicle account and they’ve assured me that they’ll have the estimates to you by the close of business today. Also, I spoke with Marge in payables, and she asked if we could call a department-wide meeting.”

, Including your boss in opportunities and initiatives is an all-around great idea. Sharing opportunities lets your boss know that you’re a team player, and that you won’t exclude them. Collaboration and sharing also generates twice the good ideas.Sharing opportunities also gives your boss more reason to trust you and should make you feel like less of a threat.
Let your boss know, “Hey! The CEO sent me a message to follow up on my presentation yesterday and asked that I create a longer presentation for the upcoming regional meeting. I told him that I’d talk with you and that we’d work on it right away.”

, Thriving under an insecure boss can be very tough. You have best chances if you can link your success directly to your boss's. Make them realize that your successes would not be possible without their able guidance and leadership. Also highlight that your career progress will glorify him as a boss.This is different than giving your boss credit for work that you’ve done. Linking your success simply means that you publicly and privately acknowledge that your boss had some part in facilitating your achievements.
“Thank you, Sir. Because you hired me, you gave me an opportunity to establish myself in the field. Now that I’m accepting another opportunity, I want to let you know that my growth wouldn’t have been possible without your guidance, tutelage, and leadership.”

, If your boss is a micromanager, then checking with them before you start on a task may help to prevent your boss from criticizing you later. Seeking guidance from your boss may also fulfill their need to feel noticed and competent.


Try saying something like, “Hey Mrs. Smith, do you have a minute? I want to make sure that I am doing this the right way, so I was hoping you could give me some advice.”

