 Your community likely has elderly individuals who could use things such as a simple conversation, purchasing them groceries, or taking them to doctors’ appointment. Asking local authorities such as community services centers, medical professionals, or departments of aging can point you to volunteering opportunities to help the elderly.Some places you may want to contact include:


Community centersDepartments for the AgingReligious groups;
, In addition to local authorities, there are many private organizations that also provide services to the elderly. These often need volunteers to help with the elderly in your community and beyond. Some of the organization with which you may want to volunteer include:The Red Cross
Salvation ArmyAARP FoundationElder HelpersVolunteers of America, Your local area probably has senior living communities such as assisted living and nursing facilities. These are also great places to volunteer your time to help the elderly. Contact local senior living community staff to ask how you can volunteer to help the elderly in their facility.Recognize the difference between assisted living and nursing communities. Assisted living communities offer help with a limited number of activities of daily living. This may include dressing, bathing, eating or using the restroom. Nursing care facilities provide round-the-clock medical attention.Locate a senior living community in your area at http://www.seniorliving.org/.
 Organizations, government agencies, and private care facilities will generally require that you apply to volunteer in their community. This is to ensure the safety of the elderly from persons who may try to take advantage of them. If you want to volunteer to help the elderly, undergo the application process and get started. Your application and/or hiring process may include:Written or electronic application
Interview
Background check
Fingerprinting

, You may not be able to give much time to volunteering but still want to help the elderly. An excellent way to do this is to donate money to an organization that helps seniors. In some cases, you may be able to specify how you would like your donation spent, such as for games or food.