 The first step in the process of legally recouping a loan is to write to the friend asking for repayment, and giving them a certain amount of time to come up with the money. You should talk to a lawyer prior to sending this letter, and have it notarized. The letter should also be sent by courier or through the mail using a signature tracking system, so you know and can prove your friend received it. Include as many specifics as possible in the letter.The letter should detail the exact amount owed, length of delinquency in repaying the loan, other attempted methods to recoup the loss, and potential court dates if the money is not repaid.
For instance, your letter could say something like, “On December 3, 2015, I loaned Joe Smith $600 for his construction business. I asked for repayment by October 3, 2016. I have asked for repayment in person, in writing, and attempted to make a payment plan. Mr. Smith has been unresponsive. I am seeking legal action to recoup those losses, if I am not repaid by December, 3, 2016. At this time, we will schedule a court date to discuss the matter in the presence of legal counsel.”
If your friend responds to the letter and pays the debt in the aforementioned time frame, there's no need to continue legal action.
 People Claim is one of the most popular tools, but there are a number of similar websites and even apps that make filing a claim to recoup a loan fast and simple.

These online legal resources typically offer free and paid services. In most cases, you’ll be advised to attempt to complete your legal claim without paying for service and add on paid assistance from the legal team, if your initial claim is not effective.Do your research into online or app based claims services. Most are reputable, but others are just out to take even more of your money without helping you recoup losses.
You can read online reviews, check with the Better Business Bureau, or look for information on the site about the lawyers who will be assisting you.
 Before you go to court or even talk to a lawyer, have as much evidence as possible available. Keep receipts, bank transfers, bank statements, any written agreements you had for repayment, and any emails or letters you’ve shared with your friend. All of this information may be important to prove you are truly owed repayment. In legal cases, the burden of proof always lies with the prosecutor not the defendant, so keeping good records will make it easier to prove your legal right to repayment., The amount of time you have to recoup money from personal loans is different in every state. Do your research or ask your lawyer about any possible statutes of limitation before taking legal action., One of the keys to claims ending successfully is proving that the money you lent was earned legally. This may seem silly, but it’s actually one of the most common ways people get out of repaying personal loans. If you wrote a check for the loan, simply offering bank statements from the account is adequate to show where your deposits came from.If you paid the person in cash, you may have more difficulty proving the loan ever happened or that you got the money from reputable sources.
If you can show a bank withdrawal for the amount on the date in question, this may be adequate.
 Even if you win a legal case, it’s often difficult to enforce the agreement. Document every payment or missed payment, and return to court sooner rather than later. Simply avoiding court fines and legal fees may encourage your friend to make the payments they agreed to.