 Remove makeup and do not use makeup on your eyes until the stye goes away. Makeup will clog the gland further and make it harder to treat.


Wet your face before washing and then apply a small amount of soap. Rinse the soap away with water and then gently pat it dry.
Throw away any eye makeup you used recently, as it may be contaminated and trigger a new infection.;
, Consider disposing of your current pair and using a new pair when your stye goes away. Wear glasses in the meantime.If you can’t throw away the pair of contacts you have been using, purchase a contact disinfectant. Standard saline solution will not remove the bacteria that cause eye infections.
 Your hands contain oils and bacteria that can plug up the gland further and make it worse. Always wash your hands before applying a compress or ointment to the stye.
 Eyelid hygiene and warm compresses are the mainstays of stye treatment. Apply gentle baby shampoo to a clean washcloth and let it soak in for a few seconds. Lightly scrub the infected area with the washcloth, then rinse with warm water. Repeat twice per day.


Wash your hands before handling the washcloth to avoid spreading infection.
If baby shampoo irritates your eyes, call a local ophthalmologist’s office to inquire about special eye soap that may be available for purchase.
 Soak a clean washcloth with hot water. Wring out the washcloth, fold it, and press it over the stye.Add more hot water to the cloth if it cools down.


Use the compress for 10 to 15 minutes each time, up to four times a day. Use a clean washcloth each time.
Excessive heat can damage the skin around the eyes. Don't use a washcloth hot enough to cause pain.
 A normal stye will be a small red bump on the eyelid. If it becomes excessively large, if your vision becomes blurry, or if it is accompanied by fever or chills then it has become infected and you’ll need to see a doctor.Many styes are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, which may require topical ointment or drops. If the stye gets worse and involves surrounding tissues, you may need oral antibiotics.
 If the condition does not improve with home treatment, a doctor may need to remove an eyelash or drain the stye.Visit your doctor promptly if you experience any of the following:


Multiple styes
Spreading redness around the stye
Eyelid swelling quickly
Changes to your vision
Photophobia (pain from bright light)
A stye that does not disappear within 10 days.
 Go to the doctor immediately if you have a compromised immune system. People with HIV or those undergoing cancer treatment may have to take antibiotics immediately to reduce the spread of infection., Avoid directly touching your eyes in general. Always wash with anti-bacterial soap.


Wet your hands with lukewarm water before you start washing. Apply hand soap and rub your hands together to lather it. Scrub your hands for at least 20 seconds. Make sure to get the back of your hands and under the fingernails. Then rinse them clean and dry them with a clean towel., Sharing makeup can easily spread infections and cause styes. This mainly applies to mascara because it is applied so close to the eye but sharing blush or concealer can cause infections as well.


Mascara wands can develop bacteria after three months so be sure to replace it regularly.
Replace your old eye mascara after you had a stye. It may be infected with bacteria from the stye.
Don’t wear make-up until the infection clears.
 Use disinfectant on your contact lenses every few days. Throw the contacts away when they are past their suggested expiration.Always wash your hands before putting in contacts.
Do not put your lenses in your mouth to wet them. Saliva is not sterile.
Do not re-use old solution or top off the solution in your lens case. This will cause bacteria growth.
Don’t sleep with your contacts, as overnight wear increases the risk of infection.
 Wash your eyes with baby shampoo if you are prone to styes. You can also contact an ophthalmologist about special eye shampoos that reduce the risk of infection. 