 Surround yourself with passionate fans at a baseball, football, or any other type of sporting event, and get into the spirit of your city by experiencing it the way a tourist does. Try attending a day game in order to save money on tickets., If you live near a lake, get your fishing license and enjoy a day of fishing, canoeing, or out on paddle boats! You may enjoy just finding a stream and dipping your feet in the water.


For safety, make sure that everyone wears a life jacket in the water.
 If you’re near the mountains, no matter the season, there is always something to do, from skiing to hiking. You can even find hot springs to dip into in the middle of winter or a river to dangle your feet in after a thrilling white water rafting trip.
 If you’re near the seashore, you can spend the day sun bathing, playing miniature golf, cooling off at a water park, or riding roller coasters at an amusement park. If you stay the night, you can enjoy the sunset (or sunrise) depending on the coast.
 Depending on whether it is fall or spring, you can go to a local pumpkin patch, apple farm, or even cherry picking! It’s affordable and the fun doesn’t end when you leave the farm--you can go home and cook up lots of tasty treats with the fruits you picked.


Check out free seasonal festivals and celebrations! Do tourists come from near and far to attend a festival in your city? Go see the cherry blossoms or the famous hot air balloon festival you've never gotten around to experiencing.
 Most people never bother to take a tour of their own city because they assume they already know everything, but there is always more to learn! You can see your city through new eyes while learning your city’s history on a walking or bicycle tour.


If you live on the water, you might enjoy a harbor cruise tour, some of which may offer a sunset cruise or dolphin or whale watching experience.
For a totally different point of view, sign up for a helicopter or biplane aerial tour of your city.
 Most large cities offer an all-inclusive city pass that allows entrance into several major attractions such as the aquarium, zoo, amusement parks, and museums at a discounted rate. Check with your local library to see if they offer any free attraction passes, which can be checked out and used for entrance into local parks or attractions.
 If you're a thrill-seeker, why not spend an exciting day screaming down the hills and around the bends of a rollercoaster at your city's amusement park? Try going on a weekday to avoid long lines, and enjoy acting like a kid again!

