 Once your child has come up with a rough idea of where she wants the story to go, she can begin to write the story out.


This can be done by writing each section of the story individually, or by writing the whole thing all at once (it doesn’t have to be that long after all).
 Teach your child that having a strong opening sentence is important to making the reader want to keep reading. Explain that the story can begin with an intriguing statement, or a descriptive passage. She could also begin her story with a section of dialogue.


An example of an intriguing statement could be something like “As Jack looked up in wonder at the big puffy clouds in the sky, he could not have guessed what strange events were going to happen that day”.
 Help your child to come up with a description of the major character, as well as the problem that that character will have to face. If she gets stuck while writing, begin to ask questions again.These questions could include:


How does the character find out about the problem? What is his or her reaction to the problem? What his or her first idea of how to solve the problem?
Who does the problem affect? Is someone in danger? Does the character find out he or she has to travel a far distance to solve the problem?

, Remind your child that she came up with other characters to put into her story. If she gets stuck figuring out how to work those characters into the story, consider talking to your child about the main ways that secondary characters relate to the main character:


Helpers or mentors: These are characters who help the hero to solve the problem. They may be smart, good-natured and friendly.
Opponents: These characters may want to prevent the hero from solving the problem, and can serve to complicate the tale. These are generally not friendly characters.
Jokers: These are characters that appear in the story simply to make the story more interesting; these generally joke around with the hero.
 Once you have helped your child to get on the path to writing the story, sit back and let your child take the plot wherever she wants. If she gets stuck, be there to help her run through ideas, or ask her questions that could help her to generate new ideas.
 Conflicts are often a part of different plots, and serve to make the story more challenging and interesting. This conflict generally causes the hero to have a harder time resolving the problem he or she is facing.


Conflicts often happen between character and character (such as the hero getting into a fight with the villain), between character and nature (maybe the hero has to climb a very tall mountain to find the item she is looking for), and between the character and his or herself (maybe the character wants to overcome a flaw that he or she is aware of within his/her own nature).
 Help your child to come up with dialogue by role playing the scene out loud. Have your child cast themselves as the hero, and you are the character they are talking to.


For emotions, ask your child what she thinks the character feels during different situations throughout the story.
 Teach your child to use “the cliffhanger” to keep the reader's attention. Let each chapter end with the action that reaches a peak and remains incomplete. In this way, the reader is compelled to start the next section of the story right away.


For example, perhaps the hero found a solution, only to realize that an unexpected conflict stands in the way, such as a dragon guarding the sword the hero needs.
 Once your child feels like the story is winding down, help her to resolve the story. If she is having trouble figuring out how the story should end, suggest different ways that the hero could resolve the problem.


You could also suggest that she write in what happens to all the other characters in the story.

