 You will bake your chocolate chip peppermint meringue cookies in a standard oven. Before making the cookies, preheat the oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit or 150 degrees Celsius. Preheating the oven will prevent the cookies from collapsing., Place the egg whites in the bowl of a standup mixer, with a whisk attachment in place. If you are using a hand mixer, place the egg whites in a large metal, or glass, mixing bowl. Turn your hand or stand mixer to low and begin whipping the egg whites. Gradually increase the speed to medium until soft peaks begin forming. This process will take about 2-3 minutes., Increase the speed of your hand or stand mixer to medium high. Gradually add the sugar to the mixture, 1-2 teaspoons at a time. Whip the egg whites and sugar together for about 2 minutes., After you’ve mixed the sugar and eggs together for about 2 minutes, add the vinegar to the mixture. Turn the speed of your hand or stand mixer up to the highest setting. Whip the ingredients together on high until the mixture appears glossy. Stiff peaks should form when you lift the whisk attachment from the bowl. This process should take a total of 4-5 minutes., Place the crushed candy canes and chocolate chips in the bowl. Run a rubber spatula around the sides and then along the base of the bowl. Fold the mixture onto itself. Repeat these motions until the candy canes are combined with the egg mixture., Scoop the mixture up in a heaping teaspoon. Drop the cookies on to parchment paper lined baking sheets. Repeat until the baking sheets are filled. The cookies should be one inch apart., Put the baking sheets in the oven. It should be at a temperature of 300 degrees Fahrenheit or 150 degrees Celsius. Close the oven door. Bake the cookies for 1 minute.
 Do not remove the cookies from the oven. Instead, turn the oven off and leave the baking sheets inside the oven for at least 3 hours. The cookies will bake from the residual heat of the oven. Do not open the oven door during these 3 hours., After the chocolate chip peppermint meringue cookies have baked in the turned off oven for 3 hours, remove the baking sheets. The cookies should be slightly crisp on the outside, with a light and airy middle. Use a spatula to remove the cookies from the baking sheets. Serve and enjoy!

