 By adding moisture to the sod, you'll make it clumpier and easier to work with your shovel or spade. Do this by watering your unwanted sod a few days before you start removal.


If you over water, the soil may become muddy. Muddy soil is very difficult to work with a shovel. Only water your sod until the soil is moist.
Test your soil so see how much moisture is in it by sticking your shovel into the sod you wish to remove and wiggling it back and forth to make a small, narrow hole. Then gauge soil dryness with a touch test.;
, If you plan on reusing your sod somewhere else around your home or garden, prioritize using an edger. These kinds of machines will give you straight, clean cuts. Your strips of sod should be roughly 1-foot-wide (30 cm) apiece.


Sod is almost like carpet. The roots of the grass weave together to form a thin layer of greenery on the top of the soil. When cut into strips, you can roll up sod for easier handling.
Strips that are larger than one foot wide may be too cumbersome for you to handle without help, even if rolled up carpet style.
Sod is very heavy. Even if you've cut your sod into manageable segments, you may need someone's help to move it.
You only need to break through the top layer of sod with a shovel, spade, or edger to prepare your sod for removal. You don't need to dig especially deep., You can use your shovel, spade, or edger to cut additional 1-foot-wide (30 cm) parallel strips that run perpendicular to your previous cuts. After this sod is cut, it can be pulled free of the ground and disposed of.


The smaller squares of sod will be easier to handle and can be stacked in a truck, trailer, or wheelbarrow, one on top of another., The roots of the sod will still be gripping the soil beneath it. This will offer slight resistance, but you should be able to pull the sod free by pulling on it with your hand or prying it up with your shovel, spade, or pitchfork.


If you want to keep your sod in one continuous piece, use a spade or pitchfork to cut through the taproots so there is minimal resistance to your removal., In some cases, soil will cling to the roots of your sod in clumps. You can usually knock these free easily with your hand, but more stubborn soil might be removed more efficiently with a shovel or other suitable tool.


Clumps of soil might not seem like a big deal at first, but if you plan on rolling or stacking your sod, soil clumps could make your sod uneven and more difficult to transport.