 This classic recipe is for a hearty version of minestrone soup. It will take you a total of 1 hour and 15 minutes to make. The prep time is 45 minutes and the cook time is 30 minutes. This recipe will make 4-6 servings.;
, Brown two strips of bacon in a 6-quart saucepan over medium heat. Once they’re browned, remove the bacon strips from the saucepot using a slotted spoon. Place them on paper towels so the grease can drain.


Set the bacon strips aside to drain for now.
Feel free to substitute with turkey bacon if you prefer.
 Leave the bacon drippings in the saucepot. Dice the carrots, onion and celery and put them into the saucepot. Cook them with the bacon drippings over medium heat until they are browned. It will take approximately 15 minutes.


Be sure to stir the vegetables around occasionally.
After 15 minutes, add the chopped garlic to the saucepot.
Continue cooking with the garlic added for an additional 30 seconds.
 Pour the chicken broth and water into the saucepot. Add the diced potatoes. Measure out the pepper, thyme and salt and add them to the soup. Turn the heat up to high and bring the soup to a boil.


When it starts boiling, reduce the heat to low so that it can simmer.
Cover the soup and allow it to simmer for 10 minutes.
 Remove the cover from the saucepot and add both kinds of beans and the dry pasta to the soup. Allow the soup to continue simmering for another 7 minutes.


You do not need to replace the cover for this part.
 Slice the spinach and Swiss chard into thin strips and grate the lemon peel. Add all three to the pot and cook for 5 more minutes. You’ll know it’s ready when the spinach and Swiss chard have wilted and become tender. Tear the bacon strips into 1 inch (2.5 cm) pieces and stir those in.


Remove the soup from heat and allow it to cool slightly before serving it.
Serve the minestrone with grated Parmesan cheese and pieces of crusty bread (optional).
 Since there is no standard recipe for minestrone, feel free to change it up to include your preferred vegetables, seasonal vegetables, and fresh herbs. For example, a summer minestrone could include fresh basil, tomatoes, summer squash, zucchini and eggplant. An autumn version could include butternut squash, sweet potatoes, Brussels sprouts and cabbage.


When altering the recipe with different vegetables, the approach is essentially the same. Sauté the vegetables in olive oil or bacon drippings at the very beginning, along with the onions.
Brussels sprouts, cabbage and sweet potatoes are usually added when the broth is poured in.
Season with fresh herbs while you're creating the soup and use them as garnish before serving.

