 Right click on Task Bar and select Start Task Manager to open Task Manager. After that, click Processes tab, click on the process and click End Process button.


In Windows 8, right click on Task Bar and select Task Manager to open Task Manager. After that, click Processes tab, click on the process and click End Task button.;
, Click Start button and click Control Panel. After that, click Programs and Features.


In Windows 8, press the Windows key and X and select Control Panel. After that, click Programs and Features.
 Uninstall Vosteran Search and other associated programs from the program list.
 Open Internet Explorer, click the Gear icon and click Internet Options. Under General tab, remove Vosteran.com from Home Page section and type in your favorite website URL. Click OK to save the change.
 Open Internet Explorer, click Gear icon and click Manage add-ons. After that, click Search Providers on the left side, click on your favorite search engine and click Set as default. Then, click on Vosteran Search and click Remove.
 Open Internet Explorer, click Gear icon and click Internet Options. Under General tab, click Delete... button under Browsing History to delete browser cache. Click OK to save the change.
 Open Google Chrome, type in chrome://settings/ and hit Enter key. Under On startup section, click Set pages link, click X to delete Vosteran.com and then click OK.
 Open Settings again, under Appearance section, tick Show Home button and then click Change link. Remove Vosteran.com, select Use the Net Tab page option and click OK.
 Open Settings, under Search section, click Manage search engines... and then click Change link. click on your favorite search engine and click Make default. Then, click on Vosteran Search and click Remove.
 Open Mozilla Firefox, click the menu button and click Options. Under General tab, remove Vosteran.com from Home Page section and type in your favorite website URL. Click OK to save the change.
 Open Firefox, click the triangle button near the Search box on the browser. Click Manage search engines.... Click on Vosteran Search and click Remove button.
 Open Firefox, click the menu button, click History and then click Clear Recent History. Check all options and click Clear Now button to clean up your browser cache.
 Search for all folders and files with the names Vosteran or Vosteran.com in the following file paths:


C:\ProgramData
C:\Program Files (x86)
C:\Users\Default\AppData\Roaming
C:\Users\Admin user\AppData\Roaming

,