 Take the tofu out of the package and place it on a flat strainer. Put a heavy pot on top of the tofu. The heavy pot will help the moisture drain from the tofu. Then, put a plate on top of the pot., The tofu should be properly drained after 30 minutes. If not, you can gently squeeze the excess moisture out of the tofu with your hand. You can also blot the tofu with a paper towel.Ideally, all of the water should be drained out of the tofu, giving it a firm, meaty texture.
 You can cut the tofu into 1-inch (2.5 cm) cubes. It is also an option to cut the tofu into slices or triangles. Cut the tofu into whatever shape you would prefer the nuggets to be., Pour the flour, yeast, garlic powder, salt, paprika, black pepper, and water into a medium-sized bowl. Use the stirring utensil of your choice to stir the ingredients together until the batter becomes smooth., Turn the stove to medium heat. Pour 1/3-inch (0.8 cm) of oil into the pan. You can use vegetable or coconut oil., Coat the tofu completely in the batter you’ve made out of flour, yeast, and seasoning. Make sure each piece of tofu is generously coated. You can coat each piece of tofu individually or work in small batches., Put the tofu into the pan with the heated oil inside of it. Do not overcrowd the pan. Work in batches if you have to. Fry the bottom of the tofu. Fry it until the bottom turns a crispy golden brown., Once the bottom of the tofu has turned golden brown, flip the tofu to fry the rest of the cube. Continue to flip until all of the tofu has turned a crispy golden brown. Work through all of the tofu if you have multiple batches to fry., Line a plate with a paper towel. Place the finished tofu on the lined plate. Allow the tofu to cool for five minutes and then serve warm.You can store the leftover tofu in the refrigerator for no more than a few days in a covered container.
 Serve the fried tofu nuggets with the dipping sauce of your choice. Ketchup and honey mustard are a couple of common choices. You can also make your own vegan sauce.