 Spinach adds several healthy benefits to your omelet. In particular, it’s got a ton of iron, which will help you stay healthy and gain strength. It’s also got a good amount of filling fiber and a bunch of magnesium, which is vital to both neurological and metabolic health. Perhaps best of all, there is no need to worry about how much you add - throw in as much as you’d like.For example, make a spinach and low-fat cottage cheese omelet. Add tomatoes, and season with salt and pepper., Another great vegetable to add to your omelet is bell pepper. Just ¼ cup of chopped peppers will provide more than enough vitamin C. Add whichever color bell pepper you prefer. Aside from supporting your immune system, vitamin C can help your body burn fat and convert carbs into usable fuel. Further, it can even help your muscles grow and recover after a workout.
 There a plenty of veggies you can add to your omelet. In fact, creatively changing up your omelets can help make a staple meal into an ongoing (and delicious) experiment of new dishes. For instance, adding two or three ounces of a cooked vegetable can make an omelet both healthier and more filling.Especially enjoyable additions include asparagus, zucchini, mushrooms, eggplant, tomato, and avocado.
 Another way to add fiber - and good fiber at that - is by adding beans to your omelet. The benefit of doing so is two fold: you’ll stay full for longer, and your body will lose body fat more easily. Soluble fiber also helps reduce some of your cholesterol levels, counteracting some of the cholesterol found in eggs.


Add diced tomatoes, garlic powder, and cayenne for a southwest-inspired flavor profile.
 Cheese is one of the main sources of saturated fat and cholesterol in many people’s diets. Meat is another. The healthiest route is foregoing meat and cheese in your omelet altogether, but you can get away with using a bit of reduced fat cheese and lean meat options.For instance, make a ham and cheese omelet with two egg whites, ¾ ounce of reduced fat Swiss cheese, an ounce of extra-lean ham (about ¼ cup, cubed), and scallions to bring out the omelet’s flavor.
 Omelets aren’t just for breakfast anymore. You can make an especially savory omelet by adding quinoa, which will add both flavor and texture normally foreign to egg-based dishes. Plus, quinoa is the grain with the most protein, and contains especially healthy unsaturated fats as well as filling fiber.Try adding a ¼ cup of cooked quinoa with spinach, tomatoes, and kalamata olives. Season this one with cumin.

