 Domestic violence isn’t limited to physical abuse. Emotional and psychological abuse doesn’t usually leave outward signs, but it is just as damaging. The following are some examples of emotional abuse to look for:Humiliation or intentional embarrassment. This may occur in public, as the abuser usually doesn’t believe s/he is doing anything wrong. Calling someone “stupid,” “crazy,” or “ugly” are common types of verbal humiliation. Abusers may constantly put their partners down or discuss private or embarrassing things in public to upset their partners.
Shouting or screaming. This is a warning sign, especially when it seems uncontrolled or violent.
Constant criticism. An abusive person will “nitpick” even the smallest things. S/he may criticize your loved one’s appearance, weight, clothing, spending habits, hobbies, etc.Extreme possessiveness. Abusers are extremely jealous and controlling. Their statements may sound “romantic” at first, such as “I can’t live without ______” or “_______ is everything to me.” They don’t have any sense of boundaries and appear to believe that they should be the only people in their loved one’s lives.Ignoring or dismissing the other person. Abusers dominate all areas of the relationship. They don’t listen to their partner’s suggestions, ideas, or needs. They are often very dismissive of these, or may become angry if the other person tries to share something., Abusers will commonly threaten their victims to keep them under their control. These threats are designed to keep the victim from leaving because s/he feels responsible for the abuser’s actions.Abusers may:


Confiscate, destroy or threaten to destroy the victim’s property
Threaten to harm pets
Threaten to harm or kill themselves
Threaten to harm or kill their partner
Threaten to harm or kill their children

, Abused people often are not allowed to have friends or socialize with coworkers.If they do go out with other people, their abusers will usually demand frequent "check-ins" or place restrictions on who they can associate with.


Abusers often keep their partners from attending school or going to work. Lots of unexcused or unusual absences could be a sign of domestic violence.
Victims of abuse may have a hard time getting out of the house. They may not be able or allowed to use a car.
Victims may seem paranoid, worried that they will "offend" or anger their partner by doing something. They may also seem overly friendly or even to "suck up" to others, especially those in a position of power.
 Victims of domestic violence may not have free or easy access to money or technology. The following may be warning signs of abuse:Your loved one has to “check in” with his/her partner about spending, even minor amounts.
Your loved one seems excessively worried about money, particularly what his/her partner will say about it.
Your loved one does not have access to a debit or credit card.
Your loved one does not have a cell phone. Or, s/he may be required to have a cellphone and answer texts or calls from the abusive partner at any time.
Your loved one is very cautious with emails and social media accounts. The abuser may monitor them. The victim may have only “joint” accounts with the abuser.
 A victim of domestic violence may feel responsible for the abuser's behavior. S/he may make excuses for the abuser. S/he may claim to be the only person who "understands" or can "fix" the abuser.


If confronted, s/he may say things such as "But my partner doesn't hit me" or "I deserved what I got."S/he may seem depressed or anxious. S/he may also behave in ways that seem unusual, such as being very reserve when s/he is usually outgoingS/he may self-blame for things that go wrong at work or school. Abusers constantly tell their victims that abuse is their fault.

