 Anxiety, like most mental illnesses, is not the cause of "weak character" or personal flaws. While its exact causes are not completely known, doctors agree that a variety of influences, from brain chemistry to environmental influences, affect anxiety. Blaming yourself for your anxiety is only a sure-fire way to make things worse., Both of these chemicals are addictive, which can cause anxiety when you can't get them and make your brain speed up. This nervous energy is often a breeding ground for anxiety and feelings of fear. Quitting smoking and cutting back on coffee can help curb your anxiety.Refined carbs and sugars, like candy, white bread, and sugary cereals, from your diet. Like caffeine and nicotine, refined carbs are stimulants and will worsen your anxiety.
Avoid alcohol, as it is a depressant that can promote anxious thoughts., This simple step may be the best thing you can do for your physical and mental health. Your mind and body are linked, and neglecting one will lead to problems with the other. Skipping meals, dehydration, and not getting enough sleep have all been linked to anxiety.Look at your daily life and note if you are skipping out on any of the following:


Get 7-9 hours of sleep each night (8-10 hours for teenagers, 9-11 hours for children).Drink plenty of water, 5-8 glasses a day.Exercise 3-5 days a week.
Eat a balanced, healthy diet.
 Do you have an anxiety attack after every phone call with your mom? When you come home from work? When you're studying for exams? If you notice a pattern in anxiety attacks or anxious periods in your life, it's time to make some adjustments specific to your triggers.


Call your mom instead of waiting for her to call you. This puts you in control of the time and setting of the conversation so you can choose something comfortable.
Take 10-15 minutes after you come home from work for "me time," where you listen to music, read a book, or watch TV by yourself to calm down.
Break studying up into chunks-- 1 hour studying, 15 minutes relaxing. This is not only more relaxing, it may help you learn better as well.
 Your calendar is your friend. If you feel overwhelmed or unable to cope with stress and anxiety, take an afternoon to schedule out your life in more manageable chunks. Keep track of everything that needs to get done, and map out how you'll do it in a timely fashion so that you don't end up with one night to do lots of work.What can you eliminate from your schedule? Giving yourself more time to relax is a great way to lower stress and anxiety levels.
What are the days in your life you know will be stressful? What can you do to prepare in advance?

, Don't try and conquer anxiety all in one day. Think of things that you can accomplish within a week or month and set yourself to those tasks first. For example, if you want to begin meditating daily, start by setting aside just 5 minutes every day. This will not only relax you, but help you build up to 10, 15, or 20 minutes daily down the line.


Make a list of your "major goals," and then, in a separate list, write down smaller goals that you need to reach to make your major goals possible., Anxiety and worry are natural. And they can be good emotions when used productively that help us examine life, dodge problems, and prepare for the future. The problem arises when you let anxiety take over your life, so instead of letting it creep into everything, make time to address your worries. This paradoxical approach of accepting anxiety often helps you deal with it. Put aside 20 minutes of "worry time," where you think of all possible scenarios and ways to deal with them. When that 20 minutes is up, stop and go play or talk to friends.Stick to your timeframe -- give yourself time to worry, but move on when you are done.
Scheduling time to worry allows you to acknowledge your fears while taking control of them at the same time.

