 Little Fredbears will constantly be spawning on the bed at this point, so it should almost always be a priority when stopped back in the center of the room to turn around and clear at least one bear off of the bed. Keeping Foxy running around the halls is better than creeping in the closet. Bonnie will usually be the main concern on the doors as Chica tends to attack less frequently due to his constant need to rummage around in the kitchen.;
, More likely than not, Foxy will be slipping into the closet at some point during the night tonight, so it is always good to understand exactly how he works should this Nightmare decide to pay you a visit.


The single visual clue you receive that Foxy is now in the room is the closet door opening slightly and then returning back to its original position. You will also hear Foxy run into the room, and the closet will make a squeaking noise as he slips in. Foxy will give you a non-life threatening jumpscare when you first check on him.
Each of Foxy's stages reduces the amount of time needed to spend with the door closed. The first stage where Foxy’s head is sticking out with jaw open will require you to shut the closet for the longest amount of time to downgrade Foxy to a less threatening phase.
 As the animatronics are at their most active during this night, it is important to be as efficient as possible. A single second slip-up could cost you your life. Preloading commands while traveling to locations will shave seconds off the time it takes to do things.


Never run to the left or right door with the flashlight preloaded and ready to shine, as the only way to tell if Bonnie and Chica are at the doorway is to stop and listen for breathing for a few seconds. Preloading the flashlight at this point will likely result in a jumpscare.
Be prepared to run back to the center of the room as soon as you hear Bonnie and Chica walk away from the doorway and back down the hall. There is no need to further investigate the hallway with the flashlight until you hear them walking back again.
Always preload the flashlight to shine into the closet and quickly close the door for a few seconds if Foxy is seen. Keep the flashlight toggled on. Open the door, keeping the flashlight on the entire time, and close it again—repeat this until Foxy is in a safe state or another pressing matter becomes more relevant.

