 It is very difficult to get a proper topspin on very high or low backhanded shots so it is useful to learn the backhand slice for these occasions., Start from the ready position with your feet pointing towards the net and your knees bent. You should be holding the racket with both hands while facing the net.
 This is the first step of the one-handed backhand and is essential for perfecting your shot. Start from the ready position and take one step forward with your right foot, pivoting on your left foot. As you step forward turn your body and shoulders sideways so that they are now perpendicular to the net.


All your weight should now be on your back foot. This will help generate power and pace when you take the shot.
By turning your body sideways you can move in a sideways and upward direction with your legs while taking your shot.
 The one-handed backhand will usually use a Continental backhand grip to slice the ball. Relax your dominant hand and use your non-hitting hand to rotate the racket to the appropriate grip. Grip the racket with your dominant hand once more. Ideally this should happen at the same time as you pivot and turn your shoulders.


To achieve the Continental grip use your left hand to hold your racket in front of you. Point the grip to the right and orient the string area perpendicular to the ground, facing you. Hold your right hand out as if you are shaking hands with the racket. Place the base knuckle of your index finger on the small, sloped side of the grip to the right of the flat side top, and close your hand around it squarely. The sloped side should go diagonally across your palm to point toward the heel of your palm below your pinkie.
 The pivot and shoulder turn begins to take the racket back but you must continue to rotate your shoulders and move your arms until the tennis racket is all the way back behind your head and your shoulders are all the way sideways. This back-swing is different from other backhands because you bring the racket over your back shoulder behind your head and you want the racket and your forearm to for an L shape.


This 90 degree angle or L shape between your arm and racket is very important for hitting the ball at the correct angle for the slice.
 This step is the transition from the preparation to the swing. You want to step with your front foot and transfer your weight from your back foot to your front foot. Keep your non-hitting hand on the racket and your arm in the same position in an L behind your head as you complete this step.


Make sure your eyes stay on the ball so that you can anticipate the ball’s location and height.
 Swing your arm and the racket to the contact point with the tennis ball. Your arm will straighten as you swing the racket down on the tennis ball. You need to swing down on the ball to create backspin. You should make contact at waist-height slightly in front of your body.


In your back-swing your arm and racket formed an L shape. As you swing forward your elbow will straighten completely until your arm forms a V with the racket.
 Your eyes should be totally focused on the ball as you make contact. As you swing towards contact your elbow will straighten out from the L shape of your arm and racket into a V shape between your arm and racket. As you make contact your strings should either be facing the net or at a slightly open angle.


Make sure contact is made at waist height slightly in front of your body to enable you to maximize power and backspin.
The combination of the downward swing and slightly open angle of the racket will create backspin on the ball.
 Allow your arm and racket to extend in the direction you are hitting after the point of contact. After extending forward allow your arm to come up, allowing it to slow down and stop. Your arm and racket should stay in the same position as you follow through.


This may feel strange because you had been bringing the racket down to meet the ball for the shot before bringing it up after the point of contact but it will actually occur naturally to slow down the racket.
The strings of your racket should end up facing the sky when you finish your follow through.
Look at your contact point during contact and as you complete your follow through your eyes should stay at that same point.
 Your non-hitting arm should extend all the way back and behind you. This arm controls how much your shoulders and upper body rotate as you follow through. You want your body to stay sideways during the follow through.


Letting your non-hitting arm extend behind you limits the rotation of your upper body, helping you recover faster and stay balanced during your shot.

