 Sometimes, it can difficult to feel happy go lucky when you are experiencing negative feelings due to a specific issue or problem. One way to feel better is to address this issue and try to resolve it so you can move forward. You may want to sit down and consider what might be bringing you down or bothering you. Once you address the issue, you can then brainstorm ways to resolve it.For example, you may feel depressed due to losing your job. Once you acknowledge that this is the issue that is making you unhappy, you may be motivated to apply for other positions. You may also take some time to consider if you would be happier in a different career or in a different position. The lay off may be blessing in disguise and allow you to pursue a career you have always wanted.
 If you struggle with negative thoughts on a daily basis, you may want to try writing them down rather than keeping them inside. Try to make journaling a daily practice, done at night before bed or in the morning before you get ready for the day. Writing your thoughts down can be cathartic and allow you to release emotions you may be struggling with., You may also want to reach out to your support network and share your thoughts with friends or family. Sharing your feelings and emotions can be a healthy way to process them and address them.Avoid complaining or whining about your issues on a constant basis, as this will just place your negativity on those around you. Instead, try to talk one on one to friends or family and ask for advice about an issue you may be having. Practice active listening and show the person you are paying attention to what they are saying. Make the discussion feel more like a conversation, rather than a rant session.
 If your issues or problems are really getting in the way of your happiness, you may want to talk to a therapist or a counselor. Talking to a professional can help you work through your issues and feel supported as you try to maintain a more positive outlook on life. Getting help from a therapist or counselor will often open the door to healing and happiness.You can talk to your primary care doctor and get a referral for a therapist or seek out a therapist through a friend or relative who goes to good therapist.
You can also speak to a counselor at your school or in your workplace to help you work through your issues and get one step closer to a happy go lucky attitude.

