 Make multiplication cards for each number set. Although this may seem tedious, the process of making the cards will actually help you to learn them. Once you’ve made them, spend some time each day studying until you know them all.Focus on one number set at a time.
When you go through the cards, put the ones you get wrong back into the pile so you see them multiple times.
 Once you have mastered the flash cards, try your hand at some worksheets. Start by practicing with one number set at a time. When you have mastered all of them, try worksheets that mix up all of the number sets and see how you do.If you know your tests will be timed in school, try practicing with a timer.
 There are multiplication albums that sing the times tables. You can listen along and learn the times tables through music instead of rote memorization.Listen to a few different versions and find one that works best for you.


Add in hand motions or dance moves that illustrate the different number pairs to make the process more interactive.
 A mnemonic is a special technique or learning device that helps you remember something. Stories like Times Tales can help you memorize your multiplication facts by associating the numbers with silly characters and stories.Phrases like 5 6 7 8, 56 equals 7 times 8 are also useful.There are many ways to memorize things, you just need to find the way that works best for you.
 After mastering all of the fact families, play math games to build up speed. There are many games available online to help you master your fact families and go through them quickly.Math games are a more exciting and interactive way for children to learn the multiplication tables.
Some math games include visual aids and other graphics to help you relate the numbers together.
Drawing pictures to represent multiplication is another fun way to learn the tables. For 2 x 3, draw three dogs, each with two eyes and count the number of eyes (6 total).
 Try to find ways to incorporate the math tables into daily life. This will help you truly understand the numbers instead of simply memorizing the material.


If you know that a special holiday is only 8 weeks away, you can use your multiplication facts to figure out how many days away it is. There are 7 days in a week, so 7 times 8 is 56. Your holiday is only 56 days away!

