 Although rubber cement, cement and even flour can be used to make a fossil mould, plaster of Paris is the recommended choice of material, as it's cheap and designed to be easy to use. If you're planning on presenting your fossil outdoors however, cement will increase the durability.


A 4.5lb box is approximately $5, and will offer you more plaster than you'll ever need for your fossilizing needs.Harder materials like cement aren't recommended for proper mixing bowls. Use a bowl you think is completely expendable.
A combination of flour with other materials like salt and coffee grounds can be used as well to a similar effect.;
, Get a mixing bowl and pour them in together. Although exact measurements are not necessary, you can use measuring cups from your kitchen for this step.









For most fossils, two cups of plaster and one cup water should give you all the mould you need. Double this recipe if your fossil objects are bigger and need more space.
If the plaster you purchased indicates it needs a different proportion of water, you should go with its recommendation. Certain brands and types of plaster may have individual preferences.
 By the end, the mixture should be thick and goopy without having excess plaster powder visible in the mix.









This is your chance to troubleshoot your mixture if there are any problems. If the mixture doesn't seem semi-solid and thick, add more plaster. If some of the plaster isn't joining the mixture, add water.
 Shells and animal bones are best for their distinctive shapes. Plants and leaves can be scooped up from the backyard or nearby park and fossilized as well. For the sake of demonstrating the fossilization process, you should choose something organic.


Plastic toys of bugs and animals should be used in lieu of the real thing.
 This will make it easier to dig out once you've let the mould settle. Wipe away any excess jelly. Having too much on the object will negatively affect the mixture's hardening process and muddle the imprint.
 Take a paper cup and pour in your mixture until it's 3/4 full. Don't fill it up all the way, as you'll soon be placing the object in and shouldn't risk the cup overflowing.









If your fossil is bigger, a foam bowl or paper bag may be used as well.
 At this point, you have the option whether to imprint your specimen part way, or bury it completely. Imprinting it will create a mould to put on display, while a full bury will offer a chance to play archaeologist and dig it out.









If you're making fossils in a group, you should start with imprinting. Imprint fossils are more cost-effective and can be enjoyed as a group., Wait until the mould has solidified before you go any further. Using plaster of Paris, the mixture should dry completely within a couple of hours.









Heating the mould at 250 degrees Fahrenheit for an hour will speed up the process of solidification.
 once it's hardened, you'll want to dispose of the cup entirely. Using scissors or a knife, cut the cup from top to bottom and tear it away from your mould. This should leave you with a plaster block.









It is recommended you tear open the cup over a trash bin in order to trap excess sediment and limit the mess.Don't forget to put the paper cups in the compost when you're done using them.
 Be gentle and slowly pull it out with your fingers. If you're rough and fast with it, you may risk hurting the imprint or the object itself.
 If you've left an imprint for decoration's sake, chiselling at the mould itself will make it look like you recently dug it up. Take a hammer and chip away at the sides and corners of your block. Add small dents and imperfections. Although you shouldn't go overboard with your chiselling, the weather-worn look will add to the effect of your fossil display.
 If you decided to bury the object completely in the mixture, you'll be able to play archaeologist. Take a chiselling hammer and tap away at the mould. Work your way around it and try to chisel out your fossil. Be careful not to accidentally chisel at the object itself. This experience reflects what it's like to dig up a real fossil.

