 Wash your skin in the morning and before you go to bed with a mild cleanser. Also wash your face after you exercise or sweat heavily. Wash from right under your jawline to your hairline and be sure to rinse all of the cleanser off your face.You can ask your doctor for advice on the best cleanser to use, but a gentle, oil-free cleanser is usually a good choice.


If you have oily skin that is not sensitive, consider trying an acne cleanser such as those by Neutrogena, Clearasil, or Oxy. These usually contain salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide as active ingredients.
Use your fingertips to apply the cleanser to your face. Washcloths and sponges can irritate your skin.Use alcohol free products as well. You do not want to dry out your skin.Using harsh cleansers or scrubbing pads can irritate your skin and will not make your skin cleaner.Only use an astringent if your skin is very oily. If using an astringent, only apply it to the oily parts of your skin.;
, Use cosmetics or products marked "non-comedogenic," which means they won't clog your pores. Avoid skin care products that contain oils as well.Remove your makeup before you go to bed and wash your makeup brushes regularly.Never share makeup or makeup brushes with someone else. You do not want to get someone else's germs and oil on your skin.
Wipe your brushes with a towel after each use and use a spray cleanser once or twice a week. Also, wash your brushes with water and a makeup brush cleanser once a month. If your skin is prone to breakouts, you may need to wash your brushes more often., Protect your skin from sunlight using a daily, oil-free, non-comedogenic moisturizer that includes sunscreen. Sun exposure can worsen acne for some people and some acne medications make you more susceptible to sunburn.Sun exposure and tanning beds can also damage your skin and increase your risk of developing skin cancer.Sunscreen should have an SPF of at least 30 and should block both UVA and UVB rays., Soften your facial hair with soap and water before you apply shaving cream. Try out both safety and electric razors to determine which one is more comfortable for you. Try to shave when only when necessary so you do not irritate your skin. Be as gentle as possible when you shave as well.If you use a safety razor, use a sharp, clean blade.Always shave in the direction that your hair grows.If you do have acne, do not try to shave it off. This will only make your acne worse., Many people touch their face throughout the day. Each time you touch your face, you are introducing germs and bacteria to your face. Avoid resting objects such as your telephone on your face.It is also important to shampoo your hair regularly and keep your hair off of your face. Sweat and oil can cause an acne breakout.



Clean your sunglasses and eyeglasses regularly. These objects can carry bacteria and sweat as well.
 If you the products you are using are not working, if your acne is leaving scars and dark spots, or if you are embarrassed or upset by your acne, see a dermatologist. Most cases of acne can be treated. A healthcare professional can help you get rid of your existing acne, treat any scarring, and prevent further breakouts.Besides prescribing acne medications, a dermatologist may also recommend light or laser treatments, chemical peels, or microdermabrasion treatments.
Ask a friend or family member for recommendations, or visit the American Academy of Dermatology website to find a dermatologist in your area., If you are pregnant or breast feeding, check with your doctor before using any medications. Look for acne products that contain benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, or sulfur. These products work by either killing acne causing bacteria or removing dead skin cells and speeding up the growth of new skin cells.You can use these to help keep one pimple from turning into a dozen.


Retinoids are mostly available by prescription only, but there is now a retinoid product available over-the-counter, called Differin gel (adapalene gel). Retinoid can cause irritation, so it is recommended you use it every two to three days, working up to daily use. It also increases sensitivity to sunlight, so apply only at night and make sure you wear sunscreen.
You may have a little irritation or redness when you start using a new product. If the irritation is mild, then try using the product every few days at first and then work up to using the product every day. If you have significant redness, swelling, or irritation, then stop using the product. If your symptoms continue after you have stopped the medication, go see your doctor.
Apply a moisturizer to your skin daily as well.
Apply these products after you have washed your face and before you apply your moisturizer.
Benzoyl peroxide is available in creams, gels, pads, and washes. It works by killing bacteria and may reduce oiliness of the skin.Salicylic acid removes dead skin cells that can clog your pores.Sulfur kills bacteria and helps to unclog your pores. Sulfur should be applied to a single pimple, but not to your entire face., It is tempting to pop, pick, and squeeze your pimples. However, this increases your chances of acne scarring and causes your skin to heal more slowly.Picking can also spread bacteria around and cause further breakouts. It is best to let your skin heal naturally.

