 This will ensure your paper has a logical order. Think about the key questions and points you want to explore. You may break the paper into sections based on time and key important advancements, inventions or people. You could write about Old English, Middle English and Modern English. , The thesis is the main point of your paper, so think hard about what you want it to be. It's usually a sentence at the end of your first paragraph that makes an argument (a point you are trying to prove) about the topic. Think of something that is relevant to the topic based on your research that you are able to prove with the evidence you've collected. Remember, you only have so many pages to prove it. You can always edit your thesis as you learn more about the topic.
Make sure the main idea of the thesis is carried out throughout the content of the paper.
 Begin with an introduction that discusses the importance and role of English language in the context of our culture. Get the reader familiar with the topic in a brief way. The introduction should focus on the themes and point of your thesis. End with the thesis itself. , Keep the flow and organization in mind during your first draft. It doesn't have to be perfect. Try to think of each paragraph as one main point, time period or issue. This is where you will use the outline and research you've previously collected.


Make sure that you elaborate by adding as much information as appropriate.
You may consider asking your teacher for advice when you have questions. That’s what they are there for.
 Use your sources and cite them as you go. Any information that is not common knowledge needs to be cited. You may need to reference web sites or books such as Purdue OWL https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/658/01/. Your school may also have reference materials or help available.


Make sure to include in-text citations. EasyBib http://www.easybib.com is a good site to cite your sources properly. Different format styles require different types of citations. In MLA format, you will put the last name of the author in parenthesis before your period at the end of each sentence.
 Since this is an original paper, you should be proving a point (your thesis) using the sources you've discovered. Try to come up with your own conclusions. Think of the overall theme or revelation that someone could come up with after researching your topic. You want to slowly guide the reader to your thesis using proven information from your sources.


For example, you'll want to say something about the evolution of the English language that can be proven, in this case.
 Make sure it wraps up the paper and ties together all the ideas. Think about what the point of the paper is. In this case, you’ll want to tie together all of the advancements and changes in English language. Show how everything in your paper comes together for one main idea or message. Think: What’s the point? Remember, you are not restating ideas or your thesis, but showing how they all come together in our present day speech and writing. , Make sure you follow the format of the style your teacher assigned (like MLA, APA, etc.) You should find examples in an English reference book or you can visit Purdue OWL https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/. This is where keeping careful track of all your sources comes in. Do not leave out any required information from the source list. All of the sources in the works cited page should be used inside the paper itself.

