 SAP stands for Systems Applications and Products in Data Processing. A German software corporation, SAP, and partner solutions powered by the SAP HANA in-memory computing platform can help you accelerate analytics, business processes, sentiment data processing, and predictive capabilities. SAP HANA is an application that uses in-memory database technology that allows the processing of massive amounts of real-time data in a short time.;
, In order to opt to become a SAP HANA consultant, you need to build a strong base covering all the aspects of the module, along with minimum essential qualification. You will also need a bachelor's degree in human resources, information technology or business management. Adequate training is important as SAP implementation is complex.
 SAP HANA is designed to process structured data from relational databases, both SAP and non-SAP, and applications and other systems rapidly. It is capable of using three styles of data replication depending on the source of the data - log-based, ETL-based and trigger-based. The relocated structured data is stored directly in memory. Because of this, data can be accessed quickly in real time by the applications that use HANA.
 SAP HANA has become the most suitable platform for building and deploying next-generation, real time applications and analytics. It provides advanced capabilities, such as predictive text analytics, spatial processing, data virtualization, on the same architecture, besides simplifying application development and processing across big data sources and structures.
 The SAP HANA Senior Consultant has the primary responsibility for the roll out of technical and functional aspects of the HANA solution. He will lead the integrated planning, design, implementation and support of SAP HANA based solutions including SAP LT Replication Server, SAP ECC, SAP Data Services, SAP Business Warehouse (BW), and SAP BI/Business Objects in large and complex environments.
 Get required training in SAP HANA to develop native software development on SAP HANA module. It is good to become a certified associate as it will help you differentiate your place in job market.


Getting a SAP Certification is not mandatory, but it is recommended to get certified. Especially if you don't have any experience in that field, getting certified makes you better suitable than having no experience.
 SAP HANA is considered the hot cake in IT industry, as employees build applications that integrate the business logic, control logic, and the database layer with exceptional performance. It plays a dominant role where ever there is a need to address the alignment of IT and business strategies. Most companies having huge data and have been using retail e-commerce applications hugely require SAP HANA.

