 That is, hold the paper like a diamond in front of you, and bring the bottom tip to the top tip, making a crease. Then, rotate it 90ยบ and bring that tip to the top tip, making another crease. You now should have two creases in the shape of an X on your paper.


Start with the pretty side of the origami paper facing you. If both sides are pretty, well, pin a rose on your nose.;
, At this juncture, top and bottom are just two opposing tips -- however the paper is lying now will determine that. Then, flip the paper over.
 You're now looking at the underside of your paper. You folded two points in, so you should be looking at a shape that has two horizontal sides and two sides that come to a point. Fold the bottom, horizontal side to the middle. The under flap should then pop out.









Repeat for the other side. Your end shape should be a diamond (or square, depending on how you look at it) sandwiched between two triangles (of the colored side) and two diamonds (of the under side).
 You should now be looking at something that resembles a finger trap -- alternating colors of little triangles on two lines. Yes? Hope so! Moving on.
 It should be half its original length. Then, open it back up.
 On both ends should be a diamond shape of the underside of your paper. Between those two ends are a series of triangles. Well, take one end and fold it over the triangles to the inside of each diamond on the end. Crystal clear?









The pretty side should line up with the triangles, resembling the shape of a medal ribbon (you know, the kind with the V cut in the end).
 Your strip has four diamonds currently. From the left, fold the rightmost point of the 3rd diamond to its center. Keeping that point on center, fold the strip back onto itself. This should form two creases that are fairly close together. Do the same for the leftmost point of the same diamond.









The center should now sort of pop out and the triangle should have disappeared (underneath the folds).
 Fold the bottom line to the center and then unfold it (you just need the crease for later). Then, rotate it and do the same on the other side.
 Facing you are four tiny triangles. On the left most triangle, fold the tip to its center. Then, open up the triangle, and squash it down. This forms an even teenier triangle pointing to the right. Can you see the handle starting to form?









Do the same for the opposite side. Now one side of your paper is much smaller and thinner than the other.
 Next to the folds you just made should be a triangle that was left intact. Not for much longer! Make the same teeny fold, bring its point to its center. Unfold it, open it up, and squash it down into a triangle facing to the side once more. This should halve the width of your sword.


Half of your handle is now present. A box shape is emerging about 2/3 of the way down the length of your paper, yes?
Repeat for the other side. Now all of your handle is present. What sweet reward!

, It's great the one tip is pointed (your blade tip), but you don't want your handle to be pointy, too. Fold it in to make it square, finishing the handle.









There's your sword, hilt and all!

