 Start by determining the size of the curtains. Measure the area where you plan to hang the curtains. Use a tape measure to get the length, width, and height of the area. Make sure you add a few inches on each side of the window for the curtains to fall.


Write down the measurements so you can refer to them when you go shopping for the curtains.
Often, soundproofing curtains will come in standard sizes to fit the dimensions of a window.;
, Soundproofing curtains are usually made of quilted fiberglass or rockwool to help block out sound. They may also be coated in vinyl, making them stiff and soundproof. In order to provide a barrier against noise, soundproof curtains should be at least 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 cm) thick.Because of the materials used, soundproof curtains are usually very heavy, weighing at least 15 to 20 lbs. (6.8 to 9.07 kg).
Some companies allow you to custom make the soundproofing curtains. You can choose the color, material, and cut of the curtains. However, this will usually cost more money that standard soundproofing curtains.
 As an alternative to heavy duty soundproofing curtains, you can get heavy blackout curtains instead. Blackout curtains help to block out light and noise in a space. They are often made of thick material and are lighter than heavy duty soundproofing curtains.Blackout curtains are also often cheaper than heavy duty soundproofing curtains.
 Heavy duty soundproofing curtains can be found online on sound equipment sites. Look for curtains that are within your price range and make sure they are made of soundproofing materials like fiberglass, rockwool, or vinyl.

You can also order custom soundproofing curtains for your space online. You should be able to pick the thickness and style of the curtains to suit your needs.
 You likely will not find soundproofing curtains at your local hardware store. Instead, you will need to look for them at sound equipment stores.You can also shop for the curtains at music supply stores, as soundproofing curtains are popular with musicians and sound engineers.
You can go to big box stores to by blackout curtains.
 Bring a flashlight with you to the store and shine it on the curtains. If you can see the light behind the curtains, they are likely not very soundproof. Real soundproof, blackout curtains will absorb all direct light and sound.You should also feel the weight of the curtains to make sure they are thick and heavy enough.
 Talk to the salesperson about getting a warranty for the curtains, especially if they are expensive. If you get the curtains custom made, you may not be able to get a warranty for them or be allowed to return them.
 Soundproofing curtains are heavier than typical household curtains. They need to be installed on thick curtain rods with heavy duty tracks and brackets. Shop for these items online or at a sound equipment store.If you buy the curtains in person, you can discuss installing the curtains with the salesperson. They can recommend good rods, tracks, and brackets for the curtains.
 Once you install the curtains, test them out to ensure they work properly. Try playing music just behind the curtain or make noise outside to see if the curtain absorbs the sound. Notice if the curtains block out all noise or only very loud noise., If the curtains are not working as you’d like, do not be afraid to trade them in or replace them for something better. Go back to the place of purchase and discuss other options for soundproofing in your home.