 Take your ring to a professional jeweler at least annually, if not twice per year. Have them professionally clean your ring. It's wise to visit a jeweler if the dirt on your ring is a compacted layer of dirt or oil.Ask them to check your settings as well. Have your jeweler make any necessary adjustments to keep the stones secure., Touch your diamonds as little as possible, even when your hands are clean. Grease accumulates easily on the material of a diamond. The natural oils in your skin can cloud the diamond’s surface.You may actually want to clean your jewelry more often, such as twice a week, when it's new. Even a thin film can cloud your diamond's luster, and people may want to touch your ring when you show it off...especially if you just got engaged or married!

, Ultrasonic cleaners use sound waves and a vibrating solution to remove built-up grime. However, they can loosen or chip mounted diamonds if you’re not cautious! Before using an ultrasonic cleaner, you should ensure that your diamond has not been treated, does not include feathers, and your ring is in solid condition.If your ring came with a grading report, check it to see whether your diamond has been treated. Don’t use ultrasonic cleaners if the report indicates that your diamond was enhanced through fracture-filling.
If your diamond has feather inclusions, don’t use ultrasonic cleaners. “Feathers” are very small cracks in the diamond. You can look for diamond feathers using a 10x jewelry loupe, however the feathers may not be visible from every angle.It’s best to ask your jeweler to inspect your diamond ring before using an ultrasonic cleaner. Ask them to look for any diamond feathers. You should also ask them to inspect your ring’s setting as well; if there are any loose stones, get them tightened.
 Remove your ring and put it in a safe, secure place when you are doing a task that requires getting your hands dirty or working with harsh or abrasive chemicals.For example, remove your ring when you are using cleaning products.
You may also want to remove your ring before swimming in a chlorinated pool. Chlorine can damage some metals used in ring settings.Furthermore, swimming in cold water shrinks your fingers temporarily, so it would be easier for your ring to slip off.Remove your ring when you are doing a task wherein your hands can accumulate grime, such as gardening or making dough.

