 Spread your legs at least shoulder width a part and place the ball in line with your front heel. Place your hands directly above the head of the driver and tilt your back so that your left shoulder is higher than your right shoulder.The wider your stance, the better.
Place a little more weight on your back leg compared to your front leg.
 Form a "V" with your hands and rotate your entire upper body. Shift your weight to your back foot and bring your driver back where the head of the driver is over your shoulders and facing your target. Shift your weight from your right foot to your left foot as you swing. At the end of your shot, your club head should be over your head.The power for your shot comes from your lower body. Shifting your weight as you swing will give your shot power.
Hit the ball before you turn your back foot and keep your heels down as you swing.
Keep your head down as you follow through.
 Developing your swing is an ongoing process. Keeping your spine straight is crucial to your swing. Rotate your shoulders and keep your forearms straight as well. Allow the golf club to do the work instead of exerting all of your force to get a powerful swing.Try to make your swing as fluid and smooth as possible. Although there are many movements involved, think of swinging as one single motion.
Your swing will be better if you are relaxed. Take a deep breath and clear your mind before you swing.
 The quality of the shots you hit is more important than the amount of shots you hit. Get a bucket of fifty golf balls and try to make quality shots as if you are on the course. Take a few practice swings before you hit each shot.Swing with your wedge, short iron, hybrid, and driver during your session.
Simulate the order of shots you would take on the golf course. Start with the driver, then short iron, and then your wedge.
 Instead of mindlessly hitting the ball, choose a target for every single shot. Warm up for a little bit and then begin your targeted practice. Ranges usually have landing areas marked with yardages that you can aim for.If you are using your driver, try to land your shot between two sets of the markers. This will simulate the fairway on a golf course.
Vary your targets instead of hitting to the same target each time. This will help you improve your accuracy.

