 Your breasts will become larger after you give birth; however, sometimes you may develop engorgement, where your breasts become hard and swollen because milk is getting blocked up inside. Symptoms can include your breast being tender and warm or a throbbing sensation. You might also notice your nipple flattening out or that you are running a light fever (under 100.4째F or 38째C).If not treated, you can develop a plugged duct, which will cause your breasts to be uneven, as well as being a problem medically., One way to help treat engorgement is to feed often. That means letting your baby eat when they want and as long as they want, often eight to 12 times a day.That also means feeding at least every four hours; even if your baby is asleep, you should wake them up to feed., To make breastfeeding easier, try using a warm compress before you feed. Apply light heat for three minutes.Another option is gently massaging your breast so that it releases milk.You can also gently massage your breast while your baby is suckling., Once your breast becomes engorged, you should try to use that breast more often. When one breast is underperforming and the other one is normal, it's fine to use the smaller one more often to stimulate milk; however, when one is engorged, you need to focus more on it to help release some of the build of up milk, which is causing the problem.It's common for just one breast to become engorged, rather than both at the same time.
 If your baby isn't latching on well, you may need to work with a specialist (such as a lactation consultant or your doctor) to help with latching. If the baby is not latching, they may not be getting enough milk.One way to help your baby latch properly is to bring their head up underneath your breast, letting their chin be closest to your breast. Try to get them to touch your breast with their bottom lip on the far bottom side of your areola. That way, they can pull in enough of your breast, situating your nipple towards the back of their mouth., That is, if you're feeding your baby regularly (every couple of hours), you don't need to pump unless your breast becomes hard, and your baby is not ready to eat. If you pump too much, you'll encourage your body to produce more milk, which can lead to engorgement for long periods of time. Also, keep your pumping sessions to about two to three minutes on low.If you've returned to work and need to pump, try to do it when you would normally feed your baby to keep on the same schedule; make sure you are pumping at least in four-hour increments., When you're not feeding, you can apply cold to your breasts to help ease the pain. Use an ice pack covered in a cloth. You can use it directly before or after feeding., If your bra fits well, it can help with engorgement. Make sure it is not too tight. In addition, make sure it supports your breasts, but skip ones with underwire.If a bra is too tight, it can contribute to engorgement by cutting off the flow., If you notice that your breasts have become hard, especially if they are painful, it's time to talk to your doctor. You should also give them a call if your child seems to be having trouble with breastfeeding. Finally, if you are running a fever over 100.4째F (38 째C) or notice the skin of your breast has become red, you may want to call.You will notice some hardness in the first few days of breastfeeding, which is normal, but if you suddenly develop hardness with pain in your breasts, it's time to call the doctor.

