 The National Driver Registry (NDR) contains nationwide driver information, maintained by the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration. If you operate a business that will employ drivers across state lines (trucking and delivery for example), you may want to verify a driver’s record in this way, rather than just from a single state.The NDR report does not include all details about a driver’s history. It will tell you if a driver has had his or her license suspended, revoked or denied for cause, from any state. This can help you in the case of a driver whose license may have been suspended in one state, but he or she presents you with a license from another state.
 The NDR does not have a specific application form. The NDR requires requests in writing, in the form of a letter. If you will be conducting multiple requests, you should develop your own standard form letter, which you can use repeatedly. The form should provide your name, address and reason for the request. You should state that you are requesting a report from the Problem Driver Pointer System (PDPS) for a prospective employee, and it should include the following details about the driver in question:full legal name
address
email address
state and driver’s license number
social security number
sex
height
weight
eye color

, End with an authorization statement. This should be a statement to the effect of, “I authorize this request of my driving record.” Then there should be a space for the applicant to sign the letter. You will need to get the applicant's signature notarized. The NDR will only accept requests with notarized signatures. If you do not have a notary available in your office, you will have to arrange to visit a notary each time that you wish to perform such a review., Send the notarized request to National Driver Register, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., NVS-422, Washington, DC 20590. There is no fee for this request. The NDR says that they will attempt to reply to all requests within 15 days. However, they note that requests are dealt with on a first come-first served basis, so they do not guarantee the timing., Instead of requesting the PDPS report by mail, employers of motor vehicle and mass transit operators may instruct applicants to visit the local DMV. The employee should ask for a PDPS check of his or her record and then return that report to you., The NDR report does not include all the details of a driver’s history. The NDR report will present one of the following four responses regarding the driver:No match. This means that the individual does not have a record on file in the PDPS system. In most cases, this is a positive result, which should mean that the driver has a valid license. However, if the identification information was incorrect or if the applicant changed his identification at any time, then you could get a “No Match” response.
Licensed (LIC). This response means that the driver has a valid license in the state noted and is eligible to drive. However, if LIC appears on the report, this means that the driver’s license was at one time suspended or revoked and has been reinstated. A report of LIC is not as positive as a “No Match” response.
Eligible (ELG). This response indicates that the driver’s privilege to drive or apply for a license in the noted state is valid.
Not Eligible (NELG). This response means that the driver’s privilege to drive in the noted state is invalid.

