 One of the first things you need to do to get a girl to open up is listen. Practicing active listening can help a girl feel like what she says matters. This will make her feel like she can open up to you.


Always maintain eye contact when she talks and give verbal and non verbal cues that you are paying attention. Nod, smile, and laugh at appropriate moments. Reiterate what she's feeling and saying so she knows you understand.Avoid any distractions during communication. Stay away from looking at your smart phone screen or laptop. If you get a phone call, ignore it unless it's absolutely vital to answer.If you don't understand anything, feel free to ask questions. However, wait until she's done talking and say something like, "Could you explain that more? I'm not sure I fully understand.";
, Judgment can be toxic when trying to get someone to open up to you. If you want a girl to open up, you need to avoid passing judgment during the conversation.


Women communicate differently from men in that they're not always seeking advice or insight. They're merely trying to express and understand their feelings through communication. Therefore, it's best not to offer advice unless specifically asked. Simply listen and try to understand her feelings.Vulnerability means expressing thoughts and feelings one is uncomfortable with or even ashamed of. Try to assure your female friend her feelings, even negative feelings, are okay and she should be able to express them to you without fear of judgment.
 Tell your female friend how much you appreciate it when she shares things with you. People sometimes feel insecure about opening up as they don't want to burden others. Letting your friend know you appreciate that she feels comfortable talking to you will help foster a healthy, comfortable relationship that encourages openness., When talking to your female friend, you should ask questions that are open ended and promote closeness. There are 36 questions psychiatrists have identified that promote intimacy and closeness between two people.


Some questions are fun, ice breaker type questions. For example, "If you could have dinner with anyone in the world, who would you choose and why?" The questions, which need to be asked in a certain order, gradually build in seriousness. Eventually, you'll build up to questions like, "What is your most terrible memory?" and "How do you feel about your relationship with others?"You can find a full list of questions online. Remember to ask them in order. Ideally, it should take around 45 minutes to ask all the questions., Men and women do tend to communicate differently. While there are certainly exceptions, and not everyone falls strictly into certain categories, there do seem to be some identifiable differences in communication between genders in a general sense.


Women like to vent when they're frustrated while men like to offer solutions to problems head on. If your female friend expresses frustration or sadness over something, understand expressing these feelings is not a means to an end for her. It's an end in and of itself. You do not need to offer a solution. Only listen and express understanding and sympathy.Women are often exploring their thoughts when speaking. If your female friend says anything that feels contradictory or confusing, do not point it out. She is likely aware her thoughts are somewhat muddled. She is expressing such thoughts to try and gleam a greater understanding of them. Allow her time to talk, even to ramble, without trying to articulate or explain anything for her., On occasion, you'll have to have difficult discussion with a female friend or girlfriend. Understand how to best engage in hard talks.


Plan to discuss the issue at a specific time and then state your intentions. What do you hope to gain by this discussion? What issues do you want resolved?If there's some kind of break or negativity between the two of you, take responsibility for your part in the issue. Remember, relationships are two way streets. Avoid trying to explain or justify your roll in the situation. Try to understand more than be understood.Be patient. Feelings of frustration and impatience are a normal part of a hard conversation. If you allow these feelings to pass over and keep going towards a resolution, you'll be able to effectively resolve the issue., Developing a sense of self awareness about what drives your feelings and reactions can help it be easier for others to open up to you. Try to understand your own needs, wants, fears, and expectations. You're more likely to catch yourself engaging with someone in a negative way if you know what factors cause you to act in fear, anger, or insecurity.