"]]Decide as a woman to be trained, to protect yourself, be adequately armed. So, you, as well as your spouse, sons and daughters might:Realize: "Guns are not taboo" but provide a wise and powerful means of protecting others and yourself.Expect: "Police to take 5, 10 or 30 minutes to arrive" , prepare and respond to your need, in case of your call for help.
 You can help teach them to be safe and protected.


Fifteen years ago, maybe 10% of participants in firearm classes were women, today that number is up to 30%. According to the National Rifle Association, women of all ages enroll at a higher rate than ever.
 Help preserve your right to life, your inalienable rights, fundamental freedoms and spiritual rights to choose your way of life; first be informed, and vote for or against the well-meaning, "gun-fear" talkers and actors, and be prepared to ward off potential threats, possible weakening of your freedom, from within or without.
 The most important aspect of teaching anyone -- and especially children about guns, boy or girl -- is safety first and "always".


Never leave a child unsupervised with a firearm.
Seek firearm safety, from experienced trainers and gain expertise (and to get your own concealed carry permit/license).
 How? There is probably one more round already in the firing chamber, if it was either actuated, pumped or fired even once.


Removing the ammunition magazine/or clip, does not unload that gun. A chambered bullet must be removed separately, by hand. Otherwise, it is the most deadly, live round that you can even imagine!
Do not buy a gun or pistol without knowing that if: you take "Concealed carry permit training" with a revolver, then you must be retrained to carry a semiautomatic pistol which uses a clip/magazine, and is more involved! The other way around works, because revolvers are super simple!

, Be armed and capable of self defense with arms. Remind detractors that a gun is an inanimate objects that can not point or operate on its own.


Guns are power tools and like most any other tool will cut, puncture or "bite like a snake", if not handled carefully.
Children should never play with power tools.
Do not let children "play" with real guns, or even air guns without proper training, supervision and attitude adjustments as required!
Never point any gun, even "unloaded", at anything that you do not fully intend to fire upon or destroy.
Some firearms do not have a safety, or can fire, if loaded, without releasing the safety first, if it has one that is not set! A "pump shotgun" may have a stop that must be released before you can "pump the handle/slide" to load the first shell into the chamber. It does not automatically go back on safety after that.
 You may enter concealed carry class afraid of the gun, but as few as 4 or 5 hours later you may be on the shooting line, blazing away, having a safe, good time. Women may have certain physical capabilities, but could you, physically fight-off a man breaking into your house or jumping into your car, who was a determined attacker?



Start with an introduction to firearms class: include the child accompanied by the parent. The best age for a child to start training depends on serious mindset, your trusting each one, and their own reliability; each child is different.
 Learn all about: loading and unloading it, how to set the safety, if so equipped. Be sure of what is between you and the target -- and beyond.


Never put your finger on the trigger until you are ready to aim. Hold the weapon with both hands. Does it kick, jerk or rise? If so, be sure to hold with strength, muscles tensed. Aim. Squeeze the trigger (do not "pull or jerk" the trigger or the weapon).
Never fire a weapon where bullets or shot may go through several walls and could travel for a mile before hitting "something"(?).
Never fire straight up into the air, indiscriminately; realize the bullet will, of course, come to a stop and fall back near you and can do serious damage. Imagine the injury or harm from a metal hailstone(s) of the size of the guns projectile(s).
, Teach your children and grandchildren. It is important that all children be taught:


Respect the gun;
Handle the gun correctly;
How to not be afraid of it (when handled properly).;
,


Enrolling children in an "Eddie Eagle GunSafe® Program" for firearm education at an early age is a quick way to keep you and them safe (The National Rifle Association has local adults trainers in an eagle suit). "The program is for pre-K through third grade with four important steps to take, if they find a gun." The steps are presented by the program's mascot, Eddie Eagle, in an easy-to-remember form with the following simple rules:If you see a gun:
STOP!
Don't Touch.
Leave the Area.
Tell an Adult.

Started in 1988, The Eddie Eagle Program has reached more than 26 million children - in all 50 states.