 Before you can be truly happy in your life, your job, or even a relationship, you need to accept yourself. Which leads us to our next step.;
, You'll find, in almost every situation, the best thing is to be who you are. Now of course, there are certain times and places where its better to just stay quiet. For the most part though, being yourself and not being afraid of judgement is the best way to go. It may not seem like it, but majority of people can sooner or later tell if your personality is phony.
 Now of course by this I don't mean being an asshole and walking around saying insulting and offensive things to people, but there is a very good level of not caring. This basically means that you are confident enough with yourself, you have a sense of pride, and you love yourself enough to be able to shrug off small comment from ignorant people. Always remember this; insults, shit talking, and gossip, are others way of feeling better with themselves. Think about when you talk about someone prettier then you, someone with more wealth, who on the appearance seems "happier". That is not true. And you may think that commenting on one of their flaws will give you the upper hand, and make you the happier one, but that is simply not the case.
 Something as small as a new haircut, could help you see yourself in a better light, so you can finally realize "I really am beautiful." Of course, there is no outer beauty without inner beauty. I know, this is one of the most said phrases that can be slightly cheesy, but it's the truth. Being kind and helping others can sometimes give you a sense of happiness like you'd never even dream of experiencing. This is kind of like the concept of Karma. And yes, you can go on and on about how it doesn't exist, and I 'm not saying it does. In the world though, there is always some sort of Karma. Not in the sense that you'll give away a possession of yours, and the next day a brand new car will show up in your garage, but there is obtainable happiness by helping to better others lives. Although, it all depends on your attitude. You can't go into a situation where you'll be benefiting someone and expect immediate gratification, it is something that will come with time, and you just need to let it happen.
 The greatest thing to do when you're having a bad day, a bad week, or just feeling unhappy, is to make an attitude adjustment. Taking a step back from the situation, and thinking, "Is this really a good reason for me to be upset?".   "Did anything bad actually happen today, or did I just wake up in  bad mood?". Thinking and processing the reason you're unhappy, can help you calm down, move on, and put yourself in a better mood. Now this is easier said then done, and it takes a lot of practice. You will find though, that if you start the day with a positive attitude, trying to brush off and distance yourself from things that are upsetting, you will have a much happier and more productive day.
 Happiness, bliss, whatever you'd like to call it, doesn't happen immediately. All of these steps, can help you find bliss, but there are many other things you can do. Taking a long drive amongst beautiful scenery, just having time to think to yourself, or spending time with family, friends, and loved ones can help you be happier as a person. And ultimately better your life, and attitude. The only person who can make you truly unhappy, is yourself. So don't let anyone influence your life. If you truly want bliss, you, and only you, can find it.

