 Wear your sandals for short intervals of time at first until they're broken in. Otherwise, you risk blisters, cuts, and feeling uncomfortable. You may also experience leg and foot muscle pain if you’re not used to the sandals yet. Try to take it easy for the first few wears.The lack of arch support and often the lack of cushioned support in sandals means that sandals are unsuitable to wear for long periods of time. The only exceptions are those built for hiking, but they are made for walking first.;
, Walk around your house and garden to help break them in. Visit the beach and walk on the sand. Then, remove them and go barefoot to give your feet a break. Don’t wear the sandals longer than is comfortable for you., If your sandals are a bit tight, wear thick socks with them to stretch them out. The look may not be ideal, so you can choose to only wear the sandals with socks around your house. To speed up the process, you can take a blow dryer to the sandals while you are wearing them with thick socks.Wool socks are ideal to wear.
 This method only works for leather sandals. Step into a bucket of water for a for a few seconds while wearing they sandals until they are wet. Once they are wet, pat the excess water off with a towel to avoid discoloration. Then, wear them while they are still damp. The dampness will allow the shoes to soften and conform to your feet as you wear them.If you don’t want to step into a bucket of water, you can use a spray bottle to spritz water onto them.
 Sandals that lack support can damage your feet over time. They don’t connect to your foot properly, which causes tension and pressure on your feet and legs. You can prevent this by exercising and strengthening your arch and toes.To strengthen your arch, put your foot flat on the floor. Place a penny under the ball of your foot and a pen under your arch. Flex your arch muscle. You should be pushing down on the penny, but not the pen. Keep your toes relaxed. Repeat five times.
Limber up and strengthen your feet with toe curls. Stand on a towel. Lift your toes and flex your foot. Then, put your foot back on the towel. Curl your toes inwards and try to create space under your arch. Repeat five times on each foot.