 Slip your thumb through the loop at the end of the leash. If you hold your hand upwards in front of you (like you’re giving someone a high five), the leash should dangle off your thumb. Then close your hand around the loop. The rest of the leash should come out the bottom of your fist, beside your pinky finger., Do not wrap the leash around your hand or arm. Instead, fold the leash several times and hold the folds in your hand. Make sure the end of the leash is coming out of the bottom of your fist, near your pinky finger.Wrapping the leash around your arm or hand can cause serious injury if your dog suddenly pulls hard, or if the leash gets tangled in something. This could break a bone or cut off circulation.
 While walking it is best to hold the leash with both of your hands, not one. Your right hand should the end of the leash, with your right thumb through the loop. Excess portions of the leash should be folded into your right hand. Your left hand should be holding a section of the leash closer to your dog.There should be enough slack between your two hands that the leash forms a U shape in front of you. There should also be enough slack between your left hand and your dog so your dog is not uncomfortable.
Hold your arms down at your sides, not bent upwards or even above your head.
 If you decide to stop at any point while on a walk with your dog, put your foot on a part of the leash and stand on it. This will provide you with more stability and resistance if your dog starts to pull or run away.Alternatively, fold the leash into both your hands and hold it in front of you with both hands. Your hands should be vertical, one on top of the other, like you’re holding a baseball bat.
 If your dog starts to pull on the leash, stand up straight and point your hip in the direction your dog is pulling. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. This will stabilize you so that you aren’t pulled off-balance if your dog continues to pull on the leash.Dogs that encounter resistance will stop pulling faster than those who do not encounter resistance. By not building a resistance to your dog’s pulling, they will learn that they can keep doing it until you give in (or fall over).

