 If you're unhappy because you feel stuck in a rut, try doing something different. Sometimes just getting out of your current activity can alter your mood.For instance, if you've been in back-to-back meetings throughout your day with no free time, treat yourself to a funny movie at the end of your day. Changing what you're doing can work wonders on your mood.


For example, if you’ve been in a desk chair or on the couch all day, your mood might be low because your body needs some physical activity. Get up, go for a walk, and enjoy the change of pace.
 If you think your poor mood is stress related, get outside to reduce stress and lift your mood. Try going for a walk in the park, or you can visit a garden or arboretum if you live in a city. Being outside can greatly improve your mood. Studies have found that having the opportunity to go outside or visit a garden reduces levels of cortisol, a hormone your body releases when you're stressed.Don't wait for the perfect day or weather before going outside. Grab an umbrella and take a walk in the rain. Just being outdoors can cheer you up.
 Get in a work out, play one of your favorite sports or activities, or just be more active in your daily routine. Studies have shown that exercising improves mood by signalling your body to release “feel-good” neurotransmitters into your brain. Even just 5 minutes of aerobic exercise has been shown to reduce anxiety.Working in some physical activity can cheer you up by getting those neurotransmitters pumping.


For example, if you take your dog for a walk, extend the walk and let yourself enjoy being outside. Or, you can call up some of your friends and get a game of pickup basketball going.
 Studies have shown that smiling can improve your mood,even if you're in a bad mood to begin with. Even if you don't feel like smiling, remind yourself that just the act of smiling can cheer you up. Find activities that will cause you to smile, such as watching a funny TV show or movie. Or you can talk with a friend who you know always makes you laugh or smile.


If you can't take the time out to watch something or talk with someone, just practice smiling when you can.

