 Though they can be bulky and clumsy in tight spaces, Dragoons can take care of most enemy units with relative ease.


To increase their effectiveness, upgrade their attack range at the Cybernetics Core, and send a few zealots to soak up the damage.
To deal with mass Zerglings without zealots, a weakness of Dragoons due to their explosive damage type, have two groups of Dragoons. When the Zerglings attack one group, have that group run around your other group, which attacks the Zerglings. If the Zerglings switch targets, do the same thing with the other group. However, a more experienced player will have more units and will attack both groups at once.
Dragoons can also "dance" with Vultures well. If you've upgraded your Dragoons' range, the enemy Vultures will take heavy damage. However, beware of Spider Mines, so bring a couple of Observers with you.;
, The High Templar may be the most powerful unit in the Protoss race, if they are used right. Research Psionic Storm and upgrade their energy capacity. Hallucination is also quite useful in assaulting islands.


Use Psionic Storm to cripple an attack force. Due to its large area of effect and large amount of damage, Psionic storm will kill basic units in one or two seconds. Also, High Templars with upgraded energy capacities can cast three Psionic Storms without having to rest.
Something else to note about Psionic Storm is that it negates all effect of armor.
When you have to assault an island base, you can use Hallucinate on your Shuttles or Arbiters to protect them. Each High Templar can use Hallucinate two times, so that gives you four copies per Templar. Eight hallucinated units will soak up all of the anti-air, ensuring your units' safety.
 Two Protoss units, the Observer and Dark Templar, are constantly cloaked, which make them ideal for spying or scouting. Just be careful around detectors.


Keep an Observer at possible expansion points to watch the enemy's movement. If you are able to build Observers early enough, you can actually fly them into your opponent's base before he surrounds it with detectors.
Dark templars can be used to attack early expansions that have no detectors or small groups of units. A single Marine can be killed instantly with a Dark Templar. You can also throw a couple of Dark Templars into an attack force for extra attack power.

