 Once you have started actively working on your Master's degree, you will want to make sure that you are a successful student. Going back to school can be an adjustment. When you are working full-time, it is crucial that you make a schedule so that you can devote the proper amount of time to your classes.Plan in advance. Read the syllabus for each of your courses when the class begins. Write down important dates on your calendar.
Schedule other things around critical times in the school year. For example, do not plan to go on vacation during midterms or finals.
Devote time to school almost every day. Successful students do not cram all of their learning into one day a week.
Even if your class just meets on Monday nights, make sure to schedule time throughout the week to work on it. For example, set aside time on Wednesday for starting the readings for the next class.
 Many Master's programs take place in an online setting. This is so that professionals like you can continue to work full-time while pursuing a degree. Online courses offer a lot of flexibility, but they can take some getting used to.Treat online classes seriously. Just because you may not have to physically attend class, you still need to be present.
Carefully read all of the requirements. Many online courses require you to interact with classmates through online discussion. You might also be required to be "in" the classroom for a certain amount of time each week.
Ask questions. If you are going back to school, you might be unfamiliar with online learning. Make sure to contact your professor with any questions that you have.
You can send an e-mail stating, "I am unclear on how to access the resources mentioned in the syllabus. Could you please point me in the right direction?"

, A graduate program might consist of online courses, in-person courses, or a mixture of both. Whatever the structure, you want to make sure to find a way to succeed in each of your classes. Take steps to find a learning method that is right for you.Read for information. Master's programs frequently require a large amount of reading. Practice carefully reading the introduction and conclusion of each article or book, and skimming the rest to find the information that you need.
Reflect on the material. This material should be information that you will find useful in your career.
Don't just memorize material for a test and then forget. Take time to think about ways you can actually implement what you are learning in your job.
Try different study strategies. For example, maybe you will find that you do your best work early in the morning. Start setting your alarm an hour earlier each day.
 Try to make friends with other students. Graduate programs can be very stressful. You will find it useful to get to know others who are in the same situation.Form a study group. Try sending an e-mail to the class asking if anyone is interested in joining a weekly group.
Socialize after class. If you are in a night class, ask the students sitting around you if they want to grab a bite to eat. You'll enjoy school more if you can socialize and relax a bit.
Find a faculty mentor. If the department doesn't assign you an adviser, ask one of you professors if they would informally mentor you.
Ask your mentor to help you figure out which classes to take. Your mentor can also offer you advice on future career moves.

