 Some medications can increase your risk of bruising after surgery, such as heart medications and blood thinners. For instance, aspirin, clopidogrel, and warfarin can all increase your chance of bruising. As most of these medications are necessary to keep you healthy, it's not recommended that you stop them, although, you may be able to stop aspirin for a week before your surgery under a doctor's orders and supervision.Other medications that can lead to this problem include dabigatran, enoxaparin, ticlopidine, and dipyridamole.Have your doctor review your medications to help you determine which ones may lead to more bruising, and when they should be stopped before the surgery and restarted after the operation. Depending on the indication, some of these medications cannot be stopped and will need to be continued throughout the surgical period.;
, Herbal supplements can also lead to an increased risk for bruising. For instance, if you take garlic or ginkgo biloba in pill form, it can increase your chances of bruising. Vitamin E can also have this effect. As these pills are not medically necessary, you may be able to stop them before your surgery; usually, you can take a break from them starting 2 weeks before your surgery., How you are positioned during surgery can affect how much you bruise. Having an open discussion about your concerns before surgery may encourage your doctor to make changes if necessary.For instance, if you are having surgery on your face, your surgery should be conducted with you in a chair with your head on a headrest. In addition, the angle of the chair should be angled back about 30 degrees from straight upright.The room should be bright enough to look for blood vessels, and a side light is especially helpful.
 One way you can help your doctor is by removing all traces of makeup before entering the clinic; it's best not to put any on the morning of your surgery. Makeup can hide your blood vessels. If your doctor nicks a blood vessel, it can lead to more extensive bruising.You can also ask what your doctor uses to look for blood vessels to help reassure you. Some use magnifying glasses, while others use more advanced technology, such as devices that use infrared technology to help your doctor look for blood vessels., The night before your surgery and the night of your surgery, it's best to skip the alcohol. Alcohol can make bruising worse., While studies aren't conclusive about this natural remedy, some people have had luck with it reducing bruising. Make sure your doctor knows you plan to take it around your surgery time, though, because like any medication, it can react with other medications.Bromelain is an enzyme found in pineapples. You can find it in natural health stores in capsule form.Try 500 milligrams four times a day for a day or two before your surgery and a few days after. Be sure to ask your doctor if this dosage is safe for you.Use quercetin along with the bromelain. This is a plant flavonoid that can be found in capers, apples, red onion, citrus fruit, and leafy green vegetables, or in the form of a supplement. Take this with the bromelain to help reduce swelling and bruising.