 You can relay the news in your blog and give your opinion regarding it. This is fresh content on fresh news and it may bring in fresh readers.;
, If you cannot come up with enough content yourself, then invite others to write something for you. The guest should write about something related to the subject matter of your blog. Including guest content adds a little variety to your site and if the guest is a professional of some kind, you can offer authoritative entries with valuable information that only this guest can provide. Make sure that you invite guests well in advance so you are not waiting for the content. You can invite friends and family members who have an interest in the subject matter of your blog or who can share some valuable information. Another option is to invite other bloggers to write something for your site. You may be asked to reciprocate. You could also hire contributing writers or even ghost writers if you are desperate for more fresh content.
 If you see something on another site that you like, contact the author and ask if you can copy it, credit them, and link back to their site. You could just copy a small part and refer the reader back to the original source. Another option would be to mention the content, offer some feedback, and then link back to the site.
 If you are getting subject related questions on your comments section, or you are getting questions emailed to you, make those questions and your response a blog entry. This interaction is great for building rapport with your readers.
 You should know who these people are if you read other blogs with the same subject matter as yours. Contact the person with a request to interview them. If they agree, send them your questions. Your questions, their answers, and a small introduction are your fresh content. Just make sure you request this interview well in advance and don't expect a same day response.
 You could also refer them to the top 10 websites on a topic related to the subject matter of your website.
 This is a great way of breaking up formal business entries with light content.

