 Try not to be too accurate and plan every minute of your day. This can be stifling and you may grow bored quickly. Instead, make a list of subjects you need to revise that day, and how long you need and make sure you have time for it.
 Revise so hard that your head hurts (in a good way). You might think that your GCSEs are a long time off, but they are not. If you only get one thing from this article, it has to be to start revising now.


Write out notes from your revision book rather than just reading it, or else the information won't stay in your brain. Try to write neatly so it's easy to review.
Prioritize your subjects and their various topics to know which ones need the most work.
Try making index cards with questions on one side and answers on the other to help you learn the facts. Online flashcards that you can study on a mobile app are especially good for consistent revision.
 You really need to familiarize yourself with what the structure of your exam will be, and what sort of questions you will get. There is only a limited number of questions appear on a test about any given subject, so very similar questions are likely to appear again. You can find past papers and mark schemes online, or from your teacher or Exam Board.
 Get a friend to test you after you finish studying a topic to see if you remembered what you were meant to be learning.


Offer to do the same for them -- then the arrangement will be useful for both of you.
Having a study buddy can make studying fun and effective -- provided you stay focused on the material.
You can also get help from people who have already passed their GCSEs -- like parents or older siblings and friends.
 Look at your notes during the day even if you aren't actively "studying".


Five minutes with flashcards every day over a long period will be better than six hours cramming of science without breaks or rewards.
This is something you can easily do on the bus or while waiting for your friends at the coffee shop.
 It's important to give your brain a break during long periods of study -- so try to take one fifteen minute break for every hour of revision. This will keep you fresh and help you to absorb information better.


If you're younger and using this guide for other exams you'll probably want shorter breaks more often - ten minute breaks for every half hour.
Try not to get distracted by others or the internet during your study breaks -- go for a walk outside instead, the fresh air will be way more beneficial than browsing on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, or any other social media.
 Getting enough sleep is really important for effective study and good performance in exams.


Without enough sleep, your mind becomes foggy and you'll find it difficult to remember information.
Set yourself a strict bedtime and make sure you get at least eight hours sleep a night.
 Keep a set routine every day -- it will get your body into a good routine for revising and stop you from getting tired.


An example routine could be: get up at 7:30, breakfast 7:45, lunch at 1:00, dinner at 6:00, bed at 9:00.
This is easier if you have school, but some schools choose to give you study leave instead. If this is the case, you'll just have to be more disciplined!
If you do have school, you should think about going to lunchtime revision classes.

