 The type of activity you’re doing may determine the right color of sunglasses for you. Consider when you wear your sunglasses most. While every shade of sunglasses will protect your eyes from UV rays and help you see during bright days, certain colors may improve the efficiency of certain tasks.


For driving, gray and brown work best to block out colors. Yellow and amber are not recommended because they may distort the color of traffic signals.For pilots, gray, green-gray, or brown lenses are recommended.If you need glasses for boating or fishing, try wearing pink or rose-tinted glasses., Think about the climate where you live. Different colors or shades will be more effective in different types of weather. If you live in a tropical area, you might want a color that is better for bright sunny days. If you live in the north, you might find that you need a good pair of sunglasses for snowy weather.


Brown, amber, and gray are great for sunny or overcast days.
Greens are good for most weather conditions, including rain.
Yellows are great for foggy or hazy conditions, including heavy air pollution.
Reds, pinks, blues, and purples are good for snowy and misty conditions., Certain colors may give you an edge if you play sports. Finding the right color lens for your sport can help filter out obtrusive colors and help you notice minute details. Some good options include:



Tennis: gray, brown, or yellow are best.Golfing: yellow, amber, and brown are good for general games. Red and rose may be good for the putting green but not on the fairway.Skiing: amber, yellow, or orange are are generally recommended.Rose colored lenses may help in low-light conditions..

Running: Brown, yellow, or rose are good options, although neutral colors such as gray and green work well too.Baseball: amber, brown, or green are recommended., If you have any eye conditions—such as glaucoma or cataracts—, you should speak to your doctor about what color lens is right for you. You may be advised to find a neutral lens that will block out harmful UV rays without distorting color very much, or you might be recommended a yellow or amber lens to improve your contrast.


For glaucoma, mirror coatings can be helpful. These are shiny outer coatings that reduce glare but do not distort colors. They come in almost every color, but unlike normal lenses, the color of the mirror coating has no effect on your vision.If you have macular degeneration, amber lenses may help while outdoors. While driving, you should stick with gray lenses, however.