 Kids often get embarrassed because they are starting to feel conscious of their bodies and the differences between their bodies and the bodies of others. Encourage your kids to feel comfortable and natural in their own bodies so they have good self-esteem. Remind them that their body is their own and that they have control over their bodies. Tell them that their bodies are private and for them only.You can also educate your kids about their bodies in a healthy way by using the correct name for their body parts, including their private parts.
Talk to your kids about bodily changes and grooming habits that change with age. If a peer has started shaving, for example, let your child know that people develop facial hair at their own rate, and not shaving yet does not mean they are behind.
Read children’s books to your kids that focus on embracing body positivity and good self-esteem.
Teach your kids not to be ashamed of their bodily fluids and habits, such as burping or passing gas. Tell them to say “excuse me” and then move on.
 Many kids get embarrassed when they are being introduced to new people or to a room full of people they do not know well. To avoid embarrassment, prepare your kids beforehand so they know what they are walking into. Tell them they are going to meet new people and that these people are excited to meet them. Make sure your kids know the situation before they are exposed to it.For example, you may tell your kids, “We are going to go to dinner with new people. They are excited to get to know you and they may ask you questions. Are you okay with this?”
Help prepare your children for social interaction new people by having regular, respectful conversations with them and giving them an example they can follow later., Kids will often emulate the behavior of the adults around them. Be a good role model for your kids and act confidently around them. Show them how to interact with new people and how to be social in a healthy, open way.For example, you may be the first to greet new people in the room and say “Hi.” You may also introduce yourself to new people in front of your kids and display open body language, like smiling, eye contact, and a relaxed posture.
You can also strike up conversations with new people and keep conversation going. This will show your kids how to interact with new people in a friendly way.
 To minimize the embarrassment your kids might feel, try not to criticize or scold them in public. Doing this can lead to feelings of anxiety and stress for your kids, especially if they are already feeling nervous around strangers and new people. Discipline your kids in private and in a calm, collected manner.You should also avoid criticizing people around you in public in front of your kids. This kind of behavior can be detrimental for your kids and make them think it is okay to embarrass others in public.
When it is necessary to provide some form of discipline for your child, make sure that you talk with them about what they did in a social situation that was not acceptable, and what they can do next time to help make it easier for you to understand their needs.
 If you notice your kids are coming home from school feeling embarrassed on a regular basis, you may need to intervene. Your kids may be experiencing bullying or constant embarrassment from their peers. Speak to your kids’ teachers and mentors to find out what is going on. Ask your kids thoughtful questions about their experiences and let them know you are there to listen to them.Some kids may start to develop social anxiety due to continual feelings of embarrassment and stress in social situations with others. If your kids keep feeling embarrassed or upset around others, you may want to speak to their doctor to see if they may be experiencing social anxiety.
Other signs of bullying ma include frequent headaches, stomach aches, feeling sick, difficultly sleeping, sudden changes in eating habits, declining grades or fear of going to school, decreased self-esteem, and self-destructive behaviors.