 This shows that you are confident with yourself, but not full of yourself., If the compliment means a lot to you, follow up by saying something like “I really appreciate it” or “that was really encouraging to hear.” Show your boyfriend how the compliment makes you feel and how much value it holds to you. You could even follow it up with a hug and a kiss to be sweet., Say, "aww, do you think so?" or “really?” This is not denying the compliment, but not being smug. As long as you follow this with something like "you're not so bad yourself," "I love you" or "you are so sweet," he won't feel pressured to answer. You are thanking him, plus returning a compliment.
 Look up at your boyfriend as he's giving you the compliment, and try to form an inviting facial expression. Doing this will let him know you are listening and you appreciate his compliment. Looking down will make you appear disinterested., Try to sound like the compliment has made you happy rather than uncomfortable. Respond to your boyfriend with a lighthearted tone in your voice and delivery.
 You don't have to flatter him, but it might be nice to pay him a compliment if the moment calls for it. Return the favor and tell your boyfriend what you love about him. You could simply say, “thanks, handsome” or “I was just thinking about how handsome you are.”, Saying "I'm not" will show people you lack confidence or are seeking attention. This person obviously thinks you're beautiful, so accept the compliment. Don't protest or he might not say it again.
 "You are sweet, but..." Saying "you are sweet" is good, but then going on to protest or even carrying on as though the compliment never was said is bad. It makes him feel unappreciated, and he might not compliment you again.
 Saying "I know!" is another poor answer. You don't thank him at all, and it makes it seem like you're full of yourself. Confidence is good, but nobody likes smugness.
 Saying "how am I?" is just fishing for compliments. He's given you one, so try not to sound greedy or big-headed. He'll feel pressure to answer you or feel he needs to give you more compliments, and if he fails to answer, you'll be hurt.
 Just because he paid you a compliment doesn't mean you have to one-up him. If you must compliment him back, you can say something like, “you're not so bad yourself.” Just avoid overdoing it, and don't try to divert the attention from yourself.