 Tap open its icon from your Android phone or tablet’s home screen to open it. Google Play Store is the official application market where you can download applications specifically made for Android devices.;
, Tap the search field at the top of the screen, and type in “find parked car.”


Tap the magnifying glass icon or press the “Enter” key on your device’s keyboard to start searching. A list of applications related to your query will be displayed.
 On the list, you’ll see a bunch of apps that have been made to find a parked car. You can choose among any one of these. Try those that have a rating of 4.5 or higher.


The most recommended application to get for this kind of purpose is “Find My Car” by eLibera (check the Sources and Citations section below to see the download link).
 Tap the “Install” button; it should be right next to the name of the app or on its Overview page. This will automatically download and install the application onto your Android device in just a few seconds.
 When you have the app installed, you can now proceed to where you need to go. Once you arrive at your destination, find a suitable spot to leave your car. You don’t have to worry about finding it later, as the app will do the job for you.
 Before you leave your car, tap the “Find My Car” icon from your Android device’s home screen to open it.


Tap “Park – Store Position” button from the main screen and the application will get your location’s exact coordinates using your device’s built-in GPS.
 Once your phone is done storing your location details, you may leave your car where you parked it and head for where you need to go. You can also minimize the Find My Car application by pressing your Android’s home button.
 When you’re ready to get back to your car, tap the app’s icon from the home screen to resume it. From the main page, tap the “Find – Display Position” button and it will show you the list of areas where you’ve parked before, the most recent being at the top of the list.


Tap the most recent item from the list and select “Navigate” from the menu. This will bring out a map showing the marked location of your car you stored in Step 2 and your present location.
 Walk towards the pointer marked as the location of your parked car and you’ll see the pointer on the map move as you get close it. Continue doing this up until you find your parked car.

