 For clarifying purposes, the first four people are labeled Players 1-4, Player 1 being at the front of the line. Player 1 and Player 2 should each hold a basketball.


In the beginning of the game, Player 1 may also call "first person protection" so that Player 2 and Player 3 will both have to score the ball before Player 1 is out.;
, Once (s)he shoots, Player 2 may begin shooting their ball.Players 1 and 2 can bump each others' basketballs whenever except if in player's hands. The 1st shot from each player must be from the free throw line.(Every 1st shot should be from the free throw line) Both continue shooting (from anywhere on the court) until one player makes a basket.


If Player 1 gets a basket before Player 2, Player 1 must pass the ball to the next person in line (Player 3), who may immediately begin shooting against Player 2. Player 1 then moves to the back of the line.






If Player 2 gets a basket before Player 1, then Player 1 is "out." Player 1 must pass their ball to the next person in line (Player 3), and sit on the sidelines. The second person passes their ball to Player 4 and moves to the back of the line.
 These two players follow the same rules as Players 1 and 2 in the beginning -- if the person who began shooting first makes a basket first, they pass the ball on and go to the back of the line. If the person who began shooting second makes a basket first, both balls are passed on and the shooter who began first is out. The game continues as the balls make their way through the line.


Also, If the Player before you ends up out you may call "first person protection (earlier explained in rule 1).
 These people continue play as usual, the second person trying to make a basket before the first. If the first person makes a basket first, however, instead of passing the ball on (as there is nobody in the line), they run back to the foul line and begin shooting as the new "second" player. This continues until the second player scores first. (S)he is the winner.

