


There are three layers to the skin, and these are - epidermis, the dermis and then the subcutaneous tissue.
All of the three layers are made up of slightly different things and contain a different sort of tissue. They also do different things.

The epidermis, for example, is a barrier to the outside world.
The dermis is a connective type of tissue. It contains different types of this connective tissue that all do different things, by way of strength, durability and also the look and texture.
The subcutaneous tissue is the bottom layer of the skin that contains fat cells. It is these layers that insulate the body and makes the skin appear plump and healthy.

;
, During the ageing process, the epidermis and the cells within it become thinner. Thinner cells mean thinner skin and the barrier against outside elements is less effective. The skin appears dryer and the skin is unable to repair itself as easily as it did in younger age. The dermis contains cells like collagen. Less of this is produced in the ageing process and the skin starts to lose its elasticity. Because of this and the effects on the first layer, the epidermis, the skin loses its healthiness and it will start to wrinkle and also sag.


With the third layer, the subcutaneous tissue, the fat cells shrink as they get older and the cells cannot fill out the skin as much as it can when it is in its younger years. When the skin becomes damaged, and wrinkles and sagging begins to happen, the cells cannot fill it out, and it is this reason why wrinkles happen with age.
 There are many other reasons why this wrinkle process begins prematurely.


It has been proven that up to ninety percent of the symptoms that accompany premature ageing,for example, wrinkles, is due to prolonged exposure to ultraviolet light. This comes from sunlight and can also come from tanning beds. Basically, the exposure to the sun causes the wrinkles to begin at an accelerated speed. The light that the sun gives out kills the cells within the epidermis and the layers further down and causes the same system of events as ageing does.

