 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has a picture of a baseball player. Tap on it.
 Tap the exchanging cards icon on the bottom toolbar to go to Trades. You will be brought to the Trades screen where you can see all your trades.
 Tap the exchanging cards icon on the top right corner, and you will be brought to the first screen for trading.
 All the cards available in BUNT are displayed. Swipe through the cards to view them until you find the cards you want to get. Put the cards you’re getting at the topmost panel by tapping and holding them one by one and dragging them there, or by just double-tapping on them. Tap “Next” at the top right corner to proceed.


You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade.
 The next trading screen will appear, with your cards now displayed. Swipe up and down on your cards to view all of them, until you find the cards you want to give. Put the cards you’re giving at the topmost panel by tapping and holding them one by one and dragging them there, or by just double-tapping on them. Tap “Next” at the top right corner to proceed.


You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade.
 All the fans that have the cards you want will be displayed in a new window. These are the ones that have the exact set you want. Swipe up and down through the list, and tap on the ones you want to trade with. Click the “Next” button at the top right corner of the window.


You can select up to five trading partners at a time.
 A summary screen of your trade will be displayed for your review. Carefully check if this is the trade you want to offer. The partners you’ve selected will be displayed horizontally at the top. The cards you’re getting are on the left box and the cards you’re giving are on the right box.


Double-check and make sure the correct cards are being traded. Once you’ve sent the trade offers, your partners will see them and act on them right away. You may not be able to recover your cards once your trade is accepted.
 Tap the “Send” button at the bottom to proceed with the trade. The trade offers will be sent to your partners. If one of them accepts, the cards you’re getting will be added to your card deck, and the cards you’ve offered will be moved to his.

