 If your handwriting is particularly bad, consider typing your cards on a word processor. You can print out pieces of paper with vocabulary words and definitions written on them. Then, you can cut out these chunks of texts and glue them on cards. Some printers, however, may have a feature where you can print directly on to index cards. Check your printer's settings and see if this is possible. Printed, typed index cards may be more effective as it lessens the risk of illegibility or misspelling.
 There are many websites and softwares that allow you to create and print flashcards to use on your computer. If you don't mind reading and studying from a screen, this could be a great way to save time.


Quizlet and StudyBeans are websites that allow you to create flashcards to use online by typing in the terms and definitions you need to memorize. The sites will then automatically generate flashcards you can use.If you're studying vocabulary for the SAT, UnderGrad Flash is a computer program that contains flashcards and study guides for SAT vocabulary terms.If you're studying vocabulary for the GRE, GradFlash and Kaplan GRE Vocabulary Exam Flashcards offer digital flashcards containing GRE words., If you have a Kindle or a similar device, there are many applications and softwares you can purchase or download for free that can generate vocabulary flashcards. Websites like Quizlet and StudyBeans can easily be accessed and used through Kindle.The main advantage to using Kindle over a regular computer is that you can take your Kindle anywhere. As many people read on their Kindle frequently, you may find it easier to concentrate on that device. Your mind is already prepped for reading and comprehension when you turn on your Kindle.You can also add images to the flashcards, as well as organize them by subject, unit, or study session using Kindle., The major downside to using flashcards on a computer is the potential for distractions. You have access to the internet, as well as games, pictures, and so on. If you choose to use flashcards on a computer or portable electronic device, take steps to lessen distractions.


Disconnect from the internet, if you're able to use the flashcards without going online. In fact, it may be a good idea to go to a place where you cannot get a WiFi connection. This removes the temptation altogether.
If you have to be online to access your flashcards, sign out of all social media accounts like Facebook and Twitter. You should also close any programs running in the background that may be distracting.

