 Offering a better retirement plan or health insurance can give them an extra incentive to work hard and keep their jobs. Giving dedicated individuals a way to earn extra vacation time can also boost employee morale.
 It doesn't have to be all the time. Utility costs can be cut down by having employees work from home. There is no commute, and you cut down on office social distractions.
 Annual bonuses and bonuses based on goals can really give your team a morale boost. Bonuses aren't as much of a commitment as raises, given that they are one-time payments. This can feel like a raise, but it has only a temporary effect. Beware providing regular bonuses and then eliminating them. Employees may feel a morale boost leading up to getting a bonus, not just after. It can be very deflating to lose a bonus one was expecting. Also, research indicates that only substantial bonuses have any positive impact on employee behavior., If there are none, offer them. Your employees will be healthy, increasing their morale. They will feel that their position has more worth. It can contribute to a feeling of security, especially when spouses and children are covered. It has been shown, for both the public and private sector, that employee satisfaction and productivity can be enhanced by providing health care benefits., This may seem like an excuse to slack off, but it reality it can result in productivity, as vacation improves health and focus.It can also save money, as for some companies the average worker has an accumulated $2-4,000 in unused vacation.It also fosters loyalty, as the perk is difficult to give up. Abuse is controlled by the employee's desire to keep their job and to appear diligent.


Gohealthinsurance.com implemented this policy, and in the same year reported a 200% in growth.
Virgin Group, Netflix, BestBuy, Prezi, and Evernote all have implemented limitless vacation policies for employees.
 By giving employees the opportunity to better themselves through your company, you can improve morale. When an employee feels like he is not going anywhere, it is very demoralizing. In funding, even in part, education, you will get smarter, happier employees.
 This is the quickest way to increase morale. Consider setting scheduled, bi-annual raises, based on performance. Review employee records to see who may be overdue for a raise.

