 Most headboards are constructed out of wood, so your first step is going to be finding a large-enough piece of wood that you can fashion into a headboard. Check your bed to see that the candidate is at least as wide as your bed; headboards that are flush with the width of the bed look best. Here are some ideas about wood that you can use:









Any piece of plywood. There's no need to break the bank if you're just going to cover it anyway.
An old or new door. If buying a new door, look for a hollow-core door, as they are cheaper and less heavy.
A piece of metal. Perhaps some corrugated tin roofing could be cut into an elegant pattern?
Some rehabbed shutters. Adds texture and, if the shutters are in the right condition, an homey vintage look.
Some chalkboard. Perfect for those who like to write and doodle, this gives a whole new meaning to the phrase "playing in bed.";
, Who said a headboard needed to be a plank of wood, filled with batting, and covered with fabric? A headboard can be so many things, even if they aren't true headboard. Use your imagination:









Paint out or make a decal for your headboard. This won't actually give you a headboard, but you can do a lot with just a little.
Use a piece of architectural salvage to hang above your bed. A piece of antique wood salvage can brighten up your room just like a headboard.
Cut out fabric in the shape of a headboard. Again, no real board to speak of, but the same great headboard effect.
Turn a mirror or big painting into a headboard. Mirrors are great for enlarging the feel of the room, while paintings show off your artistic sense. Either can make a suitable headboard.
 While some headboards can be larger than the width of the bed, most headboards line up exactly as wide as the bed is. Figure out how wide your bed is and mark those measurements onto the headboard material. Cut the material accordingly.









If you're buying plywood or a door from a retail store, you might be able to have the store cut the wood for you if you already know the dimensions. Large retail stores like Lowe's or Home Depot provide this service for free, as might smaller mom & pop stores.
Remember to be cautious with your cutting. You can always cut more off, but you can never add more on. If you're not sure how big you want your headboard to be in the beginning, cut off a little first, and then more if necessary.
 You ideally want your headboard to be soft and giving, not hard as a rock. In order to get this softness under your headboard, you're going to need a bit of padding. Drape your padding over the headboard and trace an outline around the edges of the headboard. Cut it so that it fits perfectly over the headboard.









Foam can be used but may be expensive. Since foam is petroleum-based, its price fluctuates along with the price of gas.
Use egg crate mattress topper for a cheap alternative to foam. Egg crate mattress topper should cost less than $20. Two egg crate mattress toppers laid in on one another make a smooth surface.
Polyester padding can also be used. For a little bit extra, polyester padding has springiness and give, making a great batting material.
 Since you're going to staple the batting onto the back of the headboard, you want it to be big enough to reach behind the headboard.








