 Combine sugar, lemon juice, and water into a saucepan and heat on low. Make sure it doesn't boil over. You’ll need to use a food thermometer to measure the temperature of the mix. It is done when the thermometer reads 250 F. , You should leave it for at least half an hour before you do anything else with it. Definitely do not apply the mixture to your legs yet! That will hurt.
 If you aren’t going to use it immediately that’s okay, but when you do want to use it make sure you put in microwave without the lid for 30-40 seconds or until the wax resembles a honey like state. If it becomes solid it’s much harder to spread out over your legs. , Apply a little cooled wax to your body to test for a rash or redness. If there is none then you can continue

, Pat off the water and apply baby powder. This isn’t necessary but it could help with the process and make your legs less sensitive. , See if the hair is growing all in one direction or in different patches. You are going to have to apply the wax and waxing strip in the direction of your hair growth.
 If it feels warm, let it cool a bit more. An easy way to test when to use it is to stir it - if its too runny then chances are you must wait more.
 Only do this after it is sufficiently cooled.When you spread the wax in the direction of hair growth the hair should lay flat and smooth with no hairs poking up.
 Rubbing it up and down is the best way. Now wait for wax to set or until you feel resistance when you try pulling the strip up.
 Pull the skin taut by holding down on any loose skin with your hands before you do this. Do it as quickly as possible and in one clean piece. When pulled away properly, there should be little to moderate discomfort.
 Hopefully the process doesn’t take too long, but make sure that you are being thorough. There’s nothing worse than checking to see you missed a spot a few days later. Pull the skin taut by holding down on any loose skin with your hands.
 Pat dry and apply generous amounts of moisturizer to relax your skin. Good job, you’ve waxed your legs using sugar wax!

