 This is the hardest part. You'll reconnect with her soon enough, but for now you need to spend time apart. Regardless of how the relationship ended, you both probably said things you didn't mean. The wound is fresh, and it needs time to heal. Cut off communication and give her time to reflect on the breakup. Hopefully you'll both move past whatever ended the relationship and remember all the good times you had together. After enough time, she'll start to miss you.


The amount of time you need to spend apart depends on the relationship and the nature of the breakup. If your relationship was serious and your breakup was nasty, she'll need more time. If you just started dating and it was a silly fight, she won't need much time at all.
Don't text her or message her. If she reaches out to you, don't ignore her, but play it safe. This is not the time for big romantic gestures.
Avoid places you know she frequents. Steer clear of her favorite coffee shop and the gym she goes to.
If you happen to see her in person, be polite. Say hello or wave, but that's it.
If you have to see her regularly, like for class, acknowledge but don't engage her. Talk to your friends instead. Let her see you having a good time.;
, This is perfect opportunity to pick up the pieces and get your life back on track. You need to show her that you're capable of being independent and strong. Instead of feeling sorry for yourself, work on self-improvement.


Remember the activities that made you happy before your girlfriend. Focus on pursuing those interests. Did you used to like to go to play piano or go hiking? Zone in on those interests again. They'll help revitalize your life.
Find a new hobby. Try yoga. Learn to surf. Go to the opera. Try something new that you've never had time for. This will let you grow as a person. Even if your ex never finds out, it'll distract you and build your self-confidence.
Work out. Not only will this get you in shape and make you more attractive, you'll feel better about yourself. Exercise is scientifically proven to fight depression.Get a work out routine and stick to it. When she sees you again, she'll be impressed with your new and improved body and mood.
Have an active social life. You need your friends now more than ever. Family and friends are there to support you. Don't harp on your breakup, though. Go out and have fun with them! Go to a bar, go dancing, or organize a road trip.
Try a new style. Buy new clothes and within reason, reinvent your look and your general lifestyle. Be careful not to lose what made her like you in the first place.
 This is easier said than done. Take time and really think about the underlying causes that led to your breakup. Was it a lack of communication? Did you take her for granted? Are you stressed or depressed, and you took it out on her? Whatever happened, diagnose the problem. Then you can start to look for a solution.


Be honest with yourself. This can be hard. Nobody wants to admit blame. Swallow your pride and find what the true problem was.
After that, think of solutions. Don't dwell in the past. Regrets don't help anyone. Instead, think of how you can avoid those problems in the future.
Writing can help. Jot down what went wrong in the relationship. For every problem list one or two things you can do to improve yourself and make sure those problems don't come up again.
 Once you've spent enough time apart, briefly reconnect. Send her a breezy text, or "accidentally" run into her. Be friendly and outgoing to show her how happy you are. She won't want you back if you're acting clingy and desperate. Bring out your aloof and independent side. Have a brief, mature conversation — maybe apologize for how things ended — and move along.


Ideally, you'll be around friends for this interaction. Hang out with them in the park where she walks her dogs or where she likes to get frozen yogurt. You don't even have to talk to her necessarily. Just let her see you having a good time. Laugh and act like the life of the party.
If possible let her see you doing something new. It can be hard to pull this off, so let social media do the work for you. Post a picture of you at the beach with your new surfboard.
Make her feel a little jealous. Be friendly with another girl in front of her. Post pictures to social media with girls she doesn't know. This will improve your social status in her eyes and make her want you again. Be careful not to take this too far. It can easily backfire. And whatever you do, don't make a move on another girl.
Use the show, don't tell method to prove that you've changed. Show her that you can keep a steady job, that you're on top of your finances, and that you're in charge of your life. She'll be attracted to how responsible you are.
 Ask her out to coffee or lunch. Let her know it's not a date, it's a just a relaxed get-together. By this point, she'll really want to talk to you so she should agree. When you see her, be fun and friendly. Show her how easygoing and carefree you can be.


Avoid asking her with a serious text like "we have to talk." At this point, you want to be as breezy as possible.
Compliment her. Tell her you like her earrings or her scarf, or just that she looks nice. Don't go overboard though. One or two compliments is plenty.
Have some light flirtation. Remember that it's only supposed to be a platonic meeting, but add some levity to the situation. Maybe bring up an old inside joke.
Laugh and have a good time. Remind her how happy you can be together.
If she broaches the breakup, try to change the topic. If she presses the issue, maybe it's already time to talk. Take a deep breath and tell her what you've learned in your time apart. Part 3 has more tips on how to handle that conversation.
At the end, leave things open-ended. A hug will probably be appropriate. Tell her it was nice seeing her and you had a great time and leave it at that.
 The key here is to keep the ball rolling. Now that you have momentum, have another casual meet up. Don't be in a rush though. Wait at least a week before meeting up again. Keep your strategy of being easygoing throughout the process. This time, maybe do something more active. You can get ice cream and go for a walk or get drinks at a low-key bar. Assure her it's not a date. You just want to see her.


Try to meet up three to five times before moving forward. She needs time to remember what attracted her to you in the first place. Show her your best side without any strings attached, and before long she'll start to want you back.
 When you're meeting with her, make it clear that you're sorry. Whatever happened, you probably did or said something you regret. You had plenty of time apart to reflect on what went wrong. Share with her what you learned. Tell her you know you messed up and make it clear that you've changed and wouldn't make the same mistakes. Above all else, be specific. She doesn't want an empty or generic apology. She wants you to know exactly what you did wrong and what you're doing to fix it.


Be sincere. Look her in the eyes and tell that you're genuinely sorry for what happened.
Don't be too dramatic. You're still trying to be easygoing, but you can be casual and still genuinely apologize for the way things ended.
If you did something especially bad like cheating and you really hurt her, your apology should come before anything else. You have to let her know how deeply sorry you are before she would even consider getting back together. You're going to have to apologize multiple times and in multiple ways. If she doesn't accept your apology, be understanding. Give her space and apologize again after you've both had time to think it over.
 Make sure you pick the right time and place for this conversation. Ideally, it should be at night with no distractions — it's just the two of you. Seize the moment and tell her how much you miss her. Let her know that you've changed. Talk about what went wrong and what you'll do to make sure that doesn't happen again. Apologize again, and assume all the responsibility. Be humble and show her how mature you can be. At the end, don't beg her to take you back. Make it clear you want to get back together and see how she responds. If she's uncertain, don't try to convince her. She needs more time. If she feels the same way, ask her on a date!


Have a plan. Know when and where you want to take her on a date if she responds positively to your conversation.
Practice what you're going to say beforehand. At the very least, know what you want to say. This is one of the most important conversations you'll have, so you don't want to wing it.
Be calm and confident. Keep a steady voice and look her in the eyes. You need to reassure her that you want to get back together. You can't accomplish that if you're acting jittery and nervous. Take a deep breath and be honest.
Be specific. Let her know exactly what you would change this time around. Generic words and cliches won't help you here.
This can be a messy conversation. Try to stay on message and don't get sidetracked. Respond to her concerns in a respectful manner. She probably won't react positively right away. Persevere and be understanding to her feelings. It could be a long conversation, so be patient. Keep taking deep breaths to calm yourself and she'll see how confident and thoughtful you are.
 Be the perfect gentleman. Pick her up. Bring flowers. Compliment her. Flirt with her. Pay for the meal. Hang on her every word. Impress her with your confidence. Show her you at your best, and let her fall in love with you all over again. Even if the date doesn't go perfectly, the effort alone will show her how much you care.


Take cues from her about how to end the date. If she's not ready to go straight back into a relationship, be understanding. Drop her off and let her know you want to take her out again. If there's an opportunity for a kiss, go for it. And if she wants to sleep with you, it'll reignite your passion and intimacy almost immediately.
Take a deep breath and stay in control.
Make her laugh. The best way to have a good date is to be funny. If you have old inside jokes, this is the perfect time to cash in on them.
Be totally engaged in her. Don't check your phone or act absent-minded. Listen to her carefully and act like it's just the two of you.
 Just because you're back together doesn't mean your problems are over. If you want to stay together, you're going to have to do better this time. Take everything you learned from the breakup and your time apart and put it into practice. Be more appreciative of her this time. Be a more responsive and communicative boyfriend. Work on your problems as a couple, and you'll come out of the ordeal stronger than ever!


Keep working on yourself too. The happier and more responsible you are, the more she'll want to stay with you. Keep having an active social life and pursuing your hobbies.
Consider couples therapy. This can be immensely beneficial for the future of your relationship. The two of you only know so much. Get a professional involved.
Make sure it doesn't happen again. Be vigilant of the problem signs that led to your breakup, and stop them before they can hurt your relationship again. You're much smarter and more experienced this time, so you're perfectly equipped to make sure your relationship goes the distance this time.
Be happy and thankful that you have her back. Don't be paranoid about it ending. Live for the moment while being a caring partner and you won't have anything to worry about.

