 Accept yourself as you are, both the positive and the negative. Every person has many layers to his or her personality, including the need to have regular—not excessive-- validation and attention. By doing this you may be able to put yourself on the path to needing less attention.Focus on your positive traits internally as much as you can. For example, you might be a kind and giving person. Instead of showing off your accomplishments, show off those of others. You could say, “Let’s raise our glasses to Taylor’s graduation from college. She did such an amazing job and graduate with highest honors.”

, Your need for attention probably didn’t develop overnight. It likely unfolded over time, as most habits do. The most effective way to break your habit of seeking any type of attention is to find new habits for yourself. Making your new habits a part of your daily routine instead of your attention-seeking ones can help you change your behavior.Try finding alternatives to certain behaviors. For example, if you seek attention on social media, go to a site that has the latest news or articles on cooking and traveling. Do this every day and it can keep you from the temptations of social media over time. You could also choose to go to an intimate and quiet restaurant for a glass of wine instead of happy hour at a bar.
Find ways to channel any energy you spent on getting attention. You could take cooking classes, volunteer with a local charity, or try a new sport or activity such as yoga or painting.
 Many people become attention whores when they are in a group or participate in something that includes a lot of people. Consider taking a break from group activities for a while. This may prevent the need for any type of attention and help you get a lot of positive attention from one person. It also gives you a chance to practice heaping attention on other people.Recognize that there are many benefits of focusing your time on one or two people including that it helps you strengthen those relationships. It also can really help you notice and change your behaviors as an attention whore.
Schedule fun activities with one or two people. Suggest a day trip or a quiet dinner at your home. If the friends ask if they can bring someone, kindly decline. You can say, “I’d love to meet your friend, Allie, but I’m really working at developing my friendships and changing my need to be the center of attention. Being around a lot of people makes me do this. Can we just keep it to us for now?”

, People are increasingly using of social media sites such as Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat. Your world may be saturated with pictures, statements, and other things that make you feel insecure and like no one is paying attention to you. These feelings can lead to being an attention whore and posting anything just to get a “like” or reaction from people. Giving yourself some time off of social media can help you focus on yourself and stop being seeking any type of attention.Delete your accounts entirely or deactivate them until you feel ready to try social media. Deleting accounts can take away temptation to read and make posts and give you a chance to show your changed self with a brand new account.
Deal with any questions about why you’re gone by saying, “You know, I just decided to take a break and focus on myself. I could have so much more time to do the things I love without the distraction of social media. This includes seeing you more often.”

, You might make a real attempt to stop being an attention whore and have a hard time doing it. If this happens, consider seeking the help of a mental health professional. The therapist can identify the causes of your behavior and help formulate a treatment to deal with underlying issues and your need for constant attention.See a counselor, social worker, psychologist, or a psychiatrist for help with your behavior. Tell the person honestly why you’ve come for counseling. Answer any questions the therapist has for you. These can give your therapist insight on the causes of you being an attention whore and how best to tackle it.

