 With all the fun of summer, it can be easy to forget to drink water. Remind yourself to take a sip by setting a reminder on your phone. An hourly “ping” can remind you to regularly drink a glass of water, and help keep you hydrated throughout your day., Another trick is to think “one out, one in.” Every time you use the restroom (which your body will naturally remind you to do), replenish what you lost with a big glass of water.This method will only work to maintain hydration. If you are already dehydrated, you will not use the restroom often enough for this method to work.
A well-hydrated person should use the restroom every one to one-and-a-half hours.
 Avoiding alcohol altogether is an effective way to maintain your hydration. If you are going to drink, however, it is crucial to compensate with extra water. Aim to go “one for one,” consuming a glass of water for every alcoholic beverage you put down. This will keep you healthy, keep you awake, and best of all, reduce your chances of a hangover.Consuming alcohol in the summer heat can be dangerous or even deadly. Do so only with extreme caution.
Be sure to also eat when drinking alcohol. Eating slows the absorption of alcohol but does not prevent one from becoming drunk. Moderation is the best answer when it comes to alcohol.
 The simplest way to tell if you are hydrated is to take a look at your pee. If it is clear to faintly yellow, then you are on the right track. If your urine is medium to dark yellow, it is evident that you need to increase hydration immediately. You can check your urine throughout the day to tell how you’re doing with hydration. Anytime the color seems dark, grab some water and take a drink., Particularly in the summer, dehydration can happen fast. Don’t wait until you feel physically thirsty — be proactive about your hydration by drinking water, and taking other steps, throughout the day.As we age, our receptors in our brains that tell us we are thirsty decrease in effectiveness, so by the time one feels the thirst urge, it is often after dehydration has set in. Avoid this by being proactive and consuming water throughout the day.

