 While technically covering a range of disorders of the heart and blood vessels, cardiovascular disease most often refers to problems caused by atherosclerosis -- plaque buildup in arteries that restricts blood flow.Blood vessels become clogged as atheroma -- essentially small, fatty lumps -- build up on the walls of arteries. In the same way that a slow sink drain will turn into a complete stoppage over time, new fat deposits collect on existing ones, further narrowing the artery. Likewise, blood flows more slowly behind the clog, increasing the likelihood of clotting that adds to the blockage.
 Atherosclerosis makes the heart work harder and less efficiently to circulate blood throughout the body. Also, a complete blockage that cuts off blood flow to a part of the body can cause severe health crises.Angina (heart pain) and heart failure (inefficient functioning leading to breathlessness, lethargy, etc.) are common results of narrowed arteries. So too is peripheral artery disease, which is a pain in an extremity (usually the legs) caused by restricted blood flow.
Thrombosis refers to a blockage of blood flow to a part of the body due to a clot. A heart attack is caused by a lack of blood flow to the heart, while a stroke is a result of the same to the brain. These are life-threatening conditions linked to cardiovascular disease.
Approximately one-third of U.S. adults will develop cardiovascular disease in their lifetimes. The good news, however, is that about 80% of heart attacks and strokes are preventable when the proper steps for cardiovascular disease prevention are taken., Risk factors for cardiovascular disease come in three categories: fixed, treatable, and preventable.Knowing your risks in each category is the best way to plan your preventative attack.


Key fixed risk factors (those that cannot be changed) include: family history of cardiovascular disease (especially parent or sibling); male gender (although women are far from immune); and age (the older one gets, the more likely it becomes).
Treatable risk factors (those that can be managed) include, among others: high blood pressure; high LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels; and diabetes.
The list of preventable risk factors (those that can be eliminated) includes: smoking; physical inactivity; poor diet; and obesity.
 Talk to your medical provider about your overall risk level for cardiovascular disease. If you would like to use a simple formula to determine a mathematical representation of your risk level, visit How to Calculate Your Heart Disease Risk. Don’t use this as a substitute for medical advice, however.
 The faster you are able to recognize signs of cardiovascular disease, the faster you can receive treatment.


Signs of heart attack include: chest pain or discomfort, upper body discomfort, lightheadedness, dizziness, or breaking out in cold sweats.
Signs of heart infections include: fever, shortness of breath, weakness or fatigue, swelling in your legs or abdomen, dry or persistent cough, or skin rashes or unusual spots.
Signs of Arrhythmia include: fatigue, dizziness, lightheadedness, shortness of breath, or chest pain.
Signs of valvular heart disease include: fatigue, shortness or breath, irregular heartbeat, swollen feet or ankles, chest pain, or fainting.
Signs of stroke include: face drooping, arm weakness, or speech difficulty. Call 911 if someone shows these symptoms.

