 This can best be accomplished through a strategy known as emotion-focused coping. Emotion-focused coping is the process of recognizing that while you cannot change the situation you are in, you can change the way you react to and feel about it.Change the way you feel about being rejected by understanding that women who reject you don’t understand you, may be just having a bad day, or are already romantically involved with someone else. In other words, you don’t need to take it personally.
 The possibility that you could miss out on a great opportunity to talk to or date a woman is more frightening than the prospect of rejection. There’s nothing worse than realizing how different your life could be if only you’d gone out and talked to women more often or earlier.Imagine your life as a branching path. At one point in your life, you chose to talk to a certain woman, then you fell in love, got married, had kids, and lived happily ever after. In the other scenario, you spent your life afraid of talking to women and spent the rest of your days free and unencumbered, but alone. Which would you prefer?

, The only way to make a sword is to put the metal in the fire. Being rejected in a truly painful way will only make you stronger after you get over it. Once your heart has been ripped out by being rejected by a woman you really care for, future rejections, by contrast, will seem less intense.


Don't take your rejection personally. Recognize that the rejection has to do with the other person's faults and feelings, not yours.It's okay to feel disappointed when you've been rejected, but don't react with anger or violence against yourself or others when you've been rejected. Yelling or throwing things, for instance, are both unacceptable. There will be more opportunities for you to get over your fear of women in the future, so don't let a few rejections get you down.
 Finding something funny about your rejection may be hard, but it’s an effective way to get over it. When you laugh and smile, you release endorphins, natural painkillers which relieve stress and make us feel good.After you get rejected, try to find at least one funny thing about the situation.


It helps if you have a friend along with you to review the experience. Ask your friend, “Wow, did you see her face when I asked her if she wanted to dance?” Being sarcastic, but not bitter, about your experience can help too. “Well that went well,” you might tell yourself after a harsh rejection.

