 If you’ve decided that you’d like to hire a pet sitter to watch your dog while you’re away, you’ll need to start to identify potential candidates. Searching online, asking for recommendations, and looking for listings in local stores will help you to compile a list of potential hires.Organizations like the National Association of Pet Sittersand Pet Sitters Internationalallow you to enter your zip code to find pet sitters near you.
Websites like Care.com, SitterCity, Angie’sList may have profiles for local pet sitter that includes their information and their pricing.
You may also find local postings for pet sitters at pet stores, groomers, and veterinarian offices.;
, Speak with other pet owners that you know to see if they have any referrals for reliable pet sitters. A recommendation from a trusted friend may be more reputable than an online listing or advertisement.Veterinary technicians often pet sit on the side to earn extra income, so you could start by checking with your veterinarian to see if they have a list of available pet sitters for you to choose from.
Ask friends and family members that you know have used pet sitters in the past.
You can also look online to see whether there are reviews of the pet sitters available from past customers. While these can be helpful, you will need to decide how much weight you will give online recommendations.
 With pet sitters, you can decide whether you'd like the pet sitter to stay in your home and watch your dog or have them visit your home each day.


For pet sitters that visit each day, your dog will be alone for the rest of the time. This is a good option if your dog doesn't mind being alone, but is not ideal for dogs that have separation anxiety or are destructive when left alone.
In-home pet sitters will cost more, but your dog will be able to spend more time with a human and have their full attention.
 Ideally, the pet sitter will be insured so that you are not liable for any potential accidents that may occur on your property. Check your homeowner's insurance to see what sorts of damages are covered under your policy if the pet sitter is staying in your home.


This may not be possible if you are using a pet sitter that is not a professional, like a student who pet sits part time.
 Confirm their pricing, see if they offer discounts for multiple dogs if applicable, and double-check their location and their references. Make sure that they are available for the days you’ll be away on vacation. Pet sitters can become fully booked during busy seasons, especially around the holidays, so contact potential sitters with a few weeks' notice.


Compare prices between your top choices to see if one sitter is significantly more affordable than the other. If possible, don’t let cost deter you from selecting the best sitter. Professional pet sitters will likely charge more, but they are often insured and offer additional services, like GPS tracking or medical care, that others do not.
For pets with medical conditions, look for pet sitters that have experience dealing with dogs with health problems. If needed, make sure that the pet sitter can administer medication to your dog.
 Ideally, you will be able to meet with the pet sitter before you leave for vacation. If you really trust a recommendation that you’ve received, you may be able to forego this step. During this meeting, you’ll want to confirm that this pet sitter has successfully worked with dogs before, is trustworthy, and gets along with your dog.Bring your pet to this meeting, or hold the meeting at your home, so the pet sitter has a chance to meet your dog. If possible, let the pet sitter do a test walk with your dog to see how they handle your dog.
 Now that you’ve met the pet sitter and have decided they are right for your needs, you can officially hire them. The two of you will need to agree on a price and a payment method. It is best to get this in writing, and to also have them sign a contract saying that they will watch your dog during the specified dates.


Write a covering letter and give it to your veterinarian just in case circumstances make it necessary. In the letter, express what your preferences are in the event of an accident or the pet's ill health, and also express that you are giving the pet sitter authority to sign consent forms on your behalf.
 Leave the pet sitter with detailed instructions so they can adequately care for your dog while you are away. You will need to leave them with your contact information, your veterinarian’s phone number in case of an emergency, and the phone number of a trusted neighbor or friend who can help if needed. Include information about your dog’s routine, personality, preferences, bathroom habits, and any medications they might take.