 If you are obese, have a medical condition, or are elderly, you should talk to a medical professional before you begin an exercise program. Your doctor can work with you to figure out an appropriate exercise plan. Be sure to ask your doctor about what exercises are right for you, as well as whether you should adjust your workouts based on preexisting medical conditions, weight, or age.;
, If you want to get firm abs, you will need to schedule exercise into your daily life. You should aim for 2-3 abdominal strengthening sessions each week that are around 15 minutes long., You can make your abs more visible by reducing your overall body fat. Try working tow to three cardio sessions into your weekly workout schedule. Aim for between thirty and forty-five minutes of cardio like running, spinning, or dancing during each of the sessions.
 You can use crunches to help firm and strengthen your abdominal muscles. While standard crunches are beneficial, you can also mix it up. Try doing reverse crunches, cable crunches, or twist crunches., Strong, firm abs can be acquired through some dedicated balance work. Try a stability ball, a balance board, or just standing on one leg for 60 seconds at a time. These exercises can help fire up your core and add some spice to your ab workout., Yoga can be a great way to firm up your abs. You can do it in the comfort of your home or you can attend a class at your local gym or yoga studio. Try working on poses like boat, crow, and extended side angle. These poses can help you gain strength while firming your abs., You can easily sculpt and firm your abs without any special equipment by doing a Pilates workout. Pilates exercises like the hundred, abdominal rolls, and plank can all be done at home and at your own pace., Plank exercises are a great way to build abdominal strength. You can do a traditional plank pose with both hands on the ground, or you can add variations to the pose like a one-arm side plank.
 Using a dip bar, tuck with your feet on the floor. Bring your feet up to your chest one at a time until you are in a tucked position supported by your arms. Hold the pose for 10-15 seconds. You can up the ante by doing an L-sit with one leg extended or with both legs extended.