 If your at prom, you won't wear jeans and a shirt. On the other hand, you wouldn't go full glitz and glam at a small fundraiser party. Look at flyers, posters, or ask a school official what would be appropriate for the party.;
, Bracelets, rings, necklaces are good if that's your kind of thing. If not, go for a natural look. A watch is not recommended but there are some really fashionable watches out there.
 There are many hairstyles out there, so experiment to see which one works for you and goes with your outfit.


Bring a little bag which has some 'emergency' stuff in it. This includes a spare hair band or bow for bad hair days. A small roll-on anti-persipant deodorant. If you want you could also bring breath-spray and lip-balm, just in case you and your partner kiss(or if you just don't want bad breath)!

, Shoes you know are comfy-cute but don't wear too often are a prime choice.


Wear something that is comfortable and cute. A pair of heels can give painful blisters that will make you sit on one of the corner chairs watching everyone dancing and having a lot of fun.
Remember socks and sandals are a total no-go.
 Go more colorful then usual (eye make-up vs. a little eyeliner for school). Or wear that new lipstick you've been planning for something special. Of course, the dance area is probably dark, so putting more effort in your outfit and going natural with make-up is another way to go. Remember that nobody finds a cake face attractive, so don't overdo it.


A good choice is some concealer, (that matches your skin tone!) eyeliner and a lipstick or lipgloss. NO MORE! Also make sure the makeup matches your outfit. For example a emerald-green dress and emerald-green eyeliner is a great match!

, Let it all out! You've probably been waiting to get all that energy out because you will get in trouble in class. But this isn't a classroom! Be yourself! Don't try to be somebody you're not. If you're a little shy, get together with your friends and dance together. It's a school dance! There's probably going to be some people there who are dancing all out. Do the same! Just don't go overboard.


Who says you can't have that really sugary slush? Or some of them nachos coated in cheese sauce? A school dance is not a school dance without the food! Who cares if you have a bit of chocolate? Nobody...apart from yourself!
If you plan on kissing someone stay away from strong smelling or sticky foods, especially anything that contains garlic.
Bring some mint or chewing gum to freshen your breath up after eating.

