 Since a one night stand is all about the sex, physical attraction is very important. Look for someone that appeals to you physically. For example, if a killer smile turns you on look for someone with a great grin.Pay attention to chemistry. The "spark" that you feel when talking to someone is important.
If you feel immediate attraction and a connection, that's a good sign. Your body may exhibit physical signs of attraction, such as flushing and an accelerated heart rate.
Choose someone that won't compliment your life. For instance, it's probably not a great idea to have a one night stand with a coworker. That could make things awkward in staff meetings.
You don't have to choose a complete stranger, though. Is there a good looking groomsman at your cousin's wedding? Go for it.
 Since you might not ever see this person again, a one night stand is a great time to fulfill some of your sexual fantasies. If you aren't expecting to build a life with the other person, it's likely you'll feel less inhibited. Feel free to experiment.

Maybe you've always been hesitant to be vocal during sex. Use this as an opportunity to make your desires known.
Try saying, "I would love it if you would do XYZ to me."
You can also experiment by having sex outside of the bedroom. Have you always wanted to do it on the dining room table? This is your moment.
 Just because it is not a relationship doesn't mean that it can't be intimate. Don't be afraid to ask your partner to spend the night, if that's what you want. If you enjoy cuddling after sex, make that clear.You can say something like, "I always get a good night sleep with someone's arms around me. Do you mind?"
If cuddling doesn't seem right, don't worry about it. This is your experience to enjoy.
 Hopefully, you have spent the night at your house. Or maybe you are at a hotel, if you are on vacation. Wherever you are, it's useful to have a plan for leaving in the morning.

You can make it clear from the outset that you have plans in the morning. For example, you could say, "I'd love for you to come back to my place. I hope you don't mind I have an early spin class booked."
In the morning, be polite, but firm. Say, "I really enjoyed spending time with you. I've got to head out soon, though."
Having an exit strategy can save a lot of morning after awkwardness.

