 It's very important that you find positive ways to interact with your sibling. One of the best ways to do this is just to do fun things together, things which you both like to do. Playing games together or going for a bike ride together will help you get to know one another while in a relaxing and fun atmosphere. In order to have a good relationship it's important to be involved in each other's lives and spend time together.


This doesn't mean living in each other's pockets, but rather making time for your sibling and looking for positive ways to interact.
Having a reservoir of good experiences will help act as a buffer when a problem or conflict arises. You will work together more effectively if you can draw on happy memories of having fun together.;
, As well as doing fun things together, you can help develop a strong relationship by demonstrating that you are there for your sibling and you support him. For example, if your brother has a big sports game go along and cheer him on. Even if you are not a big sports fan you are supporting your brother. He will appreciate you making the effort to be there and showing that you care, even if he doesn't tell you that.Supporting each other also means saying kind things, like congratulating your brother on his report card, and offering to help out with a chore or some work every now and then.If you complete chores as a team you will become closer as you learn to cooperate more effectively.
For example, if you have to wash up, split the tasks so one person does the washing, and one does the drying.
 Try to maintain good communication with your sibling even if you are having difficulties getting along. Just making small talk can help to ease tensions which might otherwise escalate if you are not talking. You need to learn to understand each other and if there is a specific problem just listening to your sibling's concerns is the best way to start doing this. Take time to listen and acknowledge any grievances and work constructively to talk them through.


When your sibling is talking really ask yourself "what does my sibling want me to know, what are they telling me?"Remember communication is about giving and receiving information, so listen carefully and don't assume to know what someone is going to say.
You can involve your parents and have family meetings to talk about any problems you are having with your sibling., Although you are siblings, you are not the same person. You have different personalities, different interests and different strengths. An important part of building a strong and lasting relationship is understanding and appreciating these differences.You might want to play soccer all the time, but your brother wants to play music or do some reading. Don't think of your differences as things that divide you.


If your parents keep signing you up for things because your brother likes them, politely and calmly say that you have other interests.
If your brother is going to play soccer suggest you do something you like at the same time. Then you can compare notes afterwards.
Part of growing up is learning who you are as an individual, so it's perfectly normal to want to distinguish yourself from your sibling.