 If you have a Bluetooth-enabled accessibility device, use this method to add it as a switch for your iPhone. The device should also be charged or connected to a power source., You’ll find this app on one of your home screens, represented by a gray icon that looks like a gear. Look inside the Utilities folder if you don’t see it.
, If it’s already on, you can skip this step.
 Once connected, the word “connected” will appear to the right of its name.


If you are prompted to enter a pairing code, enter the 4-digit code that came with your switch, or try one of these generic codes: 0000, 1111, 1234.
If your switch came with specific instructions for pairing with an iPhone, refer to those instructions. You may need to press a button on the device.
 It’s at the top left corner of the screen.
 It’s in the third group of settings.
 It’s in the third section.
 It’s in the third section, under “Interaction.”

,,,, This should be something that describes your switch, such as “Joystick.”

,, This is the action that will occur when you use your switch. What you select here depends on your type of switch and its capabilities.The Scanner section displays functions for controlling navigation, such as “Move to next item.”
The System section allows you connect an “action” function, such as a tap or Home button press.
 Again, you’ll have to choose External, and then a function for the switch.


Repeat this process for all of your external switches.
 It’s at the top left corner of the screen.
 By default, Switch Control continuously scans in a loop, selecting items on the screen so you can click or tap with your switch.If the switch you added controls navigation (scanning), slide it to the off position.
If your switch controls an action like tapping or clicking, slide it to the on position.
 Now you can tune the behavior of your switch so it does what you want.If you’re using automatic scanning, you’ll want to customize the Timing options to control scanning speed and loop behavior.
Under Switch Stabilization, you’ll find options for hold duration (how long a switch needs to be held before an action occurs).
 It’s back at the top of the screen. Once enabled, you’ll be able to use your new switch.

