 These cool carnivorous plants are made up of two parts—a stem or ‘body’ of the plant that allows it to photosynthesize like a normal plant, and the lamina or leaf-blade that helps it to catch its prey. The leaf-blade is the ‘head’ that everyone will recognize—it looks like a green clam shell with some wicked long ‘teeth’. These ‘teeth’ are actually trigger hairs that tell the fly trap there’s a tasty insect nearby., These protein-powered plants are common enough that you could find one in supermarkets or garden centers, but if you want an older or more disease resistant plant, look up a reliable nursery that carries them.


There are also online sites that specialize in carnivorous plants. While you won’t be able to pick out the specific plant you want, they will be able to ship a fly trap to you, as well as provide you with care information about your plant.
 They are an endangered species and protected by law. You could be facing a fine or even jail.
 Venus fly traps have relatively long roots, so they prefer pots that have vertical depth. In general, a pot that gives your plant 4 or 5 inches (10cm) of root growth space should be good.


Pick an insulated pot. Their roots are also sensitive to temperature change, so an insulated pot works best. While plastic pots do work, you should definitely consider searching your local garden center for insulated pots.
Pick a pot that will filter and absorb nutrients and salts that would otherwise harm your fly trap. An unglazed terracotta pot is a porous container that will let your roots breathe oxygen through the soil and act like a sediment filter for the water.
Having said all this, Venus fly traps are not terribly picky about their pots. You can use a deep terracotta pot with a hole in the bottom or a bucket with some holes cut in the bottom of it for drainage.
 Mix equal parts of sphagnum peat moss and perlite. Never use beach sand, which contains nutrient salts. Perlite is a form of hydrated obsidian that looks like small chunks of white sand. Perlite helps potted plants retain moisture.Native to the bogs and swamp-lands of North and South Carolina, Venus fly traps enjoy high humidity and moist, poor, acidic soil. The ideal PH for a Venus fly trap is in the acidic range of 4.9 to 5.3 (most normal plants and vegetables prefer a more neutral range of PH 5.8 to 7.2).
Another mixture combination that is preferred by some fly trap growers is five parts sphagnum peat moss, three parts silica sand, and two parts perlite. Silica sand helps with aeration; is known to help plants develop a resistance to warmer temperatures and pests, and both silica sand (which is quartz) and perlite do not release excessive nutrients and minerals into the soil, which is good for your carnivorous plant.
Do not use regular or organic potting soil, as this sort of soil will kill the plant by burning its roots. You should also stay away from fertilizing your fly trap, as fertilizer may also "burn the roots," thus killing your plant. Do not use any enriched soil, like Miracle-Grow, as it contains fertilizer and highly organic compost.
 You may wish to keep the fly trap inside the terrarium to increase the relative humidity in the air, but keep an open vent in the terrarium to allow your plant to use her skills and lure the bugs to come in for dinner. Healthy, live, and disease free bugs are the best food for your plant.
 During the growing period, they need 12 hours of light so that they can properly photosynthesize and flower. At least four of those hours should be direct sunlight.


Keep in mind that the more direct sunlight your plant gets, the healthier it will be.Most fly trap cultivars will show a reddish pigmentation when they are healthy and happy where you place them.
 In addition to needing plenty of light, your fly trap needs high humidity and protection against breezes or drafts. Keeping your plant indoors in a sunny yet draft-free area will usually be ideal.


Observe where sunlight reaches during the morning hours and afternoon hours.
If you are planning on keeping your plant inside, you will need to put it in an east, west, or south-facing window. Remember that the plant should get a minimum of four hours of direct sunlight each day.
You could also grow your plant in an open vent terrarium with a ‘plant light’ or fluorescent light close by. The closer the light is to the plant, the healthier the plant will be.
 You could also grow it in your bog garden). Just make sure to put the plant where it will be in direct sunlight and not in nutrient rich soil.


You may also wish to shield the plant from strong winds by placing it near other structures or draft-hardy plants.
 From April to October, or whenever you make your plant think it is spring, it needs plenty of water and sun. The growing period is when your plant will be in full activity; '‘catching’' prey, photosynthesizing, and producing flowers.
 You should only ever use pure water; distilled water, deionized water, and rainwater are all viable options.


Giving your plants Reverse Osmosis filtered water is the best choice because most other sources, like drinking water, already have minerals added for flavor.
 There are three main reasons why tap water is bad for your fly traps.


Tap water contains things like chlorine, sodium and sulfur (among others) that will build up in your plant’s soil over time, causing sickness and, eventually plant death.
Most tap water sources the PH levels are on the 7.9 to 8.3 range.
The chlorine kills most living organisms even the beneficial ones.
 You can use tap water if you measure the water with a TDS (total dissolved solids) meter. Your water has to read less than 50 parts per million (ppm) on the TDS meter in order for it to be safe for your plant.
 During the growing season, your plant’s soil should never be completely dry. Try to keep your plant’s growing medium so that it is moist to the touch (not soggy). There are three ways to water your plant, each with their own benefits:



The Tray Method: The tray method of watering is one of the best watering methods for an actively growing plant that is in direct sunlight. Your plant should be in a pot that has drainage holes in the bottom. Place the pot in a tray that is filled with water. Your plant’s growing medium will absorb the water like a wick, giving your plant all of the water it needs & increasing humidity around the pot.

Keep in mind, however, that if your pot is relatively shallow (5 inches or 13 cm) this method could be detrimental to your plant because the plant’s roots could be too surrounded by water, causing fungal or bacterial growth.



The Top Method: This is how most plants are watered, you pour or spray water onto the soil around the plant and let the water drain out of the bottom of the pot. Your plant’s soil should always be moist but not soaked. This means watering your plant two to five times per month during the growing period.

The Double pot Method: This is the most effective method for growing fly traps; The second pot surrounding the smaller terracotta pot in the middle isolates the plant from drastic temperature changes, increases humidity in the air, and retains moisture. Only pour water into the second pot on the outside diameter of the middle pot.

The porous terracotta pot in the middle should allow moisture to enter the middle of the pot and filter out extra nutrient salts.
 As stated previously, Venus fly traps need at least four hours of direct sunlight during their growing periods. Aside from ‘eating’ bugs, traps rely on photosynthesis to grow and stay healthy.


Put your plant in a spot where it will receive at least 12 hours of sunlight.
 Between November and March, your plant will go through a dormant phase. The dormant state is when the plant stops producing flowers or growing. Many fly traps die off during the dormant period because people continue to care for them like they would during the normal growing period.
 You should not use the tray method of water when your plant is in dormancy; instead, water your plant by hand. While growing fly traps need a lot of water, their need is greatly reduced during the dormant period. Most fly traps will only need to be watered every 10 to 14 days.


The soil should become much drier (though never fully dry). The soil directly around the base and roots should be slightly damp, while the rest of the soil is dry. Water the plant like you would any other time, making sure to water thoroughly.
When you do water your plant, water it in the morning so that it has the whole day to dry out a bit before the cooler night temperatures come in.
Do not over-water your plant--only water it when the soil begins to feel dry around the base of the plant. If you give your plant too much water, bacterial and fungal growths may occur.
 While dormancy invites the idea that the plant does absolutely nothing, Venus fly traps will actually continue to photosynthesize during their dormant period. Therefore, your plant should still be exposed to sunlight.


If possible, bring your plant inside and set it up under a strong artificial light for the duration of its dormancy.
 The extent you go to will depend on what climate you live in, and whether you are growing your plants outside or indoors. If you are growing it outdoors, you have two options:


If you are growing your plant outdoors and live in a climate that stays relatively warm (where the temperature generally never dips below 30 degrees F (-1 degree C)) then you can leave your plant outside all year long without protection.
If you are growing a plant outdoors where the climate is colder there are occasional freezes, you should plant your fly traps in the ground for winter (pots absorb the temperatures of the air around them). Plant them in a bog garden, or in soil that is good for fly traps (see Part One). You should also cover your plants with mulch or leaves to keep them safe from the bad weather.
 If you live in a place that has extended freezes, you will have to bring your Venus fly traps indoors for the winter. Put it in the window of an unheated room like a garage or porch. This is the best way to keep your plants alive but dormant indoors. Put your plant in a south-facing windowsill if you can, as this will allow the plant to continue to photosynthesize.
 You can feed your Venus flytrap to give it the nutrients it needs, or you can add a very small amount of nutrient-rich fertilizer to your Venus fly trap’s soil, or mist them occasionally with a spray-on fertilizer.When Venus flytraps are outdoors, they catch insects, grasshoppers (and occasionally small animals like frogs) that provide nutrients that will make the plant healthier.


Keep in mind that the trap sometimes doesn’t seal unless the item it has caught is moving. This means that you should feed your fly trap live prey like flies and mealworms. A helpful tip when using live prey is to put the prey in the freezer for a few minutes so that it becomes very slow. You should only feed one or two of your plants traps at a time, and only when the plant is healthy and strong.
If you do decide to feed your plant a dead insect, you should place the insect in the trap and then gently rub the trap every 20 or 30 minutes until the trap seals fully. Rubbing the trap makes it think that the thing it has caught is moving. This is not always necessary, however, as the plants also use chemical receptors to close with the presence of nutrients inside the trap.
Do not feed your plant ‘exotic’ food like bits of hamburger or cake. This will more than likely kill the plant, particularly if you give you plant meat, as the plant will have a negative reaction to the fat.

Fats and the decomposing meat will grow bacteria that could also harm your fly trap.
 Grooming your plant helps to keep your Venus fly trap healthy. Dead leaves can block the sun from young leaves that need the light to grow. Your plant’s leaves will turn brown as they die—these are the leaves you will want to get rid of. You can cut them away when they turn brown by using a small pair of scissors. Make sure you do not cut away any leaves that are still partly green--these leaves can still photosynthesize.


As the leaves turn brown, they should begin to weaken and detach from the plant. Most of the time, you should be able to just pluck them off the plant. For the tougher ones, sewing scissors work well. You should also be aware that Venus fly trap leaves tend to die off in bunches.
 If you notice that you plant looks like it is too crowded in its pot, that it has divided into two (or more) plants, or that it dries out too quickly, it is time to re-pot your plant. Doing this is much the same as potting your plant in its original container. Make sure to use the right composition of soil (see Part One)., Triggering your plants to close when there is nothing in their traps for them to ‘eat’ is an unnecessary waste of energy for your plant.


It takes two to three weeks for a plant's trap to reopen and again be ready to trap its potential food.
While it is OK to gently rub the outside of the traps after you have fed it an insect, you should limit the amount you touch your plant. Never put anything inside their traps except for insects.