 Find the kind that you can get messy. Make sure the clay you're using is washable, and that no valuable things are in the room.;
, Squish on it here, then over there, then there... I advise to not fold it over itself, as that would create what you're trying to get out, air bubbles. Squish your clay until it's workable. You can check your clay by cutting it in half with a wire. When you cut it and don't see any air bubbles it should be good to go. Kneading is best you can either throw your clay at a surface or ox head knead it.
 Smack, not pound.
,,, Center the clay by placing one hand on the side and the other on top of the clay cone. The hand on the side should push towards the middle of the wheel and the hand on top should just keep the clay from pushing up into a mess. You will know it is centered when the clay looks like it is not moving but the wheel is moving. This step is extremely important. If your clay is not centered, it will be difficult/impossible to make a nice pot.
 You can do this a couple of times. It is called wheel wedging and it helps condition the clay. Make sure it is still centered when you are done.
 Also until it makes a round hole in the clay. OR you can use the carrot method by pressing your fingertip into the clay about an inch from the center slowly moving into the center, this method is harder than the first.
 This is unnecessary if you are making something thin. This is called a fishhook.
 Place one hand on the outside and the other on the inside of the clay wall make sure they are directly in line with each other so if you removed the clay from between them your finger tips would touch. Pull up the walls by starting at the base of the pot and pulling towards the top with even pressure on you finger tip. Continue this until you reach your desired height or until the walls are about a centimeter thick. Pull slower than the wheel is rotating to be even and push extremely lightly this may take a while so you have to be patient.
 This just take practice to learn. Experiment with different objects you can try patterns or pulling and pushing different ways as long as you WATCH the clay for signs of weak walls or collapsing.
 Not too much, or it'll fall off.
 You stop the wheel, wet the wheel not the pot, then slowly starting away from you take the wire/fishing line and pull towards you until the pot is off, be careful to keep the wire down!

, Once footed you use a kiln depending on the clay. Then you glaze it and fire it in the kiln once more. The first firing is optional.

