 If you get used to having a smile on your face, it will come more naturally when you need to make it happen. Even though there will always be those times where it is hard to smile, you can make it easier by having your smile ready. The mirror can be your best friend in this case. Take a few minutes (each day, or every week) to check yourself out. Treat this as an important task, and take all the time you need to find the smile that's right for you.Try out a few different options. Do you like how you look with your mouth open? Or does your smile look better without your teeth showing? Choose the one that not only looks great, but feels comfortable. A genuine looking smile is always your best option.;
, Work on your smile like you work on the rest of your body. You'll be sure to like the results! Start by keeping your mouth closed, and stretching your lips to the side. Hold for a brief period. Next, stretch, the smile further, exposing half of your teeth. Hold this position. Finally, let your full smile fly, showing all of your teeth. Hold, then start repeating the process. This exercise will actually strengthen your smile muscles.Strong smile muscles will make it easier to hold it in place during a sticky situation. For example, if you are at work and dealing with a difficult client, it's going to be hard to hang on to that smile. The stronger your smile, the more firmly it will stay in place.
 In addition to using the mirror, your camera can be a great tool for you to rely on when working on your smile. Even better, you can just use the camera on your phone and take a few selfies! Take pictures of the different smiles that you have been practicing in the mirror. Pick the one that looks best, and make that your go-to smile. Pull up the picture before you head into what could be a difficult situation. Seeing yourself smile might just help you smile for real!, When you're working to learn how to smile your way through difficult situations, practice by placing yourself into happy environments. Grab some friends and go to a funny movie. Or take a date to a comedy club. Go to a pet store and find a cute puppy or kitty to play with. All of these things are guaranteed to put a smile on your face. And the more you get used to smiling, the easier it will be to summon that grin whenever you need to.
 If you are feeling confident, it will be easier to smile, even if you're dealing with a delicate social situation. If you feel like you're in control, your face (and smile) will reflect that. There are several tricks you can try to make yourself more confident. Make sure to speak positively to yourself--no negativity! You can also try to focus only on your positive traits. Do you like the way you are able to clearly communicate your feelings? Great! Hold on to that thought, and let it help put that smile on your face.