 It's difficult to support a team when they are in a slump, but real fans do just that. Even if a real fan curses their team, they are there to support them the next game. Bandwagon fans jump off the wagon at the first sign of trouble.Going to a game takes more effort and more money. Bandwagon fans don't want to invest either if the team isn't doing well.
The same is true of watching games on television.
 True fans stay at a game until the bitter end--even if they know the result will be less than desirable. On the other hand, bandwagon fans tend to walk out and stop offering support to the team.


Bandwagon fans often miss out on some of the best comebacks in sports because they choose to walk out during tough times., Many fans go to live sporting events for the experience of being around like-minded, passionate individuals.Bandwagon fans don't value the experience because they aren't as emotionally invested as real fans. Even if it means braving the cold or paying for over-priced beer, real fans will try to attend at least one game during the season.


Some bandwagon fans will attend a game or two just to be able to say that they have. They are unlikely to attend games that aren't convenient. For example, when the weather is bad, when the tickets are too pricey, or when the game falls on a workday.
 This has a bit to do with the team being successful, but it also has to do with the importance of the game. Sports seasons can be long and grueling so bandwagon fans like to skip the regular season games and jump right to the good part.


Playoff games occur after the regular season and are tournament style games that lead up to the championship.Playoffs also bring out bandwagon fans whose "first choice" didn't make the playoffs. In order to have someone to root for, they will choose a team randomly and only for that season., This is also known as wavering in their support of the team. If a fan stops supporting their team if they lose a playoff game, championship game, or don't make the playoffs at all, they're exhibiting behavior consistent with that of a bandwagon fan.

