 Place the crab legs and claws in a shallow container and let them sit in your refrigerator overnight until thawed.









By placing the crab legs and claws in a container, you prevent the ice from melting into water all over your refrigerator shelves.
If you are short on time, thaw the crab legs and claws by rinsing them under cold, running water for several minutes. You can rinse them until the entire section comes to room temperature, but at the very least, you should rinse them until the ice melts off.
 Use sharp kitchen shears or a heavy knife to cut the claws and legs at their joints. Otherwise, you may not be able to fit them into your microwave.









If your microwave is large enough, however, you do not need to separate the claws and legs at their joints.
 Moisten several sheets of clean paper towel with water, wringing them out gently to remove any excess. Securely wrap these damp paper towels around three sections at a time until all the sections are wrapped.









You only need enough water in the paper towels to create steam. As such, damp paper towels, rather than soaking wet paper towels, will be more effective.
 After all the sections are wrapped in paper towels, wrap each one in a couple of layers of microwave-safe plastic wrap.









The plastic wrap helps hold the moisture in, directing the steam from the wet paper towels inward toward the crab legs rather than outward.
 Steam the wrapped clusters of crab legs and claws in the microwave one at a time.








The crab legs should become notably fragrant once they are done. If you cannot smell them yet, microwave the wrapped clusters for another 30 seconds or so.
To verify that the crab legs and claws have heated through, unwrap one set and lightly touch the meaty part with the tip of your pinky finger to see if it is warm.
 Remove each cluster and carefully unwrap them. Serve immediately with a side of melted or clarified butter. Add salt and lemon wedges, if desired.









Be careful when removing the plastic wrap and paper towels. The crab legs and claws will be steamy, and you could accidentally burn yourself on the steam if you stick your face directly into it.
Steamed crab legs and claws have softened shells. As such, a crab cracker should not be used to get the meat out, since it will only smash the shell into the meat instead of cracking it apart cleanly. Instead, use sharp kitchen scissors or shears to cut the crab apart at down the center.
When serving these to guests, you can either completely remove the shell or cut a small slit into each one to get the process started.
If the crab legs or claws too hot to handle with your bare hands, or if the shell is spiny and prickly, you could wear a glove while working with it to protect your hands.

