 The eggs should be as fresh as possible and free of cracks. Make sure that the eggs are also clean.


The use of room temperature eggs is not quite as important with this method since the egg white and/or yolk will be exposed to the heat more directly, but room temperature eggs are still slightly preferable with this method than cold eggs.
 Fill a large saucepan one-third to one-half full with water and set it on your stove over high heat. Allow it to reach a steady simmer and a steady steam before turning off the heat.


Continue on with the following step as you wait for the water to heat up.
You will also need a second stainless steel bowl that fits comfortably inside this large saucepan of water. The sides of your bowl need to be tall enough to prevent water from the outer pan from splashing inside. Do not place this bowl inside the water just yet, however.
 Crack your eggs and let the yolk and/or white fall directly into your second stainless steel bowl.


With this method, you can pasteurize both the egg white and egg yolk at the same time. If you only need the yolk or the white, though, you can separate the eggs before dropping the portion you need into the bowl. Discard the unneeded portion by dumping it down the drain of your kitchen sink.
 Combine the raw egg with a little liquid, using 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of liquid for each complete egg, egg white, or egg yolk. Whisk the ingredients together thoroughly until the egg starts to look foamy.


You can use any liquid called for within the recipe, including water, lemon juice, milk, or flavorings. Make sure that you do not add both lemon juice and milk at the same time, though, since the lemon juice (or any acidic liquid, for that matter) will cause the milk to curdle. Curdled milk can ruin the eggs by making them lumpy.
 Once the water is simmering and the heat has been turned off, place the bottom of the bowl inside your saucepan of water, holding it down using pliers or tongs if necessary.


This method uses a double boiler technique to heat and pasteurize the eggs indirectly. You could technically heat the eggs directly by skipping the extra saucepan of water, but doing so increases the risk of accidentally cooking the eggs instead of pasteurizing them. If you do heat the eggs directly, though, make sure that you use the lowest heat setting possible on your stove.
 As soon as you place the bowl of eggs in the hot water, you need to begin whisking the eggs with a fork or wire whisk. Continue whisking for two to three minutes, or until the water drops down to a lukewarm temperature.


The constant movement distributes the heat evenly throughout the egg mixture, thereby preventing the egg from cooking in any particular spot or from remaining partially unpasteurized.
 Let the eggs cool for three minutes or so, then use them as called for in your recipe. You should not attempt to refrigerate or freeze these eggs.

