 Make the text size larger for your name than the rest of the resume. Center your name on the page.;
, Return the text size to normal, such as a 12-point font. Also include your telephone number and email address.


Provide the phone number and email address you use most often. Consider getting a professional looking email address, such as yourname@email.com instead of a nickname that may not impress a potential employer.
 Include high school, college and culinary school information.


Include the location and name of each school as well as when you studied there and when you graduated. Specify the type of degree you received, such as a Bachelor of Arts in Culinary Arts or a Certificate in Pastry Arts.
Make a bulleted list below the school's information, the years you attended and the degree. Include any classes that are relevant to the job you are applying for as well as any honors or special achievements.
 Begin with the most-recent job.


Include the name of the place you worked, where it was located and your exact title. If you received a promotion on the job, include both your original position and the promotion. Specify how long you held each job.



Look at the description for the job you are applying for and notice any keywords used in the description. Do your best to make your description of previous jobs match the current job, but do not lie on your cooking resume. For example, if you are applying for a management or supervisory position, highlight any past leadership or supervisory roles on your culinary resume. Try using the same keywords in your resume that appear in the job description.



Include any volunteer work relevant to your culinary career, such as cooking at a homeless shelter or baking for a local community organization.
Also include any skills or classes you took that you didn't mention in the education section, such as any specific pastry skills or culinary techniques. Add any languages you are proficient in to the last section of your cooking resume.
 You may need to trim it, especially if you have a long work history or many additional activities. Only include what is most relevant to the position you are applying for.
 Run your word processing software's spell-checker to make sure everything is spelled correctly.
 Ask a coworker or other trusted advisor to read it over to check for grammatical errors as well as to ensure the culinary resume is attention-grabbing.

