 If you live with other people, find a spot where they won’t distract you, such as your bedroom or a large closet. If there’s nowhere you can go and close the door, clear out a corner of a room and put up a room divider. Folding screens or curtains can visually separate a space and make it feel like you have some privacy.Try rearranging furniture to create this separate space. Push a large bookcase out from the wall to create a private space behind it.
If you’re really short on space, try lofting your bed and using the space underneath for your writing nook.;
, If you use a tablet or laptop computer, long writing sessions may lead you to run out of battery. It's better to stay plugged in while you work rather than risk your device dying while you're in the middle of something. And you may decide later that you want to plug in a lamp there too.
 Artificial light increases stress levels, while natural light increases creativity and is better for your eyes.Create your nook as close as possible to a window or glass door. Or add some mirrors to the room to amplify the amount of natural light coming through the window., Consider how much space you'll need for your materials. If you like to look at several pieces of paper or books at once, find a desk with larger surface area. Decide if you prefer to sit or stand while writing. Some people are more productive on their feet, so seek out a standing desk if you don't want to sit.If you like to switch between sitting and standing, there are desks that move up and down to convert between the two positions.
 Desks aren’t always available or even practical depending on the location of your nook. Try using an upside-down milk crate or wooden box to make a small work surface on the floor. If you prefer to stand, try attaching a sturdy shelf to the wall or using the top of a small bookcase.


If you’re more comfortable using a laptop or notebook on your lap, consider investing in a lap desk, or just prop your materials up on a throw pillow.
 If you’ll be sitting, decide if you’ll do better in a regular chair with a structured back or a soft cushion or pillow on the floor. Choosing cushions may open up more options for where to make your nook, like on the floor of a closet. But be aware that spending extended periods of time on a soft cushion could lead to back pain., Avoid overhead lighting, since it can strain your eyes and make you feel more tired.Swap out lightbulbs that give off yellow light for those that create white light.


Look for lightbulbs that are specifically called “daylight” bulbs and can mimic natural light., Blue tones promote creativity, green tones make you calmer, and yellows lift your spirits. Figure out what mood you want to create while writing and decorate accordingly. Avoid decorating your writing nook with red, since it's more of a physical stimulant than a mental one (i.e. it may make you want to get up and move around rather than sit and write).If you can’t paint the entire room a new color, try just painting your desk or work surface. Or buy special wallpaper or decals that don’t damage the wall when removed.
Select throw pillows, blankets, or posters in your preferred colors.
 If you’re writing by hand, keep a cup or small bin with plenty of extra pens or pencils nearby. Be sure a few extra notebooks or stacks of loose paper are within reach as well. If you’re writing on a computer, it’s helpful to keep a pad of sticky notes on your desk as well. That way you can quickly jot down ideas to come back to later (and they add a bit of bright color to your space)., Figure out what really makes you want to write. If other writers inspire you, print out quotes from famous authors and either frame them or just tape them to the wall.Try stacking books nearby to create a literary atmosphere. Or find paintings or photographs that remind you of the topic you’re writing about.
 Leave your phone somewhere else so that you’re not tempted to text or check email while you’re writing. Turn off any electronics, like the TV or radio, unless music makes you more productive.


If you live with other people, ask them to keep their noise levels down while you’re writing. If that’s not an option, use earplugs or noise-cancelling headphones to block out any unwanted noise.

