 Cut 4 to 5 feet (1.2 to 1.5 m) of wired or free-form burlap ribbon.


For this length range, burlap ribbon measuring 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) wide should work well.
You can, however, use larger widths. Wider ribbon can actually create a fluffier bow. Just make sure to increase the length of the ribbon when selecting a wider type.
 Determine how wide you want the final bow to be, then fold one end over to create a loop half that long.


Note that this should not be half the length of your ribbon. At most, this first loop should only take up no more than one-quarter the total ribbon length.
This loop should also lie flat and parallel to the rest of the ribbon.
 Fold the opposite end back over the front of the bow and over the first loop. The resulting loop should be just as large as the first.


Keep the ribbon parallel and flat as you make this second loop.
After completing this step, the maximum bow width should be set to your desired final width.
 Continue folding the loose end of burlap back and forth on top of the initial loop set. Work in equal pairs, and make each pair a little smaller than the one beneath it.


Each set of folds should lie flat and parallel on top of the rest of the bow, and each individual loop in a set should match the other loop with which it's paired.
The exact number of pairs will vary based on the width of the ribbon and on your personal aesthetic taste. Larger widths may only need two to three loop sets total, but smaller widths may need twice that amount to achieve a similarly fluffy bow.
 Carefully wrap a wire tie or piece of florist wire around the exact center of the bow to secure it.


Tie the wire as tightly as possible to maintain a fixed shape, then trim any excess wire using wire cutters.
You should also trim any excess burlap after tying off the center of the bow.
 Cut another length of burlap, then wrap it around the center to hide the wire.


The burlap used during this step will need to be narrower than the burlap used for the main body of the bow. You can use a different ribbon, or use the same type of ribbon and simply fold it before wrapping it.
Make sure that the center ribbon overlaps and ties at the back of the bow instead of the front.
Leave enough ribbon hanging down from the center to create "tails" beneath the bow.
 Twist and fluff the separate loops as needed to create the precise look you want.


Since burlap is such a thick material, it will usually retain its shape regardless of whether you use wired or free-form ribbon.
 Trim the ribbon tails to the desired length, keeping both tails equally long.


If desired, you can also cut "v" shaped notches into the ends to help prevent the burlap from unraveling over time.
 The burlap bow should now be finished. You can use it as its own decoration or use it to accent wreaths, vases, pillows, and more.

