 This applies to your clothes, shoes, hair, and (for girls) makeup. Although self-expression is healthy, there is a time and place to wear outlandish clothes. For example, it goes without saying that you are washed and clean - if you have greasy hair or body odor, take a shower. Be mindful of those around you and avoid excessive perfume, cologne, or other aerosol products. Do you think He has more power or right than the President? Would you dress up to meet the President? In that case, dress nicely when you go to church to meet Him as well.


Women, make sure that nothing is revealing. If you are afraid to genuflect because 'something might show', then it is not appropriate. Don't wear shoes that you cannot walk in, don't have a crazy hairdo, too much perfume, or overdone makeup.
Men, please don't wear your belt around your knees, keep cologne to a minimum, and stay away from your ragged yet beloved sneakers.Shave, and keep your hair neat.;
, It is very important to stay quiet. Make sure that you arrive early: Latecomers disrupt the service and interrupt others' thoughts and/or prayers. During the quiet time before mass, volunteers might recite the Rosary, or it might just be some private prayer time. Either way, be sure to stay quiet.
 Unless it is cold/flu season or you have microphobia , please shake hands and greet those around you warmly when appropriate - most places of worship have a time dedicated to this at the beginning of mass.
 Once again, this is a sign of respect both to others and to Him. Although it might get boring, keep your thoughts on God. At the very least, act interested and don't distract others. Be mature if the sermon has to do with sexual activity or another uncomfortable topic. If customary and you feel comfortable, sing during the songs to connect in a special way to Jesus and the congregation.
 This is common knowledge, but people often unintentionally stand on both sides of the pews, blocking entrance and creating some awkward moments. Be mindful of where you sit.

