 Some stores may pressure you to trade it in or recycle it. But your old iPhone is worth a lot more than you can be offered.;
, This way, under iCloud, you will have a way to distinguish the devices.
 Some things it is capable of doing include:


Internet access in a WiFi zone
Photography
Videography
Almost all apps will continue to be useful

Many games depend on 'accounts' that are device-specific and cannot be transferred to another device



, This includes:


Phone calls over the cellular network
Internet access over a 3G network

Will not be useful as a navigational device unless you have MiFi in the car



, Some practical uses include:


As an extra camera, if you need a lot of camera space, and your current device cannot hold all the pictures you plan to take before you plan to delete them.
As a video camera simultaneously with your other phone. This way, you can take still photos with one device while filming with the other. Be sure to hold the phone you are using for filming in the 'landscape' position for better results.
For multitasking. If one device cannot perform two tasks simultaneously, you can perform one task with one device and another task with the other. (e.g. using Maps on one, Skype on the other). If you are not in a WiFi zone, the older phone will be limited to uses not dependent on a connection.
As a music player. You can use the device just like an iPod, storing your favorite music purchased from iTunes. If that is going to be your only use for the device, try removing as many photos, videos, and apps as possible, and you will have more room for songs.
For international travel. Most smartphone owners find it hard not to use their devices or to have limited use of them. But once you step out of your home country, talk, text, and data can become prohibitively expensive. For a more affordable price, you can rent a SIM card that can be placed in the old iPhone that can provide your with reasonably priced (sometimes free) minutes and texts and plenty of data, sometimes unlimited. iPhone SIM card rentals are now available from many companies for many countries. You may need to get your phone unlocked for this to work. Once you get your SIM card and find yourself in a foreign land, you can use your device like there is no tomorrow!
To keep an older version of iOS. This is especially good for those who like iOS 5, which has the old version of Google Maps.
To store more apps that do not require an internet connection for their use, such as games. This could be useful if you need more room on your current phone. And most games do not depend on an internet connection.
For jailbreaking, if you wish to enjoy the benefits of a jailbroken device. Jailbreaking voids the warranty. But once your device has finished its contract, it is likely the warranty will be expired.
As an emergency replacement phone. In the event your current phone is lost, stolen, or damaged, and you do not a warranty of insurance to replace it before your next upgrade, you can reactivate your old phone.

Wipe the device's contents. This is very important for your own security.

Check prices of similar devices of comparable age on the site on which you plan to sell (e.g. Amazon, eBay, Craigslist). This will help you decide on a competitive rate.
Include at least one charger together with the device. If not, this may reduce the device's rate. The rate could increase if you include other accessories, such as a car charger or hands-free device.
 Maybe you are a little more generous than someone trying to make a buck. If that is the case, you could give it to a relative, friend, or even a complete stranger. This way, you can help do a good deed and save its next owner some money. The upcoming owner can subsequently subscribe to a contract-free plan with a carrier of choice with the option or changing carriers at will throughout the life of the device. For your own security, before making your donation, be sure to back up and remotely wipe all your data.

