 By putting time and energy into your physical appearance, you will demonstrate to your man that you value your looks and good health. You will also feel more confident about yourself if you feel healthy and strong, and confidence is always attractive.Stay active by going to the gym regularly. Don't skip your workout to spend time with him. Invite him to join you or take a rain check.
Keep your hair clean and styled neatly, and pay close attention to your personal hygiene.
Put on a little signature scent in the morning or before you go out, or wear scented body lotion for a subtler scent.
If you wear makeup, aim for a look that's flattering but simple; don't try to overdo this aspect.
Brush your teeth twice daily, floss, and use mouthwash. During the day, use mints or gum to freshen your breath.
Do your laundry regularly. Instead of buying a new wardrobe, make the best of what you have. Set up a regular schedule and make sure you always have clean shirts, pants/skirts, undergarments and socks available. Don't let him see stains or unkempt clothing!;
, Your best weapon is always available, completely free, and can't be overused—your winning smile! Flash a genuine grin as often as possible, whether it's directed at your guy or not. It makes you look approachable, and it might actually make you happier.Find something to smile about. If you're a bit blue, think of a happy moment or amusing joke to spark a smile. Do you have a favorite pet? A favorite memory? Whatever it is, think of it as often as you need to.
Try a slow smile. If you've made eye contact with the man you love, smile at him slowly, letting it spread over your face. If you tend to blush and look down when he's looking at you, let it happen after the smile — you'll be irresistible.
 Making eye contact is a crucial component of flirtation and it can also increase his feelings of attraction for you. Gaze into his eyes when he is talking to you and don’t be afraid to lock eyes with him even if you are both silent.If you are too nervous to gaze into his eyes or you don't think it is appropriate yet, use quick glances to make frequent eye contact with him. By looking at him for a moment and then looking away, you can show him that you are interested and see if he is interested too.
 Studies suggest that people find soft and pleasant textures pleasing and soothing.Try wearing clothing made from microfiber, silk, faux fur, or other soft textures that he'll want to touch. This will make your guy associate these pleasant sensations with being around you.Try wearing red to catch his attention. The color red has been shown to increase feelings of attraction and passion in both men and women. Try wearing a red dress, a red top, or some red lipstick to make him notice you.