 Wash your hair, use a little bit of perfume (or body-lotion with a mild, clean and possibly floral or fruity scent) and apply your make-up if you want to. Heavy make-up is not nice if you're in a warm room with lots of people dancing around you. Either focus on the lips or the eyes. Smokey eyes are always cool but don't overdo it. You don't want your mascara running so don't use too much. If you decide to put focus on the lips, use lip-gloss because your lips will get dehydrated. Lipstick is not good when you have chapped lips. If you decide to go with no make-up, bring something that will keep your lips hydrated.;
, Do something that you wouldn't do everyday. If you always wear your hair down, put it up in a bun. If you always wear it in a ponytail, let it loose. If you always wear your hair down, and you still want to wear it down, try to change it up a bit by pulling out the shine serum, or curling or straightening it.
 Wear comfortable underwear that fits. When you feel comfortable, it shows and you look confident. This also goes for the shoes. If this is your first time wearing high heels, you will trip and you will feel uncomfortable. If you are new to heels, go for cute flats or sandals instead. Make sure your shoes fit comfortably. If you're good at wearing heels, and you wear them, just make sure you don't step on someone's feet as you move through the crowd.
 Do not wear a short skirt, without shorts as it may flip up when you dance. The best pick is a knee length skirt, or or a nice dress. Wear something short-sleeved, and then, if you want, take a sweater or shawl. It will get hot. Don't change your style because of an event. Compliment your clothing with a nice piece of jewelry but make sure it doesn't swing in every direction when you dance.
 Just let the music flow through you body, but don't go over the top. Listen to the beat and just move. Close your eyes too, it will make you move better.
 Flirt a bit if you want to, but don't make it look too obvious. Mystery is the best friend you will have. This will not work if you know the people around you, they know you and know what you are like. If it's a big event where you don't know 99.9% of the people, make a few friends and make new contacts.
 Confidence is the best way to go.

