 The rule of thirds is a handy way to get good compositions easily and on the fly. Imagine that your picture is broken up by 2 even vertical lines and 2 even horizontal lines so that the whole shot is made up of 9 smaller squares. The rule of thirds simply says that the most pleasing elements of a shot will line up with these imaginary guidelines. Instead of trying to put your subject in the dead center of every shot, try lining it up with one of your vertical or horizontal guidelines.The goal is to make photos dramatic and interesting by making them slightly "off-balance." You do not need to have the lines perfect to make the composition striking. Some camera viewfinders have a grid option in the camera menu.
Try to place horizon lines on the upper or lower guidelines so that they cross the frame on the upper or lower third.
Feel free to break this rule when you want your shots to have a sense of symmetry.
Many cameras have an option that shows guidelines for you. Look for it in the menu.
 What is the heart of your photo? What do you want to focus the viewers eye on? Trying to capture everything leads to a chaotic and often unprofessional photo. Good photographers find something to hold the picture together, whether it is a person's face or a mountain lake.A subject doesn't have to be a single object, per se. A crowd of people or flock of birds can make a great subject when focused on correctly.
A subject is usually defined by what is "in-focus." What is sharp and clear, and what is intentionally blurred? What is the largest element of the shot?

, Duck down or get above your subject to give your photograph a dynamic angle that makes it stand out. Too often, photographers rely on straight on, eye-level shots, since this is what most people see naturally. A good photograph illuminates something that you could not otherwise see, so take a variety of shots from different angles.Don't be afraid to stretch, move, and get dirty. The more angles you experiment with the better your chances of finding a good shot. Never forget to look behind you as very often your best shot could be there.
Turn your camera over and take a vertical shots as well, as they can completely change how you look at a photo.
 Don't just focus on the subject when taking a picture. Think about the things around it and how they add to the composition. Is there a bright glare or flash of light behind the person you're shooting? If so, move the camera or the angle to remove the distraction. You want the focus to be on your subject, not weird things in the background.What are the features in the background that add to your subject? Which ones are distracting? Simplify the scene whenever possible.Can you zoom in closer to crop out unwanted elements? Can you focus in on the subject and blur out the background with a smaller f-stop?

, Is there a fence trailing off in the background? Where is the gaze of that woman pointing to? Do the branches of a tree strike out towards the setting sun? Lines are everywhere in nature, and a good photo highlights 2-3 of these natural lines to give the picture a sense of order. A viewer will naturally follow lines with their eyes, allowing you to highlight certain elements and create depth and perspective.Where do your eyes go when you look at the shot? What draws you into the picture, and what do you naturally gravitate towards?

