 There are no set standards, required degrees or certifications, or industry requirements to become a relationship coach. There are no requirements to meet before entering into the field. This means that you can call yourself a relationship coach without receiving any training. This also means that there are numerous certification programs available that vary in quality.If you are serious about becoming a relationship coach, you should find a quality program that is accredited or approved through the ICF or another professional organization.
You do not need any prior skills, degrees, or experiences to be a relationship coach. You can decide to become a relationship coach and learn what you need through the certification program. However, you should be comfortable talking to people and helping others with their problems since that is the core of being a relationship coach.
Some career-specific certifications, like a becoming a certified relationship specialist who is certified by the American Psychotherapy Association, requires a bachelor's degree in counseling. To get a certification that is recognized by a professional counseling association, such as the APA, you will have to already be a working counselor or social worker with a degree in a counseling-related field., There are a lot of different programs you can go through to get certified. Some are longer than others, some cost less, and some provide different types of certification. Before choosing a program, figure out the kinds of certification it will give you and where that certification will be accepted. Figuring out your future goals with your new relationship coach career will also help you decide the type of program you choose.


If you are interested in joining professional coaching organizations, networking with other relationship coaches, or getting your name listed in professional coaching databases, your certification may need to meet certain standards to be included. You may need to be certified by an ICF accredited or approved program. If you want to start a small side business, you may be able to use another certification program.
 The International Coach Federation (ICF) is the only coaching organization that accredits and approves relationship coach training programs. If you are interested in getting training from an accredited or ICF approved program, choose a program from their website. They offer multiple search criteria for you to choose from as you find a program.The ICF has organized their programs into three different types. Accredited coach training programs requires a minimum of 125 hours of training. The training covers ICF core competencies and the code of ethics. An accredited program requires coaching sessions where you will be observed, along with a comprehensive final exam.
Approved coach specific training hours is a less intensive program with a more pick and choose approach to classes and instruction. This program requires a minimum of 30 hours of training, along with coaching observations.
If you already have ICF credentials or basic coach training, you can do continuing coach education. This involves advanced coach training and skills that help the professional development of a coach, like business building tools or coaching assessments.
The different types of programs are separate programs. Accredited programs are of higher quality with a more intensive training program. Approved programs provide high quality training, but are not rigorous enough to be considered accredited.
 Choosing a training program to become a relationship coach is an important, and individualized, decision. There are a lot of different programs you can choose from. The International Coach Federation (ICF) has a search option to find an ICF accredited or approved program.The American Psychotherapy Association also offers courses to become a Certified Relationship Specialist.There are other programs available that are not accredited through the ICF or sponsored by a national mental health organization. It is your decision whether you want to choose an ICF-approved program or choose a different certification program.


Do a search online and through the ICF to find a program that suits your needs and your specific interests.
Many relationship coaching training programs are offered through online courses, which means you can schedule a lot of the classes and sessions around your life.
Some relationship coaching programs are offered through coaching institutes or other institutes with in-person classes.
 The cost of the training program will be determined by the program you choose and the amount of hours you undergo. Some training programs advertise special offers where you receive the training course for under $100, while other, longer courses can cost thousands of dollars.Many programs offer payment plans. If you are interested in a more expensive training program, call the institute to discuss payment options.
Before you choose a cheaper training program, make sure you research the program to determine if it will provide you with the right certification you will need to become a relationship coach.

