 Take the giblets and neck from the turkey before it’s been cooked, and set them in a small saucepan. Add enough water to the pan to cover the giblets and neck by at least 2 inches (5 cm). Turn the heat to medium, and bring the pan to a gentle boil.If desired, you add seasonings to the pan. For example, you might stir in a sliced onion, chopped celery, salt, and/or pepper before you bring the water to a boil.
 After the pan has boiled, reduce the heat to low, and let the contents simmer on the stove for an hour. That will cook the giblet and neck meat and form a giblet broth for possible use later.It’s best to cover the pan while the contents are simmering. Use the lid if you have one, or place a piece of foil over the top.
 Once the pan has simmered for an hour, remove it from the stove. Take the giblets and turkey neck out, and set aside. You can leave the broth in the pan, but set it aside possible later use as well.If you’ve added any seasonings to the broth, such as onions or celery, discard them when you separate the meat and broth.
 In a medium skillet, heat ½ cup (120 ml) turkey pan drippings on medium. Slowly sprinkle ½ cup (62 g) all-purpose flour into the pan as well, whisking quickly to fully incorporate it into the drippings. You want to form a thick paste, so if it looks too thin or greasy, add a little more flour.If you don’t have enough pan drippings to measure ½ cup (120 ml), you can supplement what you have with the giblet broth., Once you’ve gotten the drippings and flour mixture to the right consistency, allow it to cook for 3 to 5 minutes or until it takes on a golden brown color. Make sure to whisk it the entire time, moving slowly to prevent lumps., When the drippings and flour mixture has cooked to a golden brown shade, slowly pour in 4 cups (946 ml) of no-sodium chicken or turkey broth. Whisk the contents of the pan the entire time that you add the broth to keep the gravy smooth. Let the gravy cook for 5 to 8 minutes on medium heat so it thickens.When you’re cooking down the gravy so it thickens, keep whisking it. You don’t want to allow any lumps to form.
 While the gravy is thickening, chop up the cooked giblets with a sharp knife. Use your fingers to remove the meat from the neck as well. Chop all of the meat into fine pieces and then stir it into the gravy.You can chop the meat into whatever size pieces you’re comfortable with, but you don’t want them too large or they’ll make the gravy overly lumpy.
Add as much or as little of the meat to the gravy as you like. If you want it to have a chunky texture, mix in more of the meat. If you prefer a smoother texture, add less.
 After you’ve mixed in the giblet and neck meat, examine the gravy’s consistency. If it seems too thick, add in a little more chicken, turkey, or giblet broth to make it smoother. Make sure to season it with salt and pepper to taste as well.Be sure to taste the gravy before adding any salt. You don’t want it to be overly salty.
 When you’re happy with the flavor, remove the gravy from the stove and transfer it to a gravy boat or other serving bowl. Serve it with your meal while it’s still piping hot.