 Pick out a book by a famous philosopher or a book on personal spirituality or religion, as Sagittarians appreciate deep thought and personal growth.


Also consider gifting an e-reader or tablet, ebooks for an existing e-reader, or audiobooks so that the Sagittarius can read or listen on the go for the next vacation or adventure.
 Pick out a coffee table book or other visual book that features beautiful photography or illustrations.


Try a travel book with rich maps and images, or an anthropological work that focuses on the culture, people, landscapes, or artwork of a specific exotic locale.
 Track down a Sagittarius’ favorite books in first editions or special collector’s editions. Look at used and rare book stores, antique shops, or online stores like Ebay and Amazon for special or antique copies.


If you can’t afford or find a special edition book, just look out for some unique or interesting cover art that you or the Sagittarius has never seen before. Or, get a signed copy from the author if you can.
 Honor a Sagittarius’ good sense of humor by gifting him or her a book by a humor writer or comedian. Or get a special edition DVD of his or her favorite comedian or comedy movies.


If he or she would rather enjoy comedy in person, try going to see a comedian, a comedy open mic, an improv show, or a funny movie or play., Start or continue an existing subscription to a magazine that ties into a hobby that the Sagittarius has, or something he or she would like to learn more about. Or start a subscription to a literary journal so he or she can stay up to date on the latest and best poetry, fiction, and essays of the literary world.


Try a magazine based on travel, the outdoors, or ethnic cuisine to cater to the Sagittarian desire for adventure and the exotic.
 Treat a Sagittarius to a lecture by a prominent thought leader or philosopher, or to a book reading and signing by his or her favorite author or poet.If the Sagittarius can’t attend a reading or signing, try to pick up or order a signed copy of the book for her/him from a bookstore that has extra copies on hand.

