 While chamomile can handle a little bit of shade, it prefers lots of sun. Set aside a spot in your garden that’s sure to enjoy plenty of light throughout the day., Remove any rocks, clumps of soil, or weeds by raking and hoeing the area. Go at least 1 foot (30.48 cm) deep. Then rake the soil back into place and pack it down for a nice, smooth planting surface., German chamomile is a bit hardier than other varieties. It can handle a bit of clay or low nutrition in the soil.German chamomile is technically an annual, which means it needs to be replanted each year. However, it self-seeds, so you don’t need to do the replanting! This means it actually acts like a perennial plant.
 Roman chamomile does better in higher-quality soil. This variety is a perennial, meaning it doesn’t need to be replanted each year.If you want to raise the quality of the soil, mix a slow-release fertilizer with the soil before you sow seeds.
 Be sure all threat of frost has passed before you put in the seeds. This timing will vary depending on where you live.In the United States and Europe, you should be safe to plant by mid-May or June. Warmer states in the southern half of the U.S. may be able to start earlier, depending on the weather.
If you’re in the southern hemisphere planting in someplace like Sydney, Australia, the last frost should occur in early August., Sprinkle handfuls of seeds across the soil. Don’t worry about placement. You’ll make them into neat rows later.Use your hands to gently cover them with only a little bit of soil, as these seeds need light to germinate.You should still be able to see the seeds under their light covering of soil.
 The seeds need a lot of water to germinate, so start this process off as soon as they’re planted. Use the mist or shower setting on your hose to moisten the soil. Keep the soil moist throughout the germination period, and when the seedlings are small. This will probably require a daily watering., Leave about 8 to 10 inches (20.32 to 25.40 cm) between each seedling, making neat rows of spaced plants. To thin the seedlings, cut the tiny plant off at ground level. Don't pull the seedling completely out of the ground, as you may disturb the roots of the remaining seedlings., If you want, buy mature chamomile plants at a garden center rather than starting the seeds either outside or indoors. Dig a hole double the size of the root ball and deep enough so the base of the leaves is right at soil level when the plant is put in the hole. Mix some slow-release fertilizer in with the soil, pack it down loosely, and water it until the soil is wet.While perennial plants can be put in any time of year, they do best when started in early autumn or late spring. Annuals should always be planted during these times.
The ideal planting time varies depending on your location, but you should generally stick to a season when the weather is turning and getting either warmer or colder. Avoid planting in extreme heat or cold.

