 After you’ve drained the coconut, place a folded kitchen towel around one side of the coconut. Use your non-dominant hand to hold it so the part of the coconut not covered with the towel is in front of you.If you prefer, you can steady the coconut against a table or countertop. However, you’ll have to adjust it as you work so you can crack it all the way around.
 Holding the coconut with the towel, use a mallet to firmly tap it. Turn the coconut as you go so you can tap against the entire exterior of until it begins to crack in half.A metal mallet tends to work best for opening the coconut.
If you don’t have a mallet, you can use a hammer to tap the coconut.
 When the coconut has cracked around the entire exterior, use your fingers to split it in two. Set the coconut down on the table or countertop with the cut side facing down.If you find that the coconut doesn’t split easily, repeat the previous step of tapping around the outside with the mallet. There may be some spots where the coconut hasn’t fully cracked.
 With the coconut halves facing down, use the mallet to tap against each piece. That will help loosen the meat from the shell so you can separate the two more easily.Make sure to tap the mallet all over the coconut halves to ensure that the meat is loosened everywhere.
It’s fine if the coconut halves split into smaller pieces when you hit it with the mallet. That can actually make it easier when it’s time to separate the shell and the meat.
 After you’ve hit the coconut halves with the mallet to loosen the meat, wedge a butter knife between the shell and the meat. Use the knife to carefully pry the meat away from the shell until it’s completely separated. Repeat with all of the coconut pieces.Be sure to use a butter knife so you don’t have to worry about cutting yourself as you work.
 Once you’ve separated the meat from the shell, there will still be a thin, brown, fibrous skin on the outside. Use a vegetable peeler to carefully remove the skin so just the meat of the coconut is left.After the meat of the coconut is separated from the skin, you’re ready to eat or cook with it.

