 Concentrate on the specific field that you want a job in. If you want a job as a loan officer, for example, find loan officers, mortgage brokers, or other related bankers for advice. Decide if you want to work in a retail branch or in the corporate banking sector, and direct your networking efforts accordingly.Some types of banking you might consider are:


Investment banking
Sales and trading
Management consulting
Private equity
Hedge fund management
Loan officer
Personal banking;
, You should have your resume handy when you are in situations where you will be meeting people. A strong resume will list your contact information, relevant experience, and a list of referees. Carry these in a binder or folder; do not fold them to keep in your pocket or purse. This will keep your resume smooth and unwrinkled for when you hand it to potential contacts.


Good places to bring a resume are job fairs, information sessions, banks, and professional events such as banking conferences or seminars.
If you know you are going to meet someone in the industry, you might want to carry a resume with you. Ask them if you can ask them questions regarding their career. At the end, ask, "do you mind if I give you my resume?"

, What you wear when meeting people is important. Always look polished and professional when you're networking for a banking job. Dressing for the job you want will show that you are serious and dedicated to your career.


Women should wear blazers, button-down shirts, conservative blouses, and well-tailored trousers and skirts. Heels should be no more than three inches high.Men should wear suits, ties, dress shirts, and formal shoes such as oxfords., Remember that potential employers may check your social media page before they hire you. Make sure you only post things that you would want your boss to see. Do not complain about your current job, use explicit language, or demonstrate other unprofessional behavior.


Even if you do not allow non-friends to see your profile, employers may still see your profile picture. Dress conservatively, as though you were going to a company picnic or professional event.
You may want to go back through your posting history to delete anything that might reflect poorly on you. While you may have posted it years ago, employers may still judge you for it.Pictures of your family and positive comments about your day are good things to post. Avoid posting articles or videos that are political or contain obscene language.

