 When creating your guest list, craft a list of people you absolutely want in attendance. Typically, this includes parents, siblings, and close friends. If you have a large family, you might also include aunts and uncles. Do not deviate from this specific, pared-down list when preparing your invitations.Write this list according to your unique wants. If you are not close to your parents, they might not be included in your “must have” invitations.
 Before sending out invitations, explain your travel plans to friends, distant family, and acquaintances who might be offended by not receiving an invitation to the ceremony. Coworkers, too, might be interested to learn of your destination wedding plans, and will likely be placated by the knowledge that few people will be in attendance.This step will relieve some of the discomfort of planning an intimate destination wedding. Planning a large-scale destination wedding is both stressful and expensive, so defending your choice upfront is key.
 Although it is common to extend “courtesy” invitations to people you are certain will not be able to attend, avoid this practice. Some of your courtesy invitations might end up being able to go, which will put more financial strain on your family.Your accommodate list might be slightly larger than your must have list, and could include friends and family that are not as close. If your budget does not permit more guests, however, your “must have” list and “accommodate” list can be identical.
 Of those you do invite, make it clear that airfare and a place to stay are not included in the wedding, and that all expenses will need to be paid from their own pocket. While providing food or drinks following the ceremony is to be expected, you cannot and should not be expected to foot the bill for every guest’s airfare and hotel.While you do not have to pay for your guests, do check with the hotel you are staying at to determine whether or not they offer discounts for large parties. If they do, you can pass these savings along to your guests.
 Host a small reception back home for everyone who was not invited to be a part of the wedding ceremony to make them feel included while keeping your wedding costs low.Your reception can be as big or small as you’d like. Traditionally, receptions such as these are more like meet-and-greets, where people come to wish you well. You do not need to go all out and provide dinner, purchase fresh attire, or do a lot of decorating.

