 In high school, your teachers at least knew your name, face, and how you were doing in the class. In large classes especially, your professor is likely to not know who you are. They might not even be the ones who grade your work and might not even know you are in their class. However, most likely your professors want to get to know you. Go out of your way to talk to them.Introduce yourself to your professors. You could start off with a simple: “Hi Professor Stark! I’m Susan. I just wanted to introduce myself,” and then ask whether you can talk to them more during office hours.
Having strong relationships with your professor can help you in your future with networking, recommendations, and opportunities.
Don’t be afraid to ask your professor questions during breaks or after class.
 Whenever you are talking to your professor, in person or over email, always be professional and polite. Address them by their proper title stated on the syllabus (Dr. Smith, Professor Green, etc.), unless they request to be called by their first name.Make sure to thoroughly proofread any emails you send your professors.
 It can be intimidating or a hassle to walk all the way to some remote building to find your professor’s office to ask them a question, but you should do it anyway. Even if you don’t actually have any questions, think of something insightful about the recent lecture or assignment that you can ask them.


Office hours are a great way to help your professors get to know you, to impress them, and to build a relationship with them., You will most likely have assistant instructors or teaching assistants in your classes. These instructors are usually graduate students, teaching fellows, or other undergraduate students who are juniors or seniors. Assistance instructors are likely the ones who will do the grading and they sometimes teach smaller discussion classes that you will have to attend.


Get to know your assistant instructors the same way you should with your professors. They are helpful resources and building connections with them can help you in the long run., In college, you are held to a higher standard than you are in high school. Your professors are going to expect you to know when assignments are due and when tests are approaching. If you miss an exam, they don’t have to give you another chance to take it. Your professors are likely going to expect a lot from you and are not going to hold your hand through it.