 IMEI is a unique code assigned to mobile phones for easy identification. To get your phone’s IMEI, type in *#06# using the on-screen keypad and its IMEI code will be immediately displayed on the screen.;
, Unlock codes are special numbers that digitally removes the restriction carriers program on your phone to stop it from using other networks. There are several websites over the Internet where you can get unlock codes, either free or with a little payment.

These sites will simply ask for your phone’s IMEI, its model (Moto X), and the carrier it’s locked on to (Sprint). Provide these information together with an email address and they will send you the unlock key.
 You’ll receive the unlock code within 24 to 72 hours, or less, depending on the website you used. Make sure to provide a working email address; otherwise, you’ll have to ask for another unlock key if you fail to receive the first one.
 List down your account number, your current billing address, and the mobile number associated with your Moto X.
 Give them your account details you’ve prepared.


Dial 1-888-211-4727 from any phone or dial *2 from your Sprint phone to contact its customer service.
Note that before you can get an unlock code straight from Sprint, you must either be out of contract or have a valid reason (such as going abroad for a specific span of time) to have your phone unlock. Once your request gets granted, they’ll proceed in giving you your phone’s unlock key.
 Write it down on a piece of paper so you won’t forget it.
 Press the Power key at the upper-right side of the phone to turn it off.
 Remove the SIM card from the slot at the upper-left side of the phone and replace it with a SIM card from another carrier (international or local)., Press the Power key again to switch it on.
 Instead of the home screen, a message will be displayed notifying you that the phone needs to be unlocked before it can use the SIM card inserted., Enter the unlock code you have using the on-screen keypad. Press the “OK” button and a confirmation message will appear on the screen telling you that you’ve successfully unlocked the Moto X.

