 As a replacement for high-sugar, low-fiber breakfast cereals, serve children a cereal replacement that provides fiber and nutrition. Cereal brands like Kashi and Wheaties (and many health-food cereals) will give children fiber and whole grains. Oatmeal made with grain (not instant oatmeal) is far healthier than sugary cereal, and can be sweetened by slicing a banana on top.If your children insist on eating cereal for breakfast, check the nutrition label and look for options that contain fewer than 5 grams of sugar per serving. Look for brands like Cheerios and Kix, which are relatively low in sugar and contain some fiber., Rather than serving children high-sugar fruit spreads, you can use fruit itself as a naturally sweet and vitamin-rich topping. Some fruits like bananas, blueberries, and raspberries can be lightly mashed and spread on top of toast or a bagel. Other fruits, such as apples or pears, will need to be sliced and placed on top of the toast.For example, if your child usually has a fruit-based jam on their morning toast or bagel, replace the spread with a layer of sliced fruit.
If the consistency of sliced fruit is unpleasant to your child, you can first spread a thin layer of peanut butter on top of the toast or bagel, and then layer the fruit on top of that.
 This label will give you reliable information about the contents of breakfast foods and will not contain vague marketing labels like “low-fat,” or “healthy.” Look for breakfast foods (cereals, jams, etc.) which contain nutritional value: things like fiber and vitamins. Also look for food options which contain a relatively small portion of the child’s recommended daily sugar intake.

In general, children consume roughly 11 grams of sugar each morning, which is roughly half of the sugar they should be consuming in a single day.Reading nutrition labels can help you reduce this daily sugar intake; aim for 4–5 grams of sugar with breakfast.
 Plenty of foods contain natural sugars: fruits, for example, are routinely high in sugar. This is a small concern, since fruits and other naturally sweet foods offer vitamins and fiber. Of more concern are foods with large amounts of added sugar (or artificial sweetener), which will boost your child’s breakfast sugar intake without offsetting this with nutrition. Avoid serving children any foods with high amounts of added sugar or sweetener and focus on serving items with natural sugars.If you’re looking on the nutrition labels of your child’s breakfast foods, added sugar will be listed as fructose, dextrose, honey, molasses, corn syrup, or nectar.
 Whole foods—including fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and unprocessed meats—are far healthier than other options like white bread and fruit yogurt. Non-processed foods will also retain their fiber, vitamins, and other nutritional values. These healthy breakfast foods will nourish your children and give them energy for the day.For example, you could serve your child a breakfast including whole-grain toast topped with natural peanut butter and a sliced banana, plus a hard-boiled egg and a small container of plain yogurt flavored with sliced fruit.