 Whereas friendships come and go, things become more complicated when it’s your family member. If it's a family member, you’ll want to make an attempt to talk about your relationship and what bothers you. This will make them aware that what they’re doing upsets you. It may be hard, you’ll both benefit from being open and honest about your problems. If he or she does something hateful toward you, it may be because something negative going on in their life and clearing it up may help., This depends on who the family member is and how meaningful their relationship is to you. If it is your parent, sibling or even a spouse, you may opt for an outsider’s opinion and attend therapy. Depending on the relationship there are a variety of ways to seek help such a family counselors, social workers, or other professionals that help relationships.
 If you have a family member that is toxic, it might be best that you only interact with them during obligatory get-togethers like holidays and celebrations.


If your family member tries to see you more often, don’t be afraid to say no. You do not have to necessarily confront them about your relationship, but avoidance can help weed out the negativity from your life.
 Although it can be hard to cut out a negative family member, you should not let their behavior go without comment. This will not only prevent them from changing, but more importantly it will allow the negativity to remain in your life. Tell them what they’re doing bothers you. It may not simply make the problem go away but at least you’re standing up for yourself. Make note of particular comments they made and how it made you feel so that you can give them specific examples.
 No one wants to lose a relationship with a family member but if they cannot heed your warnings that they hurt you, you have to worry about yourself first. If your family member has given no indication that they’ll change you should not let yourself be bogged down by them until they can work their own problems out.


If it comes to this, don't be afraid to give them an ultimatum that let's them know their behavior is giving you no choice. That way if they persist, they'll at least know why.

