 They are: Terminal A, B1, B2, C, and E. There is no Terminal D. Different airlines fly in and out of different terminals.;
,


If you are flying with Continental Airlines, your check-in counters are located on the left side of the ticket lobby.
If you are flying with Alaska Airlines or Delta Airlines, your check-in counters are located on the right side of the ticket lobby.
Go to your airline's check-in counter and get your boarding passes, drop off your bags, or take care of anything else.
After you check in, proceed through the security checkpoint located in the middle of the departures area. All passengers go here, regardless of what airline you are flying with.
If you are flying with Continental, you gate is an easy walk from the security checkpoint, either to the left or to the right. Follow the signs marked gates A1-A12.

If you are flying with Delta or Alaska, your departure gate will be located in the Satellite Building. Go down the escalators directly in front of the security checkpoint marked gates A13-A22.

Your departure gate will be on the other end of a very long, underground passage with moving walkways. Unfortunately, this is the only way to get between the main building of Terminal A and the satellite building.
When you reach the end, go up the escalators. You are now in the satellite building. If Alaska is your airline, follow the signs to gate A18. If you are flying with Delta, check the monitors to find your departure gate.



If you are flying with U.S. Airways, your check-in counters will be on the left side of the ticket lobby.
If you are flying with Air Canada or Air Canada Jazz, your check-in counters will be on the right side of the ticket lobby.
Go to your airline's check-in counter and get your boarding passes, drop off your bags, or take care of anything else.
If you are an Air Canada or Air Canada Jazz passenger, follow the signs marked gates B1-B3 and proceed through security to the departures area.
If you are a U.S. Airways passenger, check the monitors for your departure gate and follow the signs to your security checkpoint.



All check-in counters are located at the left side of the ticket lobby. Go to your airline's check-in counter and get your boarding passes, drop off your bags, or take care of anything else.
If you are an American passenger, follow the signs to gates B22-B36, and proceed through security, located toward the right of the departures area.
If you are a Virgin America passenger, follow the signs to gates B37-B38. The security checkpoint is located just to the left of the ticket counter.

If you are a JetBlue passenger, your check-in counters are located in the very back of the ticket lobby, parallel with the back wall.
Go to your airline's check-in counter and get your boarding passes, drop off your bags, or take care of anything else.
If you are flying with United, follow the signs marked gates C11-C20 on the left side of the terminal, and proceed through security to the departures area.
If you are flying with JetBlue, follow the signs marked gates C25-C36 on the right side of the terminal, and proceed through security to the departures area.

Go to your airline's check-in counter and get your boarding passes, drop off your bags, or take care of anything else.
If you are a Southwest passenger, follow the signs to gates E1A-E1E on the right side of the terminal, and proceed through security to the departure area.
If you are flying on any of the other international carriers listed, follow the signs to gates E2A-E8B. The security checkpoint is located to the left of the terminal.

