 While, in general, auras are thought of as distinctive atmospheres that surround a person, you must realize that auras are more specific than that. They are considered by some to be made up of vibrations--electro-photonic vibrations that are generated in response to some sort of external excitation. What's key about an aura is that it contains information about the essence of the person or object that it surrounds.;
, Auras around humans are composed in part from electromagnetic (EM) radiation that spans from microwave and infrared (IR)radiation on the low-frequency end to UV light on the high-frequency end. The UV light is more related to our conscious activity (thinking, creativity, intentions, sense of humor and emotions) and is the part that can be seen with the naked eye. The electro-magnetic energies of the aura surround the body in an oval- shaped field. This "auric egg" emits out from the body approximately 2–3 feet (0.6–0.9 m) on all sides. It extends above the head and below the feet into the ground. , The aura consist of seven levels (also called layers or auric bodies), and these correspond to the seven chakras in the body. Each level has its own unique frequency but also relates to and affects the other levels around it. Consequently, if one level is unbalanced, it can lead to unbalance in the other levels as well. Physical level. On this level, you require simple physical comfort, pleasure and health.







Etheric level. On this level, you need self-acceptance and self love.







Vital level. On this level, you want to understand situations in a clear, linear, rational way.







Astral level. On this level, you seek loving interaction with friends and family.







Lower mental level. On this level, you require alignment with your divine will and a commitment to speak and follow the truth.







Higher mental level. On this level, you must have divine love and spiritual ecstasy.







Spiritual (intuitive) level. On this level, you require connection to the divine mind and to understanding the greater universal pattern.
 Learning to see someone's aura can tell you a great deal about that person and his or her character. Learning to see your own aura can inspire you to make changes that will improve the signals that you radiate.


Spot a liar. Aura's can't be faked. If someone is being dishonest with you, you'll be able to spot it as you "listen" to their thoughts via their aura.






Get clues into someone's nature. A bright, clean aura indicates that a person is good and spiritually advanced. A gray or dark aura reveals someone to have unclear intention. Someone who presents himself to be a spiritual teacher, master, guru or other spiritual leader or guide should have a clearly defined yellow-golden halo around the head.






Diagnose diseases. Reading auras can allow you to detect a problem in the body before any physical symptoms present themselves.






Enhance personal growth. Reading auras can raise your consciousness, aid in spiritual development and strengthen your awareness of the natural world.
 Auras exist in a wide range of colors, which convey a message about the person or object they surround. While there are a number of variations, each with a specific message, these are the basic colors.



Red. Red pertains to the heart, circulation and the physical body. Viewed in a positive light, it can indicate a healthy ego; on the negative side it may speak to anger, anxiety or an unforgiving nature.







Orange. Orange pertains to reproductive organs and emotions. Looked at positively, it indicates energy and stamina, creativity, productivity, adventurousness, courage or an outgoing social nature. Looked at negatively, it can speak to current stress related to appetites and addictions







Yellow. Yellow relates to the spleen and life energy. It is the color of awakening, inspiration, intelligence and action shared, creativity, playfulness, optimism and an easy-going nature. However, a bright yellow can indicate fear of losing control, prestige, respect or power.







Green. Green relates to heart and lungs. When seen in the aura, this usually represents growth and balance, and most of all, something that leads to change. It speaks to a love of people, animals and nature. A dark or muddy forest green aura indicates jealousy, resentment, feeling like a victim, insecurity and low self-esteem.







Blue. Blue is related to the throat and thyroid. Its positive associations are a caring, loving nature, intuition and sensitivity. Dark shades of blue indicate fear of the future, of self-expression or of facing or speaking the truth.







Violet. Violet relates to crown, pineal gland and nervous system. It is considered to be the most sensitive and wisest of colors. This is the intuitive color in the aura and reveals psychic power of self-attunement.







Silver. Silver is the color of spiritual and physical abundance.







Gold. Gold indicates enlightenment and divine protection. An individual with a gold aura is being guided by his or her highest good.







Black. Black draws or pulls energy to it and transforms it. It typically indicates a long-term inability to forgive or unreleased grief and can lead to health problems.







White. White is a pure state of light and represents purity and truth. It can mean that angels are nearby or that a woman is or soon will be pregnant.







