 Make sure it isn't too dark since Mulan's was a soft blue. Also, you want it to stand out against the darker blue piece you’ll be layering over it. Use a long-sleeved blouse with peasant sleeves if you can find one.


Peasant sleeves are puffed and wide, but end in a band of fitted trim at the wrists., Choose a skirt that is ankle-length to floor-length. The color should be somewhere between white and powder blue, at least a shade lighter than your shirt. Look for an A-line or mermaid skirt so that it has some flare to the bottom., Look for a dark blue dress that is about knee-length, with short, angled sleeves, such as exaggerated cap sleeves or short kimono sleeves. Alternately, you can get a sleeveless dark blue robe (preferably without pockets), or cut the sleeves off a robe yourself.
 Your sash should be at least two yards long; if you can’t make a sash or buy one, get the same length in an extra wide ribbon. Hang it around the back of your neck, as if you were about to put on a necktie, but so that both ends of fabric hang evenly in front of you. Cross the fabric once at your navel, and then wrap it around your waist and back to the front.


Continue wrapping the mauve sash around your waist until there is just a bit of it left, then tuck the bits in and pin them.
The wrap of the sash around your waist should cover where the fabric crosses in the front, so that it looks like it comes to a “V” rather than an “X.” Use a safety pin to secure the fabric from the inside.
 Place it over the top of the mauve one around your waist. At the left front of your waist, loop the fabric over itself as if you’re about to make a simple knot. Instead of crossing it again to finish off the knot, arrange the two straps so that they’re hanging on top of each other.


Use a safety pin concealed inside the pink sash to hold the waist belt and straps in place.
 Mulan wears dark gray flats with rounded toes, but you could get away with navy blue or black flats. Wear pantyhose, tights or knee highs in any shade from nude to white., How elaborate you want to get with this detail is up to you. You have multiple options. You can wear any type of large gold medallion on a chain necklace or a long gold ribbon. Or you can recreate Mulan’s Crest of the Emperor medallion in a simple or a complex way.To make a simple medallion, cut out a circle from foam board or cardboard. Draw the dragon on in pencil, and then color it in with bronze and gold metallic paint markers. Punch a hole in it at the top, and attach it to a long chain necklace with gold ribbon. You can also use a hot glue gun to attach gold ribbon around the edge of the medallion.
To make a complex medallion, you can use worbla over craft foam, wood, or clay, and paint the finished product., Mulan carries the sword of Shan Yu with this outfit. The length of the sword is from the top of her head to about midway between her hips and knees. The sword has a wavy blade and a tip like the head of an arrow. You can look for a prop sword to buy online or at costume shops.To make your own prop sword, make a template out of foam board. Make the sword’s handle with an armature of toilet paper rolls and masking tape. Cover the full creation with papier-mâché paste and strips of newspaper. Once that dries, you can paint it with acrylic paints.Optionally, you can wrap the middle of the sword with brown paper or beige fabric and tie it with a burgundy string, the way Mulan presented it to the Emperor. If you add another loop of string to the knot that is long enough to wear like a sling over your head and one shoulder, you won’t have to carry it around loose., Mulan has a fan that saves her from a wielded sword! It’s a gold-colored fan with black trim. You can buy a fan and spray paint it gold, or make your own fan from scratch., If you can’t go to a wig store in person, you’ll probably need to measure your head in order to buy one online. Mulan’s hair is parted down the middle, so opt for a lace front wig if you want to look realistic.


Mulan wears wispy bangs with this look. You can buy a wig that way, or trim the bangs on the wig.

