 Remember that not all actions carry the same importance or connection. A story follows an unfolding of meaning, but not every action is included in a story in order to lead the reader to the same idea. Not all actions that occur in a story are completed or successful.


For example, in the Greek classic “The Odyssey” by the writer Homer, the main character Odysseus attempts to go home a number of times and fails, encountering monsters along the way. Each failure adds excitement to the story, but the importance of the story is in what he learns about himself, not about which monsters he defeats.
 Often getting to a good ending is as easy as reflecting on what would logically happen in a situation. Endings should make sense based on what has happened earlier.,


Let's say your main characters are looking in the park for their lost dog when they find a secret doorway to a fantasy realm. Don't abandon the logic you began with, if it is useful: let them have their adventure, but let them find their dog in the end (or have the dog find them).
 We don't want stories to be so logical that nothing new happens in them. Think about what would happen if a certain choice or event were slightly changed--and definitely include surprises. Check to see if you have included enough surprising events or actions for your reader.


If your main character wakes up, goes to school, returns home, and goes to bed, then that story might not appeal to very many people because it is so familiar as a sequence of events. Let something new and surprising happen. For example, your character is on her way out of the house when she discovers a strange package on the steps with her name on it.
 Review what you have learned from the events, evidence, or details you have arranged. Think about—and then write about—what is missing, which problems or concerns are still not addressed, or what questions arise. Endings that reflect on questions can invite the reader into deeper thinking, and most topics—if pursued through logic—will lead to more rather than fewer questions.


What new conflicts, for example, now await your heroes now that the monster has been destroyed? How long will the kingdom remain at peace?

, Whether it is a true story or imagined, re-read your story from an outsider's perspective, and think about what would seem logical for a person reading the story for the very first time. As the writer of the story, you might feel particularly excited about an event involving one of your characters, but you should remember that a reader outside of your own head might have a different feeling about which part of the story is most important. Having some distance from your story will help you consider it more critically.

