 It’s very important that you not rub, scrub or scrape too hard or you might scratch the car exterior. However, you should still do some prepping of the car.


Pull as much of the gum off as you can before applying any products to it.Move the car into a shaded area so that the gum doesn’t melt while you’re working on it.;
, It might be a good idea to wipe the area of the car where the gum is stuck to remove any obvious dirt.


All you need is a bucket full of hot water and dish soap. You just need a squirt of dish soap in two cups of water. Dip a cloth into the bucket, and wet it. Then, gently wipe away any easily removable residue from the car’s exterior.You want to avoid using anything too abrasive. It’s best to use a soft cloth when rubbing on a car exterior.
You will want to repeat this process after you remove the gum too to get rid of any lingering residue. After removing the gum, you may need to apply a new coat of protective wax.
If the water is hot enough, it may be possible to remove the gum using only soap and water.
 Take a cotton ball, soak it in body solvent, and let it sit on the gum for about a minute to soften it up. Then, take a soft cloth with body solvent on it. Wipe it off.


You may need to repeat the process a second time if it doesn’t all come off.Body solvents are specifically designed to be used on paint, so they are a good choice for cleaning a car exterior without damage.
You can also try this with rubbing alcohol.
 If you wet the gum with bug remover and tar remover, it should come right off the car. You might need to wax the car after you use this, though, as it can remove some of the wax.


The good thing about bug and tar remover is that it’s designed specifically not to harm a car exterior because people usually use it to get rid of bugs that have flown into the car’s outside or tar that’s ended up on the vehicle. You could also apply the bug and tar remover to the gum by using a soft cloth. Rub the remover into the gum, until it starts to come off.
 Goo Gone is one product that is widely used to remove gum from car exteriors. Goof Off also has a product that can be used on car paint.Goo Gone advertises that its product is safe for use on a car exterior if you follow the instructions for hard surfaces.To use either product, apply the product and wait three to five minutes. Pull the gum off. Use a clean cloth to wipe off excess gum.Wear safety goggles and solvent-resistant gloves when working with chemicals.
 Believe it or not, there is a product designed to remove gum. It’s often used by industrial cleaners, so look for it in such a store.


Spray the remover on the gum, and then remove the gum from the car.
Some people also use WD-40 oil to remove gum, bugs, and other grime from a car exterior., Spraying compressed air on the gum ma harden it enough for you to remove the wad. This method is usually very effective.


You can find these cans in most hardware stores.
Usually, people use compressed air to clean other things, such as removing residue caught inside a computer keyboard. However, they work on a car exterior too.
 You might be able to peel the gum off the car exterior if you harden it. You can do this with ice cubes.


Take a small towel and wrap the ice cubes in it. Hold it on the gum for about five minutes. Once you remove it, the gum should be hard.
Try to gently peel off the hard gum. You may need to repeat the process. You could also put the ice cube in a Ziploc bag. Wrapping it will keep it from dripping too much once it starts to melt.
 The oil in the peanut butter can help remove the gum from your car. It’s not designed to clean your car, but some people still use it, and they say it can work.Smear the peanut butter on the gum. Let it sit for three minutes, and then wipe it off with a damp rag. Peanut butter causes the chewing gum to lose its stickiness, and it becomes easier to pick out.
You could also try putting body oil on the gum with the same principle in mind. Some people have also tried using eucalyptus oil with some success.

