 If you tend to take long, hot baths, you may be unintentionally hurting your skin. When you soak in water for a long period of time, your skin loses moisture and essential protective oils, causing it to become dry and rough. The heat from the water is also hard on skin and can lead to irritation. Whenever possible, take shorter, cooler showers to keep your skin fresh and soft.


When you do take a bath, add ingredients to the water that will help moisturize your skin. Try adding a few spoonfuls of oil. Go easy on the soap, since that can strip your skin of oils.
When you do use hot water, apply a rich lotion or oil immediately after you dry off.
 Do you towel off roughly, scrubbing your skin dry? That can cause irritation and roughness. For the softest skin, pat yourself dry with a soft towel. That way you won't rub away your skin's natural oils, and you won't soak up too much moisture before you have a chance to apply lotion.


This is especially important when you're drying your face. Scrubbing your facial skin can lead to irritation and skin damage. Use a very soft towel and pat dry.
Air drying is even better for your skin, if you have the time to do it.
 Sun exposure does more than leave dark spots on your skin: it causes dryness, roughness and wrinkling. Keep your skin moist and soft by applying plenty of sunscreen whenever you plan on spending time outside. Use SPF 30 or higher for the best protective benefits.
 What you put inside your body is reflected in the texture of your skin. If you're serious about getting soft skin, it might be time to alter your diet. Try adding the following nourishing foods to your meals. After a few weeks or months, you should see a difference in your skin.


Walnuts, flaxseed, and fish like salmon and sardines contain omega-3 fats that are essential for skin health.For vitamin A, eat carrots and low-fat dairy products.
Eat Blackberries, blueberries, strawberries, and plums for their antioxidant value. These fruits help repair skin damage after sun exposure.Green tea has anti-inflammatory properties, helping skin look smooth and healthy., If your skin stays dry no matter how well you take care of it, you may have a condition that requires medical treatment to correct. Eczema, psoriasis, and chronic dry skin often require intervention beyond using regular lotion and skin care techniques. See a doctor if you believe you may have one of the following conditions:


Eczema: this condition causes patches of dry, red, itchy skin. It is usually treated with over-the-counter or prescription ointments or creams containing corticosteroids. Severe eczema may be treated with barrier repair moisturizers or topical immunomodulators.Psoriasis: this condition causes the skin to become very dry with large flakes and scaly patches. It can be treated with creams or ointments containing salicylic acid, steroids, or calcipotriene. Coal-tar ointments and shampoos are commonly prescribed, and some find that prescription retinoids help. Severe psoriasis is also treated with light therapy or oral drugs such as methotrexate.