 Wash your face at least twice a day — once when you wake up to clear away oils that accumulate on the skin during sleep, and once before sleep to wash away the day's accumulation.Beyond that, always wash your face after periods of heavy sweating, whether you've gone to the gym or just been outside on a warm day. Take a bath at least once a day, and consider taking an extra shower after heavy sweating.


Always use either a non-comedogenic product or your homemade oil-based cleanser.
Use sea salt as directed. Overexposing your skin to drying sea salt could dehydrate your skin, causing a flare-up of acne.
 You may be tempted to use a washcloth or exfoliating gloves to wash your face, but your best tools are your fingertips. Especially if your skin already has acne on it, you don’t want to irritate it with abrasive surfaces. Massage cleansers into your skin in gentle, circular motions for about 10 seconds. Don’t exfoliate blemished skin, as it could pull away skin that’s not ready to come away yet. This is like pulling off a scab that’s still working to heal your skin, and will leave behind scars and discoloration. ., The pus that comes out of a popped pimple is full of the P. acnes bacteria. It may be satisfying to see it leave the skin, but all you’re actually doing is exposing your other, healthy skin to the bacteria that was previously contained in the pimple. This could potentially lead to acne spreading, rather than your pimple disappearing. Popping zits can also cause scarring and discoloration.
 A popular myth suggests that a tan can help treat and prevent acne, but scientists have found no evidence to support that.In fact, both the sun and tanning beds damage your skin and raise your risk for cancer. Be aware that some acne medications or other types of medication can actually make your skin even more sensitive to the sun. These drugs include antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim; antihistamines like diphenhydramine (Benedryl); drugs used to treat cancer (5-FU, vinblastine, dacarbazine); heart drugs like amiodorone, nifedipine, quinidine and ditiazem; Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like naproxen and the acne medications isotretinoin (Accutane) and acitretin (Soriatane).

