 Reflecting on yourself and your relationship can teach you a lot about yourself as a person. This newly found knowledge can give you a better appreciation of who you are, your strengths, and what you want out of life. You may find that things you sacrificed in your relationship mean more to you than you thought at the time.


You may find that hobbies or skills you gave up because of time constraints or the tastes of your partner are actually very important to you. You may find that work you put aside for the sake of your relationship gives you a greater sense of purpose than you thought. You could also find that you sacrificed your friendships more than you wanted over the course of your relationship. This new beginning can give you the opportunity to explore these things that are important to you in ways that you could not before.
 It is important to forgive during the healing process. Forgive your ex for hurting you and forgive yourself for any failures you perceive. Remember that blaming people, yourself or someone else, does not make problems go away. Blame will only serve to make you bitter and keep you from future happiness. Forgiving is essential to moving on.Begin the forgiveness process by identifying exactly why you’re mad. Understanding the real reason that you feel hurt will allow you to better deal with the feeling and identifying who you need to forgive specifically.
Express your feelings. Begin by writing down your bad feelings. This will help you purge your anger. Next, express your feelings to friends and family. They will help you understand your feelings better by giving you a new perspective. Then, decide if you want to tell the person who hurt you about how you were hurt.
Find compassion. Realize that everyone is human and the person who hurt you did so because they have faults, just as everyone else does. Understand that you make mistakes too. It may even be that the person that hurt you was only doing what they thought was right or best. Try to understand the reasons for their actions. This will help you forgive them.
 The act of laughing releases endorphins into your body. Endorphins are used to regulate your emotions and make you happy. It will also remind you to find enjoyment in life and get you into the habit of being happy again. Finding the humor in bad situations will especially help you to experience them less negatively. Laughing and placing yourself in situations with the opportunity for laughter will significantly aid your healing process.


Spend time with friends who make you laugh. Surround yourself with people who, when you are with them, make you laugh and provide you with positive experiences. Don’t spend time with people who make you sad or are constantly sharing negative emotions. This will hinder your healing process.
Watch comedy. Watch funny television shows or go watch comedy acts at a local club. These activities can be done alone or with others. Seeing these things will distract you from bad emotions while reminding your brain how to feel happy again.
 When we are in relationships, we tend to become very dependent on the person we are with. You lose much of your independence in relationships and this can lead you to stop doing things that you enjoy.


While it sometimes feels good to have someone to rely on, being independent can feel good to. It gives you the freedom to do the things you want to do, when you want to do them. You don’t need someone else’s permission and you don't need to worry about how your actions will make someone else feel.
Examples of ways you can enjoy your new independence are: going to see a movie your ex would not have enjoyed, wearing clothes that you like but your ex found unattractive, spending time with a friend your ex did not get along with, as well as the sort of individual activities like reading books that are hard to find time for when you are dating.
 The best way to get back to life is to live your life. You're alive and the world around you is an amazing place. Everyone has things that they've always wanted to do and this is a fantastic opportunity for you to try new things and experience the world around you.


Exercise. Exercising releases endorphins into your body, much like laughter. By exercising, you can make yourself naturally happier as well as healthier. This is also an activity which many people find they don't have as much time for when they are in a relationship. Getting a healthier, toned body can make you feel like a new person. This feeling of a fresh start can help you move past negative feelings and memories and on to the better things that are waiting for you.
Volunteering. One of the best ways to make yourself happy is by making others happy. Taking responsibility and helping another person will give you a sense of purpose, which you may be lacking at a time like this. It gives you the opportunity to see that everyone has problems and that some problems are much bigger than yours. This perspective can be comforting and teach you to appreciate all of the wonderful things and people that you do have in your life. Try volunteering at a soup kitchen if you’re looking for something less time consuming. If you want a bigger commitment, try something like Habitat for Humanity.
 Traveling will give you something to be proud of, as well as creating new memories both good and bad. Put yourself in a situation you've never been in before, go somewhere where you do not speak the language. This will create experiences much bigger than those with your ex and you will find yourself excited to return to your life and share your experiences with others.

