 Confidence and self-acceptance shows that you truly believe in yourself and the things you can accomplish, which other people will clearly be able to see.Nothing says "cool" like a lot of confidence in the way you are and the way you're dressed. Even if you don't alter your uniform or your appearance in any way, your confidence alone will stand out to others.
 If a teacher puts you on the spot, don't sweat. Simply ask the teacher to rephrase the question if you don't understand, or politely apologize and ask them to repeat the question.


If you don't understand, don't fumble. Try saying, "I'm sorry, I don't completely understand what you're asking. Can you rephrase the question?"
If you don't know the answer, don't try to make one up. Admit that you don't know, and try to seek the answer. You can say something like, "I wasn't sure about that part of the assignment. What part of our texts/reading can I find the answer?" Or ask a question directly related to the assignment.
 Even if you're a little unsure of yourself, smiling shows your overall happiness with yourself and your appearance. Putting on a happy face doesn't just make you more likeable; it makes you healthier.Always smile to your friends and teachers, and be polite and bright.


It would be a good idea to keep your teeth white and free of anything stuck in between. Brush your teeth daily and check your smile after you eat things.
 You may have your group of friends, but it's important to be nice to others around you, as well. Bullying is never cool, and can cause damage to your own reputation as well as the victim's personal health and wellbeing.
 If somebody is bullying you, it's important to stand up for yourself. Whatever the reason, don't be ashamed of the way you look or the way you are. If you can be confident and happy with who you are, the people bullying you won't look so cool-- and you'll look even cooler.


When you stand up for yourself, remember that fighting is not the same thing. Fighting can get you into a lot of trouble and it can hurt people. ß

