 Non-Linear Editing (NLE) is just a fancy way to say you're no longer editing rolls of film by hand. That said, the term has come to mean mostly high-end, quality video editing software with robust features and controls. You should use what is comfortable to you. Options include:



DaVinci Resolve: A new, free, and open-source video editing program. It may keep changing, but the price is enough to make it worth trying.

Adobe Premier: One of the classics, Premier works well on Mac and PC. If you use other Adobe products, like Photoshop, you may find Premier easy and intuitive to get used to.

Final Cut X Pro: This specific version of Final Cut was considered the industry standard for a long time, though it has gotten weaker with updates. Very popular for Mac computers.

Avid: The standard of many professional film editors, Avid has all the functionality of its competitors and an interface made to work on the project with a large team., What is it your clip is trying to say? Does it tell an actual story or plot? Is it just a funny event you saw the other day? Is it a powerful speech you captured? Figure out what the purpose of your video is -- how do you want to change the viewer's mood when they finish watching? Good editors highlight this idea and use it to guide all of their editing decisions.


What is the main point, image, or idea of the video? How can you bring it front and center?
This doesn't mean all videos need a story -- they just need a central idea or image to anchor everything.
 If the shot, moment, or image isn't adding anything to the story, ditch it. For good video clips, every single frame needs to seem intentional -- this isn't a movie, this is a short scene that needs to hold a viewer's complete attention the entire run-time.


If you're only using one continuous camera feed, you can still mask over mistakes or slow moments with well-placed text or music., Flashy, obnoxious transitions are the hallmark of many poor editors. Ditch the snazzy flashbulb and stick to simple fades, dissolves, and hard cuts (no transition at all) when switching between clips. If you want to use a fancy effect, use it to transition in and out of the clip at the very beginning and end.Never use the novelty cuts and transitions, like "Star Wipe." They just distract from your actual video.
 The rule of thirds comes from photography, and is used to compose great frames for film or photos. Mentally divide the frame with two horizontal lines and two vertical lines, so you have nine even boxes on your image. The rule of thirds states, simply, that the best images place items on these lines. When titling or adjusting the image, try to line up your text, the horizon, and special effects with these imaginary guidelines., The purpose of a good editor is to disappear, and this is doubly true for a short video clip. Use a basic color correcter, like your program's "color balance" effect (they all have one) to make the footage smooth and attractive. Then lower the volume on the music so that you can still hear the camera audio. Make sure that, when played together, the sound is not too loud. Remember -- you want people focused on content, not why the music is too loud or the video looks "too blue."


Audio needs to be faded in and out, just like video, to sound natural., If you're only recording simple, one-take clips, then this doesn't need to apply. But, for all other shoots, knowing that you'll be editing a video later should make you a much more diligent camera person. Some things to consider include:


Always shoot run-in and run-out footage, or 5 seconds of nothing before and after shot. This gives you crucial editing footage to splice with other shots.
Take a few shots of "coverage," or the setting around you, that you can cut to hide any mistakes in the footage.
Never skimp on audio. If you can, use a dedicated microphone instead of a camera mic, or simply record a few minutes of background noise in your location to edit over mistakes later.