 In order to have a good strong two point position you need to have strong legs which can carry your weight for extended periods. Practising two point on a horse will work your legs, but it is easy to supplement this with some targeted strength training at home.One of the best ways to strengthen your legs is to go cycling often. Try to ride everyday when you can't ride a horse to keep your legs strong and improve your stamina.


Riding a bike out of the saddle to some extent mimics riding in two point position on a horse. You will have to lean forward a little and keep your balance in the same kind of way.Improving the strength of your legs will help your remain stable and balanced in two point position, as well as improving your endurance.
 If you have been working on your two point position you will have noticed how much it makes your calves burn. Calf raises are a great and very simple exercise which you can do at home. There are some variations which increase the difficulty, but the basic movement remains the same. To start with, stand up straight and lift yourself up onto your toes, contracting your calf muscles as you go. Keep your knees straight as you do this.You can increase the intensity by standing on a block or a stair, and dangling your heel off the end. Doing this will increase the range of motion available, allowing you to drop your heel below the level of the rest of your foot.
You can add weight to increase the difficulty simply by holding onto dumbbells or any weighted object as you do the raises.
If you do regular sets of calf raises you will begin to notice your calves strengthening and the muscle becoming more defined, which can translate to a more stable and enduring two point position.
 The second main exercise you can do at home to help you develop your leg muscles for a better two point position is squats. Like calf raises, you can do squats anywhere and you don't need any equipment, but you can increase the difficulty by adding weight. Stand up straight with your legs shoulder width, or slightly wider, apart and turn your feet out to around 45 degrees. Inhale, contract your abdominal muscles and drop down.


You backside should go out behind you as you go down. The movement is as if you were sitting down on a chair that is a little behind you not directly underneath you.
Keep your knees in line with your feet, your chest forward, your chin up and your back with only a slight bend as you drop down.
Go down so that your thighs are as close to parallel with the ground as you can before pushing back up to a standing position., As well as strengthening your legs, it will be beneficial for you to work on improving your balance when you are away from the stables. One very good way to do this is with regular yoga routines. Yoga can help you improve your core strength and flexibility which can translate to better balance on and off your horse. Try regular routines which involve the tree pose, the eagle pose and the dancer's pose.


The tree pose involves you standing up on one leg with the sole of your other foot pressed up against the inside thigh of your standing leg.For the eagle pose stand on one leg and bend the knee of the standing leg so you are squatting. Then raise your other leg and wrap it around your standing leg. Your arms should be crossed in front of you.To do the dancer's pose stand on one leg and raise your other leg up behind you. Grab the foot of the other leg with the hand on the same side and pull it up towards your back as you lean forward and extend your other arm in front of you.