 When you speak french the words come from the throat, and simply saying "oo" instead of "oh" can make a sentence go horribly wrong.
 (Comoh tapel too) or Comment vous appellez-vous? (Comoh vou-appeleh vou) : What's your name/What do you call yourself?
Oui (Wee): Yes
Non (No): No
Je m'appelle ... (Jhuh- ma-pelle): My name is ...
Quel âge as tu? (Kell aj ah tu) or or Quel âge avez-vous? (Kell aj ave vou): How old are you?
Tu parles anglais? (Too par-uhl on-glay): Do you speak English?
Parlez-vous anglais? (par-lay voo on-glay?): Do you speak English? (Formal)
Comment ça va? (Com-ohn sa-vah): How are you? (informal)

, It would be wise to frequently consult an English-French, French-English dictionary for words you don't know.
 They do not work because there are several expressions in french that do not mean what they say literally, which is how translators obviously take them.
 Try to remember that verbs in french need to be conjugated according to their pronouns; there are three different conjugations, because there are three different kinds of verbs: verbs that end in -ir, -er, and -re.
 There are also irregular verbs that you simply must memorize.


Verbs like avoir, être are irregular but, are the most used verbs. So, learning it will help you.
 Learning grammar is equally as important as vocabulary, and you can spend all the time in the world getting to know words, but if you can't formulate sentences, than all those words are useless.
 Again as a basic french learner, learn to conjugate the verbs properly. If you're going to write the verb as it is then the whole sentence goes wrong or sometimes becomes meaningless.
 If you want to say "I am looking," or "I look," you write "Je regarde," because when you take off the ending of the verb (which for this case is -er) in the Je form (Je means I), you replace it with "e." Now, if you wish to say "They are looking," or "We are looking," you will need a different ending.
 Don't fret; the tenses need not be learned just yet. Conjugating is also what helps you get to know whether you will be looking, you are looking, you looked, you are going to look, you would look, and so on and so forth.

