 This is the stage where you'll teach it basic manners, and it'll set you up for later when you attempt to ride it or train it to be ridden.


 Start out with the join-up, but once you get the horse, praise it and start leading it around.
Get it to walk next to you around the pen, in both directions, and teach it to "whoa" or make it stop every once in a while. This teaches it responsiveness, and gets it thinking about what you're asking of it. If the horse doesn't stop immediately, face it, give a couple sharp yanks of the rope, and walk into it.
If the horse knows how to back up, it will take a couple steps back, which is what we want. Otherwise, the jabbing pressure will be uncomfortable, and the horse will know that was a bad action.
 If the horse remembered how uncomfortable it was to have the halter bop its face, it should stop this time. don't expect it to stop immediately at the command, but if it does, praise it.


If it takes another step after the command, repeat the correction, and try again. Keep doing this until the horse stops when you tell it to. You can keep pulling on the rope each time you give the command, however, after a while, the horse will stop when you stop, regardless if you give it the command.
Unlike in riding or lunging , this voluntary halt is what you want, so praise it when it stops with you.
 Just as you corrected it for not stopping, turn to face it, walk into it, and give light jabs of the rope, pushing the rope toward the horse's chest each time, and say "Back."


Keep doing this until the horse takes a step back, and then praise it, and walk off. Keep repeating this, until the horse takes a step back with ease, and then move on to two steps, praise, and walk off. eventually, you can ask more of your horse - asking for six or more steps in one go.
Regardless, praise your horse whenever it does something you like, so that it knows that was a good action. You don't need treats for any training - a simple scratch behind the ear, or pat on the neck is enough assurance the horse needs.
 Most showmanship patterns will require trotting in-hand, stopping, backing, and pivoting, so these are perfect patterns for training a horse to handle well on the ground, and to get it to think about focusing on you, and trusting you.
 If the horse doesn't stand well, work on this before moving on. Each time it takes a step out of place, correct it and make it take a step back. The goal is to get it to stand in the same spot you had it in, but as long as it re-claims its leg(s).


It'll be okay if it's slightly off. Praise it as soon as it stands quietly. The horse might see this as praise for the bad action, so be prepared to correct it again, and praise it again when it stands still.
After a while, it'll stand quietly for a little bit, and praise it when it does. Then, walk a few steps and stop it, and count. Fifteen seconds is a good start for a horse that'll stand quietly for a short time, but depending on our horse, you can shorten or lengthen the time as you feel the need.
If the horse steps out, correct it and start again. After it stands quietly for the time, praise it, and let it walk on, and do it again. Before you end, count the time, praise it when it stands, and let it stand a few seconds more.
Be careful not to get it used to walking on after a praise, so you can do this even before you end, so it doesn't try to walk before you've given it the command. Once the horse stands quietly even after you've praised it for standing, you can be done for the day and let it back out into its pen or stall (or pasture/paddock if you can catch it.)

, By now, the horse should have been in training for over a week, and should be fairly comfortable with you. If you've done the join-ups every day, you should notice that now the horse licks its lips when it's standing, looking at you with its ears perked, and maybe even turning toward you while changing directions.


These are all signs that the horse trusts, respects, and is comfortable with you. Once you've gained the trust of your mount, you will be able to do this with little risk of the horse acting out dangerously (IE rearing, bolting, charging, etc). #* Get the horse in the center of the arena and wave the whip around. Use slow, deliberate movements, and don't hold the whip too close at first.
Keep slack in your lead, as the horse will want to move around at first. While we want it to stand still, this is a completely normal response to anything scary (fight or flight) and if you try to hold it in one place, it could act out (fight).
Talk to it in a low, calm tone, and slowly wave the whip around until it stands still, then praise it. Wave the whip overhead, side to side so that the excess rope hits the ground and flies overhead. The horse may back up, or raise its head, and this is okay, just move with it.
You don't want it to be able to escape the whip, so you have to keep it the same distance regardless of the area of the arena. After a while, the horse will realize that it's nothing scary, and will settle down. Praise it.
 It knows that it's not going to hurt it, and allowing it to sniff it and subsequently touch it, allows it to realize this. Once the horse is done sniffing it, start rubbing it over the horse's body. The horse may move away from it, and this is okay, just move with it, and keep talking calmly to it.


This is a perfect time to get it used to things touching it in sensitive spots, such as the belly, thigh/groin area, rump, back, etc. If the whip can reach it, let it touch it. This is especially needed with geldings/stallions, as they need their sheathes cleaned and require to be handled for that.
Once the horse accepts the whip, praise it, and do the same thing for the other side.
 Which is everything. Do two or three items a day, and leave it on a good note.


Praise it really well (you can give it a treat for the end of the day, but a good scratch and pat, and lots of "good boy/girls" will do just as well) and turn them back in their stall/paddock/pen/etc.

