 Do so at a time when you are calm and thinking clearly.;
, Therefore, grounding from social activities is appropriate if your child has broken their curfew, behaved badly when out with friends etc.
 Are you removing privileges, adding extra chores, giving an earlier curfew or only allowing your child out of the house or yard for supervised outing or not at all? Decide what you consider appropriate and practical and define the boundaries clearly for your child.
 Give your child the opportunity to do as you wish by explaining what you expect and only giving terms that they can manage.
 If you can't be sure that set tasks are carried out or a removed privilege is not availed of behind your back change the punishment for something that you can implement. You could keep a mobile phone in your handbag or in a press at work, for example, or expect the dinner prepared for when you get home. The transparency achieved will keep relations between you and your child open and calm and prevent the punishment from being undermined.
 Make the action and the positive consequence very clear from the start. Ultimately, helping people less fortunate or washing a floor will teach your child good behaviours; sulking in their room will only breed resentment.
 Giving the punishment whilst you are sulking or out of control with anger is counter-productive. If you are calm and level-headed whilst implementing the grounding your child will see that their behaviour was not infuriating, it was incorrect. They will understand that you're not totally unreasonable and taking your anger out on them but that you have reasonable expectations and limits and ultimately you want them to learn to correct the behaviour.
 An unclear timeframe makes it seem like you are relenting or giving up when you lift the grounding.
 Three weekends or one week is the very maximum for a tween or teenager.
 Do not prevent your child from attending any school activities, including the extra-curricular, unless this is the direct cause of the problem. Removing them from a serious sports teams (losing a place on a squad could be a real possibility and is unlikely to be your ultimate aim), extra-curricular classes or religious activities should be avoided if possible.
 These tasks should be clearly defined as efforts to reduce the length of the grounding beforehand and you should explain how you want the task done, what standard you expect and exactly what the exchange will be. Give them a little leeway if you feel they have given it their best shot.
 Adjust the punishments to suit what you know you can enforce.
 This should be the TV time you ban, not 'all TV', something you can never hope to enforce if the child is unsupervised.
 If you choose to implement this, make a list of the jobs and talk through them with your child. Prepare your child to succeed, not to fail.
 It will only breed bad feeling and undermine the punishment. A privilege which has been banned but which they can access will often pose too great a temptation if they know they won't be caught. It's asking for arguments and upset.
 In this way you will understand what caused the undesirable behaviour and how to prevent its re-occurrence. Guide them towards seeing the fault in their reasoning, if any, and discuss it together. Explain how the behaviour made you feel and why the behaviour is not acceptable.
 If voices begin to rise, check yourself before reminding your child to use a conversational tone, reminding them that you are listening and you hear what they are saying.
 Suggest a middle ground that accommodates both of you, if appropriate.

