 Sarcoidosis is a condition where cells called granulomas accumulate in the eyes, lungs, skin, and lymph nodes.For many people, sarcoidosis begins with general symptoms, such as unexplained fatigue, mild fever, swollen lymph nodes and weight loss.However, because lung involvement is so common with sarcoidosis, lung symptoms start to dominate: persistent dry cough, shortness of breath and chest tightness and/or pain. Skin symptoms typically involve a rash consisting of reddish-purple bumps and growths or nodules just under the skin. Eye symptoms aren't common, but can include eye redness and pain, blurred vision and light sensitivity.


Approximately 90% of sarcoidosis patients have some type of lung issue, with nearly 1/3 experiencing respiratory symptoms such as coughing, difficulty breathing and chest pain.As many as 25% of sarcoidosis patients develop skin problems.;
, Sarcoidosis often doesn't generate noticeable symptoms (particularly during its initial stages) and it often resolves itself after a few months, so doctors aren't always so anxious to treat the condition with medicines.Furthermore, drug treatment is usually only offered if good health practices (see below) fail to prevent sarcoidosis from progressing. Your doctor will give you a thorough exam, focusing on the areas commonly affected by sarcoidosis — lungs, lymph nodes, skin, eyes — before deciding if drug treatment is necessary.


You will need to see your doctor for a physical exam as well as some diagnostic tests. Diagnostic tests may include a TB test, chest x-rays (looking for lung damage or enlarged lymph nodes), blood tests (calcium levels, kidney and liver function), CT scan, EKG, pulmonary function test, eye exam and skin biopsy (looking for the tell-tale granulomas).Most patients (>75%) can get symptomatic relief by taking over-the-counter anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, naproxen) while at home., When drug therapy is recommended to combat sarcoidosis, the main goals are to keep the lungs and other affected organs working properly, and also to relieve symptoms generated by the affected organs. Corticosteroid drugs display powerful anti-inflammatory properties and remain the primary first-line treatment for preventing granuloma formation in sarcoidosis.Prednisone is the most common oral corticosteroid prescribed for sarcoidosis, although other formulations can be applied directly to an affected area — via creams for skin lesions or via inhalers for lung granulomas.


Other drugs that your doctor may recommend include glucocorticoids, colchicine, azathioprine, and cyclophosphamide.
Keep in mind that there is currently no drug treatment that reverses lung scarring (fibrosis) caused by advanced sarcoidosis.
Side effects from taking corticosteroids include mood swings, water retention and weight gain, hypertension, acne, mineral leaching from bones and impaired immune function., Off-label drugs are those used for conditions not originally approved for by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Doctors commonly use off-label drugs for a variety of other conditions because of reports of effectiveness. Common drugs used off-label for sarcoidosis include methotrexate (used against cancer and rheumatoid arthritis), chloroquine (antimalarial drug), cyclosporine (used with organ transplants to suppress immunity) and thalidomide (leprosy drug).Methotrexate and chloroquine currently have the most support from studies for effectively combating the side effects of sarcoidosis.The latest research is looking at using biologic medications that inhibit tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha inhibitors), such as adalimumab and infliximab. TNF-alpha inhibitors are normally used for rheumatoid arthritis and skin psoriasis, but show promise with sarcoidosis also.
 For any type of infection (bacterial, fungal or viral), true prevention depends on a healthy and strong immune response. Your immune system consists of specialized cells that search for and attempt to destroy potential pathogens (like the ones that may cause sarcoidosis), but when the system is weakened, harmful microorganisms grow and spread virtually unchecked.Consequently, focusing on ways to keep your immune system strong and functioning properly is a logical and natural approach to preventing essentially all infectious diseases.


Although it’s uncertain which foreign substance triggers the body’s abnormal response in sarcoidosis, it's been observed that cases occur in groups of people with close contact and in recipients of organ transplants, which suggests a potential infectious ability.
Sleeping more (or getting better quality sleep), eating more fresh produce, practicing good hygiene, drinking lots of water and regularly exercising are all proven ways to keep your immune system strong.Your immune function will also benefit by cutting back on refined sugars (soda pop, candy, ice cream, baked goods) and drinking less alcohol (no more than one beverage per day).
 Since sarcoidosis often affects the lungs, you shouldn't smoke cigarettes or cigars if you've been diagnosed with the condition. Smoking causes more than 4,000 chemicals to affect the lungs, which causes irritation, inflammation, dysfunction and destruction of the various tissues.Some of the chemicals in cigarette smoke also cause cellular mutations, which is the main mechanism of lung cancer. Smoking doesn't directly cause sarcoidosis, but it can certainly make the condition worse.


Sarcoidosis usually starts in the lungs and the lymph nodes in the chest, which suggests that the cause or primary contributing factor for the disease is inhaled.
Other diseases and conditions of the lungs that can mimic sarcoidosis include berylliosis (lung inflammation related to beryllium exposure), asbestosis (inflammation related to asbestos exposure), tuberculosis, farmer's lung disease, mesothelioma, lung cancer and fungal infections.
 In addition to not smoking, you should also avoid exposure to other substances potentially harmful to the lungs, such as dust, chemical fumes, gases and toxic inhalants.Sarcoidosis is likely not directly caused by common allergens or toxic chemicals, but any additional irritation or inflammation of the lungs only contributes to the diseases severity and makes symptoms worse.


Consider switching your household cleaning products to more natural ones, such as white vinegar, diluted lemon juice and/or colloidal silver.
To avoid inhalation of dust and other potentially irritating particles, wear a common medical / surgical mask while outside.
 Sarcoidosis patients occasionally have abnormally high levels of calcium in their blood, the reasons for which are not clear.However, if that's the case with you, then avoiding excessive amounts of calcium-rich foods is likely a good idea until the disease goes into remission or your blood composition changes.Calcium-rich foods include dairy products, sardines, canned salmon with the bones, collard greens, kale, broccoli and oranges.


Although vitamin D is important for strong bones and immune function, supplements should be discontinued (short-term) because the vitamin is responsible for increasing calcium absorption in the intestines.
In a related vein, vitamin D is produced by your skin in response to intense summer sunshine, so excessive sunbathing should also be avoided if you have sarcoidosis and high blood and/or urine levels of calcium.

