 Your goal is to find out as much information as possible about this career path. Reach out to current business analysts and ask them questions about their background and current work. Read and subscribe to online business forums. Visit the websites of various schools promoting programs in business analysis.


You will find that a business analyst must be familiar with all elements of an organization. They are the ones who look for ways a company can maximize efficiency. They also communicate information to stakeholders and serve as a meeting point between different groups within a business.It might be helpful to pick up A Guide to the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge (BABOK Guide). This book lays out the various requirements and skills expected of a business analyst. It is also a helpful tool when studying for certifications.;
, This is especially important if you are leaving a job that is currently lucrative and stable. Search online for business analyst salary numbers. You will find that they range from $55,000 and upwards a year. Also, look at the job outlook statistics provided by the U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics (BLS).Based upon the 2015 BLS numbers, the job of business analyst is showing strong growth heading through 2022.As you conduct your online searches, you may find concerns regarding the uptick in data scientist numbers. The idea is that these jobs may replace the ones previously held by business analysts. You will want to weigh this information carefully., As you reach out to various business professionals, try to identify one or two persons who you can trust to give you solid advice and mentorship moving forward. These should be people who have the experience necessary to help you and the willingness to do so as well. It is even possible that your current manager can serve in this capacity if they are supportive of your goals.As you start to craft your resume or apply to certification programs, make sure to consult with your mentor. You might ask, “Do you think this program is worthwhile? Have you worked with any of their graduates?”

, Some bachelor’s degrees naturally lend themselves to a career as a business analyst: accounting, information systems, or computer science, for example. You can advance your career by pursing additional certifications from the International Institute of Business Analysis (IIBA).If you are without a degree but would like to commit to a shorter program, some schools also offer associate’s degree in business and related areas.Some businesses want an advanced degree for upper-level positions. If this is the case, you can also pursue a master’s degree in business analytics (MS-BA), information management (MSIM), or business administration (MBA).
Note that there is no central regulatory authority deciding how much, and what type of, education business analysts need to possess. Instead, the requirements are generally determined by the hiring businesses and the market., The main certification that you should aim for is the Certification of Competency in Business Analysis (CCBA) offered by the IIBA. You could also pursue the more advanced Certified Business Analysis Professional (CBAP) level. Each certification comes with its own unique requirements so it is good to investigate to determine which path suits your career aspirations.The CBAP, for example, requires that you log at least 7,500 hours of experience while also passing an exam. The CBAP exam consists of 150 multiple-choice questions based on basic business principles and the Guide to the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge (BABOK Guide).