 Firstly, it takes determination. Obviously. You can't be an award-winning author, if you haven't got the drive. Tell yourself- why are you doing this? What is it for?;
, Read Rowling's works, watch the films. Get an idea of how this genius weaves enchanting spells into her words and haunts them into our dreams. Get some headphones, plug them in, and block out the world, listening only to songs that ignite a passion in your heart. Some good songs would be by Regina Spektor, they will help evolve your imagination.
 What do you like writing? Romance? Fantasy? Crime thriller? Whatever it is, brainstorm the main aspects. You need to understand your characters and every thing that goes on. You, as a writer, must know the characters more than they know themselves, so that nothing they do may be mis-interpreted.
 Rowling is famous for her bends in the plot. Everything changes, and the twists leave your mouth gaping wide open. Take Snape, for example. The greasy-haired, miserable man, so easy to hate, turns out to be the brave hero, acting only out of love. It is this that make a story endearing. Whatever happens in your novel, please deliver at least one shock factor, it is pleasing to both reader and writer. Trust me.
 Even if it is just a small one-liner, weave some amusement in there. All readers require a small dose of light relief from the harsh, intense plot. Exactly like when Fred & George cancel the fifth year's OWL exams with a terrific firework display. Readers are so caught up in the drama of Harry's life, they need to be snapped back to sanity, something to help up with the fast-paced plot. Light relief humour is always essential. Even if it just happens once per chapter, less is fine, but not infrequent. And making the comical narratives or speech appear in bad-timing is even better, it shows how clever a writer you are. Plus, always use irony. People can't get enough of the stuff- it's like a drug.
 One of the key reasons to why Harry Potter is so widely known is the fully 3 dimensional characters. Girls relate to the struggle Hermione faces with trying to win Ron over and also cope with the prejudice against muggle-borns, which could refer to things in real-life such as 'racism', 'fascism' and other things. People who have lost someone they love relate and mourn with Harry, feeling his pain. Under-achieving tag alongs may recognise how Ron feels after constantly living under his siblings, and friends shadows. Always give characters flaws, otherwise they'd be Mary-Sue's.
 Everybody resents those really cringey scenes that consist of 'love at first sight': '"I love you so much it hurts." The drop-dead, gorgeous boy said and I was so lost in his eyes it almost killed me. I loved him so much I had to pinch myself. I love him. I love him. I love him. It's just the best feeling ever. I want to spend the rest of my amazing life with him and have twenty children.' That is just sickly. Avoid over-emotional scenes at all cost. Let's re-construct that scene altogether, and instantly, we've evoked more emotions. 'The boy stared at me for some while before saying; "You are Miss Brown?" I smirked, was he stupid? "Of course, Mr James." I tried to tear my gaze away from his, yet there was something so startling about his vivid blue eyes that made me want to out-stare him, even if it was just to prove something I didn't even know. The silence wasn't awkward, but peaceful. How odd? Maybe I would see this boy again, maybe I wouldn't... whether I'd like to, was a different matter entirely. Either way, I didn't really want this moment to end.' The second construction is so much more intriguing, and realistic. It shows that the female character isn't a weakling who falls madly at first look, but a dominating woman who keeps her head high even in the face of lust. Don't do the corny 'I love you xxxxxxxxxxxx' bits. Remember, less is more. Make your characters grow, don't just throw them in at the deep-end, they must swim their way toward that. Remember, Ron and Hermione meet in the 'Philosopher's Stone' and don't kiss until 'The Deathly Hallows', giving them enough time to establish strong feelings.
 Since the Queen of Hogwarts reigned in the best-sellers, nobody has yet stole her limelight. Now is your chance. Make the novel different. Give it something that WILL be slated by some, but loved by others. Don't just cater for everyone. There has to be something so daring in there, people HAVE to buy it. Don't make it so 'indie' only a small gaggle of people desire it. If you want to be the next JK, please hit the popular market. Otherwise, you'll never get your name in lights.
 Why else would people pick up another book? Make it well-known. Facebook pages? Twitter? Tumblr? Wattpad? Youtube? Just get the title of your book out there... let people know the brilliance of it.
 Write as if it would be a fantastic movie. Create trailers for your novel and send it out to 'Warner Bros', 'Lionsgate' and 'Paramount. Any picture company. Someone has to reply. You have no idea how much help that will be to becoming a legend.
 Get radio interviews, newspaper, public speaking, anything you can find. Honestly, it will be the best thing you'll have ever done.
 It may sound odd, but these are the gifts Rowling gave to her army of followers:


Bertie Botts, Chocolate Frogs, Butterbeer, Diagon Alley, Quidditch, The Tales of Beedle the Bard, mythical references and the unforgettable 'Daily Prophet', and much more.
 They adore things they can take away from the experience. Like eating the real sweets Harry does, drinking the same beverages, having the merchandise and going on spin-off adventures in carry on books like 'Quidditch through the ages' and 'Beedle the Bard' and 'Fantastic Beasts'. Build up a world, and culture in which the readers will thrive off.
 Here you still are. Hunched over a computer, wanting to write a story. Get off now, get a notebook, and a pen. And imagination, get writing. Grow a pair and finally start this amazing story that you think is worthy of overtaking Rowling's work. You can do this- just believe.
 These are surprisingly helpful when rising to fame.
 Give the geeks out there something to feast on.
 Don't do this all alone. It is a long, lonely ride.

