 You’ll need your hair to be wet, but not soaked, for this process.


Use a spray bottle. If you don’t want to step into the shower, use a small spray bottle to dampen your hair.
Wet your brush. Run the wet brush through your hair. This will help the mixture grab onto each strand.
 Before you apply the mixture to your hair, be sure to test some of it on your hand. If your skin has a reaction, don’t apply the mixture.


There is such a thing as a cinnamon allergy. Rub some of the cinnamon paste onto the back of your hand and let it sit for 5-10 minutes to make sure you don’t react.
Cinnamon creates a warm tingle but shouldn’t burn; if you have a sensitive scalp, this treatment is not recommended.
If it does burn, rinse immediately!

, This will be messy! Have a friend help you if you can.


Rub the mixture all over your hands.
Apply thoroughly from root to tip. Be sure to use generous amounts of the mixture throughout your hair.
If the mixture is too thick, add ¼ cup of water to it.
If you have thick hair, split it into sections before you apply the mixture.
Be careful to keep the mixture off your neck, as it may irritate the skin there.
 Give the mixture time to lighten your hair while you sit back and relax.


Put your hair in a bun and cover it. You can use a shower cap to easily cover your hair.
Leave the mixture in your hair for at least 2-4 hours. If possible, leave it overnight.
Put a towel over your pillow. Even if you have a shower cap on, the mixture could make a big mess if you move in your sleep. Put a towel over your pillow to protect it.
 Be patient. Even though the honey is sticky, it’s the cinnamon that will give you the most difficulty when you’re cleaning the mixture from your hair.


Rinse your hair. Before trying to wash your hair, do your best to rinse the mixture out of it.
Shampoo your hair. Once you’ve rinsed all that you can out of your hair, shampoo thoroughly.
You may need to shampoo twice to get all of the cinnamon out.
 Unlike bleach, this mixture won’t create a drastic change. Since the mixture is good for your hair, you can repeat it as many times as you’d like without damage. Do this until you get your desired shade.


Lightening your hair with cinnamon is a gradual process. It will only subtly change the color of your hair with each use.
It may take three to four applications before your hair becomes noticeably lighter. 