 Watch the ground ahead of you very carefully. Try to avoid stepping on obvious sound “landmines” like twigs or fallen bark., Avoid dry grass and foliage, which will crunch underfoot and make noise. Choose the clearest path to walk on – smooth, bare dirt is best. Mossy rocks also muffle the sound of your footsteps., Any time you are trying to be quiet, you should slow your pace and think about each step. Take three or four careful steps, then pause and regroup before continuing. If you rush through your steps, you will be far more likely to accidentally make noise., Instead of spending your entire time in the forest seeing nothing but your feet, try looking ahead and planning where you want to place your next few steps. This way you can keep your head up, and see more of your surroundings., This method is sometimes called “fox walking.” Place the heel of your foot on the path ahead, then gently roll your foot down until the sole touches the ground. Avoid walking “flat-footed,” touching all surfaces of your foot to the ground at the same time – this will produce a much louder sound.Soft-soled shoes or light boots will make the least amount of noise in the forest.
Place your foot down on the outer edge first, then roll the rest of your sole down until it touches the ground.
Slowly shift your weight onto your foot, listening for any crackling or crunching noises. If you hear anything, stop immediately and move your foot to a new position.
Crouch low and bend your knees, then walk slowly and carefully with your body balanced low over your center of gravity.
Walk slowly. Slow your pace and think about each step. Take three or four careful steps, then pause and regroup before continuing.
 Stand with your destination directly to the left of you. Take your right foot and swing it across the front of your left leg and quietly put it down. Then take your left leg and swing it to the left, behind your right leg. You may be able to move quietly and quickly in this fashion., If you need to run in the forest, try to touch only the balls of your feet to the ground. This requires more strength and better balance than normal running, and can be quite tiring if practiced for long periods., When walking with a group, the quietest method is for everyone to walk at the same pace. If you are walking with a friend who is a fair distance ahead of you, you may need to adjust your timing. Because sound travels more slowly than light, you may see their foot touch down ever so slightly before it makes a sound.Pay attention to the length of time that elapses, then use that same amount of time to adjust your own steps – put your own foot down a split second before theirs will touch the ground.
By the time the sound reaches them, it will match the sound their own foot has made.
Boots or shoes with light, flexible soles make the least amount of noise in the forest.

