 Introducing yourself and starting a conversation with someone new can be intimidating, especially if you feel shy. Once you break the ice, however, you may find yourself in the middle of a bunch of friends. Choose someone to introduce yourself to. Smile and say hello. Talk about something related to school, such as, “We’re in the same English class,” or “When is the assignment due?”Rehearse your conversation by practicing with your parent, sibling or even your pet.
You can also think of other ways to start up a conversation, such as complimenting someone on their clothes or noticing a cool new notebook.
 Making a new friend or two before school starts can be helpful so that you don’t feel so alone when you go to the first day of school. Go to a park in the school neighborhood, or join a summer camp. It can be helpful to see some familiar faces in your classroom when school starts., Sign up for activities like drama, sports or chess club. This will put you into smaller groups with people who have similar interests as yours. This will also give you a chance to demonstrate your skills at a particular sport or other activity. You might even be able to teach some other kids about how to do something., It can be exhausting to pretend to be someone else in order to fit in. Try your best to just be yourself. Don’t worry too much about what other people think.
 When you are in a new school, you have the chance to make friends with anybody. It can be tempting to try to fit in with cool kids. You should, however, spend most of your effort making friends with people that you’re comfortable around. It goes back to the idea of being yourself. Who are the people that enjoy your company because of who you are? Who are the people who treat you with respect?

, By setting goals for yourself every day or every week, you can see how you are adjusting to your new school in very real ways. For example, you can say, “I’ll attend one club meeting this week,” so that when you attend the meeting, you’ll know you’re trying hard to adjust.


Another goal is to try saying hello to 3 new people every day.
 Just because you’ve moved to a new school, that doesn’t mean you can’t have your old friends in your life. Talk to your old friends on the phone or send them emails.,,