


This is the most important step to moving on from a breakup. There are times when you wonder “Was it me?” “Was it my ex?” “Can we work on our problems and get back together?” or “Will I connect with anyone as much as I did with my ex?”

These questions were all meant to be thought up and answered before the breakup. If the relationship has ended, continue to follow through.
If your ex broke up with you, the chance for you to be informed as to why has come and gone. Crying due to being hurt by the unexpected surprise is never an excuse, especially since all mourning of a discontinued relationship should be done in solitude.;
,


Relationship memorabilia is everything that reminds you of being in a relationship with your former lover. These things include your ex lover’s clothes, gifts you were given, gifts that were given to you as a couple, pictures, texts between you and your ex, and the connection between you and your former lover on any and every social network.

This may seem a tad extreme, but it helps you from undergoing a mental breakdown or unwanted yearning for a particular mismatch of a counterpart later on. Burning a jacket that the not-so-significant-other left behind at your apartment may be just as healthy. Then again, so would returning said jacket to its owner. Totally your call.



Everyone in your life who knew about your relationship is going to want to know what the cause of the breakup was. The storytelling, unfortunately, leads to the constant reliving of the event and the reopening of emotional wounds and tension.
Whether you have a good poker face or not, your character may be negatively perceived by others since sharing a stressful moment, or discussing someone you dislike, typically leads to the use of venomous speech and causes you to be as worked up as you were while actually experiencing the incident.
Just stick to the basics: The two of you are no longer together, you are much happier now, and you will never continue the former partnership.



Never force friends to pick between you and your ex. Instead, after the news of the breakup has been shared, allow your true friends to make the loyal – yet mature – moves that they should in order to remain prominent in your life. Those whom you have met through the relationship should not be expected to only keep up with simply you; mutual friends will feel the need to spend equal time with both you and your former lover.
Friends that have been a part of your life before you met your ex will not hesitate to cut your former “better half” out of their daily lives – same should be expected of your ex’s associates and confidantes. A thorough weeding of the friends list of your social networks is definitely in order as well.



The coincidental run-in with a potential, current, or former lover is never unintentional. One of the factors in deciding whether or not you should go to the biannual school fair or college night at the local bar is whether or not you will run into a specific someone or someones. If there is ever the slightest chance of you running into your ex at a public event or venue, do NOT pass “Go.” Altering your plans and regular hangouts should never be the case, however. Just be aware that if your ex knows of your usual hot spots for a night on the town, he or she will not give up a chance to make at least one night an awkward time for you.
Nothing good will ever come from a reunion. Never.



Whether you randomly remember a good experience or a very tragic occurrence, if the event has anything to do with your insignificant other, move the account to the back of your mind and never utter the name of “thou-who-must-not-be-named” ever again. Memories are precious things which you are able to carry with you even when times you spend with others – or those you have spent life-altering moments with – have come and gone.

Memorable times with your ex could be mistakenly excused as being cautionary tales or moments to look forward to with your next, and hopefully final, love of your life, but these should never be the case. Constantly thinking of your ex will cause you to constantly crave to spend time with him or her, or wonder what he or she is up to. Mentioning your ex means that you are thinking of your ex – which should never be the case because…..your ex should always remain your ex.



The relationship is over, and, if you have accepted the breakup and decided that you would like to move on with your life, interactions with your former lover are over as well. Keeping in contact with an ex creates that illusion that the two of you can remain friends, the emotional relationship which was forsaken once you became lovers.

Never wish the ex a happy birthday. Refrain from sending a holiday greeting. Delete that urge to ask, “How are you?” This may seem like a step to becoming a bitter ex, but it is in fact part of becoming a smart, emotionally stable individual. You must accept the fact that you cannot change every situation in your life that has gone astray, and you are most certainly also unable to stay in the good graces of everyone you meet. All you can do is let go of the past and stay open to positive future experiences.

