 Many tsunderes are spoiled and/or rich, and some of them just want a "prim-and-proper", clean-cut look to them. While there's no tsundere "dress code", so to speak, the best look would be something that looks expensive and classy, such as a neat sweater and jeans without holes, or a cute dress. Check out what kinds of clothes you can find that you think would match the tsundere archetype.


Some tsunderes dress typically, or for the girls, in a more tomboyish style. You don't have to wear super-expensive clothing just to look like a tsundere. Many of them actually look fairly normal.;
, Think about it - do you see a lot of tsunderes with less-than-stellar hair? Learning how to care for your hair is important for being a tsundere. Greasy, knotted hair just makes you look less like a tsundere, and more like a rabid otaku.


It's common for tsundere girls to have long hair, sometimes pinned up into "twintails" (ponytails on both sides of the head). It's not necessary to be a tsundere, but it's a nice touch.
 If there's a tsundere in particular that you have a liking for, check out their clothing and hair styles, and consider mimicking them. You don't want to completely copy off of them - you're not a clone of them, after all - but many tsunderes have a very distinctive style that you could loosely follow. Maybe you could make your own tsundere style!

, A common trait of tsundere girls is to wear thigh-high stockings while wearing a short skirt or shorts; in Japan, this is referred to as zettai ryouiki. There are many "grades" of zettai ryouiki, tsundere girls wearing Grade A or Grade B most of the time (socks that extend up to the thigh, with short shorts or a short skirt). If you want to up the tsundere image, check out zettai ryouiki.


Zettai ryouiki is fairly sexualized, so if you're not comfortable with it, you don't have to wear it. It's a personal choice. You don't have to wear something you're not comfortable with in order to be a tsundere.
 A general anime staple is focusing on high-school-age protagonists, so it's common to see tsunderes that wear school uniforms. If your school has a uniform, do everything in your power to make sure that it looks the best it can. Do any pinning, rolling, tucking, or searching for similar clothes to make yourself look as good as possible.


If your school doesn't have a uniform, consider dressing in a uniform-style fashion. Not only does it help you look more tsundere, it's also bound to look more clean-cut than just a shirt and jeans.
 Some tsunderes (though not all of them) carry around their own signature item. This could be something small, like a book or a piece of jewelry, or something huge and impossible to overlook. If you want to carry around a signature item, figure out what you like and consider carrying something like that. Get creative!



Don't carry a weapon! Though you might want to carry around a wooden katana like Taiga Aisaka from Toradora! does, carrying a weapon can get you in serious legal trouble. Stick with the stuff that won't be perceived as dangerous.

