 Not all hardships are the same. If the hardship your friend is experiencing is a threat to his or her safety – say a physically abusive relationship or threats of self-harm – you must act.


Encourage your friend to tell someone in a position of authority more equipped to know what to do, such as a law enforcement officer or a therapist or religious leader or parent. If the friend refuses, and there is abuse occurring, talk to a person in authority on your own.
If the friend is underage, you need to tell their parent if they are suffering from abuse, including bullying. Bullying is emotional abuse, and you shouldn’t try to handle something like that on your own. Don’t try confronting the abuser, as that could put you in danger too. Tell an adult.
 Don’t force them to cheer up or get angry if they can’t break out of their doldrums. They’re hurting. Sometimes they just need to wallow in it for a bit. But if the wallowing is going on for an excessive amount of time, you should try other responses.


There comes a time when you might need a little tough love or you become an enabler. When is that point? When a significant amount of time has passed, and their continued sadness, grief, or depression is starting to have negative ramifications in other areas of their life, like work or school.
At first wallowing is natural. Later on, not so much, although how much time that means is individual. At some point, direct them toward considering solutions.
 If you need space from the issue at a certain point because they aren’t healing and every conversation is about wallowing in sadness month after month, you might need to suggest a tougher intervention.


Learn the signs of clinical depression , and if your friend has it, suggest getting help from a professional, such as a therapist or doctor.
Remind them that you are not trained to be their therapist. Nor can you carry their problems on your shoulder forever. At a certain point, a little tough love in the form of a constructive solution or an honest reckoning of what you observe can help them more.
 Try to find ways to distract them from the issue for awhile. Maybe ask them to go to a movie with you. It will get them out of the house, and they will forget about their troubles for a few hours at least.


Distractions help a person gain perspective. Balance the wallowing and the distraction, though. Understand, at least in the beginning, that they might want to sit in their livingroom in a pair of pajamas instead.
Get them some comfort food like ice cream or chocolate or their favorite foods. Bring it over to their house, and keep them company. Remind them of their achievements. Share a positive quote. To some degree carrying on with life as usual at a certain point can be healing for people. So don’t vary routines too much.
 When a friend confides in you about a hardship, they are conveying a sense of trust in you. If you violate that trust by sharing their business elsewhere, you aren’t a good friend.


The exception – and this really important – is for situations involving abuse, bullying, or any circumstance in which your friend is in danger, including emotionally. In those cases, you must tell someone in authority – a parent, a cop, or a therapist, for example.
In other situations, don’t be a gossip. Don’t allude to their problems on social media or tell other people in your circle of friends, even if it’s under the guise of trying to get them more help.

