 It’s usually the little things that show your partner you appreciate her. Attempt to do something each day that shows her you care. Making dinner, leaving a nice note, buying flowers, or telling her you appreciate what she does will make her feel special and show that you really appreciate it.


Going to a couple’s counselor or workshop once a year or so is also a good way to keep your relationship healthy. You may not think you need it, but you may be surprised how much closer it brings you. Additionally, reading a relationship book together can also help you to maintain your relationship.;
, The saying “absence makes the heart grow fonder” is true, especially when it comes to romantic relationships. Having a day or two to yourself each week helps you to better appreciate one another, and gives you a chance to miss each other. It also gives you an opportunity to reconnect with yourself and become a better partner.


A good rule of thumb for alone time is to take a day for yourself between every couple of days you spend together., Nothing forges a stronger bond between you and your partner like shared passions. If you spend your leisure time always doing separate activities, your relationship may suffer. Even if you and your girlfriend are like night and day, try to find at least one interest that connects you and do it together often.


Try to plan a standing weekly date with your girlfriend doing something you both enjoy. Of course, this may translate to binge-watching House of Cards on Netflix. If that works for you, that's cool. But try to do something outside the house sometimes, if possible.
For instance, you might work out together in the gym, go for a hike on weekends, visit local art galleries or museums, read the same book, or join a couple’s social group., A physical connection is huge in relationships. So is taking the time to learn each other’s likes and dislikes when it comes to being intimate. Paying attention and trying to please her shows that you care and want to make her happy.Notice what your girlfriend responds to and do more of that. You might also ask, “What kinds of things turn you on?” or something of that nature.
Establish enthusiastic consent with your girlfriend by asking "Do you like that?" or "Is this okay?" If she responds favorably, keep it coming. If she says no, or seems ambivalent, stop.
Have an attitude of acceptance and communication when it comes to sexual activity. Openly share what you like and don't like, and encourage her to do the same.

