 It's helpful to know what they will actually want to receive when you're planning the gifts. It would be awful if you got them an extraordinary gift, but then they hate it and never use it!;
, Try to come up with ways to add a personal spin or a homemade touch to their present. For example, if they want a whiteboard, you could paint the rim of the whiteboard or cover it in pretty fabric, decorate it by fastening memorable photos to it with magnets, make homemade magnets for on the whiteboard, or come up with other customizations.
 You can't buy a gift with no money! If your parents don't give an allowance, look for change lying around on the ground in stores, at home, etc. Every penny counts!

, But, wrapping accessories cost money! Buy a Christmas gift bag with a little tissue paper as an easy fix. Dig in closets or in the attic (if you're allowed) to find wrapping paper. You could also use a friend's wrapping paper.
 You can do a lot more with homemade cards, fun to make, and also are cheap to make, using household items! Older people appreciate homemade cards more, and they'd love a long, sincere letter rather than a short, funny letter. For siblings or friends, consider their personality to find which type of card they want!

, Everyone loves classic Christmas cookies! You'll have fun baking them, too!

, Christmas songs is sure to brighten anybody's day!

, There are kids just like us with no families or homes, and they deserve a Christmas just as much as we do!

, Christmas only comes around once a year... take the opportunity to dress in a totally new outfit! Some of you boys might not understand, but it's important stuff! But, you don't need to spend money on a new outfit... it's more fun to get creative with your own wardrobe, and you should put your money towards more important things, like presents for the family!

, You may have a beautiful red dress that you love, but if it's non-sleeved, you'll get sick, or get very cold. Layering is very helpful for this, and often it's very stylish, if done correctly! Find a cozy, pretty sweater for over a dress or shirt, or a long sleeved shirt for under.
 Find festive earrings, a necklace, and a bracelet. This doesn't mean that they have to have a snowman or a candy cane, they could just be a Christmas color, or just match your Christmas outfit! Also consider adding a cute scarf and/or hat!

, This would be if you already have one, or if money isn't a concern. Decorate it with lights and ornaments!

, You could also use a combination of supplies that you have at home, too! Draw or make fake lights on the tree, and create a garland with string, pipe cleaners, or whatever you have. For the ornaments, you could glue pom pom balls onto the tree, or you could make homemade ornaments just like you would for a real tree, and "hang" them on the tree.
 Line shelves with it, wrap it around your bed, lay it on your dresser, and line the outside of your door frame with it! Don't be afraid to put a ton of holly in your room!

,, You can buy them cheaply, but you can make them cheaper!

, Especially if you own a desk in your room, this can become even more organized. You can get really creative with  how you make that look!

