 Chain Heal is Rehgar’s Q ability, which heals a target ally and heals up to two other allies for around half the original amount; prioritizing heroes over minions or summons. This ability is pretty straightforward, although you need to be quick and accurate enough to heal your ally just when he or she needs it the most. The 9 second cooldown, however, means that you need to pick your targets very carefully. This is why you need to prioritize allies that are being focused down by the enemy to keep them alive.
 Lightning Shield is Rehgar’s W ability, which places a buff on the target that damages nearby enemies and damages nearby enemies over the duration of Lightning Shield. This ability is great when used on melee heroes that can stick close to their target, as it gives them bonus damage that can force enemies to retreat from the continuous damage over time effect. This is especially effective when used on tough heroes that can “stick” to the enemy. (e.g. Arthashastra, Diablo, Chen, Stiches etc.), Earthbind Totem is Rehgar’s E ability, which creates a totem on the target area that slows nearby enemies over its lifespan. This ability makes Rehgar a powerful ally when roaming the map to ambush isolated heroes, especially when partnered with another hero that can disable targets from afar and buy time for Rehgar to drop his totem right on their heads. It is also devastating against enemy teams that clump up together during team fights; making it easier for your team to get in position and destroy enemies caught in the totem’s area of effect. And finally, the totem itself has a respectable sight radius, which you can exploit by dropping the totem along enemy paths of approach to spot them if they try to flank you or your teammates., Bloodlust is Rehgar’s first ultimate, which significantly boosts the attack and movement speeds of nearby allies when activated. Of course, heroes that rely on basic attacks to deal most of their damage (e.g. Illidan, Raynor, Tychus etc.) will benefit the most from Bloodlust, but the attack and movement speed buffs will still be immensely useful for your entire team. The added speed is the true clincher here, as it gives you and your teammates an advantage in positioning; making it easier to chase down fleeing enemies or fall back when taking too much damage., Ancestral Healing is Rehgar’s second ultimate ability, which heals a single target hero for a massive amount of health after a short delay. This ultimate ability can give your ally a second life, which is especially useful for warriors that lead the charge and absorb a large chunk of damage for the team. Just remember that it takes about two seconds for the heal to kick in. The cooldown will trigger as you cast Ancestral Healing – regardless of whether your target is healed or not. This means you need to cast Ancestral Healing when the target has lost enough health to make it count but not before the target dies while being focused down by the enemy., Instead of mounting up like most other heroes, pressing the mount key (default Z) causes Rehgar to instantly transform into a Ghost Wolf. He can maintain Ghost Wolf form even when taking damage, and will only break form when attacking or casting abilities. His first basic attack while in Ghost Wolf form will deal twice his normal damage. This trait gives Rehgar a significant advantage in combat, and is especially useful for letting him get close to enemies or to get away from them even while taking fire., This build focuses on maximizing Chain Heal so that it heals more health, heals more heroes at once and can be used more often. All you need to do is sit back in the rear, cast Chain Heal along with Lightning Shield on heroes that are being focused down by the enemy, and prevent the enemy from penetrating your formation by using Earthbind Totem near your allies. Only pick Cleanse if the enemy team has heroes with lengthy slows, roots or stuns (e.g. Murky, Thrall, Jaina, Malfurion etc.). A well-timed Cleanse can allow your allies to escape what would have been certain doom if they had been disabled all the way. Also, Storm Shield is generally the better pick for dealing with large burst damage, but Farseer’s Blessing is also competent if your enemies are focusing all their damage on a single player on your team.

Talent Build: Spiritwalker’s Grace > Chain Reaction > Earth Shield OR Cleanse > Ancestral Healing > Healing Surge > Tidal Waves > Storm Shield OR Farseer’s Blessing

, This build revolves around Lightning Shield and is best used if your team is lacking in damage due to the absence of hard-hitting assassins or if you already have a healer and your main warrior or melee assassin needs some extra damage to threaten the enemy ranks. Simply cast Lightning Shield on the melee heroes charging the front and follow it up with a timely Bloodlust to further improve their mobility and damage output. You can even join the fray when you get Lightning Bond since it automatically casts Lightning Shield on you as well - complete with all the benefits from the talents you chose.

Talent Build: Empowering Charge > Storm caller > Earth Shield > Bloodlust > Reactive Spark > Lightning Bond OR Earthgrasper Totem > Gladiator’s War Shout

, This build is all about boosting Earthbind Totem while giving you more mobility options to weave into and out of combat. Feral Lunge gives you the ability to close in faster to put down your Totem at a more optimal location, while the stealth from Shadow Wolf gives you the ability to get closer without alerting the enemy and then to disengage more easily once the enemy is hot on your trail. Rewind’s purpose is to allow you to put down two Earthbind Totems – which is a very real threat in large team fights where the enemy team is tightly clumped up and vulnerable to the Totem’s hefty slowing effects. Forward Momentum is the preferred choice since you’ll be joining the battle, but Earth Shield is a respectable choice as well if you have trouble managing the damage the enemy team throws your way.

Talent Build: Colossal Totem > Shadow Wolf > Forward Momentum OR Earth Shield > Bloodlust > Feral Lunge > Earthgrasp Totem > Rewind

