 Shrubs can be pruned any time, but pruning shrubs in winter or fall can stunt their growth. If you have summer-flowering shrubs like gardenia, beautyberry, and privet, prune them in late winter or early spring. That way, they can bloom well in late spring and summer.If you have spring-flowering shrubs like azalea, lilac, and forsythia, you should prune them in late spring or early summer. This will help them bloom more fully the following season.
 Hand shears have scissor-like blades and should fit comfortably in your hand. They are good for branches that are up to ¼ inch (0.6 cm) in diameter. You can make tight, close cuts on shrubs with hand shears.You can find hand shears online or at your local hardware store.
 Lopping shears are good for branches that are 1 ½ inches (3.8 cm) in diameter or smaller. Look for a pair that is lightweight and has extendable handles, as this will allow you to reach higher branches.A pruning saw is also a good option for thicker branches, 1 ½ inches (3.8 cm) in diameter or smaller. Pruning saws have coarse teeth, making it easier for you to cut thick branches.
 Pole pruners are ideal for branches that are more than 1 inch thick (2.5 cm) and high up. This tool is handy if you’re pruning shrubs that are tall. Most pole pruners have a pruning shear head or saw that works using a rope or hook.You can find pole pruners online or at your local hardware store. Look for pruners that can be taken apart easily for storage.
 Hedge shears are a great tool for shaping shrubs. They can also be used to snip new growth on shrubs. Look for hedge shears online or at your local hardware store., Gardening gloves are a good option for protecting your hands from getting scratched while you prune. Look for gardening gloves that are thick and that fit your hands comfortably so you can hold shears and other tools.


You should also wear long sleeves and long pants when you prune to protect your arms and legs.
You can also wear protective eyewear to prevent eye injuries from fallen branches or sticks.

