 In order to decide on suitable feeders, you should research the types of birds in your area. This way, you can purchase a feeder that is appropriate for local birds. Regardless of the type of feeder you choose, make sure that you clean it regularly and replace the seeds every 2 to 3 days to prevent the development of harmful fungi and bacteria. Here are the most common types of feeders and some of the types of birds they will attract to your garden:Tray feeders: Attract pigeons, starlings, and sparrows. Use a tray feeder that has a screened, rather than solid, bottom in order to allow for drainage. Water build up after rain can cause seeds to rot and facilitate the development of bacteria. Also bird droppings can contaminate the food.
House feeders: Attract finches, blue jays, cardinals, buntings, grosbeaks, sparrows, chickadees, and titmice. The feeders are covered and, therefore, the seeds are protected from water and droppings. You can mount hopper feeders on a pole or suspend them from a tree.
Tube feeders: Are cylindrical feeders with tiny feeding holes to allow for smaller seeds, such as Nyjer. These feeders often have small perches and attract smaller birds such as finches, sparrows, titmice, chickadees, and grosbeaks.
Suet feeders: Are constructed of wire or plastic mesh and can be nailed or tied to a tree trunk, suspended, or attached to a hopper feeder. These feeders attract woodpeckers, nuthatches, chickadees, blue jays, and starlings.;
, Different types of birds eat different types of food. If you want to attract a variety of birds to your yard, you will need to put out multiple feeders with different types of seeds. For instance, try sunflower seeds, nyger seeds, seed mixes, suet, and nectar. Use these helpful tips in order to choose the food that is best for the birds within your local area:Sunflower seeds: Are the most popular seeds and will attract a large variety of birds to your garden including blue jays, cardinals, finches, chickadees, nuthatches, and sparrows. You can also purchase sunflower seeds that have already been removed from their shells in order to avoid a large mess beneath your feeder.Nyjer seeds: Are very small, high quality seeds that attract a variety of finches, indigo buntings, pine siskins, and common redpolls. Because these seeds are so small, they require a special feeder with smaller holes, such as a tube feeder.Seed mixes: Are popular among new birders because they offer a variety of seeds and attract a range of bird species. They can be quite messy, though, because birds will pick through the seeds to find what they like. This behaviour will attract ground feeders such as doves, juncos, sparrows, and even squirrels.Suet: Is a great source of protein for birds, especially during the winter months. It consists of a cake of animal fat that is sometimes covered in seeds. In order to provide birds with suet, you will need to use a special suet feeder. Suet will attract woodpeckers, nuthatches, wrens, and jays, and starlings.
Nectar: Is a combination of sugar and water and requires a special feeder. Typically, nectar is used to feed hummingbirds. To make hummingbird nectar you will need to dissolve one part sugar into four parts hot water. Let the mixture cool to room temperature before putting it into the feeder., You should install your feeder in a safe space in order to avoid window collisions and predators. Feeders should be installed either within 1 meter (3 feet) of a window or more than 9 meters (30 feet) away from a window in order to prevent death from collision.You should also situate feeders relatively close to natural shelter such as trees or shrubs in order to provide both a resting place and quick shelter if a hawk or predator bird is in the area.
That being said, don’t place the feeder too close to the bushes because they can also provide a hiding place for other predators such as cats. A distance of about 3 meters (10 feet) is ideal.
 It is important to change bird seed regularly (typically every 2 to 3 days) and wash the feeder with soap and water every few weeks. This will help remove any harmful bacteria and fungi that can develop as a result of stagnant water and bird droppings. It is especially important to clean feeders regularly during periods of rainy or wet weather.
 Birds need a fresh, clean source of water for drinking and bathing. Setting up a water source will help to attract birds to your garden. Use a bird bath that is 2.5-10cm (1-4 inches) deep in order to attract a variety of different species. Alternatively, a pond or large fountain will also attract birds to your garden.Add rocks or twigs to the bird bath in order to provide a spot for birds to perch.Birds are attracted to the sound of running water, so a fountain may help get more birds into your garden.Change water in a bird bath every 2-3 days and place the baths 3 meters (10 feet) from dense cover that predators may use for hiding.