 Contrary to popular belief, humanities subjects like English and History are not just rote memorization. It is much more important to know the importance of the ideas you read about than simply who said them. Your test will likely have some component of free writing, and this is the space to really impress your teacher.Be aware that it's very difficult to cram for a test that asks you to discuss the importance of themes and overarching concepts, as that isn't something you can quickly quiz with flashcards.
Try to formulate some "big picture" questions and come up with answers to them. For example, if you're studying for a History exam, you could try a question like this: "What are a few of the contributing factors to the start of the American Revolution?" Then, list some factors and how they helped start the war.
 While learning the overarching concepts is the purpose of a humanities exam, you will likely also be expected to know the names, dates, and terms. Go through your notes and write down as many of them as you can find. You may not be able to learn all of these, but writing them down stores them in the back of your mind in a place you might be able to access later.


For a history test, look for names, dates, eras, organizations, political movements, etc.
For an English test, write down characters, authors, years, major works, literary movements, etc.
 The next step in learning ideas for a humanities exam is developing associations between all the terms. This mental map will help you connect the individual terms to the overall concepts. If you want, you can even draw out a map, or ‘spider web,’ between names and dates to help visualize how they relate to one another.
 Now that you have put together the basic concepts and some of the major terms in your mind, you need to learn some little details. The best way to do this is repetition and memorization. Rote memorization may be tedious, but it’s your only shot this late in the game.


Draw a straight line in the middle of a piece of paper. Write a name or date on the left side, and what you need to know about it on the other.
Fold the paper in half and only look at one side at a time. This is an easy way to quiz yourself.
 Every time you reinforce what you’ve already learned, it becomes more imprinted in your mind. This will make it easier for your brain to access the information in the test tomorrow. However, if it is already late, go to bed and help your brain recover that way.

