 Place 2 pounds (0.9 kg) of ground beef in a large skillet over medium heat. Break up the meat with a heat-proof spoon as it cooks. Once the beef is completely cooked and brown, scoop out the meat and drain the grease out of the pan. Return the meat to the pan and stir in the seasonings. Keep the meat warm over low heat while you mix the rest of the salad. You'll need to add these seasonings to the cooked meat:1/3 cup (80 g) of ketchup
1 teaspoon of yellow mustard
1 tablespoon of dijon or spicy mustard
2 tablespoons of barbecue sauce;
, Carefully cut 4 whole hamburger buns into 1-inch cubes. Get out a stick of butter and cut it in half. Melt 4 of the tablespoons (55 g) in a wide skillet over medium heat. Add the bread cubes and stir them so they completely soak up the butter. Add the remaining 4 tablespoons (55 g) of butter and continue to cook the croutons for about 8 to 10 minutes. Stir the croutons occasionally to keep them from burning.The croutons should be toasted and golden brown when they're done cooking.
For a more rustic look, you could tear the buns instead of cutting them.
 Wash 2 heads of romaine or green-leaf lettuce, 4 roma tomatoes, and 1 red onion. Use your hands to tear the lettuce into bite-sized pieces and place them in a bowl while you cut the remaining vegetables. Use a sharp knife to carefully dice the tomatoes and slice the red onion. Set these aside and cut 8 whole dill pickle spears into cubes.You could also cut the lettuce if you'd rather not tear it into pieces.
 Although you can use any salad dressing you like, ranch or thousand island dressings work well with this deluxe cheeseburger salad. For a quick thousand island dressing, mix together the following ingredients and let the dressing chill for at least an hour before drizzling it over the salads. You'll need to mix together:1/2 cup (116 g) of mayonnaise
2 tablespoons of ketchup
2 tablespoons of sweet pickle relish
2 teaspoons of minced onion
1/4 teaspoon of minced garlic
1 teaspoon of white vinegar
1/8 teaspoon of kosher salt
2 to 3 dashes of Tabasco sauce (optional)

, To make six deluxe cheeseburger salads, set out six plates. Place a handful of torn lettuce on each of the plates. Top the lettuce with a large scoop of the seasoned meat. Use 1 cup (125 g) of grated sharp cheddar cheese and sprinkle the cheese evenly over each salad. Top the salads with the diced tomato, cubed pickle, and sliced red onion. Sprinkle the croutons over the salads and serve them.Serve the salad immediately. Since the meat mixture is warm, the lettuce may wilt if it sits too long before serving.
 Put 1 pound (0.45 kg) of 93% lean ground beef or ground turkey breast into a large bowl. Add ¼ teaspoon of kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper. Stir the meat and seasonings to combine them. Run your hands under water and use your wet hands to divide the mixture into 4 pieces. Form each piece into a hamburger patty and set them aside.Check your meat counter for the leanest meat they offer. Some counters or butchers offer 95% lean ground beef.
 Heat a gas or charcoal grill so that it's hot. Place your four hamburger patties on the grill and cook them for about 4 or 5 minutes on each side. The hamburgers will be medium-done, although you could cook them longer if you'd like them well-done. Remove the hamburgers from the grill and let them sit for 5 to 10 minutes.If you'd like to grill the onions for the salad instead of just slicing them, slice half an onion and place it on the grill during the last 5 minutes of grilling the hamburgers.
 If you're watching calories, you can always leave the dressing off of the salad. Or you could just swap a high-calorie dressing with this lighter one. Whisk all of the dressing ingredients in a small bowl and set it aside while you make the rest of the salad. For the light dressing, you'll need:1/4 cup (58 g) of light mayonnaise
1 teaspoon of mustard
1 teaspoon of dill pickle juice
4 teaspoons of ketchup
1/4 teaspoon of onion powder
1/4 teaspoon of garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon of paprika

, Wash a head of romaine lettuce, a small red onion, a 4 ounce avocado and 1 cup (200 g) of cherry tomatoes. Take a sharp knife and carefully chop the romaine lettuce in order to get 4 cups (300g). You should also slice half of the onion and cut the avocado into cubes. Cut the cherry tomatoes in half and chop 4 dill pickle spears.You can add other healthy vegetables like sliced mushrooms or sliced bell peppers.
 Divide the chopped romaine lettuce among four plates. Place a few slices of red onion on each plate. Measure out 1/4 cup (25 g) of reduced-fat shredded cheddar cheese and sprinkle it over the four salads. Chop each hamburger patty and place one patty's worth of meat on each salad. Pour 1/4 cup of the light dressing over each salad and serve them.If you'd like, you could crumble the hamburger patty or even leave it whole.

