 This is the final level of the game, so there's no reason to not use up the rest of your Bonus EXP and skills. There's no other chance to use them. Ike should be at least 18/16 (Promoted to Lord at level 18, and is level 16 now), and have either Aether (which is acquired through an Occult scroll) or Resolve and Wrath skills equipped.;
, The final level is a large map and has many different routes. This is advantageous, because it can be easier to stay away from Ashnard, who on the hard difficulty will move around. However, you must make sure you're not putting your units into difficult positions. Having a few units go straight forward, towards Bryce, and another group go either left or right (depending on which you feel your units would be better fighting against) can be a good strategy. Once one side is cleared, you can either wait for units to slowly come to you and pick them off, or slowly move towards them. If you're very confident in your units, you can even split your group into three, and have all three paths covered at once.
 There's a lot of enemies on the map, that could get in the way of a fight or even potentially kill a character before a battle with Ashnard even begins. Using your units to make sure Ike and anyone else planning to fight Ashnard is at full health, can be very important. Keeping them distracted/routing them should be considered in any of your strategies. However, a lot of them also provide a lot of, possibly needed, EXP. Especially, if your Ike is under-leveled. Especially if playing on a lower difficulty, take advantage of the fact that you have some time before fighting Ashnard.
 On the hard difficulty, having Ike and your dragon laguz set up in a bush can be a huge help to surviving battles against Ashnard while you wait for your abilities to kick in. Just be sure that Ike is the closest unit to Ashnard, when he decides to start moving. If playing on a lower difficulty, having Ike's supports near him can help, since Ashnard is stationary. Just make sure that they are not in attack range of Ashnard.
 Remember that Ike (equipped with Ragnell),the dragon laguz and the laguz generals are the only units that are going to be a threat to Ashnard. Ike on his own is not very threatening to the Daein King; however, if an Aether activates or Resolve and Wrath are added to the equation, then Ike, with a little luck, can even manage to defeat Ashnard by himself.

