 Often, when people are labeled "shy," they're actually introverts. Shyness and introversion share some similar traits, but they aren't the same.Shyness happens when you're afraid or anxious about interacting with others socially. This fear or anxiety can lead you to avoid social situations even when you really want to interact in them. It can often be helped with some behavioral and thought changes.

Introversion is a personality characteristic. It tends to remain fairly stable over time. Introverts don't usually initiate much socializing because they are generally satisfied with a lower level of interaction than extroverts. They don't tend to avoid social situations because of fear or anxiety, but because they simply don't need as much socializing.
Research has shown that shyness and introversion aren't strongly correlated. You can be shy but really want to interact with people, or introverted but comfortable hanging out with your closest friends.You can find a shyness scale and quiz based on this research at Wellesley College's website., Most people fall somewhere between "introvert" and "extrovert." It can even change depending on circumstance.However, if you think your shy guy might actually be an introvert, have a look for some of the following characteristics:He likes to be alone. In many cases, introverts like to be alone. They don't feel lonely on their own, and they need that alone time to recharge. They aren't anti-social, they just have a lower need to socialize.He seems to get overstimulated easily. This can apply to social stimulation, but also to physical stimulation! Introverts' biological responses to things like noise, bright lights, and crowds tend to be stronger than those of extroverts.For this reason, they usually try to avoid hyperstimulating environments like nightclubs or carnivals.
He hates group projects. Introverts usually would prefer to work on their own, or with just one or two other people. They prefer to work out problems and solutions without outside help.He likes quiet socializing. Introverts often enjoy people's company, but even fun social interactions tend to leave them feeling tired and needing to "recharge" on their own. They'd usually prefer a quiet party with a couple of close friends to a house party with your whole neighborhood.He likes routine. Extroverts thrive on novelty, but introverts are the opposite. They tend to like predictability and stability. They may plan out things well in advance, do the same thing every day, and spend a lot of time reflecting before taking action., If your shy guy is an introvert, you may be tempted to ask him to change. While it's possible for introverted people to be more outgoing, research has shown that there are actually some biological differences between the brains of introverted and extroverted people. This suggests that some elements of the personality aren't going anywhere.


For example, extroverts tend to have stronger responses to dopamine -- a chemical "reward" generated by your brain -- than introverts to.Extroverts' amygdalas, or the area of the brain associated with processing emotion, respond to stimuli differently than introverts' do.
 It can be fun to learn a little more about your personalities together. The Myers-Briggs Personality Inventory is one of the most popular tests to examine the introvert/extrovert characteristics. It has to be administered by a mental health professional.However, there are plenty of informal versions of the MBTI you can take online. They aren't completely comprehensive or foolproof, but they can give you a good idea.


16Personalities is a popular MBTI-type test. It also tells you some common strengths and weaknesses associated with your "type."

