 A face primer will ensure your makeup goes on smooth and stays put all day. A primer can also help minimize pores, wrinkles, and blemishes, so it’s an important first step to your skin routine. Kylie's face looks flawless in every photo she takes, and primer will help you be ready for your close-up too.








Apply primer over your entire face using your fingertips. Working the primer into your face with your fingers has the added benefit of getting blood flowing to your skin, helping to brighten it.
Face primer is especially important when you want your makeup to last in more extreme weather conditions, like blazing heat or freezing cold.;
, This will even out your skin, conceal redness and blemishes, and create a flawless base for the rest of your makeup. Kylie is the queen of flawless skin, so a great foundation routine is key to achieving her look.Blend it thoroughly into your skin using a makeup applicator sponge or a large stippling brush.








Don’t forget to bring your foundation downwards, so there isn’t a stark contrast between your face and neck.
 It is absolutely crucial to choose a shade much lighter than your bare skin. Kylie's make up artist chooses a concealer one or even two shades lighter than her natural skin tone to set up the base for the contoured look she rocks daily.








Apply the light concealer under your eyes to brighten them and conceal dark bags. This will make you look younger and more alert.
Then apply the concealer on the forehead, bringing it down the center of the nose.
Finally, add a dot to the cupid's bow, or the arch above the center of your lips. This light concealer will brighten the face, slim the nose, and accentuate your pout, all things that Kylie is known for.
 A perfectly contoured face is part of Kylie's signature look, so this may be one of the most vital steps to mimicking her makeup routine.Apply the dark color to the hollows of your cheeks, the highest point on your forehead along your hairline, your jawline, and the bridge of your nose. The highlight should complement the darker color. Apply the highlight to the center of your forehead, under your eyes, your chin, and under your cheek bones. This will give your face a sun kissed look, while enhancing your bone structure and natural features.








Using a blending brush, dab at the products until they are fully blended into your skin. It is important to dab rather than sweep the brush, so the products are not transferred to other areas of your face.
Continue this dabbing motion until there are no harsh lines, and the contour lines are seamlessly blended into your foundation., The best way to do this is to smile, and then apply blush to the areas that are lifted. Apply it in a circular motion, and then sweep it slightly outwards to make it look most natural. Blush comes in both powder and cream forms, so choose the product that you can work most comfortably with.
 The primer creates a smooth base for the eye shadow and eyeliner you will be applying, and it will ensure your makeup stays perfect all day. Kylie wouldn't be caught with smudged eyeshadow or ugly lines from creasing, so neither should you. Primer will prevent both problems. If your eyelids are oily, find a primer with a matte finish.








Use a concealer brush or your finger tips to apply.
You can purchase primers in gels, creams, and powders, so experiment to find the one that works best for your skin.
 Kylie typically opts for a beautiful, bronzed look, so a smoky brown eye will be perfect. Use a small fluffy eye shadow brush for this step. Blend it all over your lid and slightly upwards over the crease.
 Use a blending brush for this step. This second shade will act as a transition color on your eyes, and it’s important to blend it out fully. There should be no harsh lines or borders between colors when you are finished.








Gently wipe up any makeup that accidentally falls under your eye, or place tape underneath your eye to block fall-out from eye shadow.
 Use your smallest brush for this step. Apply this shadow in the shape of a sideways “V.” To envision this, imagine one line extending down from the crease and one line going along the lash line, meeting in a point away from your eye.








Blend, blend, and blend some more. The three colors should seamlessly transition.
 Kylie Jenner has gorgeous, lush lashes, and applying eyeliner to your lash line will help your own lashes appear full and dark.Liquid eyeliner will create a sleek, dark line, but powder or gel work as well. Extend the eyeliner past the end of your lash line, creating a sexy cat eye.









The cat eye can be a difficult trick to master. You can get some tips and tricks here, or skip that step all together.
 If you choose to use falsies, apply them before your mascara. Hold the lashes in your fingers and apply a thin layer of lash glue. Once it becomes tacky, press them into your lash line as you look down. Then use your favorite black mascara to blend your false and natural lashes together.Make sure that the wand is evenly coated in product. Beginning at the base of the lashes, gently wiggle the wand back at forth as you move it toward the ends of your lashes. This will coat your lashes without creating clumps, and also give your lashes intense volume. Allow the product to dry, and then apply a second coat for extra drama.
 Kylie’s eyebrows are perfectly arched and sleek, so this step is crucial. First, use a spoolie to brush out your brows so that the hairs are neat and in place. Then apply your product to any areas that appear sparse or lighter than the rest. Finally, use a concealer and a small brush to outline the top and bottom of the brow. This step cleans up the brow, creating an intense border and giving them the sleek, groomed look that Kylie’s have.
 Kylie’s big lips have become her trademark, so the goal of your lip products should be to enhance the size of yours. Choose a lip liner that is a shade darker than your natural lip color. To make this look natural, overline your lips only in the center, and line them naturally as you move towards the corners of your mouth. In other words, exaggerate your cupid’s bow and the center of your bottom lip by applying lip liner outside of your natural lips.








To make the overlined areas look natural, focus on following the natural curve of your lips. Your overlined lips should have the same shape as your natural ones— just bigger!
Make sure to completely fill in the area between your natural lip line and your lip liner.
 Kylie typically rocks matte lips without any shimmer, so follow her lead. Apply the lipstick carefully, making sure to stay within the border of the lip liner. Rub your lips together to smooth and even out the color, and check the mirror for any places where it looks uneven.








If you’d like, you can first color in your entire lip with the lip liner you used to overline them. This will ensure there aren’t any strange color variations going on, and it will also provide a smooth base for your lipstick.
If you really want to recreate Kylie’s look, you can purchase a lip kit from her new cosmetics line. She recently came out with a set of lip liners that are sold with their corresponding lipsticks., Use your finger to gently apply is so that you don’t overdo it. By adding highlighter to these spots, you are creating the illusion of a fuller pout. It will look like your lips extend farther from your face, and it will create a gorgeous effect when the light hits them. Just remember, a little highlight goes a long way!







