 Your message can be as simple or complex as you want it to be. Here are some ideas to get you started:


HAPPY BIRTHDAY
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BOB
HAPPY 30th BOB (the "th" will be on one sheet)
HAPPY SWEET 16
HAPPY 16th BITHDAY JANE (the "th" will be on one sheet)
HAPPY SWEET 16 JANE

, Most banners will have the entire message on the same line, but you don't have to do this. You can make your banner look more interesting by giving it a different layout. Here are some ideas to get you started:


All the words can be on the same line
Each word can be on a different line
HAPPY BIRTHDAY can be on one line, and the person's name can be one a different line.
 This can make choosing your colors, patterns, and fonts a lot easier. You can match the theme to the party, the person's interests, or come up with your own theme. Here are some ideas to get you started:


If you want to use a train theme, consider making a pennant banner with square pennants. Each pennant will make a train cart. Make a train engine shape to use at the front of your banner.
For an under water theme, use lots of blues and greens. Use some fish and bubble stickers around the letters.
For a princess theme, consider what sort of princess this is. Typical princess colors are pink and silver, but if your princess is from a specific movie, you might want to use the colors from her dress instead.
Consider what the person likes. Does he or she have a favorite food, animal, color, book, or movie? Choose one of those, and design your banner around that.
 You can use a standard block letter font, or a fancy italic or cursive font. Larger, thicker fonts might be more appealing to children. If your banner has a party or theme, consider matching the font to that. For example, if you are doing a princess themed banner, consider using a cursive or italic font.
 This will help your banner look more unified and interesting. Choosing random colors might result in something that looks less than appealing. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Use three different colors, such as red, yellow, and blue.
Use different shades of the same color. For example: light blue, medium blue, and dark blue.
Use all cool colors, such as green, blue, and purple. You can also use all warm colors, such as red/pink, orange, and yellow.
Use metallic colors, such as gold or silver.
Alternate contrasting colors, such as white and black.
 You can make your banner look really interesting and unique with some patterned scrapbooking paper. Here are some things to consider:


Combine solid colors and patterns. For example: solid blue and white with blue dots.
Combine patterns, such as vertical strips, horizontal strips, and dots.
Try to use similar colors in your patterns. This will tie the design together and prevent the patterns and colors from clashing.
 When creating a banner, you will likely end up with some blank spaces between and around the words. You can leave them blank, or you can fill them in with images that matches the theme. Here are some ideas to get you started:


If you are making a pennant banner for a snow themed party, and you have blank pennants between the words, consider gluing a snowflake onto the blank pennant.
If you are painting a banner for a super hero themed party, consider adding a border using comic book strips. You can also buy comic book themed scrapbooking paper instead if you don't want to sacrifice any old comic books.
If you are making a banner for someone who likes the ocean, consider filling in any blank spaces with images of fish, shells, and sea bubbles.

