 This could mean putting clothing or fabrics into a closed closet, placing items on an unreachable shelf, or keeping the cat out of the room where you keep the chewed object. If the cat has a problem with chewing electrical cords, then try placing a cord protector a rug, or even tape over the cords., Some common solutions are bitter apple spray (a commercial preparation) or cayenne water (water with cayenne pepper in a spray bottle).Always spot test the object you want to spray to make certain the spray doesn’t damage it.
 If you catch your cat chewing an object, immediately spritz the cat. Your cat will only associate the act with the negative consequence if you spritz the cat as it chews the object. If you can’t reach the spray bottle before the cat stops chewing, keep it next to you and wait until the next time the cat exhibits the behavior.


A strong “no” at the same time will also help the cat learn that word.
 Since you can’t always be around with a spray bottle to deter the cat, you can set up a “trap” to deliver the negative consequence for you. For instance, you can place double-sided tape around the object. Cats detest the feel of sticky tape and will concentrate on that instead of the object.


You can also look into products that deliver a repellant spray via a motion sensor.
Another option is to place the object on a “scat mat,” which is a product that delivers an electrical tingle into the cat’s paws when it steps on it.
 If a cat is chewing on a houseplant, it may enjoy the texture of the plant and want greens to chew on and eat.Remove the chewed plant from the area and replace it with a more-appropriate option, such as oat grass, catnip, or catmint.Make sure you especially move plants that would be toxic for the cat to chew. Some common examples include caladium, dumb cane, English ivy, lilies, mistletoe, oleanders, and philodendrons., If none of the behavior-modification techniques help, then consult your veterinarian. Certain medical conditions, such as the cat chewing its own fur, may need to be treated with mood-altering drugs.