 These guidelines will enable you to create the pirate as shown in the introduction image. Once you've mastered this pirate, you'll be ready to try many more.


It is recommended that you begin with either the head or the torso first and then add the other elements to the picture so as to keep the proportion right.;
, Basically you're delineating the edge of the face where the beard whiskers commence.
 The nose can be quite striking as this is someone who spends a lot of time in the harsh outdoor elements. For one eye, use a traditional eye-patch in place of the eye.
 In this case, the mouth is open a little more to suggest a menacing appearance. Then complete the beard, as shown by the read lines here.
, The sleeves are usually rolled up slightly in order to avoid catching on ship's rigging and swords.
 Make the buckle stand out as it's a feature piece.
 In this case they're more like tight culottes but pirates can also wear baggier pants. It's really whatever you'd prefer your pirate to be dressed in.
 Boots were an important part of keeping dry and safe on the ship's rigging, so make it a substantial boot.
 He wouldn't be a good caricature of a pirate without this addition! However, if you'd rather he had both legs and two boots, simply copy the boot from the other foot but have it facing either forward or in the opposite direction of the first boot.
 While drawing the hand, turn it into a scrunched up fist for a more threatening pose, as shown in the red lines here. For the end of the sleeve, draw the ruffle or lace extending from the shirt to reflect the clothing of the olden days.
 Make sure the tip of the blade is pointed. And add the same ruffle detail to the sleeve end as in the previous step.
 To make the pirate come to life, the details are an important aspect of giving him depth. Some of the details include:


The skull and crossbones insignia on the hat.
Clothing lines to help make the clothing seem like it's flowing and therefore realistic.
More whiskers in the beard.
Light reflection lines off the clothing, the leather of the boots, the hat, etc.
 They're quite evident here, and they should be easy to find on your own drawing too.
 Darken areas such as the eye-patch and shade in areas needing shadow gradations. Make any fuzzy details clearer. Once this is done, you're free to color in the pirate with pencils, crayons or paint as wished. The introduction image shows one suggestion for coloring in.
 As well as drawing some more pirates, some other suggestions to turn your pirate drawing into an entire scene include:


Draw a treasure chest and maybe draw a key.






Draw a ship.






Draw an anchor.






Draw ocean waves.






Draw a lighthouse.






