 There may be tax benefits to consider so discuss your options with a legal professional before making your decision.


If you decide to start an online Catholic book store with the intent of donating some of the profits to charity groups or community programs, your for-profit business may still qualify for some tax benefits.;
, In some areas, online businesses are exempt from all taxation and licensing restriction while in other areas they are obligated to the same requirements as a brick-and-mortar store.
 The domain name is the website name that directs customers to your online store (i.e. www.myonlinecatholicbookstore.com).



Hosting your website on your own servers requires a significant amount of technical experience and a relatively high monetary investment in servers. But, if you have have this experience and the money to invest upfront, it may be a less expensive operating option in the long run.
If you do not have the extensive technical experience or the money to invest in servers required to host your website yourself, there are many third party companies that can host your website on their servers for a nominal monthly fee.



Having the publishing houses drop ship the books that are sold will require less time, storage space and manpower but you may pay a slightly higher wholesale price to offset the shipping fees.
Shipping the books yourself will require carrying an inventory so you will need warehouse space to store the books. You will also need office personnel to process the orders and track inventory but you will have a higher baseline profit margin.



Verify that you have authorization to use any protected or copyrighted information before the online store website is published.



Some online payment sites will require that you assign each of the books an independent identification code. If your payment site requires this, you will need to have those codes assigned prior to building the website.
 There are a number of user-friendly website design programs available that allow even first-time designers to develop an e-commerce site. When the site is complete, publish it to the hosting server.


If you aren't comfortable building your own website, you can contract with a professional web designer to design and build the site. You will want to get a firm price before you sign any contracts.



Contact local Catholic churches and organizations to inquire about taking out an ad in their newsletters.

