 It is important to understand the severity of your diagnosis because this indicates the treatment choices and frequency. The severity of your diagnosis is determined by how much clotting factor IX is in your blood, which you need to help your blood clot. A person without hemophilia has 50 percent to 150 percent of what they need to form a clot.Mild hemophilia B is defined as having a percentage from 6 percent to 49 percent. Moderate hemophilia B ranges from 1 percent to 5 percent, while severe hemophilia is classified as a person having less than 1 percent.;
, You may have some different options for how you receive treatments, such as whether you will need to go for treatments or if you can get trained to treat yourself or your child at home. Ask your doctor about your options and discuss them to find out which option is best for your situation.
 When you have hemophilia B, your blood doesn't clot as it should. One treatment is increasing the concentration of clotting factor IX in your blood. The clotting factor is created from human blood and injected into your bloodstream. Used as a preventative treatment, it can help prevent excessive bleeding when you do get a cut because it helps your blood clot.This treatment does have some drawbacks. Your body may develop antibodies that destroy the clotting factor, though that is rare in people with hemophilia B.
In some cases, you can develop viruses from human blood, which can be prevented by thorough screening of blood donors and by you being vaccinated for diseases that can pass through the blood (such as hepatitis).
 This therapy works similarly to plasma-driven therapy. However, this therapy isn't made from human blood. Rather, it's produced from hamster cells.They are easier to store, and they can be used at home. Like plasma-based replacement therapy, recombinant is injected into your bloodstream.One benefit of this therapy is that the hamster cells do not carry human viruses.
 You may need more frequent or regular treatments depending on the severity of your disease. In some cases, you may be able to take replacement therapy on a preventative basis or on a demand basis. Which one you choose depends on several factors, including the severity of your condition and what your doctor thinks is best for you.With preventative replacement therapy, you take clotting factors on a regular basis, so that when you do bleed, the clotting concentration in your blood is high enough to stop bleeding. One drawback to preventative treatment is that it can get expensive. Without insurance, each treatment can cost several thousand dollars.With demand treatment, you only take the therapy when you notice bleeding. It does stop the bleeding. However, damage can happen to your body before you can receive treatment, particularly joint damage with internal bleeding. Having it available in home can make it faster.
 These medications help keep blood clots from breaking down once they have formed, which can stop excessive bleeding. Generally, when you use this medication as a treatment for hemophilia B, you'll take it in conjunction with other treatments.Often, you take these medications after an infusion of clotting factors in replacement therapy., Replacement capsules are in the works as a simple delivery system that will allow you to just swallow a capsule to treat hemophilia. While they aren't on the market yet, they could be in the near future, so keep your eye out by reading good news sources. Also, ask your doctor to keep you apprised of when they might be on the market. Replacement capsules could offer an easier delivery system, as traditional replacement therapies must be injected into a vein or port., Another promising therapy being developed (as of 2017) is gene therapy. Basically, this therapy tells the liver to produce more clotting factor. In clinical trials, patients showed improvement after a single dose of gene therapy, making this treatment a likely one in coming years., These medications are commonly taken for pain, and they are available over-the-counter. However, you should avoid taking these medications, as they can decrease your blood's clotting ability, making your condition worse., If you're living with hemophilia B, particularly a severe case, it's important to reduce your risk of injury that could cause a bleeding episode. Therefore, it's a good idea to skip activities like contact sports, which could cause you severe injury., One way to help your diagnosis is to maintain a healthy weight by exercising and eating well. Many people with hemophilia B suffer from joint and soft tissue bleeds. Sometimes, bleeding is spontaneous, while other times, it is caused by trauma.Either way, maintaining a healthy weight can help reduce the occurrences of joint bleeding., Of course, you know regular dental visits are important for good dental hygiene. However, if you have hemophilia B, it's even more important. If you put off dental work, your gums will be more prone to bleeding; anyone who doesn't practice good dental hygiene is at risk for bleeding gums and gum disease. In your case, that can be a more severe problem, as you'll have a harder time stopping the bleeding in your mouth than the average person.