, See Tips below for the storyboard progression for this video.
 Then export as JPGs to a unique file folder.
 Do Import to Library, and collect all the JPGs from Preview into iPhoto. Open the Last Import folder if not already open and your pictures are showing. Select each photo in its proper storyboard order and set its keyword to a consecutive numeric order, e.g. 001, 002, 003, etc, Select all and sort by keyword. Do Create Slideshow with the button at the bottom right. Copy and paste any JPGs that appear twice in the storyboard order in the upper storyboard frame, and any JPGs that need to appear for double the standard duration per the narration.
 If adding music, be aware that YouTube may consider the music that Apple provides with iPhoto to be copyright-protected, and fail the import on that account. So be sure to have the rights or permission to the music, if any, being added. Dissolving from one frame to the next may be preferable. If narrative is added in iMovie, set Music to None. It would certainly be wise to choose to create a new album and store a copy of all the photos altogether in it.
 Ken Burns may be preferred; others work as well. Experiment until satisfied.
 Choose Medium typically and to Automatically send it to iTunes, which then quit when it opens.
 Do New Project. Select the project type in the upper left, No Theme, with the house as it gives the most creative freedom.
 Select a picture then do Select All and drag them over to the Projects frames. The way to set up is with Projects on the bottom and Events on the top, preferably, and there's a two-arrow flip button to exchange the two in the far left middle of the iMovie app screen.
 If you will use the built-in microphone for input, block out about 65% of the background noise, especially if living by a freeway and the trucks sometimes honk at each other, plus, there are a lot of convalescent hospital nearby so there's also a lot of ambulance sirens, not to mention the noisy terrier across the street! In other words, carefully gauge the background noise likely to affect the recording and adjust for it.
 Then, when ready, tap the mic icon and begin speaking after just a half-second or so.
, Drag and drop the iMovie file from its file folder into the YouTube import box and wait while it uploads the file. If it's going to be over an hour, the file may exceed YouTube's 15 minute size requirement / allowance, so then pare it down with selective editing (this may be an outdated limit). Name the file and watch it to make sure it uploaded correctly with the sound intact, etc. But wait and see if it uploads anyway even if it's long: importing about 63 photos has been successful. You're done!

,
For more art charts and graphs, you might also want to click on Category:Microsoft Excel Imagery, Category:Mathematics, Category:Spreadsheets or Category:Graphics to view many Excel worksheets and charts where Trigonometry, Geometry and Calculus have been turned into Art, or simply click on the category as appears in the upper right white portion of this page, or at the bottom left of the page.

