 Cut a narrow band of the cardboard to this measurement.;
, Cut two small slits a little way in from each end of the band. These slits should not cut all the way, just long enough to allow you to slide the two ends of the tiara together and hold in place on the head.
 Cut six strips of foil. The length of the foil should be twice the width of the band you've already cut.
 Then roll each folded strip into a long, thin sausage shape. Cut each sausage-shaped foil stick in half.
 At this stage, you can form the foil sticks into different shapes to create the tiara's designs. Once formed, the foil pieces are to be attached to the cardboard band created earlier. Here are some ideas:


Bend each foil stick in half and slightly shape to form an arch. Tape the ends onto the backside of the tiara band in a row until the area that ends around the ears.
Curl each foil stick. Tape each curl along the tiara in a row.
Shape each stick into a heart shape. Tape each heart along the tiara, to form a row.
Do a combination of curls, hearts and arches, or rounded designs. Vary the sizes to make the tiara look more interesting. Or, make one center design into a feature piece in a larger size and make the other foil stick shapes smaller, to sit alongside the centerpiece.
 How you decorate the tiara is up to you but here are some ideas to help:


Use small paper cut-outs or paper punches in the shapes of stars, hearts, circles, etc. and glue on in a pretty pattern.
Make flowers using paper petals and a sequin stuck in the middle. Or, use artificial flowers and glue in place.
Use rhinestones or other craft gems. Simply glue in place where they'd look prettiest.
You could also affix some decorations onto the top of the foil shapes for an extra rich look. Or, hang a decoration down from the center foil shape for a special "jewel" look.
 To wear, slot the ends of the cardboard band together. Once the circlet is formed, the tiara is ready for wearing. Tiaras do not sit around the head, but on top of it; therefore, you may need to adjust the tiara a little and perhaps hold it in place with hair clips or bobby pins.

