 For a few weeks after a breakup, you will be feeling a lot of emotions, some of them conflicting. Give yourself time and let these emotions settle. Do the same for her. Don’t call or contact her. Don’t respond if she contacts you.Use this time to rest, recuperate, and, if need be, mourn the relationship. Get away from the stress and unhappiness of the event and take time to focus on your personal wellbeing.
Try to keep your spirits up. Go out with friends and vent. At the same time, don’t be tempted to mask your feelings with alcohol.
 Now is the time to act on your personal reassessment. If the breakup was your fault (or even if not), take stock of your traits and decide what you need to change. Did you smother your ex, for example? Or perhaps you were overly insecure about the fact that she had some close male friends? If these were issues, confront them head on.


It might be helpful to talk to a counselor. You will learn more about your wants and needs in a relationship and how to respond to others. Even if you don’t end up back with your ex, it will be a chance to talk and grow., Keep busy and happy while working on your personal growth. Breakups are emotionally difficult, and the activity will be good for your mental health and mood. Do the things that you love to do; be independent and pursue your interests.


Connect with friends. Good friends are a support network. Meet them for coffee or lunch, they will make you feel better and encourage you.
Renew a hobby. Paint, write, or go dancing. Don’t let the breakup stop you from doing the things that you love.
Exercise. Working out will boost your mood and make you feel better about yourself, emotionally and physically.
 You don’t need to change your appearance to make an ex jealous or to entice her back. However, a new wardrobe or makeover may well boost your self-esteem. There is nothing sexier than self-confidence – and consider it a bonus if she or others notice.


Try a new hairstyle. Update your wardrobe. Get a stylish new pair of glasses. Grow that beard that you always wanted. The changes will put you in a fresh frame of mind.
Live healthier. Eat a better diet, work out regularly, or join a gym. If you feel better about your body, you will become more self-confident in your interactions with others.

