 A good warm will get your knees ready for activity and will reduce the chance of injury. To warm up your knees properly, do stretches on the muscles of your thighs. These stretches will get your knees warmed up as well.For example, some good knee warmups include quad stretches, walking lunges, and hamstring stretches.
 By strengthening the muscles that surround your knees, you may improve the function of your joints and reduce the pressure on them as well. Some muscles to target in your routine include:Quadriceps. These are the muscles in the front of your thigh. You can target these with lunges and leg extensions.

Hamstrings. These muscles are in the back of your thighs. You can target these muscles with leg curls and squats.

Abductors. These are on the outer part of your thigh. You can target these with side-lying leg raises or by using an abductor machine at the gym.

Adductors. These are using the muscles on the inside of your thighs. You can target these muscles by holding an exercise ball between your feet with your legs in the air or by using an adductor machine at the gym.

Gluteals. These are your buttock muscles. You can strengthen these by doing squats, lunges, and donkey kicks.
 The right kinds of exercise can help with flexibility in your knees, preventing age related wear and tear. In order to keep your knees from aging prematurely you should spend some workout time focusing on flexibility. Low impact exercises, such as swimming and yoga, can be great for keeping your knees in great shape over time.As you get older, your joints can lose flexibility. Continuing to stretch them on a regular basis can help you avoid this loss.
 While you should be exercising your knees, some exercises can do more damage than good if not done properly. In particular, running and other high-impact activities, such as those that require excessive jumping, can exert a lot of pressure on your knees.To limit this impact, do these types of exercise on soft surfaces or wear well-cushioned and well-fitting shoes. Whatever you can do to limit the impact of high impact exercise is a good idea.


Try to exercise in ways that will put less pressure on your joints, such as swimming, biking, or using an elliptical walker on low or no resistance.
There is some evidence that running may actually be good for your knees. Recent scientific studies show that runners are less likely to have knee problems than non-runners but this may be related to the fact that runners are also more likely to be carrying less weight on their bodies than non-runners.