 Use your regular shampoo and a deep conditioner. Starting with clean hair will make it easier to wrap your hair.;
, It can also help it to stay moisturized.
 This is best for natural and very dry hair. Skip this step if your hair is already relaxed.
 If you have a thick head of hair, you should use 4 sections. If your hair is already relaxed or straightened and dry, you should use 2 sections to keep the hair more uniform.


Use a rat tail comb to ensure the sections are parted in straight lines along the scalp.
 Be sure to remove all tangles. You want to get the hair as straight and smooth as possible prior to wrapping.
 Work each section until it is smooth and free of tangles. You can use your alligator clips to keep the sections apart.
 It should continue wrapping in a swirl pattern around the outside of your head until you reach the end.


Make sure it stays straight in all areas. Comb the section and start the wrapping process again if it does not stay straight, smooth and detangled.
, Clip it.
 Clip it as necessary.
 Clip it as necessary. You should try to use between 4 and 6 clips.


You can comb out the hair as you wrap it; however, it may make it harder to wrap all the sections of the hair, because the comb can disturb other sections. Combing or wrapping after combing depends upon your preference.
Your hair should look like a “hive."It should have wide, higher sections around the entire outside of the head. Try not to pile the sections of the hair on top of each other, but have them swirl around each other.
 The satin will help to smooth the hair at night and avoid excess breakage.


An easy way to tie a scarf is to lay the square scarf on top of your head. Pull all corners towards your forehead and tie them all into a single knot to hold them in place.
 This can help to keep the wrap intact.Place the trunk section of the pantyhose over your head. It should be tight but comfortable. Wrap the legs around to the base of the neck. Tie them in place.
 If you don’t have a hooded dryer, you can use a hand held blow dryer on medium with a dryer cap. This process will dry your hair while straightening it.
 Depending on the length of your hair, it may take several hours or more to dry completely. You should keep the wrap in place for at least 20 minutes to 1 hour after it is dry. As the hair cools, it will become smoother.
 You can keep it covered with a silk scarf until you are ready to style it. It is important to only use a silk scarf as this will prevent the hair from pulling or snagging during sleep., Keep the hair wrapped until you are ready to comb and style it as usual. Removing the hair wrap too early can cause your hair to get messed before you even start getting ready.
 Then, wait until you are no longer in the humid bathroom and remove all the layers. The hot, damp environment of a shower can cause your hair to get wet and end up frizzy.
 Comb the hair in the opposite direction that the hair was wrapped. Combing the hair back will help eliminate any annoying cowlicks that can come from wrapping hair.

