 There are two basic types of cabinet doors -- slab and flat panel -- most often chosen. You should consider the need for speed of construction, durability, ease of cleanup and maintenance.
 Most slab doors are made of plywood. Use MDF (medium density fiberboard) on a painted or a covered surface for a wood grain look.
 This is done by either gluing up a panel to the width and length you need or by using a solid piece that has been specially milled for you. However, you need to know that this is usually cost prohibitive.


Lay out the dimensions of the door on your choice of sheet material.






Cut the door from the sheet using either a circular saw or a table saw.






Ease the edges of the face with a router using the bit of your choice.






Put on the desired finish, install the hinges and doorknob and you are ready to hang the cabinet door.
 You need to realize that this type of cabinet door requires more tools, skill and time to create. However, the finished results can be very rewarding if you are willing and ready to step up to the challenge. Panel doors consist of two stiles (side pieces) and two rails (top and bottom) along with a panel that sits between them.


Cut the stiles and the rails from 4/4 (2.54 cm) material - if you can - and mill or plane down the material to a consistent width of .75 inches (2 cm). Accuracy and consistency of width assures a good fit.
The rails need to be approximately .5 inches (1.2 cm) less than the stiles. The width depends on the project and the look you want for your cabinets.
Make the stiles blanks the length you need and then run the inside edge through a stile router bit mounted on a router table.






Cut the rails to the length you need. Determine this length by measuring from the outside edge of the stiles to the beginning of the round-over, or bead, you made with the router bit. Subtract this from the width of the opening, then cut the rail blanks to length. Run the inside edge through the router using the same bit you used earlier.;
, The coping bit creates a secure and tight fit of the rail to the stile. Now, run the ends of the rails through the bit.
 Subtract that distance from the total height and width of the door. A flat door panel will usually be made from .25-inch (.6 mm) plywood - the same wood type as the rest of the cabinet.


Cut the door panel insert slightly less than the size you need to allow for wood expansion and contraction. Ordinarily, this will be the width of a table saw blade.
Begin assembly of the door by applying glue with a brush to the inside of the stile where the rail meets it and insert the rail tenon.
 Insert the panel.
 Clamp the pieces together, and allow the glue to dry.
