 After a sequence where the cameras would zoom and move about in an area where there were Mayan rainforest, the camera would wander into that of Olmec, an Olmec talking head, who'd start out saying the name of the show ("Legends of the Hidden Temple"). Olmec would then continue after you'd see a technological icon of a Pendant of Life crash into each other saying "With your guide" and introduce the host of the show (which as you'll learn a little later was Kirk Fogg). He'd continue "And here he is now" as you'd generally start seeing him swinging on a rope-vine coming into the stage just in front of Olmec at such an angle where when he turned 180degrees he'd be looking at Olmec. At other times, he'd come down the stairs next to Olmec and talk to the crowd to announce his presence. He'd welcome it's viewers "Welcome to the Hidden Temple. THe rooms are filled with lost treasures (talked about a little later) but the rooms are protected by mysterious Mayan Temple Guards." He'd generally always say that "Olmec knows the mystery behind each of the treasures hidden in his temple", which would get the viewer to the words "Which story are we going to hear today?" Olmec would respond with the title of the show's treasure for the day. The guide host would then introduce the teams just by team color as the camera moved from the team closest to him towards the farthest team away from him." He'd have a shot at explaining that the teams would have to pass certain tests both physical and mental and that only one team can make it to the temple. They'd explain how the Moat had to be crossed in the daily challenge, and you'd hear Olmec try to get things started. Olmec would burst out with "Oh yeah!" or "let's rock" or something to that effect.;
, On this show, there were four separate components. Starting with six teams (each team contained one boy and one girl), each round eliminated a few teams. The show started with six teams (team names/types announced in an upcoming step soon), but after the moat crossing (of Round 1), teams were eliminated. After the mental challenge (questions round) in the "Steps of Knowledge" it narrowed the field to two teams. These two teams went head-to-head in the Temple Games with other games testing the physical abilities of the teammates. This led to only one team entering the temple and competing for the grand prize. (This will be described below.), The Moat always had to be crossed. Whether it was one team walking on the bottom floor of the Moat while the other walked a rope across or fording the Moat with a unsinkable foam and some oars or some other form of crossing, this had to be completed. Once both team members were out of the Moat, one of the two members (second member to cross) had to strike the golden pedestal gong denoting their team color had crossed. The first four of the six teams to reach and slam their gongs that displayed their colored light for their team color would be able to advance to the Steps of Knowledge in the next round. This event had no time limit in most games.








If you are thinking that crossing a pool of water is unsafe, well, would you walk or cross in an unsafe pool? - think again! There were spotters near the moat that were always available to ensure the team's safety. (However, they more or less verified that all procedures were carried out accurately for each challenge).
 The Steps of Knowledge began with Olmec, a Olmec talking head, giving the four teams the information about the legend they heard in the introduction. This information was used (along with some knowledge from History classes at school) to answer questions that Olmec asked about the legend). After describing the treasure's history, the guide/host would then ask Olmec for information into where the treasure was located in that day's challenge/game. This took place on a set of steps onstage. Most of these questions were multiple choice so it wasn't very hard for the team not to guess something completely incorrect the first time through, but some teams made it look a lot easier and answered incorrectly before the choices were read to them (because some teams were impatient to wait). Once players thought they knew the answers to the questions, the team-mate could stepping on a button or ancient Mayan-like marking on the floor. If the team got the question right and Olmec said they had answered the question correctly, they were able to advance one step further. If they answered the question incorrectly, they could not advance but would not have to take a step back (they were just not allowed to answer the question again until the next question began. After four main "Steps" on the Steps of Knowledge, the first two teams to reach the bottom step would go on to the next round in the temple games. This stage was never a timed stage/round.
 The Temple Games were challenges that tested each team in three games of strength, smarts and stamina(as the guide host says "the glory goes to the fastest and strongest") . Whether it was turning around or crawling up a rock wall to grab pieces of foam that looked like wood or attempting to grab an item from a pedestal from an incline that the contestant had to climb while holding on to hand grips or something else physically challenging but not impossible to complete, each of the two remaining teams had to compete and race head to head in these games. After each game, Pendants of Life were awarded. If only one team completed the challenge to the fullest extent within the 60 second period (the first two games were a half Pendant and the third was a full pendant but in this game generally both players from the team competed together, a full pendant of life was awarded). If the teams tied, each team would get a half pendant. If neither team was able to achieve the task (rare occurrence), no pendants were awarded.There were generally three Temple Games the teams needed to compete in simultaneously. One partner attempted the one, then the second player of the team would attempt to compete in the other). However, on the third game both players of both teams had to compete. All of these games lasted 60 seconds on a time clock. (But don't confuse this with the ultimate Temple Run-named round that happened as a result of this.)






If both teams had the same amount of Pendants of Life at the end, a Tie-Breaker question would be asked by Kirk (the host, in the season 1 episodes) or Olmec (in Season 2 and 3). These questions would be based on the legend in the style of the Steps of Knowledge questions. But the result of this changed between the first and following seasons.






In the first season, if the team that buzzed in gave an incorrect answer, the other team automatically went onto the Temple Run. But for the following seasons, the other team was given the chance to answer.These Pendants of Life were later used for the winning team in the upcoming Temple Run round that was a resultant round at the end of the show.


For winning the Temple Games, the winners would receive a prize which would change dependent on show and season.
 The Temple Run was the final challenge on all shows. The winning team of the Temple Games raced through thirteen different rooms trying to retrieve the day's legends item. Olmec would describe each room, ask which player was going first (the player would generally say "I am") and Olmec would respond with that player's real name. Olmec described what would happen if they met up with a Temple Guard and mentioned what would happen if that player didn't have a Pendant for the guard. Olmec would then use the other players name of the team and walk him through. Olmec would never let the teams know of his intended path to get to the room containing the treasure, though the path always was a bit convoluted to get to the treasure When the host signaled that it was okay to enter, the clock would start at three minutes.Utilizing a labyrinth of rooms the player had to climb or run a series of steps to open doors that would lead them through the course all while setting pieces together to unlock doors, the last remaining teammate would head into this temple area-of rooms. They unlocked each door using the method provided (and described before the run by Olmec). The objective of the game was to retrieve and bring out the hand-made stage prop that might have looked like the real treasure from the legend earlier in the show. If the team retrieved the item, all the doors would open and the team could exit back out to their team mate to win the grand prize. If they retrieved it within the three minute time period, they would win the grand prize which was generally a trip to some exotic place most kids deem as great places to visit (as such on a vacation).






If the team that entered the Temple with only a pendant and a half of life, the remainder of the second pendant was hung in one of the rooms awaiting the second player. However, they still had to risk being caught by the third temple guard - only a half pendant would send them home with their prizes from whatever they won from before the Temple run had begun.If the teams only had one pendant, the other one was not hanging and the second player of the team had to run in with pure luck of not saying "Hi" to a temple guard.Although the rooms (described later) changed and varied from show to show and season to season, an average of 40 different rooms during each season were constructed in two layers into a set of bottom level rooms and top level rooms. Generally, for each show about 13-15 rooms were chosen to become the temple layout (split over the two levels) for that particular show. Only a select few rooms never changed their location nor their name nor there entry and exit strategies for the contestants to enter through/exit from season one till series ending.
Once the treasure was retrieved, all the doors (which were sometimes walk-through and sometimes crawl-through at both high and low and activated (after completing the room's task) by a simple button on the wall. in the temple would open, Temple Guards didn't come back out and the players would just race trying to get back out the door towards their partner awaiting them on stage all before the three minute clock ran out.The team color (as described later) that was able to achieve taking the piece out of the Temple in the time provided was the Green Monkeys.
 Those rooms on the bottom level contained The Cave of Sighs/Ledges, Pit of Despair, Wheel Room, Rock Quarry, Pit and the Pendulum, Throne Room, Room of Harmonic Convergency, Laser Light Room, Tomb of the Headless Kings, Swamp, Spider's Lair, Holes of Python, Jester's Court, Bamboo Forest, Tomb of Ancient Kings, Dark Forest, The Dungeon, Well Room, Mine Shaft and Quicksand Bog.. The rooms of the top layer included Pirates Cove, Room of Three Torches, Lightning Ball Room, Vipers Nest, Room of the Secret Password, Shrine of the Silver Monkey, Treasure Room (rarely ever contained the day's treasure in fact), Room of the Golden Orb, Room of the Golden Idol, Kings Storeroom, Room of the Ancient Warrior, Heart Room, Room of the Mandarin Hand, Chamber of the Sacred Markers, The Observatory, Room of the Three Gargoyles, Room of the Royal Gongs, and the Crypt. There were approximately 16 Temple Run layouts constructed for use over this series' run.Although the temple setups differed from year to year and episode to episode, there was only one room that never changed it's place in the temple from either episode to episode nor year-to-year and that was the Shrine of the Silver Monkey., Occasionally, players encountered a Temple Guard. Temple Guards (sometimes scared the contestant) with their Mayan headdress on (as the contestant entered didn't expect to find them) but these Guards could be pacified if you had a full Pendant of Life and could continue after handing them the Pendant. However, if you didn't have it, the first player would be taken out and second player would enter starting from the beginning of where you left off; however, if you were the second player and you didn't have a pendant you lost the game for your team and would be taken out through a back entrance back to the stage via the Temple Guard.
 Teams would generally win a trip back to Universal Studios Orlando if they got the item out of the Temple in the time period, along with smaller prizes which varied by episode and by season.

Kirk Fogg, the host of Legends of the Hidden Temple, was interviewed once when he told the world that due to financial constraints there could only be eight shows per season that could end with grand prize winners. If too many were achieved too early, the backstage people would wish the show could be over, the time would tick out and the winner wouldn't be able to make it in time. , Each team that was onstage wore different shirts. Each shirt had a iron-on transfers of their team type. Originally, there are six teams comprised of the Red Jaguars, Blue Barracudas, Green Monkeys, Orange Iguanas, Purple Parrots, and Silver Snakes. Although most often these shirts had to be turned in at the end of the show (as in the case of the Silver Snakes who were supposed to be Yellow but because of the Yellow helmets couldn't and this was a legal matter), there are still some companies devoted to making duplicates out there that can be repurchased if the person is a fan at a price., Although this show is now off the air there are still some users out there that have the complete series of this show on YouTube - (search and you will find these user's channels - type "Legends of the Hidden Temple" and look for all playlists for this show) . This show aired it's first episode on September 11,1993(with the Legend of Blackbeard's Treasure Map) and ended it's primary run on December 29, 1995(what a horrible and shocking holiday present fans must have had a few days before New Years Eve happened when they found out this show was the series finale ever) with the Legend of the Jewel-Encrusted Egg of Catherine the Great. The show produced 120 episodes within the three years it aired. It aired on weekends to fill the 6:30pm time slot, but about halfway through it's primary run (in February 1994) they added a few weekday airings at 5:30pm. No new episodes were taped following their April 1996 production schedule.


It ran in syndication for a few years following this on Nickelodeon. However, in 1998 the syndications stopped on Nick when Nickelodeon's sister station (Nick Gas took these episodes and re-aired them until Nick Gas disintegrated in 2007. Since Nick Gas has finalized their schedule, it has occasionally happened that TeenNick has aired a few programs, though this schedule wasn't as available as all other previous airings, so few are known to be existent in this world to this day and your best bet is through YouTube for full episodes. There were no special holiday edition/airings, though on occasion, this show was aired near the holiday itself.
 Kirk Fogg was the one and only host of this show. This show was Kirk's first and only TV game show as him as the host though he's had other jobs on several other movies.. Commonly, fans know the opening line "Legends of the Hidden Temple. With your guide. Kirk Fogg. And here he is now"as one of those lines that all fans know and love (just the way Olmec says it at the beginning is enough to get fans to gather around the TV and pleasurably watch it.
 Although Olmec the Olmec talking head's head is onstage with his mouth moving, he was voiced by Dee Bradley Baker who has had other jobs besides this, though Olmec on Legends of the Hidden Temple was his first narrating job., During the Big Help on October 3,1994, a special edition of this show aired. Although the airing of the show was special because Olmec and his narrator Dee Baker joined the cast, several of the past winning contestants joined in a battle that didn't comprise of anything like the original airing, there was one part in the second episode on the day that utilized a portion of the Temple Games where players had to walk around a wheel that was turning rather rapidly. It was hosted by Nick Guts' Mike O'Malley, Robin Marella (recognize her from Double Dare and Robin from What Would You Do?), and Phil Moore from Nickelodeon's Nick Arcade along with various other Nickelodeon game show hosts of the time. It also featured games similar to Nick Guts and Wild and Crazy Kids along with a question and answer round (similar to Double Dare) where wrong answers or non answers these contestants would get slimed(though these slimings were unique and not similar to any other show at the time)., You could spot the temple and Olmec and the steps (left to right) followed by a gleam of the moat but not much else. During the introductory scene when Kirk, the host introduced the characters and spoke to Olmec, you could understand the setup. However, the Temple Games were never set up during the Moat round but would be seen much later. Temple Games would be played in to the left of Olmec (when seen from the viewers perspective).