 Get a measuring cup and measure out the corn syrup, water, and dish soap. Measure out these liquids, pour them in small bowls, and set them aside.


You can use distilled water or tap water from your sink.
If you don't have dish soap, it can be purchased at the grocery store. Corn syrup can be purchased here as well or you can buy it online.;
, The order you add your ingredients to a mixing bowl matters in this project. Add the water first. Then, add the dish soap. Add the corn syrup last.
 You do not want any bubbles to form while you're mixing your ingredients. If you stir too fast, bubbles will begin to form prematurely. Stir your ingredients slowly until you have an even mixture. This means everything should be one solid color and texture.








Use a spoon to stir your ingredients.
 Take one plastic pipette. You can buy these objects at a local craft store or department store. Use a pair of scissors to cut off the tip of the wider end of the pipette. This is the end that is not already opened.








Make sure to only trim the tip of the wide end. You do not want to cut off the entire wider part, as you'll be dipping this into your mixture. Once you're done, your pipette is now a bubble wand.
If you don't have a pipette, you can use a straw.
 Dip the tip of the wider end of the wand into the mixture. You only need to make one, quick dabbing motion to get the bubble mixture to spread on the pipette.








You should have a layer of the bubble mixture covering the end of the wand, like the glass pane of a window. Dip the wand into the mixture again if you did not get the end fully covered.
 Place your lips on the opposite end of the wand. Blow gently into the wand. A bubble should form and eventually break off.








Make sure to blow into the wand slowly. Blowing too fast could cause your bubble to break before it forms.
 Once you've blown as many bubbles as you want, you can play with them. You can bounce these bubbles up and down in your hands or throw them back and forth across the room. These bubbles should not rupture or pop as fast as regular bubbles.








Remember, no bubbles are completely unpoppable. The bubbles will rupture with time, but they should last much longer than normal bubbles.
 Some people find the minerals from tap water can affect the quality of bubbles. You may want to purchase distilled water for the project. If you can't find distilled water at the store, you can distill water yourself at home.Pour your water into a large pot with a glass lid. Do not fill the pot more than a third of the way full.








Place a small glass bowl in the center of the pot. Then, put the pot's lid on upside down. This means the handle should be in the water.
Have an adult bring the water to a boil and, once it's boiling, turn the heat down to a simmer. Cover the lid with ice cubes. This will cause water to form on the lid and drip into your bowl.
Watch the pot, adding more ice cubes as they melt. Once the bowl is full, you can remove the bowl. Use the water in the bowl in your project.
 Not all dish soaps will create the same effect. While making your unpoppable bubbles, be open to experimenting with a variety of brands of dish soap. If your bubbles did not turn out the way you wanted, try using a different dish soap., You can set aside your solution for up to two days and still use it. In general, the longer you set your solution aside, the longer it will last. If you were unhappy with how long your bubbles lasted, try making the solution again and letting it sit for awhile before blowing bubbles., In general, warm and humid days will produce the best bubbles. While the solution will work in any weather, your bubbles should last longer during warmer months.You may want to play with your bubble solution inside on windy days. Wind can pop your bubbles.

