 Contact an organization you care about or one who has a stake in an issue you feel strongly about, whether it’s a local business or a worldwide environmental advocate. Find out what measures they have in place for lobbying, and offer to volunteer your help.


Lobbying on behalf of an organization is helpful to them as well as to you, as they typically lay out the information on a given piece of legislation very clearly and thoroughly, and will often provide you with a sample script and an easy way to correspond with the correct politician.
Support a non-profit organization that advocates for certain legislature that directly affects them and their cause. Non-profits are in particular need of volunteer lobbyists, as they often don’t have the money or resources to hire professionals for this purpose.
 Find local interest groups, campaigns, or clubs that meet to discuss and coordinate lobbying efforts and keep track of progress on an issue.


If there isn’t a group already established in your area, go online or start your own group, however casual you want it to be. Use the group for members to help motivate and inform each other on ways to reach out to elected officials.
If you’re an entrepreneur or owner of a small business, consider joining a trade association in your industry to potentially gain access to legislators themselves, as well as meeting up with other individuals and businesses who may be like-minded on influencing policies., Sway public opinion to make the greatest impact on politicians that can affect legislation, as more voices on the subject will always be more powerful in getting government attention.


Try writing a letter-to-the-editor to a prominent state or nationwide newspaper to inform the public on why an issue matters and what they can do to help lobby politicians involved. You may even have a chance to write an opinion piece about it. Elected officials are also likely to read letters-to-the-editor and op-eds, so convey your argument carefully.
Reach out to a reporter for a local news outlet about writing a story on the issue, or even a story revolving around you or your group’s lobbying efforts. Call in to political radio hours or even ask to feature on a radio show about your topic.
Distribute flyers and other advertising if you want to start your own grassroots lobbying group, or simply educate the general public on the issue at hand.