 Offer your guest(s) a trip to the mall, or simply a walk around the neighborhood. Make the suggestion as "one last thing before you go." Getting the guest out of the house is the biggest step, and afterwards you can simply show them to their car (or have a taxi waiting) rather than inviting them back inside.


If hosting a party, try not to leave anyone behind. The idea is not for some to leave and for one or two to stay behind and raid your pantry.
Make sure everyone has their things. If the plan is to have the trip out be out for good, don't allow any excuse to get back inside.
 Here's where the tactics begin to lose some subtlety. Consider switching from video games to a roaring game of pick-up sticks; or from chatting over drinks to helping you wash your cat. Plenty of guests will opt for the door over something they'd rather not do.


While this is a tactic better suited to partygoers, the house guest who's stayed a day or two over will think more fondly of home or a hotel if they're no longer being entertained.
Make sure the door is always an option--don't suggest an alternative with such zeal that guests feel obligated to participate., Look busy, or agitated. If it's the last day of a house guest's stay, act like it. Gather your guest's things and move the conversation from the living room to the doorway.


Consider making their bed or re-fashioning their room as it was before they arrived.
Try being appropriately unavailable as the end of their stay approaches; start working or doing things around the house., How subtle you choose to be is at your discretion; it could be anything from "I've got to run" to "My grandmother is in the hospital." Only the worst guest would consider staying in someone's home during a family emergency. Alternatively, you could pretend another guest is coming to take their place.


Careful getting caught in a lie--if you can actually manage to have somewhere to be, all the better. But if you say your grandmother's in the hospital, be sure your grandmother is aware, and that your guest doesn't work in the emergency room.

