 If you have not already done so, rinse your eyes out with a commercial eyewash or water if that's what you have on hand. f the problem is as a result of a contaminant such as a piece of dirt, this may be enough to solve the problem. Make sure the water and/or solution is at a temperature of between 60 °F (15.6 °C) and 100°F. If using water, use sterile water or bottled water. However, precautions should be taken to ensure that bacteria, other contaminants, or irritants are not introduced to the eyes, which are quite vulnerable to damage and infection.If you need to wash your eye because it came into contact with a contaminant, call poison control (800) 222-1222 and seek medical attention immediately in the case of a chemical burn or if another contaminant contacts your eye. You will be instructed as to whether you should wash your eye.Note the following guidelines for eye washing:

For mildly irritating chemicals, like hand soap or shampoo, rinse for five minutes.
For moderate-to-severe irritants, like hot peppers, rinse for at least 20 minutes.
For non-penetrating corrosives such as acids (like battery acid), rinse for 20 minutes. Call poison control and seek medical attention.
For penetrating corrosives such as alkalis (like bleach or drain cleaner), rinse for at least 60 minutes. Call poison control and seek medical attention.

;
, These are designed to remove itchiness and redness and relieve dryness in the eyes by replacing the layer of tear film that helps keep eyes moist and tears spread evenly throughout surface of eye. Artificial tear drops are available over the counter and in a wide assortment of brands. Trial and error or consultation with your doctor is usually the only way to find the best brand of artificial tears for your particular eyes. In some cases, a combination of a few brands may be even be necessary. In case of chronic dry eyes, artificial tears must be used even if the eyes are symptom free. Directions vary from brand to brand so follow the instructions on the label.Artificial tears can only provide supplemental care and not a substitute for natural tears.These are especially useful for anyone suffering from dry eyes.
Preservative free drops reduce the risk of allergy or sensitivity of already dry eyes from further irritation.
Over the counter eye drops are administered about four to six times daily or as needed.
 Give your eyes a break and some much-needed by avoiding sources of large amounts of light. You can do this either by sitting in a dark room or by covering your eyes with an eye mask that some use to help sleep. Even an hour or two of darkness will greatly decrease the pain from overexposure to light.If your lifestyle allows it, try to avoid using computer screens or televisions for at least a day. Eye strain from consistently working on a computer, or watching TV can cause dryness and itchiness in the eyes. Most people will feel strain after three to four hours of sustained screen time. See Method 2 for more proactive tips.
 Cold compresses can be an effective way to get fast relief from eye pain. because it can help to constrict the blood vessels in your eye, which make your eye feel less inflamed. It also helps to treat the pain caused by the injury because it reduces the stimulation of nerve endings in your eye. You can make your own compresses:Get clean spoon and a cup of cold water. Make sure all instruments are cleaned properly as well as your hands to avoid introduction of any bacteria into your eye. Place the spoon in the cup and leave it for about three minutes. Then, remove and place the back of the spoon on your eye. Repeat this method with the other eye. A spoon is useful because metal retains the cold much longer than towels and fabric.
Put some ice in a bag or wrap with a clean towel. Gently put your compress on one eye. Leave it there for five minutes. Repeat process with the other eye for five minutes. Do not apply ice directly to your eye as it could damage both your eye and the delicate skin around your eyes. Hold the compress against your eye for minimum of five minutes to a maximum of 15 to 20 minutes. Do not press too hard.
 If you wear contacts, remove them and put on your glasses for a little while. Contacts can cause dryness and itchiness if they are not lubricated enough or if they are not positioned correctly in your eye.


After removing the contact, check for dirt or for a rip. Replace the contact if anything seems to be wrong.
For contact lens wearers there are special types of lenses that are more "breathable" and allow eyes to dry out less than others . Ask your professional for examples or explanations of these.
 If the pain is so severe that it is hard to function, immediately consult a doctor. Intense eye pain is not something to be taken lightly and can be a symptom of a deeper problem. It is better to play it safe by consulting your physician. Moreover, if the problem has persisted for multiple weeks or even days, the problem is likely deeper than simply a piece of dirt in the eye. Your doctor can help you diagnose the problem and suggest a proper course of treatment.


If you can see that your actual eyeball has been scratched or if you experience additional symptoms, like visual changes, vomiting, headache or nausea, then you should immediately visit the emergency room.

