 People tend to associate stress with negative events, but happy occasions can also increase stress. This sometimes makes it difficult to identify when we are experiencing a higher level of stress.


Physiological signs are often easier to identify, so listen to your body. Common physical responses to stress include: digestive problems (nausea, diarrhea, constipation, or indigestion), sleeping problems (insomnia or sleeping too much), an increase or decrease of appetite, shortness of breath and rapid heart rate and/or headaches.;
, For some, the natural response to feeling overwhelmed is to reduce social interactions, but keeping your stress bottled up will only exacerbate the problem. Emotional support will decrease your stress by eliminating confounding feelings of being alone in your struggles. Seek out friends and family to confide in. If you don't feel comfortable talking to someone you know, you can join social support groups or use a general support hotline., In addition to distracting you from your worries, creating something also provides a sense of accomplishment. Find the creative medium that feels most cathartic for you.


Write about it. Poetry and creative writing are great ways for you to experience an emotional release and feel productive. Keeping a journal can help organize your thoughts and help prepare you to talk to others about your problems.Draw or paint it. Drawing and painting are some of the easiest and most convenient ways to reduce stress, as is crafting and sculpting. This is particularly beneficial to teens.Sing about it. If you aren't musically gifted, don't worry. You do not need to produce original pieces, and nobody else needs to hear it. Singing along to your favorite songs, especially those you feel represent your current emotional experience, will distract you from your worries and help you release emotion., Physical activity has been shown to relieve stress, and regular exercise may improve your ability to cope over time.Getting involved in group sports is a great way to commit to regular exercise and also increase opportunities to interact with others.

