 For some, choosing party music may be the most difficult decision of the entire party. These days, however, DJing is getting easier and easier with iPods, apps, and music websites. Pick music that is upbeat but not pounding. If you want people dancing, clear out space and play something you want to dance to -- such as electronic, swing, or pop. Moreover, don't be afraid to mix it up if people seem bored, or let a trusted, musically-inclined friend take the reins. Otherwise, you can't go wrong with a Pandora or Songza station set to these classic party genres.



90's Hip-Hop and RnB: If the party is younger-skewing, this is almost always the right move.

Motown and Soul: There are very few people, of any generation, that won't get down to some Temptations or Stevie Wonder. Best for a varied, larger crowd.

Big-Band Jazz and Swing: If you're having a classy dinner or conversational party, Frank Sinatra and Count Basie will get you through every course with aplomb., Use candles, a fireplace, or even Christmas lights to cast a dim, warm glow around the room. Bright lights have the tendency to make people self-conscious, especially if it is not natural sunlight. Good, dim, lighting is one of the best ways to loosen up the party and let people know they can relax and let their hair down.If you can double up your lighting with some nicely scented candles, the smell factor will enhance your party mood even more.
 Games and events bring people together, especially in the awkward early stages of a party. Of course, the activity will depend a lot on the group and the party, from drinking games like pong and king's cup to more tame games like Apples to Apples (or Cards Against Humanity, for raunchy crowds) or a pool table and dart board. You can put the big game on TV or simply play a slideshow silently, giving people something to talk about if conversation lulls. Other ideas include:


Tasting tests or contests with the appetizers.
Introducing people who may have not before.
A set-aside dance floor near the speakers.
Truth or Dare, Never Have I Ever, Desert Island, and similar conversational games.
 The best parties happen when everyone feels comfortable, contributing to the party in their own unique ways. This won't happen if you're constantly trying to make people dance, asking "are you having fun," or pushing games on people who just want to talk. Things will likely not hop into party mode right off the bat, but if people feel comfortable, well fed, and able to drink, the party will kick off on its own.

