 Telling our spouse about your pregnancy is a serious conversation. Having the conversation at the wrong time or in the wrong place can make the talk more difficult. Choose a time when you and your spouse are alone, calm, in a fairly good mood, and can have an in-person talk.


For example, emailing or texting your spouse during work may not be the best idea.
Depending on how you feel, you may want to use a creative methods to let your spouse know about your pregnancy., Plainly tell your spouse that you are pregnant. Because you have worked through your feelings before you approach your spouse, you can clearly state how you feel about your pregnancy. Let our spouse know all of the emotions that you are experiencing and the options that you would like to explore.


Share your list of pros and cons with your spouse. This may be easier than relying on your memory and how you feel in the moment.
Avoid starting the conversation with a negative tone. For example, do not say, "I have some bad news for you..." Try something more positive like, "I appreciate you and the life that we are building together. We are having a new addition to our family."
Do not hold anything back. If you do not want to continue with the pregnancy or are unsure about becoming a parent right now, your spouse needs to know that.
 Your spouse may be feel many of the same emotions that you do. Excitement, fear, nervousness, confusion are all possible. Your spouse also may feel more like a support person and not an equal decision maker because you are the one carrying the baby.Do not be alarmed by any reaction your spouse has. You have been working through your feelings already; allow your spouse to do the same.
If your spouse has a negative reaction, try not to take it personally. Remember that your spouse is emotional and the reaction may not accurately reflect how your spouse feels about you or your child.
If the discussion becomes too heated or comes to a stand still, take a break and revisit it later.
 You and your spouse are in this together. Ask your spouse how they feel about the pregnancy? What options would they like to explore? Are they ready to become a parent? Allow your spouse to communicate and do not interrupt them.


Be empathetic and consider your spouse's point of view.
Avoid words like "you should," or "why don't you" when you talk and ask questions. Instead say things like "I'm thinking," or "I would like to."
It may be helpful to have your spouse write down the pros and cons and emotions they are experiencing. This can help move the conversation forward.

