 Starting to read in advance will help you pace your reading. This will allow you to limit the stress forcing yourself to read will have on you. If you start early you can give yourself breaks when you need them.;
, Book and chapter summaries can help you remember what you forgot and highlight points you missed. These can help you when you get stuck or confused.
 If you are interested in what's going to happen in a story and you don't want to read it, resist reading a summary. Also, don't ask your friends what happens. Harness that interest in the story to inspire you to read. Once you hear a summary your interest in reading will sharply diminish. You may not finish reading at all and miss important details.


Summaries are much more effective at helping you remember something you've already read. If you have already read the text and know what's going on, then detailed summaries can save you a lot of time.
If you find the writing very difficult, like some people find old authors like Shakespeare, try reading a summary as you read the text. This will help you understand what's going on so you can focus more on the language.
 When you read something you don't like, distractions seem to pop up everywhere. Things that are rarely distracting become severe irritations. If you can avoid it, don't try to muscle through distractions. Move the distraction away or go somewhere you have no distractions.


Don't try to "multitask" by having the TV or computer on while you're reading. You may think that you're getting more done, but your focus will be split and you won't get as much out of your reading., Even if you start early, you need to read at a steady pace to complete the book. Starting early lets you set your pace a little longer but with less daily reading. However, when you start getting behind, catching up can be a real chore. It may seem an insurmountable task. Keep up with your reading schedule at all costs.


An easy way to figure your reading schedule is to divide the number of pages by the number of days you have to read the book. For example, if you have two weeks (14 days) to read a 300-page book, you'll need to read at least 21.5 pages a day if you read 7 days a week. However, if you don't want to have to read on the weekends, you'd need to read at least 30 pages a day.
Schedule a specific time of day to read. Put it into your calendar or a planning app on your phone. Make an appointment with yourself to read, just like you would to go to class or see the dentist. Be faithful about "showing up" to read at your appointed time.If you start getting behind, you may need to double or triple your reading for a day or two. Do this as soon as you miss a day. If you are very far behind, try doubling your reading for several days in a row rather than trying to catch up in one day.
Be careful not to compare yourself to others if you read slower.This will only exacerbate your difficulty. Plan ahead so you can read at your own pace. If you want to joining a study group, consider finding a group that reads more at your pace.
 If you are reading before bed you may find yourself sleeping on your open book. Falling asleep while reading robs you of time to read. It may also make you late for meetings or classes if you fall asleep during the day.
 This uses different senses to process the same information. When you hear an audiobook you will be listening to a story. You won't be forcing yourself to read. It is much more passive. If you get distracted, the reading will continue until you pause or stop it. This is especially helpful if you drive or commute long distances and can use your travel time to catch up on homework.


It is tempting to multitask while listening to an audiobook. Be careful to continue listening to and following the story of the audiobook. Don't let yourself get too involved in a complex task. Focus on menial, mindless tasks so your mind can listen while you work.
 One of the worst things you can do is to let your reward for finishing be starting the next book on the list. Plan to reward yourself for your work accordingly. When you think about your next reading, then you can think about being that much closer to your reward.


Try not to let your exam grades discourage you from reading.Thinking you will fail regardless may slow you down or inspire you to quit. Think of reading the book as an accomplishment in and of itself. Reward yourself for achieving your goal.
 You may keep up with the readings so you don't get behind in the group. Even if you get behind, they may be more sympathetic than your teacher. They will also help clue you in to important topics and events to remember.

