 Help your loved one find a reputable health professional whom you trust and know that your loved one is comfortable with. In the case of dissociative disorders, it is important for the client-therapist relationship to include the following:Acceptance of the patient's experiences
A willingness to learn how to work with dissociation and trauma
An ability to tolerate frustration and emotional pain that arises due to discussing the trauma
A commitment to working with the patient for a prolonged period of time;
, There will be a range of options available and they all have varying degrees of effectiveness. You can play a key role in observing how your loved one is responding to treatment from the home life perspective and give feedback to the health professionals. Treatment options might include:Psychotherapy - working with a therapist to problem-solve and cope with personal conflict
Cognitive therapy - modifying irrational and negative thought patterns that hinder personal and emotional health
Medication - drugs to treat associated symptoms of dissociation like depression or anxiety
Family therapy - treatment that teaches the family about the disorder and ways that the family can help
Creative therapies - treatment approaches that allow the patient to express his or her emotions through creativity (e.g. art or music)
Clinical hypnosis - treatment used to bring about conscious awareness to memories, thoughts and feelings; Eriksonian hypnotherapy is recommended., Your loved one may not be in a good place to explain what is happening. He or she may simply withdraw, get angry, demonstrate confusion, or refuse to speak to others. Help your family members to realize:


Your loved one's memory loss is more than mere forgetfulness or age-related memory impairmentYour loved one my experience symptoms such as inability to recall information, depression, anxiety, and confusion.
Your loved one is not faking this illness. Mental health providers have ways of distinguishing when a patient is faking memory loss for financial, legal, or personal reasons.
 Dissociative amnesia generally arises as a defense mechanism to protect the individual from an upsetting event.Trying to forcibly make the person remember traumatic events can have catastrophic consequences, such as provoking suicidal or violent behavior, or even making the person retreat further into a dissociative state.


Traumatic events should only be discussed with an experienced professional who can safely and effectively help the person learn to identify and cope with these upsetting events.
Talk to your loved one's doctor about what you should and shouldn't discuss about the period the person has forgotten.
 As much as possible, enable your friend or loved one to have autonomy in his or her day-to-day interactions based on the restrictions set by a doctor. Acting overly protective may seem like a good idea, but may actually promote frustration or resentment in your loved one. Besides, giving this person some level of autonomy may allow him or her to regain a sense of control in life that was lost after the trauma.


Get practical help as needed to help the person live normally.
Ensure as much family and friend contact as possible.
Find ways to help the patient feel happy and useful., Suggest that your loved one join a local or online support group or community of individuals who are going through a similar experience with dissociation. Talking about what he or she is going through can help this person feel less alone and provide practical strategies for dealing with dissociation.


Carefully research any support group beforehand to ensure that it is highly structured and sets personal boundaries between participants. Less organized groups that include people with varying levels of trauma or dissociation may sometimes prove unhelpful; therefore, doing adequate research ahead of time is a good idea., Individuals with dissociative amnesia may develop suicidal thoughts and feelings regarding their inability to remember key events in their lives. They may even enter a dissociative state as a way to cope with a previous suicide attempt. As a member of this person's support system, you must be on the lookout for signs of suicide:


talking about wanting to die
looking for a method to kill oneself (e.g. collecting pills or buying a gun)
using more alcohol or drugs
withdrawing from friends or family
speaking about oneself as if he or she is a burden to others
feeling hopeless or like there is no way out
visiting others or saying goodbye
giving away prized possessions

, If your loved one demonstrates signs of suicide, you need to immediately contact his or her personal doctor/therapist or the emergency services department. Once suicidal behavior is identified, your loved one's mental health provider will work with him/her and the loved one's to develop a safety plan.


This plan will help your loved one and the support system recognize warning signs of suicide, devise any possible coping strategies or distractions to deal with distressing thoughts, and provide a list of contacts whom the person can reach out to for help., As your loved one tries to come to terms with his or her identity and any missing time, it may be practical to remove any weapons, sharp objects, or other items that can be used to cause harm.


Those with dissociative amnesia may have previous suicide attempts or have suicidal tendencies.Clearing the home environment of any dangerous objects can help protect your loved one and prevent any self-harm.
 They are waging an internal war to recall who they are and what events took place in their lives. It is best to offer such a person as much calm and peace in their environments.


Expect distress from the patient at times over the memory loss and be ready to reassure. It is a good idea to limit guests in the home to those that are absolutely required to be there, as too many strangers can make your loved one confused or upset.Keep the atmosphere relatively quiet and comfortable. Remember, many people with this condition have endured upsetting traumas. Therefore, any loud noises or sudden movements may provoke distress, also.
 Additional safeguards to help your loved one may include simply taking care of mind, body, and soul. Reinforce healthy lifestyle choices for your loved one, such as regular exercise, eating right, getting adequate sleep, and avoiding drugs and alcohol (which may worsen symptoms). There are many self-care strategies that may be helpful to your loved one.Journaling can be helpful to bring awareness to what the person is thinking or feeling, and when used with therapy may help to uncover dissociated memories or thoughts.
Grounding techniques help the dissociated person who frequently struggles with returning memories or flashbacks to reconnect with the present environment. Tactics may include touching something, smelling something with a strong odor, or drinking water or tossing cold water on his or her face.
Mindfulness meditation improves mental awareness of the present moment. If terrible thoughts or feelings occur, the individual can practice mindfulness by orienting his or her attention to slow, deep breathing, sensations in the environment, or by noticing how different parts of his body feel.
Visualization allows a dissociating person to use his or her mind to draw up a safe and peaceful place. When upsetting thoughts, feelings, or images arise, he can imagine that he is in a safe place which helps with coping.
 It is hard looking after someone who suffers from dissociative amnesia. Don't neglect your own emotional needs. Seek support if you feel that you're not coping very well.
 Dissociative amnesia is a condition often triggered by trauma in a person's life. A person suffering from dissociative amnesia will forget important personal information about themselves and events in their life, often as a reaction to forgetting the trauma. There will be large gaps in memory far greater than mere lapses of memory or forgetfulness.Dissociative amnesia is diagnosed with a thorough medical history, plus exams to discount the possibility of the symptoms occurring due to a medical condition. Then, a psychologist or a psychiatrist may perform an interview or assessment to further clarify the diagnosis.
People with dissociative amnesia may also experience symptoms of other mental illnesses like depression or amnesia.
 It is important that you understand the disorder and how it impacts the sufferer. The more that you understand, the easier it will be to help and to forgive the moments when you feel completely distanced from your loved one.


Also try to learn about what caused your loved one to develop dissociative amnesia. Typical causes include involvement in a disaster in which they witnessed death or were near death, an abusive childhood, major life stresses, time spent in a combat zone, involvement in an accident, etc.Unless you were also present, you won't be able to completely grasp what they went through but it will help you to understand the depth of their pain.
 The outcome of treatment for a person with dissociative amnesia depends on a range of variables, including the individual's source of support and how he or she responds to treatment. In general, most people with this disorder regain their memories over time. However, in rare cases, some people never recover their lost memories.If your loved one has access to quality treatment and a strong source of support in your and others, he or she is likely to make a full recovery from dissociative amnesia.
 You can also gain a more thorough understanding of what your loved one is going through and how to be of assistance through a support group.


These groups are not just for sufferers. There are support groups dedicated to providing information and guidance to family members and friends who are dealing with a loved one with a dissociative disorder or recovering from a traumatic events.