 Start either bareback or with a saddle. This may take a few sessions to master.


Lean back, putting your legs forward and saying "woah". Squeeze/tighten the reins if needed. Praise your horse as soon as he stops. (The easiest way to do this is to release all physical pressure and then verbally praise your horse will scratching along his neck and withers.) Repeat this throughout your ride until your horse stops before you pull on the reins.;
, The idea is to teach the horse that when you set the rope against the left side of his neck, he turns his head away from the pressure (to the right), and vice-versa. Lean inwards into each turn (while turning left, balance more of the left of your body). Teaching your horse to respond to leg pressures can also be beneficial.


Practice first with a bridle (and saddle, if you want). While pushing the right rein on the horse's neck, pull on the left rein, so your horse's head turns to the left. Keep doing this until your horse responds to the pressure on his neck without any help from the bit. Practice until your horse has got it on both sides equally.
You can also ride a horse tackless by direct reining, but neck reining is easier if you have the time to teach it.
 Keep things slow for a couple rides so you and your horse can get a feel for it. Walk the horse and practice stops and circling in both directions. Ask your horse for an easy trot if you feel up to it.


If your horse's back is rather slick, feel free to use a bareback pad during the first few rides. This'll offer you a bit more grip.
 If you want, you can keep the saddle on for the first few times so it's easier to stay on. You'll want a lengthy rope for this; one that's both tie-able and doesn't have any metal latches. The halter and rope should be situated correctly before mounting:


Tie the lead rope to the halter. With the rope over the horse's neck, take one end and put it under (going towards the front) the side buckle, and then through it. Tie a half knot with the end, but before tightening it put the end through the knot once more. To tighten this properly, pull on both the tail and the long length so it's nice and snug. Do the same thing with the other side, making sure you have about the right length of reins.
 While sitting on the horse's back, put a rope around your horse's neck. Remove the halter (if you can't manage it yourself, then get someone to do it for you). Hold the rope like a pair of reins or in one hand. The further up the neck the rope is, the more control you have (though many horses like to stretch their heads right down while riding tackless).

