 Making a skillet cover from scrap fabric is a simple project, but it requires some special materials and a bit of basic sewing knowledge. To make a skillet handle cover, you will need:Two 5.5 by 7 inch pieces of fabric for the inner and outer parts of the handle cover. You can use any cotton or linen fabric you have around.
5.5 by 7 inches of insulating fabric, such as wool, fusible fleece, or even an old towel.
Sewing machine
Pins
Scissors

, Place the insulting fabric down first, then place the piece of fabric that you want to use as your outer fabric face up over the insulating fabric. Then, place your piece that will be on the inside of the handle on top of the stack facing down., Sew a straight stitch along the short edge (5.5 inch side) of the fabrics. Sew through all three pieces along the short edge, but do not sew any of the other edges yet.You can pin first if you like, but it is not required.
 Next, separate the insulating fabric and outer fabric from the inner piece and lay them flat. The insulating and outer fabric should be going in one direction and the inner piece should be going in the other direction. Think of the fabrics like the pages of a book facing downward. You should only see the insulation, seam, and backside of the inner lining fabric.Fold the seam so that the inner fabric is facing up and then sew along the edge of the inner fabric to flatten the seam.
Sewing along this edge will help to flatten the seam against the insulating and outer fabrics.
 To start making the fabric look like a handle cover, fold it over lengthwise. Then, pin the edges together and leave a two inch gap in long edge of the inner piece. You will need this gap for turning the handle cover inside out and revealing the outer fabric. After you finish pinning, sew along the edges except for the two inch gap along the long edge of the fabric.You can stitch around ends in a square shape, or you can stitch in a curving fashion. Either one works, but stitching a curved hem may provide a better fit for the handle cover. You can stitch curved ends free hand or use a pen to draw a curve and sew along this edge. Be sure to sew both ends.
 Use the two inch gap you left in the inner piece to invert the handle cover. When it is completely inside out, the inner and outer fabric print sides should be visible and the insulation should be hidden. Then, close the gap you left in the inner fabric.To close the gap you left for inverting the handle cover, sew across the edge. Don’t worry about any visible raw edges. These will be hidden when you tuck the inner fabric into the outer fabric.
 To finish the project, all you need to do is tuck the inner fabric into the outer fabric side. Use your fingers to tuck this material in. You can also use a pencil (eraser end) to help you push it in, or simply slide the skillet cover onto your skillet handle.After the inner fabric is hidden, your project is complete!

