 Preferably, it should be something that has a very firm lid, to prevent spills. A pretty container that will be useful for future purposes is ideal. You can use any container, but this gift idea will work best if the container is fairly tall, and a little wide. The next steps will give you an idea of how you'll be using the container to provide a better idea for the size and type.;
, Pick different kinds of chocolate pieces. These can be chocolate rosebuds, smarties, chocolate pebbles, white chocolate chips, etc. The idea is to choose things that will contrast each other. Each item will be in its own layer in the jar. You can choose to create a pattern of layers if your jar is tall enough and you have enough chocolate.
 The width of the layers depends on your container. This depends on how thick you want your layers to look, how many ingredients you have, and how small your chocolates are. Keep the number of layers you plan to make in mind.
 The notes will go in between each layer of chocolate.They should be small enough to fit within the width/diameter of the jar, and should correspond with the number of layers you have (e.g. if you have four layers, write four notes). The first note can be at the very top of the layers and include an introductory 'To:_____ From: _____.' How you present your notes, how many, how you arrange them, and the length of the notes are up to you. If you're writing long notes and can't fit it into the container, try folding the paper, but make sure the folds are tight to prevent the note from unfolding on its own.
 Having a clear jar is for aesthetic purposes. It won't look pretty if there are pieces of paper visible through the jar (unless this is part of your design).
 Place the bottom layer of chocolate into the jar. Once you've placed your first layer evenly, place your last note on top of it. Remember, this is the note your receiver will read last. Once in place, cover the note up with the next layer of chocolate (which should ideally look pretty different from the first) and then place your second last note. Repeat until your jar is filled or you're out of layers. Make sure all layers are even, to create a sediment appearance through the jar.
 This will be a bit tricky if you used a round jar or container. If wrapping paper seems impossible, wrap ribbon around the container and tie a bow.
 This gift is a reflection of the feelings inside you, after all.

