 Is he a smartphone junkie aware of every app from A to Z? Is she a luddite who uses a flip phone and buys maps at the gas station? Before you construct a travel itinerary for your boss, you need to learn how your boss wants to access the itinerary, as well as their likes and dislikes.


What do they want to prioritize: their comfort and convenience, or saving company money? (Your boss's preference here will help guide borderline decisions that come with your planning.)
Do they prefer digital itineraries or paper itineraries?
What kind of seats do they like?
How much detail do they want in the itinerary?
What corporate discounts would they like to use?
How do they want to spend their time before and after meetings?
Do they want to invest in a travel agent? Such questions can be helpful in charting a path forward so that you and your boss can be on the same page in building a great travel itinerary.;
, Sometimes your colleagues have already had experience with your boss's travel. They may know things your boss finds essential in an itinerary.
 Whether your boss is traveling for business or pleasure, you will want them to be as prepared as they can possibly be. Think about the impression they'll want to make on the people they meet and what they'll need to make that impression.
 A business trip will likely require a mobile office- include in the checklist any and all mobile versions of items the boss typically uses to conduct their work.


Consider phone chargers, adapters for foreign countries (if necessary), flash drives, tablets, batteries, and business cards. , Before departure, you may want to contact the boss to double-check that they didn't forget anything.
 If the trip requires air travel, it’s best to investigate multiple options for the best flight and/or hotel. Kayak will cross-compare a variety of travel sites to pinpoint not only the best current price, but also if the price is likely to get higher or lower if you were to purchase the ticket or reservation later. If your boss has indicated a preference for convenience, you may end up choosing a slightly pricier flight that suits your boss's needs.
 Travel agents can generally contribute more of their know-how if the trip involves indirect flights, international travel, or refundable tickets. If your boss has a preferred travel agent, definitely work on establishing a strong relationship with this person. Be kind and grateful and aware of their services. You never know when the agent may be able to get you or your boss out of an unforeseeable travel jam.
 You want to allow as much flexibility as possible in case of delays. Plus, your boss will be able to focus on preparing for meetings rather than on getting to the meetings on time. , Whenever you can eliminate possible complications, do it. Indirect flights tend to introduce gate changes and delays.


If a layover is inevitable, search for flights with shorter layovers. , If your boss’s meeting is in Washington, D.C., for example, you’ll want the search to account for Reagan (DCA), Dulles (IAD), and Baltimore (BWI)., A service like SeatGuru provides detailed analysis on aircraft seats and their legroom, window access, ability to recline, and proximity to lavatories., Also, if your boss likes to work on the plane, JetBlue has been highly rated for its WiFi connectivity. , Have the information ready for these miles and discounts when you book with the airlines. , If your boss needs a hotel and/or rental car along with a flight, purchase a package deal and save up to 50%. , The travel packet should include the following:


airport arrival time (at least two hours before the scheduled flight)
flight's airline
flight's number
departure and arrival airports
departure and arrival times
departure and arrival gates
destination hotel with address and check-out time
car rental information.
The packet should also have phone numbers for the hotel, the airline, and the travel agent (if applicable).
Include copies of your boss’s passport and driver’s license.
If your boss is traveling to a foreign country, supplement the travel pack with information on exchange rates, customs, and any security concerns for the country they are visiting. You want your boss to be able to find this important information easily. , If your boss is not renting a car, they'll need a way to get around.


Ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft have gotten popular and suit cost-sensitive or more casual bosses just fine. That said, some airports do not permit ride-sharing services.
For a boss seeking to spend on a more luxurious ride, limolink.com allows you to reserve a chauffeured limo or car service in cities worldwide. If your boss wants a towncar rather than a limo, research the boss's destination to see what local companies offer towncar service.
 A schedule with specific meeting agendas and times should be handily accessible to your boss.


Consider scheduling cocktail hour or dinner meetings if your boss does well in more social settings.
Helpful additions to the daily agendas are weather predictions, a map of the area around the destination, and relevant driving directions.



If you are familiar with your boss’s tastes, include information on nearby restaurants or events that your boss may enjoy during this free time. , A simple folder could do the trick. , Think about all the times you traveled and ran into unexpected weather, delays, and other events beyond your control. Your boss may very well face travel hiccups, but you can work to be prepared if not everything in the itinerary goes to plan.
 You want everybody to be on the same page when your boss is out of the office.
 Before the boss goes on the trip, briefly introduce yourself over the phone to the destination hotel’s front desk and any relevant staff members involved in meetings your boss is set to attend. This is your chance to get a sense of what your boss is walking into, and perhaps if certain meetings are likely to go long or start on time.
 You’ll want to have a consistent way to get in touch with each other. 