 A dental retainer works by applying pressure to your teeth. If this pressure is applied wrong, the result might be wearing away the enamel of the tooth's surface — and this is the least of the problems. If the pressure forces your tooth too much in one direction, bone resorption can occur and cause the tooth (or teeth) to become loose. You can also impact the blood flow to the tooth, which causes the tooth to die. If your tooth dies, it will eventually have to be removed.


If your teeth teeth become loose, it will be harder to chew food, and your tooth might eventually fall out.
Your tooth can become discolored. Its naturally ivory/white color will turn to dull gray or black. This is s sign that the pulp containing the nerve and blood vessels has died, leaving internal stains.;
, An improperly fitting retainer will irritate your gums. It may cause bleeding, infection, and inflammation. Because your gums are essential to maintaining your teeth's health, damage to your gums results in damage to the bone support and ligaments that hold your tooth in place.


If you notice any irritation to your gums, remove your retainer immediately.
Your gums can recede or pull away from your tooth. This exposes more of the tooth's surface to bacteria, and weakens the overall strength of the tooth. This can cause sensitivity and affect the look of your smile.
 If you purchase your retainers from an orthodontist, it will be made of substance approved by the FDA for safe oral use; however, making your own retainer may mean you use plastics contaminated by BPA, a common material in many commercial products that may cause serious health problems.Even low doses of BPA ingested over time may result in chronic health issues.
Making a retainer out of wax means that you are likely to be wearing BPA-rich material in your mouth.
 An orthodontist is a dental specialist. They must attend four to eight years of post-undergraduate education in order to practice. There are only 63 programs in orthodontics in the United States, and they are quite competitive to attend.If orthodontics weren't a challenging field, it wouldn't require so much education. You need to know physics, geometry and have a good spatial vision so you can predict the final result.
The practice of orthodontics and dentistry is a medical practice, affecting not only the mouth but the overall body health. An infection caused by improper use of retainer can result in infection carried to the bloodstream.
 You can use the red wax wrapping from popular cheese products, such as Babybel cheese, or you can use the clear wax wrapping of certain candies. For example, some stores sell miniature soda bottles made of wax. Consider, too, using orthodontic wax, which you may be able to find at the drugstore.


Your choice can be based on the color of wax, or on the most available product.
Dispose of the cheese or soda in whatever way you want to. All you really need is the waxy coating.
 If you don't have access to boiling water, very hot tap water will also work. Put the wax into the water and let it soak for short time. Being immersed in hot water will soften the wax.


You'll want to take the wax out while the water is still hot.
Putting wax into the microwave to heat it isn't recommended.
 Holding the waxy product between your thumbs and fingers, press repeatedly until the wax shapes itself into a flattish oval shape. You want the shape to eventually fit over your teeth.


Don't let the wax get larger than your mouth.
If the wax is too small, it won't fit over the width of your mouth.
 With your thumb and your first finger, press the wax between your upper lip and your upper teeth. Hold the wax gently against your teeth and gums as you spread it, until it cools down and gets harder.


Don't scrape your gums. You'll have to be gentle as you work.
It helps to use a mirror while you spread the wax.
 Working from left to right, pinch the wax with your thumb and index finger against your teeth until it's smooth and flat. Make sure that the wax doesn't rub against or dig into your upper gum.


Gently press the wax against the roof of your mouth with your thumb until it cools down and gets harder.
Your fake retainer can be as wide as you want it to be. Usually, it will cover all of your front upper teeth.
The retainer will harden as it cools.

