 As the primary habitat of your pet, your home needs to be pet-proofed. This is especially important in urban areas, since your pet will be spending a lot more time in your home. When securing your home, consider:


Installing a security system.
Making sure windows and doors close and lock properly. You don’t want someone breaking in or your pet breaking out.
Making sure the structure is sound and healthy. Mold, mildew, lead paint, and other dangers will impact your pet just as they impact you. Such dangers are especially problematic since your pet won’t have the ability to roam freely outside.;
, One of the greatest urban dangers for pets is related to the limited safe outdoor areas for them to play in or go to the bathroom. Because of this, many pet owners turn to rooftops, balconies, and other areas that offer unique dangers not present in suburban or rural areas.


Make sure rooftop terraces are fenced appropriately so your pet won’t fall off the building.
Pay attention to the spaces in-between fence or balcony posts. Skinny or small dogs might be able to slip out and over the side of the building.
Patch any holes under fences in backyard areas. Dogs or other pets that slip out may find themselves in the middle of oncoming traffic., Older buildings with faulty wiring or antiquated heaters represent more dangers to pets in urban areas. Such problems put pets at risk since they don’t understand their dangers.


Make sure no wiring is exposed. Ultimately, you don’t want your pet chewing on or playing with wires.
Replace or pet-proof radiator heaters. Such heaters are especially dangerous because many pets are drawn their warmth and won’t understand that they can get burned.
 Whatever your pet, being in an urban area likely means that you and your pet will have to share smaller confines -- whether it be a smaller house or apartment. As a result, you need to make sure that you don't cut corners on providing large enough habitats or enclosures for your pet.


Make sure you follow ASCPA or Humane Society guidelines/recommendations for the size of enclosures.
Never let animals like rodents, birds, or reptiles roam your home. It will just take one minute for your pet to get out and become lost in the dangerous urban environment.
Avoid overcrowding in your animal enclosures. Just because you don't have enough room for enclosures for all of your pets does not mean your animals should suffer.