 Try to go to bed at the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning. You may also want to change your regular bedtime to ensure that you are getting enough sleep.


For example, if you usually don’t go to bed until 11:30pm and you wake up at 6:00am, then you may want to consider pushing back your bedtime to 10:30pm to get more sleep.;
, If you try to go to sleep at a set time and your body resists, don’t give in completely. Stay up (still lying in bed) for an extra 15 minutes and then attempt to fall asleep again. Resist the urge to get angry or frustrated as this will only increase stress and keep you up longer.


Use the extra minutes to think of 15 dreams that you would like to have., There are some things that might be interfering with your ability to fall asleep and stay asleep at night. Consider what you can change to improve your sleep, such as by avoiding:Drinking alcohol at night.
Using stimulants such as caffeine and nicotine in the afternoon and evening.
Eating heavy meals before bed.
Exercising within four hours of your bedtime.
Napping during the day.
 Avoid dwelling on the day’s duties, stress, tension, and negative emotions. Mentally visualize putting all of your concerns in a box and placing that box on a shelf to take down tomorrow.


Your mind continues to work on developing skills during sleep via a process called “consolidation.”, An hour before bedtime, turn off the TV and put your phone away. Instead of watching the news, read something light-in-content. A good novel or comic is a great way to escape reality and segue into dreams., The mind and body are two pieces of a whole. If your mind is relaxed, you need to get your body to that state as well. About 30 to 45 minutes before bed, avoid all strenuous physical activities, essentially anything that breaks a sweat.


Try doing a relaxing yoga routine. Yoga-inspired stretches can help you to improve overall circulation and fall into a deep sleep. Start by taking calming, deep breaths, in through the nose and out the mouth. Then, sit cross-legged on the ground for a seated cross-bend, for example. Or, simply bend over and slowly touch your toes., Light a few candles prior to bed (just remember to snuff them out), use incense, or massage your hands with essential oils. Lavender and vanilla are particularly relaxing scents.
 As you choose your nightclothes, take into account personal preferences, but also factors such as temperature and skin irritants. For example, if polyester feels itchy, you might be better served by choosing cotton fabric. Flannel is a popular fabric for sleep clothes as well, but many find it to be too hot in the summer.


Investigate the benefits of sleeping naked. Wearing no clothes lowers your body temperature leading to deeper, more restful sleep. It could also help build body confidence.