;
, Test your voice change; But keep in mind, you don't really have to change it a lot. Keep your voice but just make it sound really bored and apathetic.
 Look like you don't care about normal (or abnormal) things, this doesn't mean never smile (because that's impossible), just don't walk into class with a big grin or an angry scowl.
 Try not to look mindless, just a bored expression will do, Miharu always looks like he's bored. But with an extremely close friend like Miharu was with Yoite, you can lighten up and show a little emotion. Not just with anyone though. One or two people is fine.
 Remember, you can laugh as much as you want over a joke by yourself in a quiet place, in your own mind, or at home, but when a person tells you a joke, or something funny or joyful, don't smile or laugh. Be nice, express your emotions by your words, and not by your facial expression.
 Not ever. Even if something happens to be funny to others, just watch them laugh and pretend to insult them under your breath. When something is surprising, pretend that you already knew about it or just walk away.
 Just wear straight/skinny but not too skinny jeans and a normal shirt. Miharu doesn't really care what he wears and he's somewhat androgynous. Even though he doesn't care, he still doesn't want to look like a slob. So just wear normal jeans, converse, and a shirt. Nothing baggy or flashy.
 Miharu's hair is neat because it is short and close to his head, yet messy because it's flying in every different direction. One example is a ponytail. It's neat because it's pulled back, yet it can be messy when you leave strands out in the front.
 Miharu isn't someone who hates the world, he may be indifferent and apathetic but he isn't mean or cruel either.
 Always be aware of what's around you. Examine the room carefully but quickly. Don't Show your emotions, especially when your working. Try maintaining the straight face. Staying quiet is one of the best techniques, but people around you may think your eavesdropping so stay focused and when somebody calls you .Keep the same face and don't move an inch and ignore them until they come to you., Concentrate intently on your face and body. Make sure that you do not react physically in any way. Reacting in your head is fine, but it cannot extend to your face or body.
, During class, do not speak to anybody unless spoken to by a teacher.
 Choose a desk at the far back of the class, a desk by itself away from your class group, but not so far to the point where you aren't able to pay attention or can't see what the teacher is saying.

