 A payday loan can be a convenient way to borrow money, and the finance charge (that is, the cost of borrowing a loan from a payday lender) is often less than what a borrower might pay in overdraft fees from a bank if he overdrew from his checking account.However, late fees are applied whenever the loan cannot be repaid, and rollover rates are applied whenever the loan term needs to be extended. The interest rate (also known as the APR, or annual percentage rate) on even a small, short-term payday loan often exceeds 400%, which can be difficult to pay back.;
, Some borrowers are surprised to learn that the terms of a given loan allow the payday lender to extend or renew the loan without the borrower's consent. This can cause borrowers to inadvertently accrue debt while thinking that the lender had simply withdrawn the sum that was owed.Before you sign any type of financial agreement, understand the terms and conditions of the loan, and know what to expect from the start.
 While an interest-free credit card might be the best solution for short-term financial borrowing, that option may not be available to borrowers with poor credit or immediate needs.However, there may be other alternatives and precautions that borrowers could explore.


A small loan from a credit union may have a lower interest rate than a payday lender.Comparing APR and other charges/fees may help you find a better deal.Military personnel may have government-backed protections to prevent high fees and interest rates.Your state may have protections in place that limit the rates lenders can charge.Try asking your creditor for an extension instead of taking out a payday loan. You may be able to work out a payment plan that works better for your budget., Your payday loan office may be able to help if you have any questions about their policies. It is important to have all of your information clarified from the start so that you do not accidentally forget to pay off your loan, as doing so could result in you getting charged a fee.


Know from the start whether your loan will be set up to automatically renew. Some loans renew automatically several times, and require the borrower to contact the lender prior to the first due date in order to set up a payment that will end the loan.Understand your lender's privacy policies. Make sure that your personal information is protected.Find out about any additional fees in advance. Some lenders charge additional fees for services such as electronically depositing your loan in your checking account, wiring funds to you, or giving you a prepaid debit card that contains your loan amount.Know how to contact your lender. Some payday loan companies operate entirely online. Find out how to contact your lender in case you have any questions or concerns about your loan.If you have given authorization to deduct funds directly from your checking account, you will need to know how much the lender will withdraw and when that sum will be withdrawn., Having a responsible spending budget that is within the means of your income - and sticking to that budget - can help you avoid late fees and higher interest rates.Consider buying groceries to cook at home, rather than going out to eat before you need to pay off your loan.
Play games at home or rent a DVD rather than going out to the movies. This will allow you to spend time with your family without paying for theater admission and snack prices.
Go for a hike over the weekend rather than going to an expensive amusement park. Your family will still enjoy the quality time spent together, and will get fresh air and exercise as a reward!

, Hold off on any large purchases that are not essential. Use the money you borrowed only for the reason you took out the loan, and set aside enough of your next paycheck to pay back the loan you borrowed.


Make sure you have enough money in your bank account on the day your loan repayment is due.
Try to start a savings account for the future, in case you ever find yourself in need of a short-term loan again.
 An EPP allows borrowers to extend the repayment period by several weeks without penalty. This can significantly ease some of the burden of typical payday loan repayment plans, as it allows the borrower to get his finances in order. Not all payday loan providers offer Extended Payment Plans, though, and there are certain restrictions on Extended Payment Plans that may be determined by the location of the initial payday loan office.Payday loan providers who are members of Community Financial Services Association of America (CFSA) are typically required to offer Extended Payment Plans to borrowers who are interested in this repayment strategy. Check with your loan provider to determine if they are members of CFSA.In states with adopted provisions governing EPPs on payday loans, the state-mandated extended payment option is offered in lieu of the CFSA's Extended Payment Plan.Find out about your state's payday loan statutes by visiting the National Conference of State Legislatures website.
Borrowers who took out a payday loan through a CFSA lender must request the Extended Payment Plan by the end of business hours on the last business day before the loan's due date.To request the EPP, a borrower must return to the original office where his loan was given within the qualifying timeframe for requesting an EPP, inform the lender of his wish to enter an EPP, and sign an amendment to the original loan agreement that lays out the terms of the new payment schedule.CFSA Extended Payment Plans allow a borrower to pay off the loan in four equal payments on a timeline that reflects the borrower's pay date schedule.There is no fee for entering an EPP, but the lender may charge an EPP fee and accelerate the payment on the remaining balance if the borrower defaults on his Extended Payment Plan., Rollovers on payday loans are not always allowed, but in some places local and regional laws permit the rolling over of a payday loan. Rolling a loan over allows borrowers additional time to gather the funds needed to pay back the loan, though additional fees may apply. Borrowers are typically limited to four rollovers on a loan, or the borrower's state limit (whichever is less)., Credit counseling agencies can help borrowers figure out ways to repay loans through a variety of strategies. Credit counseling agencies will help borrowers explore every option and may be able to help the borrower negotiate a settlement with the lender. Credit counseling agents may even be able to broker an arrangement that would allow the borrower to reduce his payments toward other debts until the payday loan is settled.Browse the National Foundation for Credit Counseling website to find a credit counseling agency in your area.
 Lower borrowed sums, coupled with a shorter borrowing period, can greatly reduce the fees associated with payday loans. People who live in places with government-enacted payday loan limits have seen fee reductions that add up to millions of dollars saved. Even if you do not live in a place with government regulations on payday loans, you can still take steps to reduce the length of your loan payments.Limit the amount you borrow. Though many payday loans are capped at around $500, the interest rates can quickly add up to increased fees. Only borrow what you know you will be able to reasonably pay back with your next paycheck.Pay back the amount borrowed plus incurred fees as quickly as possible. Rolling over a loan, which means delaying the due date of your payment, will always accrue more debt. For this reason, many states have set limits or outright bans on rolling over payday loans., Though it is not particularly common, sometimes lenders make unauthorized deductions from a borrower's checking account. If you believe that your lender is withdrawing more than you authorized, let your bank or credit union know about the situation. Show a banker the loan agreement you signed with your lender and ask the banker what steps can be taken to prevent these deductions, if they are in fact unauthorized.In many countries, a borrower can withdraw his consent to allow lenders direct checking account withdrawals at any time. To do this you will need to say in no uncertain terms to your lender, "I am revoking my authorization to debit my account." These instructions should be sent in writing to the lender. You should also inform your bank or credit union of your intent to cancel authorization., In the United States, 17 states and the District of Columbia currently have double-digit interest rate caps enacted on payday loans. Many local municipalities have their own laws that restrict payday loan practices.Service members nationwide in the United States may not be charged an interest rate higher than 36%., You can do this by contacting your payday lender. If your lender is a member of the Community Financial Services Association of America (CFSA), they should provide lenders the option of setting up an extended payment plan, which can buy you time to pay back the loan without additional costs., If you are having issues with your lender and believe the terms of your loan are unreasonable, you may be able to get valuable information from your state's banking and securities regulator. This information can easily be found online or in a phone book. For a quick listing of each state's banking offices, see the directory at http://www.teachmefinance.com/32-Payday-Loans-questions-and-answers.html.


Find out whether a payday lender is authorized to conduct business where you live. If the lender is not authorized, your loan may be illegal.