 Ignoring the claims of late-night sales pitches, many granite counter tops are better left unsealed.To test your surface, leave a few drops of water or a wet paper towel on the granite for 10 to 15 minutes. If the water begins to soak into and darken the counter top, continue to the next step to begin sealing.If the water remains beaded on the surface, the counter top is already stain-resistant, and should not be sealed.









If the granite will be exposed to petroleum-based products, repeat the test with a few drops of mineral oil.Seal if either test darkens the granite.
If the water doesn't soak in, don't seal it anyway "just in case." The sealer needs to soak into the stone to be effective, and if it can't, you'll end up with an ugly, hazy residue.;
, Only use products specifically designed for natural stone, and ideally for granite specifically. A penetrating or "impregnating" sealer will soak into the counter top to slow stain absorption, without causing the structural or aesthetic issues caused by top sealers in this application.These guidelines are enough to prevent harm to your counter top, but you can dive into the fine print if you're interested:








For best results, choose a sealer that mentions "fluorocarbon aliphatic resin" on the label. These can provide years of good protection, but are also the most expensive.
The next best options use "siloxane" or "silane," which tend to be a little worse at repelling oil.
Use silicone-based sealers or linseed-based sealers only as a last resort, as they are the least durable and sometimes even cause color deterioration.
Some sealant chemicals can be either water-based or solvent-based. Experts disagree on which is best; both are adequate, but water-based sealer is easier to apply and better for the environment., There are many varieties of sealer, and it's best to follow the specific instructions if available. The method below provides more detail than most labels will give you, but always go with the label if the two sets of instructions contradict each other.
 Wipe off the granite with water and dish soap or a specialized stone cleaner, then wipe with a dry towel or cloth, preferably lint-free. Wait 24 hours to allow the granite to dry completely and return to its original color before continuing, or 8 hours if a strong breeze is blowing across it.








If the counters were just installed or other construction projects are happening in the same room, it's best to wait until after they're finished. Dust from construction can interfere with the sealer's protection.
 Solvent-based sealers may produce unpleasant or harmful vapors during application, so open a window and put on a pair of gloves. Don't worry; the sealer will not leave any harmful chemicals in your kitchen.
 Choose an, unobtrusive corner of the granite, perhaps where a microwave or other appliance is normally located. Follow the steps below on a tiny area first, to make sure the sealer is compatible with the granite. If the sealer leaves a hazy residue or discolors the granite, find a different product.









While the advice in the preparation section should prevent most of these problems, the extreme variety found among granite surfaces makes it impossible to reduce the chance to zero.
 Cover the surface evenly with the spray bottle, or using a sealer-dampened, lint-free cloth or brush if the sealer is not in a spray bottle. The entire surface should be damp, but not soaked.
 Check your instructions for the exact time, as leaving it on too long can cause discoloration. Typically, the sealer needs about 20 minutes to soak into the stone, but trust the label for this one.
 If the label directs you to add a second coat, this is usually done when the first coat is almost, but not completely dry. Wipe this over the surface to ensure even application.
 After you leave the sealer on for twenty minutes or as long as the label direct, wipe up the remaining sealer with a clean rag. Too much sealer left on the counter can cause an unattractive haze.
 This is another number that depends on the exact product, but the sealer will need to "cure" for some length of time before it is effective. Some products cure after an hour or two, but it's still a good idea to avoid washing the counter for the first 48 hours after application.








