 An interval is described by its quality and degree. The degree of an interval can range from one to seven. These numbers refer to the seven notes that are in a major or minor scale. The quality of an interval can be “major,” “minor,” or “perfect.” There are 13 main types of intervals.For example, an interval may be “minor third” or “perfect fifth.”
Major intervals usually sound more upbeat compared to minor intervals.;
, Identify songs that you already know that start with an interval that you want to learn. The interval should be the first two notes of the melody. When you hear the melody, you are teaching your brain to recognize the interval.There are online tools (EarMaster.com, VCU Music Theory, AudioJungle.net, and HornInsights.com) to help you find reference songs that you know.Trainear.com is a free tool that allows you to practice and test your skills. Apple has also developed an app called Interval Recognition that you can practice and test yourself with.
This is a good method if you are new to relative pitch training.
"She Will Be Loved" by Maroon 5 can be used for minor 2nd.
"Poker Face" by Lady Gaga can be used for minor 3rd.
"Rolling in the Deep" by Adele can be used for perfect 4th.
The Star Wars theme song can be used for perfect 5th.
 Solfege is a system used to sing notes. The solfege note names are “do,” “re,” “me,” “fa,” “so,” “la, “ and “ti.” Learn which pairs of solfa syllables correspond with each interval. The syllables allow to associate singable words for different notes. This gives your brain a context for understanding intervals.For example, “do-re” is “major second, :” and “do-le/si” is “minor sixth.”This method is difficult if you are not already familiar with solfege. If you are already familiar with solfege, this method will come naturally to you.
 In this approach, you will not use solfege or reference songs. You simply listen to different intervals until you can recognize them and compare intervals to see if you can recognize the differences. You will do this repeatedly until you are able to identify and differentiate between intervals.You are treating intervals as abstract sounds that are not part of real music. It can be difficult to recognize the intervals within music when you have only learned them as isolated sounds.
Use an online interval trainer like intervaleartrainer.com or a mobile phone app (e.g. RelativePitch, Perfect Ear 2, or Complete Ear Trainer) to help you.You can also work with an experienced musician or singer to play notes for you and test your recognition.
This approach is a nice addition to using reference songs.
If you play an instrument, you can play the notes on your instrument and use a tuner to make sure that you are in tune.
 It can be overwhelming to learn all 13 intervals. Focus on the intervals that are the building blocks for developing your relative pitch. Start by learning the major and minor seconds, major and minor thirds, and perfect fourth and fifths.The major and minor seconds are the most common used intervals used in between notes.
The major and minor thirds and perfect fourths and fifths are important for harmony, chords, and chord progression.

