 They'll think you are the coolest person in the world, or something close. If the kid has a nickname, be sure to use it, as the kid will probably prefer it over his or her given name.;
, Start a conversation by asking about them. Kids will often be excited to tell you about their talents/hobbies.
 Just because they are littler than you doesn't mean they are stupid. Young kids are smarter than we may give them credit for. A baby can learn any language on earth; although some adults might even speak 50 languages, they can't learn them all. And little kids, specifically kindergarteners, are learning how to do math and read for the first time. If you look at it with some perspective, kindergarten is actually the hardest grade; you don't have any jumping-off place. So when you are around little kids, appreciate their brain-power., Show them that you love them and enjoy spending time with them. Many times kids are starved for attention and love, so sharing a little around will go a long way.
 However, don't invite them to your house unless you are very good friends with the parents; most people will find this questionable.
 Ask them questions about anything, such as: favorite color, what they had for dinner last night, what they want to do when they grow up, where their favorite trees are, etc. Listen to their answers and really pay attention. Show them you value their opinion. Look them in the eye. Sometimes, you get some funny answers, so keep your ears peeled.
 Kids love it when you are over-the-top. Act larger than life around them! You'll have time to be dreary and tired when you get home or they leave.

Don't be falsely excited, though. If you really, really aren't having a good time, then ask if you can do something else. The child will not like it if you are either boring, or too bored.
 This will get them to trust and let you into their heads. However, don't go by age, gender, etc. to try to determine what they will find funny. Everyone has a different sense of humor- get to know them a little first and you should be able to determine what will make them laugh.
 Find something you are both into. For example, if you both like magic, teach them a trick. If you both like ball games, get out and play some. If you both like cookies, bake some together.
 Little kids respect you when you teach them how to do something. They love it when you take time to play with or teach them something, whether it's a sport, art, computers, cooking, and so forth. Consider the skills you have and ask the kids what they'd like to learn from you.
 When they ask you do something, give it a go, even if you'd never be seen dead doing it around your mates. Show the kids you're cool enough to blow bubbles with them, just because they asked you to.
 While you do sidewalk chalk with the kids, tell them how awesome theirs look. They'll be stoked that you're interested.
 Make up completely new games, or change the rules of existing games. However, if you aren't creative enough to come up with games to play, search for new ones online.
 Once you find a game, stick to it as long as the child does.

Sometimes, little kids will play one game for hours. If this happens, stick it out. Don't start to act tired, even if you feel tired. Instead, ask if they want to switch games.
However, if you are just getting into a game and the child wants to quit, agree with them. You are there to amuse the child, and if you want them to like you, you'll do so.
Be flexible. If the child wants to quit one minute, than wants to play the game again the next minute, just smile and nod.

