 Breakfast provides your body with the nutrients it needs to last until mid-day. A protein-rich breakfast will help you feel satisfied for long periods of time.Protein takes longer to digest and absorb compared to other nutrients (like carbohydrates). Consuming protein-rich foods at breakfast helps your meal stick with you longer.Examples of protein rich breakfasts include: scrambled eggs with Canadian bacon and low-fat cheese, greek yogurt with nuts and fruit or a breakfast smoothie with protein powder, yogurt, milk and fruit.
Skipping it will make you feel hungry well before lunch and could throw off your body's rhythm for the rest of the day.
The recommendation for daily protein intake is 46 grams per day for women and 56 grams per day for men.
 Whether you're attempting to lose weight or just trying to manage hunger cravings, it may be helpful to plan out your day of meals and snacks. Try keeping a journal of the food that you eat so that you are aware of what goes into your body. There are some good apps for your phone, like My Fitness Pal, that nutritionists recommend to keep track of calories.


If you're eating irregular meals, this might increase your hunger throughout the day. Try to eat regularly scheduled meals and snacks.
Keep healthy snacks handy. If you get too hungry or are forced to wait longer before your next meal, having a planned snack can help tame your appetite and prevent overeating at meal time. Unbuttered popcorn is a good healthy snack to keep around.
Schedule a meal or a small snack roughly 30 minutes before the time you usually feel hungry. Eating the food you need before you feel hungry may prevent you from overeating.
Avoid avoid skipping any meals. Your body continuously burns calories to get you through your daily activities. As a result, you need to continuously consume calories to keep your supply of fuel stocked.
 If your calories are too low, your body may feel hungry all the time.


As a general rule, women should never eat fewer than 1,200 calories per day and men should never eat fewer than 1,500 per day.For weight loss, do not attempt to cut more than about 500 – 750 calories daily. If you want to burn more calories, try to do so through exercise. Cutting calories by 500 calories a day for seven days means that you will lose about 1 pound in a week.
The physiologic responses caused by the stress your body undergoes when deprived of nutrition can cause your body to break down its muscles in order to fuel the body with enough glucose.This is called gluconeogenesis and it is your body's response to low glucose levels.
 Complex carbohydrates take longer to break down, so they provide you with a steadier form of energy. Eating complex carbohydrates 30 to 60 minutes before you exercise will give your body the fuel it needs to make it through your workout.Complex carbohydrates are higher in fiber which makes them take longer to digest. This will help you feel satisfied longer.
If you don't give your body enough fuel for your workout, you could feel hungry afterward. Giving your body the energy it needs will reduce the risk of feeling hungry after you finish exercising.One carbohydrate of notable mention is the potato. Potato starch resists digestive enzymes, so they stay in your intestines longer than many other foods do. If potatoes seem too heavy for your pre-workout meal, you can still enjoy them during another meal to enjoy the same benefits.Pasta is another carbohydrate that is complex and good for energy stores.
 Studies have shown that a fiber-rich diet can help you manage your hunger and food cravings.It's typically recommended to consume 25 – 38 g of fiber daily (for women and men respectively).Try to consume a fiber-rich food at each meal or stack to help tame your appetite throughout the day. Items to include: whole grains, fruits, vegetables and legumes.
On this note, one food worth looking at is grapefruit. This fruit has a low glycemic index and can actually help lower your post-meal levels of insulin overall. Grapefruits are also high in water content, so they don't have as many calories as many other foods of a comparable size.Foods that are simple sugars or simple carbohydrates cause your blood sugar to spike. When your blood sugar levels suddenly drop back down, you will go back to feeling hungry, tired, and irritable.Foods that are high in simple carbohydrates include most baked goods, like cookies, donuts, and cakes. Candy, sweetened beverages and other sugary snacks are also among the biggest culprits.
 Try not to rush through your meals. Sit down and let yourself eat slowly. Doing so can cause you to consume fewer calories while still making you feel less hungry afterward.People who eat slowly may consume roughly 88 fewer calories than those who eat quickly.Pacing yourself allows you to sense when your stomach feels full. Eating quickly, on the other hand, can cause you to eat past the point of fullness before you have a chance to detect that point.Eating slowly also causes you to drink more in between bites. The extra water can make you feel fuller for a longer period of time.

