 Different types of drop nets should be used for different animals. A drop net for a deer is commonly tested to 600 lbs. and made of knotted, twisted nylon. Another common feature of certain drop nets is a metal center ring that allows the net to be released and dropped down a center pole.


Depending on the type of drop net, the system may also require additional poles to tie off the corners, blasting caps to release the net, and lead-in wire to connect to the blasting caps.
 Before setting up a drop net, clear all of the debris from the site where the deer might harm itself. Items you should clear away include stumps, limbs, stones, etc.
 After clearing the site, lay the net out flat. Place each of the four corners in position, then stretch the net out tight.
 You will need four eight-foot tall posts, so that you can place one at each corner of the net. The posts should be a minimum of eight-feet tall to make sure that the antlers of a full-grown buck can pass beneath the net.


To help support each post, it helps to drive nearby stakes into the ground to attach a tie-down rope on each side of the post. If the posts are near trees, you can attach the tie-down rope to a tree as well.
 A drop net will have a cable thimble at each corner of the net. Feed rope through the thimble and tie off one end to the drop net. Pull the net taut and tie the other end of the rope to the first corner post. Repeat for all four posts.


You can use standard-sized ski rope at fifteen-foot lengths. Any extra give in the rope is perfect for knotting the blasting cap into the rope, which upon detonation will sever the rope and drop the net.
You can use a come-a-long or another ratcheting device to help take up any slack in the rope to make sure the drop net is tight.
 At about 6-8 inches away from the end of the net, knot a blasting cap into the ski rope. Repeat this step at all four corners.


Use electronic blasting caps with at least twelve-feet of wire lead to each cap. This will allow you to run the wire leads in series from one cap to the next, making it easy to blast each cap with a single power wire to the power source.
 Whether you have a detonator or a 12v battery (such as a car or truck battery), you will need to run a coated, insulated wire from each blasting cap to the spot from which you will wait and drop the net.


The easiest way is to run wire leads in series between the blasting caps, ending at the corner closest to your hiding spot. You can then run the final wire lead down and connect it to a single power wire that you can run all the way to your battery or detonator.
 Place bait toward the center of the drop net in order to attract the deer. The center of the net also means the net will has the maximum time to fall without the deer running out from under it. Shelled yellow corn is a recommended type of bait.


Pre-baiting the area for a week or two beforehand can make the area more attractive for deer as they will continue returning to the area for food instead of having to stumble upon your bait the first time you place it.
 Several professionals should be on site to help handle any deer, but only one person should wait in a blind to drop the net. Everyone else should wait away from the site in a car to avoid scaring the deer off by allowing to it see or hear more people than necessary.
 Once you have everything set and a deer has started feeding on the bait, you can use the detonator or the battery to detonate the blasting caps. This will sever the ski ropes, releasing the net from its attachment to the corner posts and dropping it down to catch the deer.


Wait until the deer has its head down while it feeds to reduce its reaction time and ensure the net has time to fall.
 Deer are powerful animals that can kick and gore with their horns as they try to escape. Research teams have proper staff on hand to tranquilize and sedate a deer before the team even attempts to handle the animal. The team will then typically blindfold the animal to keep it in a less frightened state during handling as well.


For purposes of ear-tagging or otherwise handling the deer, professionals quickly approach the deer, grasp the deer over the back in a bear hug, tackle the animal down to its side, and hold the front legs close to the body while avoiding the hind legs.This allows another team member to quickly tag the ear of the animal.
Wear protective coveralls as well as a helmet with a face mask to help avoid injury.In addition to the immediate physical threat, deer can carry ticks that spread Lyme disease as well as other disease risks for humans. Take every precaution when handling a live deer.

