 It can take a long time to become successfully independent, but the best way to achieve those goals is to create a solid plan for the future. Your counselor can help you through this process. If you are enrolled at a school, then there is likely a career counseling or planning department that can help you. Ask yourself where you want to be in five years, and make a plan to get there.Start by making a list of ten steps that you can achieve in those five years. For example, you may want to graduate college, get a job, find your own apartment, or afford quality childcare.
Break each larger goal into small, practical, and actionable steps.For example, if you want to be able to get a degree, your steps might be to research local programs, find part-time solutions, apply for financial aid, and build a schedule around your child’s needs.
Understand that you may not achieve all of your goals within five years, but if you start working now, you will have made significant progress.
 A part-time job will allow you to start earning money while giving you a certain degree of flexibility. By earning your own money, you can begin to earn financial dependence away from your mom.Restaurants and retail stores may be a good place to start looking for a job. You may even be able to find an office job answering phones or running errands
If your mother is opposed to you getting a job, have a talk with her. She may be concerned about your education or worried about the cost of child care. Explain to her how important it is for you to start earning your own money. Also, remind her that it is good for your child to see you working hard and making an effort to improve yourself.
 It can be very difficult to graduate as a young parent, but a good education will help you get better jobs and a more independent lifestyle. Many teen parents graduate high school and pursue traditional four-year college degrees, but if this is not possible for you, you can look at other options that can let you work, raise a child, and study at the same time.


Check with your school district to see if there are special high school courses or drop-out prevention programs available for teen parents.High school diplomas and GEDs may be available through online virtual schools. This is a good option if you cannot arrange child care during school hours.
Community College is cheaper than traditional college. After two years, you may have the option to transfer to a four-year university to earn a bachelor’s degree.
If you do not want to pursue academic education, you can always get vocational training or an apprenticeship to study a trade like plumbing or cooking., If you are still in a relationship with the child’s father or if the father is involved in your child’s life, you might consider what types of support you can expect from him as you transition to an independent living situation.Are you still in a relationship? If not, are you at least on friendly terms?
Is the father involved in the child’s life? What types of support does he provide to the child?
Does the father’s family contribute to the child’s upbringing at all?
Would it ever be possible to move in with him or his family?
Can you rely on the father or the father’s family to watch the child while you are working or studying?

, Children can be expensive, and if you are going to transition into a financially independent situation, you should find other avenues of financial support outside of your family. Check with your local government if you are eligible for certain types of support as a young mother.


In the US, you can apply for assistance through the Pregnancy Assistance Fund (PAF), Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, or the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF). Contact your local Department of Social and Health Services to apply for any of these grants.In the UK, both you and your parents may be eligible for child benefits, child tax credits, income support, a Sure Start Maternity Grant, or Healthy Start vouchers. Apply to your local council for more information.In Canada, you may be eligible for social assistance, such as Basic Income Assistance, Daycare or Alternative Childcare Benefits, and Postnatal Benefits.If the child’s father is not contributing to the child’s upbringing, you may consider suing him for child support.
 It might take a few years for you to save enough money to move into your own place, but if your mother is becoming abusive or if she is threatening to kick you out, you may need to locate a temporary living situation for you and your child.


If your relationship with the child’s father is good, you might ask if you can stay with him or his family.
Ask friends and extended family members if they would be willing to take you in for a short amount of time.
Look into finding a roommate or two to help cover the costs of rent and utilities. Just make sure to thoroughly inspect anyone who will be living with you and your child.
Check to see if there is a Covenant House or a similar program in a city near you. Covenant House offers programs for homeless mothers and children in 30 cities in the US, Canada, and Central America.