 The most obvious is the headdress, which is either a round or rectangular piece that is decorated with lace and bows that ties around your head with a ribbon.;
,

If you don't want such a large bow you can also opt for mini bow-clips.
 Top hats and mini-tophats are often found with punk and boy style, but some of the more feminine hats are suitable for any style., Mini-straw hats go perfectly with country style and are usually decorated with ribbons as well as small fruits such as cherries or strawberries., Look for a bonnet without an overly wide or floppy brim and never tuck your hair fully underneath. Some less common but still elegant hair accessories include berets, caps, rose clips, hairbands, and cute earmuffs., Lockets, cameos, pearls , and loli-esque charms (keys, bows, hearts, cakes) fit very well. Chokers are good for gothic, punk, and ero-loli styles. Ties can fit with almost any style, but not just any old tie will do. #Lolita ties tend to be shorter and fatter, often coordinating with a skirt and decorated with lace or even appliques. Neck corsets are fit with these styles, but these can look awkward if they are too big or your neck isn't long enough. You can also have matching wrist corsets or the more lolita wrists cuffs, which are like stocking toppers but are worn on your wrist. #Gloves can be worn as well, but make sure they suit the outfit. Long gloves tend to fit best with aristo or classical styles, while short gloves are sweeter in nature and suit himeloli especially well. The key to coordinating these accessories is to keep them elegant, feminine, and not-cheap-looking., Scarves, mittens, and muffs should be cute, elegant, and coordinate well with your outfit both otherwise nothing short of bunny scarves are very lolita-specific. Look for ones that match well with your winter coat., #* Light jackets are worn to coordinate with a skirt and can be worn during any season so long as you don't feel too warm. They are similar to suit jackets but they have more feminine collars and rounded edges. Some even have puffed sleeves, but the key is the softer shape and the frilly trim.

Heavier coats are for winter, obviously. Like old-fashioned coats, they are designed to fit voluminous skirts underneath, so they flare a bit at the bottom making them look a bit like dresses themselves. They are much longer and more fitted than a lot of modern coats (no short puffy jackets). A number of these coats also have attached caplets (as seen in the example), which can either be made out of the same wool as the coat or be lined with fur. You can sometimes remove the fur collars from coats if you want a less fluffy look.
 These can be very expensive so find one that goes with everything., Those that are are made of cotton and only cover your shoulders aren't very good for keeping you warm, but they are still somewhat seasonal because they should be worn over a long sleeved blouse. Caplets like this aren't really meant to be functional and simply coordinate with your skirt or dress. Longer caplets (which could probably be called capes at this point) made of wool or velvet are better for keeping warm in the winter months and look especially cute with muffs. Winter caplets can come with hoods much like those of the lolita coats., Often they are knitted, but they can be made of any fabric. But they always look very delicate with little ruffles or puffed sleeves - they don't keep you very warm but they can keep out a Spring chill., A lot of cute cardigans will go with your lolita clothes, but those that are strictly lolita have a very feminine cut that's not too fitted and are typically trimmed with ruffles or a bow. Some may have a lolita print or applique such as a crown., It's not just lace and ruffles that make a blouse lolita - it's also the shape. Pointed collars can work, but a rounded or high collar are more fitting. The same applies to sleeves - straight sleeves can work, but puffed sleeves or sleeves that are gathered at the end are preferable. It should be tailored for the female shape but not overly tight. #* The fabric should be crisp (not the wrinkly stuff) and should never be see-though. Overall it should look a bit formal and elegant while still being very soft and girly., and large pockets., What makes something a cutsew is they are typically make out of knit fabrics so they can simply be cut and sewn, without all the tailoring needed for blouses or other cotton clothing. They aren't simply t-shirts (though a few of the brands have put out very loli baby tee with cute prints), they are trimmed just like a blouse or a cardigan with ruffles, lace, or puffed sleeves. They can have collars or have a t-shirt-like neckline, occasionally trimmed with criss-criss straps that tie around your neck. They are a more comfy alternative to blouses or heavy jackets., There's tons of purses out there that perfectly match a single outfit down the the lace, bows, and the little bunny applique, but all that really required is something pretty and elegant that goes with your general color scheme., They are made of good material, they aren't floppy and they shouldn't show signs of wear.,, They are not simply umbrellas with lace sewn on - they are far more delicate and usually more attractive. Children's umbrellas can sometimes work but look for one with a curved or otherwise elegant handle that extends rather than pops out (umbrellas that fold back in on themselves don't usually work). Asian style parasols are typically only suitable for waloli and should not be used with other styles., Their bell shape provides the typical lolita silhouette, and their length (for anything but ero) is typically around 2 inches (5.1 cm) above the knee. They should sit at your natural waist (not where you wear your low-rise jeans but right around your belly-button). Trimmed with the typical lolita arsenal - lace, ruffles, ribbons, bows, appliques - it's not hard to figure out what skirts are lolita and which aren't.

Not all lolita skirts are bell shaped, but those are hard to pull off right. Beginners should stick with this general rule. Some skirts are tiered, some have scalloped edges, and some have cutouts to display an underskirt - there are too many possibilities for skirts, one-pieces.
 The bodices have a lot in common with cutsews - they can have puffed sleeves or cross-ties or lace trim. The skirts resemble typical lolita skirts, though they may be elongated if the dress has an empire-waist. Again, too many possibilities., Plenty of examples to choose from., They aren't simply kimonos that are cut off with a poofy skirt underneath - care is taken to trim the kimono like any other lolita piece or the obi might be made into a cute bow. Sometimes all that is needed is to make something waloli is a Japanese print fabric on a dress. Qilolita, inspired by Chinese clothing, is equally more elegant than just a qipao over a floofy skirt., These are not very common styles and they are often done wrong, so it may be better to find your footing in the usual lolita styles before attempting waloli or qiloli., Only wear them during appropriate situations, such as while cooking.

If you feel confident, you can pull it off without it looking like a costume.
 The full aprons can sometimes have shapes at the bodice such as hearts, bunnies, or gloomy bears, and both they and the short aprons are trimmed like any other lolita pieces., Do not use a square dance petticoat. Go for a high-quality petticoat with enough fluff that won't show through your skirt. Short bloomers can help give a skirt some poof and are also good if you plan to run around in your lolita clothes so people won't be getting any panty shots., Stockings should be *knee-highs* or full on tights unless you're going for ero loli. Thigh-high stockings won't fit under a knee-length skirt (unless you're trying to give the appearance that they're full tights which is fine) and short little socks look like sissy style (something you probably don't want to be associated with)., One is simply the stockings themselves- these stockings generally have cute patterns or decorations (such as ribbons lacing up them) that make them lolita on their own. Sometimes you can find striped stockings - not the gaudy goth-style of hot topic stockings, but knee-high ones made with knit material that are elegant in their own way. These look best when worn in pastel shades rather than black and white. But often they are worn with stocking toppers - just a bit of lace and ribbon that goes at the top of the stocking to match the frill of the rest of your outfit. Sometimes they are attached to the stockings but they can come separately with elastic inside so they can be worn over any stocking., These can be trickier to find for adults but look for one in which the strap goes over the top of your foot nearer to you shin than to your toes. Flat, platformed, and high heeled mary janes are all good choices, but avoid Mary Jane-Esquire shoes excessively high heels and a strap around the ankle (commonly referred to as stripper or drag queen heels). Ballerina flats (like mary janes but without the strap) tend to look slightly less youthful and coordinate better if decorated with bows or lacing. There are also tea party shoes, which are lolita flats that have straps, mostly used for sweet lolita but not limited to. These are usually decorated with bows, pearls and multiple straps.

Another common lolita shoe is the rocking-horse shoe, originally designed by Vivienne Westwood but now you can find several brands that carry them.
,,,