 The best way to keep your toddler safe outside is to keep an eye on them. Take special care to stay close and pay attention when your toddler is near the water, near a street, or climbing. Observe closely to make sure that your child does not put anything hazardous in their mouth (like potentially poisonous plants or small rocks).
 Use a locked fence around any swimming pools, ponds, or bodies of water on your property to avert drowning. If you take your toddler swimming, always keep them within arm’s reach.Always carefully supervise your toddler in or near the water, even if they’re wearing a life vest or other flotation device.
Empty wading pools or buckets when you aren't using them.
 Playgrounds are great for toddlers, but they can lead to injuries if not used correctly. Take a few basic precautions when you bring your toddler to the playground:Always keep your toddler within arm’s reach when they are using playground equipment.
Make sure the play equipment is in good condition, and has appropriate ground material installed (such as mulch, wood chips, or sand).
Check signs posted on playground equipment to make sure it is age-appropriate for your child.
 Your toddler should always wear a helmet when riding a tricycle, bicycle, or scooter. If your child plays sports, make sure to get appropriate safety equipment (e.g., helmets, knee pads, or wrist guards)., It’s easy for toddlers to get dehydrated and overheated when they are playing outside. Their delicate skin is also prone to sun damage. Keep your toddler safe in the sun by following a few basic precautions:Apply sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or greater to your toddler’s exposed skin, even if it’s cloudy out. Reapply every 2 hours.
Put a sunhat and sunglasses on your child.
Limit sun exposure between 10 AM and 4 PM, and keep your child in the shade when possible.
Dress your child in light-colored, lightweight clothing.
Always have plenty of water available. Encourage your child to drink every 20 minutes.
If your child becomes flushed, or acts light-headed or nauseated, immediately move them to a cooler area and give them water to drink.
 Barbeque grills and bonfires can be very attractive to toddlers. Keep a close watch on your child, and keep them at least three feet away from fire or any heat source.Teach your toddler that fire is dangerous. Tell them, “Don’t touch! It’s very hot!”
Don’t play with matches, lighters, firecrackers or sparklers in front of your toddler.

