 Purchase a moisture meter and stick it into the soil near your plant. Leave the meter there and use it to monitor the soil. The meter will indicate whether the soil is dry, moist, or wet. Most plants will thrive if the soil is somewhat moist.

Some meters have a 1 to 10 scale on them. The numbers 1 to 3 indicate dry, 4 to 7 indicate moist, and 8 to 10 indicate wet. Many plants tend to do well in the 4 to 5 range.
Once you’ve determined the optimum moisture range for your plant, use the meter to stay within it.;
, If your plant is in some sort of container, check to see if there is a lot of water built up at the bottom. Pooled water is a tell-tale sign of overwatering. This is important, as too much water at the bottom of the container could cause root rot and other problems., Tip up the plant container or dig down to the bottom of the plant. If you notice that the roots are brown, grey, black, or slimy, they’re probably oversaturated with water. Instead, healthy roots should be white, solid, and crisp., If the soil is moist and you notice leaves falling off the plant, you may be overwatering it. In this event, the best course of action is to reduce the amount of water you provide your plant., If you're working with plants in the ground, you'll need to do a little work to make sure your soil drains properly. To do this, dig a one foot deep hole in the ground. Fill the whole with water and allow it to drain. Then, fill the hole with water again and time how long it takes to drain. Your results will give you an idea of how well the soil drains:

If the water drains in less than 4 minutes, most trees and plants should do okay there.
If the soil drains in 5 to 15 minutes, most trees and plants will thrive.
If the soil drains in 16 to 60 minutes, plants that need well-drained soil will need a lot less water than in other soil.
If the soil takes hours to drain, only plants that grow in swamps or along bodies of water will do ok., Wilting leaves and stems may be a sign that you are underwatering your plants. Wilting leaves usually appear limp, weak, and seem to hang downward. Healthy leaves should appear crisp and firm. Ultimately, if your plant is wilting, you may need to give it more water.While it is more likely a sign of underwatering, wilting can also be a sign of overwatering. To properly determine whether wilting indicates underwatering or overwatering, consider other factors such as soil moisture. Usually, if the soil is dry and the plant is wilting, it needs more water.
 As a rule, the soil for most plants should be somewhat moist about 3 to 4 inches deep (7.6 to 10 cm). This is important, as you need to make sure moisture reaches the roots of the plant. If the soil is not moist below 3 or 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm), your plant may not be getting enough water., If you’re growing in some sort of container or in a garden bed, provide about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water a week. If you’re in an arid climate, provide 2 inches (5 cm). In addition, if you’re in an extra hot environment, add about ½ (1.25 cm) for every 10 degrees above 60 degrees. It is okay if this water is provided artificially or through rain.

Calculate the average temperature of your area by adding the daytime high and the nighttime low. Then, divide this by 2. For example, if the low is 60 and the high is 80, you’ll compute the average temperature as 70 degrees. If you’re in a temperate climate, you’d want to provide 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) of water per week.
Measure rainfall or water provided by sprinkler by using a rain gauge., Find a book or visit a website that has information about the specific plant you have a question about. For example, if you’re concerned about providing enough water to your tomato plants, find a book on tomato plants (and the variety you intend to grow) and see what the book suggests.

General gardening books may also be very helpful. Some good books include ‘’Vegetable Growing Month by Month,’’ ‘’New Wild Garden,’’ and ‘’The Well-Tempered Garden.’’, Determine where a given plant is native to. Then, provide water based on that environment or ecosystem. For example, if a plant is native to a tropical region and you live in a semi-arid environment, you’ll need to provide a lot more water to it than to plants that are native to your region., If you have trouble providing enough water to a plant, you may want to contact someone who has experience dealing with it. Nursery employees, arborists, or plant biologists may be able to provide insight into how much water a specific plant needs.