 Keep in mind the option for upgrades and expansions for your Macintosh computer. Do you travel and want the flexibility of a portable computer or do you prefer a desktop model?


When considering your usage needs look at the types of work and projects that you will be using your Macintosh computer for. Do you need a computer primarily for word processing, email and browsing the Internet? Then perhaps a less expensive, basic model would meet your computing needs.
Are you an avid music and video enthusiast that enjoys downloading songs and games onto your computer? You will want a Macintosh computer with quality graphics, a fast processor and additional storage space to save all your favorite downloads from the Internet.;
,


Home consumer Desktop - iMac (built integrated into the monitor).
Workstation - Mac Pro (tower).
Small form factor hybrid desktop - Mac Mini.
Laptop/notebooks - Macbook Air, Macbook Pro, Macbook.
 The keyboard for these 2 models is a separate unit much like a traditional desktop model computer and is unlike the more compact style of a laptop.
 The Mac Pro offers users options for additional core processors, faster graphics and additional ports that will provide you with more display options.
 It is portable but unlike a laptop needs a separate keyboard and monitor. Consider one of the more portable Macintosh model computers if you are a frequent traveler and need a small, lightweight computer that you can carry with you for business usage.
 These models fold shut when not in use and open up much like a book with the keyboard on the flat surface and the monitor aligned vertically upright much like a television.
 Students may also prefer the portability of portable Macintosh computers. Models include the MacBook, MacBook Pro and MacBook Air models.
 If you live near an Apple store, take a trip to do some comparison shopping and get a first-hand look at the many models of Macintosh computers that are available. Ask the Apple store representatives any questions that you may have during your shopping trip.

