 If you bid farewell on a general level to your department or the entire company, and it would be too difficult or complicated to do it door-to-door, graciously thank everyone in the organization. You should include people you didn’t really know that well in order to foster a sense of company pride. An email may include something like:


Dear coworkers: As you may have heard, I will be leaving my position as (your position) tomorrow. I just wanted to say that it has been a pleasure working with all of you. I would love to stay in contact and can be reached at (your email) or on my LinkedIn profile. Cheers to the great times we have had working together. Sincerely, (Your Name).
 You might be tempted to openly write about the bitter times, particularly if you were fired. However, it is advised that you keep a positive tone in order to present yourself in the best possible light. Being positive will also make it more likely that you will be able to network with your coworkers in the future.


It is always wise to end on a happy note so try to be as positive about your experience at the company as possible. This is especially important if you are sending this email to your boss.
 It should not be a long essay, but a few sentences. There is no need to disclose the actual reason for your leaving at length. If people have questions, you might encourage them to contact you directly or in person. Only mention that you are moving forward and have decided to try your hand at another career.
 Your goodbye email can end with your contact details. Clearly mention your mobile number, email address and Linkedin ID through which you can keep in contact with your coworkers.However, do not share your personal contact information if you are not comfortable doing so.


You could also consider selecting only a few coworkers to share your information with. An email can be an easy way of getting everyone on the same thread and sharing info together, to make sure you'll all be able to get together in the future.
 Once you have finalized your draft, read through it to make sure that it is free of errors and is grammatically correct. You should also check to make sure that your tone comes across as friendly and positive, while also being professional.


Make sure that you have included everyone that you want to in your email.
Consider reading your email out loud to see if any part sounds awkward.
 It's usually a little cold to email your close work friends to let them know that you're leaving. Unless it's not possible, try to say goodbye to them in person. You need to let your superiors know in person, or at least over the phone, in most cases.


If you are unable to meet with your closest coworkers one-on-one for some reason, you should send out personal emails telling them how much you have enjoyed working with them. Make sure that you give them your personal contact information so that you can stay in touch outside of the office.
An example personal email may include something like: Dear (Coworker’s name): As you have probably heard, I am going to be leaving this company soon. I have enjoyed working with you so much and will miss your positive energy. I would love to stay in touch and hope that we can hang out outside of the office. You can reach me on my phone (number) or at (your email). Cheers to the time that we got to spend working together! Sincerely, (Your Name).

