 Volunteers are the backbone to any nonprofit. They keep your organization running smoothly. However, as volunteers are not paid dedication is sometimes an issue. Spend some time recruited solid, hardworking volunteers.


Appoint one board member to head volunteer recruitment. Select someone with past experience in nonprofit or volunteer management. Provide written descriptions of what volunteer duties will entail.Be active in seeking out volunteers. Rather than waiting for people to come to you, look for likeminded people with the skills you desire and reach out to them. Go to local college and recruit people from zoology and veterinary programs. Visit existing animal shelters and see if anyone's looking for supplementary volunteer experience., If you're operating an animal rescue, you'll need to staff some professionals for a small salary. Keep your eye out for skilled professionals looking to work in the nonprofit field.


Most rescues require at least one staff veterinarian. Local vets are often willing to part time discount services for non-profits.If you're hoping to rehabilitate animals, you may need trained wildlife or livestock zoologists to assess behavioral problems in abused animals.If you're hoping to re-home animals as pets, you may need to hire a team of animal trainers. Dogs and cats that come from abusive backgrounds may have behavioral problems that require professional training to work out., In addition to professionals, you'll need staff members to maintain basic operation of your facility. Things like clerical work, manual labor, repairs, and janitorial work will all require staff. Keep a portion of your budget open to pay janitors, repairmen, secretaries, and other basic operational staff members., You need to train your volunteers and staff. Make sure they have a clear understanding of your policies and standards and know how to efficiently accomplish any required tasks.


Anyone providing hands-on animal care should undergo a training program first. You can consult with the professionals you've hired for advice on training volunteers.You should make sure staff and volunteers are familiar with general animal health-care information as well as the basics of handling animals safely.Make training a priority. If you want your organization to run smoothly, you need to make sure volunteers and staff are well-trained and know how to safely interact with a variety of animals.