 How she makes you feel is an important factor in deciding if she's the one. You should feel better when you're with her, about yourself and about life. You should feel more confident and happy. You should miss her when she's gone. She should not make you feel weak or stupid. She shouldn't make you feel anxious or worried about saying or doing the wrong thing all the time. Being with her should feel natural and good.


Some people like to be with someone who makes them feel bad, angry, or excited in bad ways. That's okay for short term flings but it's usually a good sign that someone is not the "one" for you. Relationships like that rarely work in the long term and you're signing yourself up for too much trouble to consider the girl to be the one for you.
 When we're in relationships, we should be with someone who makes us better. If you're with someone who makes you a worse person, then what's the point, right? Think about whether this girl makes you better. If she does, that can be a huge sign that she's the one for you.Does she encourage you do improve yourself and your life? Does she find ways to help you achieve your goals? Does she make you want better things for your future? Does she make you want to work hard? These are all good things.
 When two people are in a relationship, they should both be willing to invest equally in making the relationship as good and fulfilling as possible. If she wants you to do everything and make all sorts of changes but isn't willing to doing anything herself, that's not a very good sign. But if she is willing to put as much effort in as you, then that's a sign that things can really work.


For example, she should occasionally plan dates for the two of you, instead of you always having to come up with everything.
This doesn't mean that she has to be super active in the relationship. If you're both relaxed in your approach to being together, that's fine too. The more important thing is that your attitudes and needs are the same.
 You don't want to be with someone who takes you for granted. Pay attention to if she thanks you or shows her gratitude in some way when you do something nice for her. You should also try to notice if she does nice things for you on occasion, just to show how much she cares about you.


Even if the things she does for you are small, that's okay. Not everyone has time or money to make big gestures. But doing small things, like making your favorite meal or writing you a love note, shows that she thinks about you and wants to show you how much you mean to her.
 If you two are older and have living situations of your own, like an apartment or house, you should notice if she's willing to split chores and finances evenly or at least fairly. This shows that she is fair, hard working, and honest. If she's not willing to contribute in her own way, then she will probably be too much of a burden in the long run.


Sometimes splitting things fairly might not mean splitting them evenly. For example, if you're sharing an apartment, you shouldn't split the rent down the middle. Instead, each person should only be contributing about 30% of their income, which is considered the financially responsible amount. That means if you make $4000 a month and she makes $1600 a month, you should be contributing $1200 and she should be contributing about $500.
 Having things in common is very important in a partner. You want to be with someone who's similar to you in certain ways. However, there is something to be said for being with someone who's different in certain ways too. This lets you contribute to the relationship equally simply by being yourselves.


For example, maybe you're organized but shy and she's spacey but outgoing. She can help you learn to be more social and you can help her keep her life in order.
 Fights in relationships happen. This is normal and can be a sign of a healthy relationship. However, you want someone who fights with you in a fair way. She shouldn't insult you or go for the low blow: that is a serious sign of disrespect. She also shouldn't blackmail you into getting her way. Instead, you want to look for a girl who is willing to have a discussion until you can both come to a compromise.For example, she shouldn't bring up your father's drinking problem every time you fight about you staying out late. That is unfair to you and has little impact on the problem in your relationship.

