 The best way to make a conclusion about the cost of a diamond - is to understand what makes it desirable. Four major criteria define the quality and value of the diamond - its carat weight, diamond’s cut its clarity and its color.;
, A diamond is normally weighed in carats. It is not the same with the weight of gold in carats. One carat in of loose diamond is equal to 200 mg of the diamond's actual weight. The number of carats will have an influence on the final price of the diamond. Carat weight is often determined by the approximate size and calibre of diamond. This is acceptable for general measurements, but can be inaccurate. Sometimes diamond of bigger size can weight less. To determine the exact weight of your loose diamond it is better to use the diamond scale.
 The cut means the shape and size of sides and geometric proportions of the diamond. It is one of the most difficult parts of diamonds evaluation. The most common way of diamonds cutting is brilliant side. It looks like compressed pyramid on the top of the inverted pyramid. Perfect diamond side was invented to give to a loose diamond bright brilliance. But not every diamond is cut according to this principle. Some diamond cutters consider that bigger stone is better than diamond with better proportions. Diamonds can be of different shapes, including emerald side (rectangle), "princess" side (square), pear-shaped, oval, heart-shaped, and "Marquis" side (elongated and rounded). It is important to note that evaluating the loose diamonds it is necessary to find a well-balanced stone that is able to catch lots of light. Be careful, because some diamonds can be polished several times to hide the bad spots. In the case of uneven polishing the diamond balance will be broken. Pay your attention to the tip of the diamond. It should be not very wide. The wide girdle on the tip of the diamond can have a negative influence on luminous reflectance.
 Defects of diamond’s clarity make it less valuable. Perfect cleanliness and shine are the best for loose diamonds. The main types of defects are spots and inclusions. Inclusions are splits inside of the diamonds, small dark and white spots, so called knots which are located on the diamond’s surface, scratches, grooves, jags and impact marks. Almost every diamond has some defects. The idea is to determine the size and number of defects. If there are no visible defects with tenfold increase they say that the diamond is perfect. The value of such diamond is really high. To evaluate the clarity of diamond can help the scale of clarity. The commons system of clarity evaluation includes such signs as IF, without inner defects; VVS1 and VVS2, extremely few defects; VS1 and VS2, very few defects; S11 and S12, few defects; 11, 12 and 13, defective. The diamonds with signs which are lower than VS2 are of no value for you, but can be good for jewelry.
 You can find yellow, brown, purple, green, red and blue diamonds. Color is the result of the composition of a diamond and it does not change. The diamonds with color can be natural and artificial. Diamonds with no color allows maximum light to pass through and colorless diamonds are preferred for their sparkle. You can examine this by viewing it under a bright light. If the stone is cloudy, milky or with yellow or brown cast, then the diamond is not of particularly good quality.

