 Once your membership card arrives in the mail, you'll see your membership number printed on it in a prominent position. Return to www.aaa.com and click Register, then enter this number along with your personal information, as prompted. This gives you access to online resources as long as you retain your AAA membership.
 Click the Membership link on your regional organization's website. Your organization may offer a variety of online services, such as ordering a replacement membership card, upgrading your membership plan, or requesting maps and automobile guides.


This may be listed as "Member Services," "Manage Your Membership," or another similar phrase.
 One of the most popular reasons for joining AAA is to receive towing, battery jumpstarting, or other emergency services when one's car breaks down. Call 1-800-AAA-HELP in this situation. Receiving these services will be easier and faster if you are prepared to provide the following information:


Your AAA membership card info, especially the member number and expiration date.
The location of the vehicle. If calling from a cell phone, AAA may attempt to locate you automatically. Turn on GPS if available to increase the odds of success.
A description of your car, including if possible the model, color, year, and license plate number.
Picture ID once an AAA employee arrives, to confirm you own the membership card.
 Many hotels, restaurants, and other business worldwide offer a discount or special deal to AAA members. Look this up in advance in the "Discounts" section of your regional AAA website, or ask for information at a participating business.


You will likely be required to show your AAA membership card to receive the discount, and sometimes a picture ID as well.
 Although most of AAA's services are only available to United States residents, your AAA membership can be used for many purposes abroad. Details vary between membership plans, so contact your local AAA branch for more information. If your membership plan allows, you may be able to receive or purchase the following benefits:


Travel insurance
Emergency transportation to a hospital while abroad
An international driving permit, allowing you to drive in foreign countries