 Your menstrual cycle is the time from the first day of one menstrual period (this is “day one” of your cycle) to the first day of the next menstrual period. A typical cycle lasts 28 days, but if you chart your menstrual periods on a calendar, you may notice that your own cycle is longer or shorter. During the first half of your menstrual cycle (before ovulation), you menstruate, your uterine lining thickens again, and hormones begin working to trigger ovulation. During the second half of your menstrual cycle (after ovulation), an egg is either fertilized, or the body prepares to shed the uterine lining again.


Your own menstrual cycle may vary by a few days each month, and this is not something to worry about.
However, if your menstrual cycle varies significantly (by a week or more over a period of several months), it is best to see your doctor.
Although there are many non-concerning causes for variable periods, there are some that can be helped with treatment (such as polycystic ovarian syndrome, where periods come infrequently due to hormone imbalance), so a doctor's advice is always best if you are in doubt.;
, Ovulation usually occurs at the midpoint of your menstrual cycle — for women with a typical 28-day cycle, then, ovulation occurs around Day 14. If you think you may be experiencing painful ovulation, charting your cycles for a few months can help you confirm the timing.


The second half of the menstrual cycle (after ovulation) tends to be consistent among women at 14 days (14 days before your next period begins). Therefore, if you happen to have notably longer or shorter intervals between periods (as compared to the average of 28 days), know that ovulation can be calculated by charting 14 days prior to the start of each period.
Understand that ovulation is when the egg is released by the ovary. It entails rupturing the membrane of the ovary at the location where the egg exits, which can be accompanied by bleeding and a pressure sensation. For many women, this goes unnoticed; however, for some, the blood in the abdominal cavity and pressure against the ovarian membrane can be a notable source of discomfort.
 If you are experiencing lower-abdominal or pelvic pain or pressure around the midpoint of your menstrual cycle, and if this pain disappears within a day and does not reappear until you ovulate again, you probably have painful ovulation. (It could be pain from other internal organs, but pain with this specific pattern that repeats most cycles is most often from ovulation.)


You may notice that the pain seems to be on only one side of your abdomen at a time. This is because ovulation occurs only on one side or the other, and this varies with each menstrual cycle (it does not alternate, but switches at random).
Pain during ovulation may sometimes be accompanied by minor vaginal bleeding; you may also experience some nausea.
The pain from ovulation tends to last anywhere from a few hours to two to three days.
Approximately 20% of women experience pain mid-cycle with ovulation. In most cases, it is relatively mild, but in some cases it can be severe and unbearable.
 As long as the symptoms are not severe, painful ovulation is probably harmless. Nevertheless, it’s important to see your doctor and rule out other possible causes of your pain (such as ovarian cysts, endometriosis, or if the pain is worse in any particular episode it may be a more severe and urgent condition such as appendicitis).

