 Just like mom always said, breakfast is too important to skip. It provides fuel to keep you alert throughout the morning and wakes up your metabolism.A breakfast that's high in complex carbs and fiber provides the most effective energy boost. Try foods like high-fiber cereal, multi-grain toast, and oatmeal., Engaging in physical activity for 20 minutes three times a week has been shown to drastically increase energy. You don't have to engage in high-intensity activities like sprinting for it to work, either. Low- and moderate-intensity work outs, such as walking and an easy or brisk pace, are extremely effective in fighting fatigueIf you find yourself lagging by 3pm, try working in a mid-day workout. This can increase productivity and may even help you think more creatively. , Sleep deprivation is often the culprit when it comes to feeling low-energy. One of the best ways to ensure you get restful sleep is to get in sync with your body's natural sleeping pattern, or circadian rhythm. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day--even on weekends!--to feel the full benefits of a good night's sleep.Going to sleep and waking up at the same time is actually more important than getting the same number of hours of sleep at a different time. If you are getting enough sleep, you should be able to wake up without an alarm. If you rely on the buzz of a clock-radio to get you out of bed, you need to set an earlier bedtime., Maintaining a steady blood-sugar level and getting vital nutrients and vitamins is essential to keeping your energy up.Omega 3 fatty-acids are found in foods like salmon, kale, Brussels sprouts, walnuts, and flaxseed. Omega 3's produce energy for your cells, reduce inflammation, and cognitive reasoning.Magnesium is high in legumes, dark leafy greens, cashews and seeds. Magnesium plays a vital role in energy production--without it, your cells cannot transform fuel into useable energy.Make sure you are consuming enough calories to fuel your daily activities.
Try to get vitamins and nutrients from food instead of supplements.
 You may feel a little buzz from the nicotine from a cigarette, but smoking actually makes you feel more lethargic.


Smoking damages delicate lung tissue and pollutes your bloodstream with carbon monoxide, making your body less efficient at absorbing oxygen, which is essentially fuel, and delivering it to your muscles (including your brain)., If you can't seem to shake your fatigue, a trip to the doctor may be in order. They can dig deeper to find the root of your low energy and determine if it is a symptom of a larger, more serious medical condition.

