 Those suffering from PTSD can be triggered very easily. It is important for them to stay away from triggers and triggering situations. You should ask your loved one to let you know what their triggers are so you can avoid accidentally putting them into situations that may not be good for them.Examples of triggers include loud noises, news programs, locations, specific situations, certain days, or types of weather.
Emotions or feelings can also be triggers, such as hunger, fatigue, specific pain, or lack of control.
Your loved one may not be able to be in storms, be stuff in traffic, go to the doctor’s office, go to movies with violence or explosions, or be in a funeral home.
 People with PTSD may have flashbacks, nightmares, or panic attacks. You and your loved one should come up with a plan for how you should help during one of these episodes. This helps you be prepared and helps ensure you do what your loved one needs instead of something that could upset them further.For example, you may come up with phrases like, “You are having a flashback. You are safe and the event is not happening again.”
Help them come back to their surroundings. Say, “Open your eyes and look at the walls. You are in your bedroom. Tell me what you see.”
Breathe with them. Don’t make any sudden movements. Ask if you can touch them before you touch them.
 Your loved one may get angry because of the PTSD. If this happens, stay calm and try to lessen the situation. Take a few steps away from the person. If the person gets violent or your feel unsafe, leave or call for help.When your loved one gets angry, ask, “Is there anything I can do?”
Look for any signs of anger before it gets to an uncontrollable point. For example, look for raised voices, rigid posture, or clenched fists.
 It is important to learn as much as you can about what your loved one is going through, but your loved one’s experience may be different from other people’s experiences. Try to remember to ask your loved one what they need and what you can do to help when their symptoms become challenging.

Try saying something like, “I am here for you. What can I do to help you through this?”

