 This step will depend on the size of your piece and the stain you are trying to remove. If you have a stain that covers a large portion of the aluminum, it is often best to soak the piece in the acid for one to two hours. If you are removing a small stain or do not have a tank big enough for your piece to fit in, you can put your acid on a rag and rub gently back and forth.Do not go in a circular motion, as this can cause the aluminum to look uneven in the finished product.;
, If the stain does not come off easily with just acid, consider using salt or baking soda as a minimal abrasive. You can rub it in with a rag. Put as little force into the scrubbing as possible to minimize scratches on your aluminum surface. Sometimes, steel wool is used as a more serious abrasive. If you feel that you need to do this, you should look for the finest grade of steel wool that you can buy and be very gentle with it. Scratches in your aluminum will allow things to get stuck on even worse in the future.
 If you leave acid on your piece it can eventually damage the piece and cause pitting. Rinse the piece in room temperature (about 70 degrees Fahrenheit or 25 degrees Celsius) water. Once the acid is removed, simply dry the piece with a soft, clean towel., You can find an aluminum polish at your local home improvement store, or order one online. Apply the polish by rubbing it in a circular motion with a rag, and then removing it with another rag. Buff the surface with a clean rag to shine up your piece.Do not put aluminum polish on any surface that will come in contact with food or fire. It is flammable and toxic.
 Muriatic acid, otherwise known as hydrochloric acid, is a common choice for an acid wash. It is reasonably safe for the aluminum and fairly easy to come by. Keep in mind that this acid is very dangerous and should be kept away from pets and children. It is also toxic to the environment.Another approach is to make an acid solution from vinegar or cream of tartar and water. This is safer than using muriatic acid or other strong acids., It is very important that you do this correctly. When water and acid mix, a large amount of heat is generated. As long as you pour the acid into a container of water, the heat will be safely dispersed.Consult the label or manufacturer for dilution ratios of water to acid.


If you pour the water into the acid, the initial mixture is very concentrated acid, and it may get hot enough to flash boil, sending concentrated acid spewing out of the container. Pouring acid into water prevents this and protects you from flash boiling., Room temperature is ideal for the acid to remove grime and corrosion from your aluminum. This works out great if you have to scrub the piece, as dealing with very hot or very cold acid could be difficult. You should also be sure that the aluminum piece is at room temperature before attempting to clean it with acid.You can also boil a dilute acid solution (e.g. one tablespoon of vinegar in one quart of water) in a corroded pot or pan and then rinse and wipe it clean., The goal is to remove as much dirt and grime as possible. If you are trying to clean corrosion off of your aluminum piece, the acid will need to be able to reach the corrosion to do its job. Washing as many contaminants as possible from the piece prepares it for the acid wash., A little bit of scrubbing might be needed to remove things such as burnt on food. If this is the case, you want to use the softest method that will work. Baking soda rubbed with a rag is idea. Remember to use a back and forth motion rather than a circular motion to ensure an even look., Dry the aluminum surface with a soft rag to before exposing it to the acid solution.