 If your man was never an obsessive shaver or hair-cutter and now he’s always shaving his face, maintaining his hair, and checking himself out in the mirror, then he may be getting ready for another woman.


You should also check to see if he’s starting to shower more often, especially if he does it right when he comes home. This may be because he wants to wash another lady’s scent off of him as soon as possible.
 If your man never cared much about his physique before, but he’s suddenly going to the gym every day, running, or lifting weights in the basement, this may mean that he’s trying to get his body in shape for another lady.


Of course, you should consider other factors: maybe he is having a mid-life crisis and wants to look good again, or maybe he just became motivated to care more about his body.
You should also look out to see if he is suddenly obsessed with his diet. This could also indicate that he is paying a lot of attention to his body for another woman.
 This is a big red flag. If your man smells different suddenly, it may be because his body chemistry has changed from being with another woman. And if he just smells like perfume, girly lotion, or anything else feminine, then this definitely says that he’s been spending time with another woman.
 Your husband's body language can also say a lot about whether he is cheating on you. Even if he says the right things, his body could betray him. Here are some signs that something has changed for him:


Note the amount of eye contact he gives you. If you used to always look into your eyes when you spoke but now always looks away, he may be doing it out of guilt.
Note a lack of affection. If he used to kiss you, hug you, put his arm around you, and let you know how much he cared through his touches but never touches you any more, then something may be up.
See if he turns away from you when you are talking. If he crosses his arms, turns away from you, and does not face you with his body, then he may be retreating because he is uncomfortable.
Notice if he shows you affection when you are alone, but not when you go out. If he is all over you when you are home but he is distant the second you step out the door, it may be because he is afraid his mistress will catch him with another woman.

