 If you are within a city, you can map out your route and walk to your destination provided it is not very far. If you don't have to pay to travel, don't. If you are worried about your safety (depending on what part of the country you are in) then you can opt for other means of transport.;
, They are a recent addition to the means of transport within the country. They are also popular in many of the neighbouring countries. They are cheap and get you around towns easily and quickly. Be sure to ask for a helmet and when travelling and a safety jacket for night-time travel.
 This is a very small taxi that runs on three wheels. It will also have a tarp covering it for protection against the elements. It is much cheaper than an ordinary taxi but often a little more expensive to take than buses or minivans. It is most often used for the same purpose and does not have a set route.
 This is the most preferred means of travel by foreigners. The taxi will get you wherever you want to go but will cost a lot more than other means of travel. If you are travelling in a group, this is a very efficient method since you can divide the cost among yourselves. A taxi will always have the standard yellow line marked along the sides of its body.
 The minibus is the most common means of transport within Kenya cities. Sometimes, there are minivans that will take you across the country as well. Within the cities, the fare of minivans may change so it is always good to ask for the price before boarding.


It would be even better to ask your guide to tell you the fares before hand so you will be prepared. If your destination is along the way but you do not know where, ask the conductor to let you know when you have arrived. They will be more than willing to help.
 Buses will not be marked by a yellow line but will have the name of their company printed on the side. Once again, if you do not know where you are going or which bus to board, ask the conductor and they will be able to guide you. Ask for the fares before you board. At designated bus stops, the conductor will call out the fare but it is always prudent to double-check.Some buses can also take you across the country or even across the border into another East African country. These buses will need to be booked in advance.
 This method of travel within the country is the most expensive but also the fastest if you are going to the further reaches of the country or the world. You can book a flight to different locations within the country or choose one of the other means of transport. Booking can be done online or in person at the different flight offices around the country.

