 To make your felt snowman ornament you will need pieces of felt in white, brown, orange and black. You will also need a piece of white ribbon (approximately 5 inches in length), a sewing needle and thread (in colors matching the felt), a pen, a scissors, some polyester fiberfill and a sheet of paper.
 Draw the outline of a snowman onto the sheet of paper. Make the snowman whatever shape you like -- two snowballs high, three snowballs high, fat, skinny -- it's up to you.


Cut the paper snowman outline, then place it on a piece of white felt.
Use your pen to trace the outline of the snowman onto the felt, then cut it out with the scissors.
Trace another snowman outline onto a second piece of felt and cut that one out too.
You should now have two identical snowman outlines.



Cut out five small circles from the piece of black felt. These will form the snowman's eyes, along with his three coal buttons.
Cut out a small triangle from the orange felt. This will form the carrot for the snowman's nose.
Cut out two stick shapes from the brown felt. These will be the snowman's arms.
 Take one of the white felt snowman outlines and hand-stitch the eyes, carrot nose and coal buttons into place. Use thread of a corresponding color for each piece, i.e. orange thread for the nose, and black thread for the other pieces.



Take the two white felt body pieces and line them up, placing the piece with the sewn-on features on top.
Take the brown felt arms and place them between the two body pieces, sticking out at an angle.
Take the length of white ribbon, fold it over, and insert the end between the two body pieces at the top of the snowman's head. This will form the hanging loop for the finished ornament.
 Take your needle and some white thread and hand-stitch the two body pieces together, leaving a seam allowance of only 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm).


As you're stitching, make sure to catch both of the snowman's arms and the looped thread in a stitch, in order to secure them in place.
Don't stitch the entire snowman closed just yet; leave a space of about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) to an inch open at the bottom.
 Take your polyester fiberfill and stuff it into the snowman, making him nice and plump. Once you've done this, you can finish the snowman by stitching the snowman closed. Hang your jolly felt snowman on the Christmas tree and admire your handiwork!