 Hard, dry stools are a common cause of constipation, so the more water you add, the easier it will be to pass the stool. It’s especially important to drink more water when you increase the fiber in your diet.Men should aim to drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of fluid per day. Women should aim for at least 9 cups (2.2 liters) of fluid per day.Avoid caffeinated and alcoholic beverages while you’re experiencing constipation. Caffeinated beverages like coffee and sodas, as well as alcohol, are diuretics. Diuretic dehydrate your body by causing fluid loss through increased urination. This may make constipation worse.Other fluids, such as juices, clear broths, and herbal teas are good sources of fluid. Avoid caffeinated teas. Pear and apple juices are mild natural laxatives.;
, Fiber is a natural laxative. It increases the water content of your stool and helps bulk it up. This will help your bowel movement move more quickly and smoothly through your colon.Abruptly changing your fiber intake can cause gas and bloating, so gradually increase your dietary fiber intake over a few meals. Experts recommend that you get at least 20 to 35 grams of dietary fiber each day.Fiber can reduce how much of your medications your body absorbs. Take medication at least one hour before eating fiber or two hours afterward.Some good choices for increasing your fiber intake include:Berries and other fruits, especially those with an edible skin, such as apples and grapes.
Dark, leafy green vegetables like collard, mustard, and beet greens, as well as Swiss chard.
Other vegetables such as broccoli, spinach, carrots, cauliflower, brussel sprouts, artichokes and green beans.
Beans and other legumes such as kidney, navy, garbanzo, pinto, lima, and white beans, as well as lentils and black-eyed peas.
Whole, unprocessed grains. An easy rule of thumb is that if it is a light color or white, it has probably been processed. Go for whole grains such as brown rice, popcorn, steel-cut oats, and barley. If you are eating cereal, read the label to make sure your choice is high in fiber. Look for bread with whole-grain, unbleached, unenriched flour.Seeds and nuts such as pumpkin, sesame, sunflower, or flax seeds,as well as almonds, walnuts and pecans.
 Prunes are high in fiber. They also contain sorbitol, a stool-loosening sugar that naturally helps relieve constipation.Sorbitol is a mild colonic stimulant that helps reduce the transit time of stool and decreases the risk of constipation.


If you don't like the wrinkly texture or unique taste of prunes, you can try prune juice. However, prune juice has less fiber than prunes.
100 grams of prunes have 14.7 grams of sorbitol. while 100 grams of prune juice has 6.1 grams of sorbitol. You will have to drink more prune juice to achieve the same health benefits, and you will also take in additional sugars.Don’t go overboard with prune consumption. Prunes should start working within a few hours. It’s important to let one serving or glass of juice pass through your intestines before attempting to consume another, or you may risk diarrhea.
 Cheese and dairy products usually contain lactose, which many people are very sensitive to. This lactose can cause gas, bloating, and constipation for some people. If you’re having trouble with constipation, cut cheese, milk, and most other dairy products out of your diet until you’re feeling better.


The exception to this is yogurt, especially yogurt containing live probiotics. Yogurt that contains probiotics such as Bifidobacterium longum or Bifidobacterium animalis has been shown to promote more frequent and less painful stool passing., There are several mild herbs that have a laxative effect and soften stool. These include psyllium, flaxseed, and fenugreek. You can often find these supplements in capsule, tablet, and powder form at health food stores and some pharmacies. Some may also be available as teas. Take these bulking agents with plenty of water.Psyllium comes in many forms, including powder and caplets. It is also the active ingredient in commercial preparations such as Metamucil. Psyllium may cause gas or cramping in some people.Flaxseed is used for constipation and diarrhea. Flaxseed provides fiber and omega-3 fatty acids. You can stir flaxseeds into yogurt or cereals.Flaxseed is not recommended for people who have bleeding disorders, intestinal obstructions, or high blood pressure. Do not take flaxseed if you are pregnant or breast-feeding.Fenugreek is used for several digestive ailments, including upset stomach and constipation.Fenugreek is likely unsafe to use if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Do not give fenugreek to young children., When you are constipated, castor oil can help stimulate your intestines. It can also lubricate your bowels so the stool may slip out more easily.Castor oil is generally considered safe. However, you should take only the recommended dosage. You should consult your doctor if you have appendicitis or intestinal blockage. Do not use castor oil if you are pregnant.Castor oil can cause a variety of rare but unpleasant side effects if you take too much. An overdose of castor oil can cause abdominal cramps, dizziness, fainting, nausea, diarrhea, skin rash, shortness of breath, chest pain, and tightness in the throat. Contact Poison Control or your emergency medical services if you have taken too much castor oil.Be aware that fish oil may cause constipation. Unless recommended by your doctor, do not take fish oil supplements for constipation., Magnesium can be very effective in relieving constipation. It helps to draw water into the bowel and soften the stool so it can move through your intestines.Consult with your doctor before taking magnesium supplements, as it can interact with medications such as antibiotics, muscle relaxants, and blood pressure medications.In addition to dietary sources, such as broccoli and legumes, there are several other ways to take magnesium.


You can take magnesium by adding a teaspoon (or 10-30 grams) of Epsom salt (magnesium sulfate) to 6-8 ounces of water. Mix well and drink. This mixture can taste unpleasant to some people.
Magnesium citrate is available in tablets and oral suspensions. Take the recommended dosage as marked on the package (or as recommended by a doctor or pharmacist). Drink a full glass of water with each dose.Magnesium hydroxide, also known as milk of magnesia, is also effective at treating constipation.

