 You can glide more easily through life's bad situations when you use them as teachable moments for yourself. There is something you can learn from virtually every circumstance you encounter. This allows you to constructively cope with negative situations. You find the lesson and apply what you learned to the future.


When you face a problem, think of it as a challenge that is strengthening you for later circumstances. Ask yourself, "what can I learn about this situation?" You can confidently leave this situation knowing that you will make a wiser, more-informed decision down the road.;
, People automatically feel better about negative circumstances in their lives when things are under their control. True enough, we have very little control over a lot of things in our lives, the weather and the price of gas, to name a few. But, we should concentrate our energies on those things we can control to boost our outlook on life.


To demonstrate, researchers found that optimism was much greater in subjects for events in which they had a fair amount of control, such as being the driver in a car accident or getting skin cancer, as opposed to those in which they had very little control like being the passenger in a car accident or having to wear a hearing aid., Whether you are dealing with financial troubles, a bad break up or recovering from a health problem--there's someone out there who understands your struggle. Connecting with such individuals can help you feel less alone.


You can always turn to friends or family members during difficult life situations. However, don't hesitate to reach out further to religious leaders or counselors. You can even connect with people going through similar experiences as you on Meetups or online forums.
 Most people don't think about what the words they say actually mean. We just say them and invite gray clouds over our heads. Research shows that a single negative word generates stress-producing chemicals in the brain.Here are some words you can toss from your vocabulary to promote optimism.Drop "have to" for "get to" - "I get to work out in the gym today."
Swap "problems" for "situation" - "We have a situation that we need to discuss."
Trade in "mistakes" for "valuable lessons" - We all learned from your valuable lesson.
Change "bad" to "unwise" - "The choice I made today was unwise."

