 Having friends and participating in social engagements is an important part of being healthy and recovering from depression. Have people you can trust and speak to about your problems. When you’re invited to social events, go, even if you don’t feel like it. A fulfilling social life can contribute to a sense of meaning and self-worth.Good friends will support you through difficult times.;
, Now is the time to figure out your priorities and your goals for the future. If you don’t feel like you currently have direction or purpose, think about your values and the future you want to have. Then, do some research on how to get there. Set small, attainable goals so that you know you can reach them.Work toward your big goals, too. If your goal is to be a biologist, try working toward getting a college degree in biology. If you find purpose in being a parent, make steps to becoming a parent, such as fostering or adopting a child.
 Instead of looking for purpose as something that exists in the future, stay present and find meaning in the present. Reflecting on gratitude is one way to stay in the here-and-now and create meaning. Keep a gratitude journal as a daily habit to reflect on the things you are grateful for. No need to write a long list; focus on things that genuinely bring you a sense of thankfulness.Get in the habit of writing down three things each day that you’re grateful for. For example, you might be grateful for air conditioning on a hot day, an uneventful commute to work, and a satisfying coffee on your break.
 Many people find fulfillment and purpose through engaging in a spiritual practice. It can help you feel connected to other people and forces outside of yourself. Whether you’re connected to a religion or spiritual practice or you’re looking for one, plug into a place you feel comfortable and experience a sense of growth. Believing in a power outside of yourself can help bring meaning and connection into your life.If you’re not sure where to begin, check out local churches, synagogues, temples, meditation centers or other spiritual places that you’re interested in.
 Many people who suffer from depression engage in negative thinking. If you want to change these patterns, recognize when you have negative thoughts, then release them and replace them with more positive ones. Get in the habit of finding a positive perspective on your negative thoughts to encourage you to change your mindset.For example, if you feel hopeless or helpless, replace your thoughts such as, “Nothing will change,” or, “I’ve screwed up too much” with, “Difficult times come and go” or, “I can always choose a fresh start.”

, If you’re not sure what your purpose is or how to create one, act as if you have one. If you don’t have a job, get up and get ready in the morning as if you were heading to your dream job. Even just getting showered and dressed in the morning can give you enough of a motivation boost to get to the gym, walk the dog, or get some groceries.Be proud of even your small accomplishments.
 Volunteering is a great way to contribute to your community, increase happiness, and bring fulfillment to your life. Helping others can take your mind off of your own struggles and problems and put your attention on helping people who need assistance. Find a volunteering opportunity you want to contribute to and feel pulled to contribute to.If you love animals, volunteer at an animal shelter. You can also volunteer to help children at an after-school program, a library, a religious center, or another place that speaks to you.
 Is there something you’ve always wanted to try but have never gotten around to? Get involved in a new activity or hobby that excites you. Now is the time to explore something new or build a skill. Getting involved with something new can be exciting and bring a new sense of meaning to your life.Try something like painting, karate, woodworking, or needlepoint.
 Ask yourself if you feel fulfilled in your work and education. Perhaps you’re through with your job or want to find a meaningful career helping people. It’s never too late to make a change, no matter how old you are. If you can’t go back to school, make a career change into a field that feels more aligned with what you want to do.If you’re interested in helping other people, try working as a social worker or in social services.
 Going outside can help you clear your mind, lower your stress, and decrease your symptoms of depression. With an increased sense of well-being, you may feel more motivated to pursue your passions and explore what gives you purpose. Spending time outside often involves some sort of activity, exposes you to the sun, and helps you connect with nature.Take a nature walk, plant a garden, go hiking, or visit a local park.
 Exercise is a great way to cope with depression. Even if you’re not athletic, you can enjoy physical activity and find purpose in it. For example, try training for a 10k race, joining a karate class, or attending dance classes. Making exercise goals can help you feel good, set and meet your goals, and help you deal with depression.Working toward a fitness goal can help you emotionally grow and put your mind onto achieving something you can be proud of.
 If you don’t already have a therapist to help you cope with your depression, consider seeing one. A therapist can help you understand and cope with your feelings. Therapists know how to listen so you can feel comfortable sharing your thoughts and feelings openly.You can find a therapist by calling your local mental health clinic or insurance provider. You can also obtain a recommendation from a physician, friend, or family member.
 If you’re doing your best to cope with your depression, seeing a therapist, and are still struggling, it might be time to consider medications. Medication can help you feel more stable and cope with depression more effectively. Once you’re in a better state, you may be more able to work toward your goals. Talk to a psychiatrist about getting on medications.Medications often come with side-effects. You may need to try several medications before you find one that works.
 Meet with other people who also have depression through a support group. You don’t have to feel alone, isolated, or judged because other members understand what it’s like to have depression and struggle with finding purpose. This is a place you can talk openly about your experiences and feelings, give and receive support, and get advice from others who have been there.Find a support group by calling your local mental health clinic or doing an online search.

