 The tins that cookies come in a perfect for this. If you cannot find such a tin, arts and crafts stores sell very similar ones.
 Wash the box with soap and warm water, and dry it off. If you plan on painting the box, wipe it down with a cotton ball soaked with rubbing alcohol. This will get rid of any oil residue that might prevent paint from sticking.


This would be a good idea even for store-bought boxes that never held cookies.
 The designs on a cookie tin can give your sewing box some old-fashioned charm, but you can paint it if you don't like the design or color. Take the lid off the box, and spray paint both with a primer. Wait for the primer to dry, then spray paint it using your favorite color. If you need to apply a second coat, wait for the first one to dry before applying it.


Try to apply the primer and paint lightly. It is better to do many light coats than one thick coat. Thick coats are more likely to create drips and puddles.
Avoid painting the inside of the box. The paint will get scratched off by the objects inside.
 You will be using these measurements to make your grid.
 Try to use a stiffer or thicker cardboard for this; it will be more durable and less likely to lose its shape.
 You can match the color to the outside of the box, or use a completely different color for contrast.
 Find the center of each strip. Cut a notch halfway into the strip. The notch should be about the same thickness as the cardboard you are using. This will give you four large compartments.


If you want more compartments, cut more strips of cardboard and more notches. You will need to trim down some of the strips in order to fit them inside the box.
 Form a cross with the strips. Make sure that the notches are facing each other, then slide them into place. If your grid is too wobbly, draw a line of glue along the seams. This will strengthen it. Try to use a liquid glue that dries clear.
 If you want to glue it down, draw a line of glue along the bottom and side edges, then slide the grid into place. To make it stronger, draw a line of glue along the seams.


If you gave your divider more compartments, you will need to cut them shorter until the divider fits inside the box.
 The box will be too small to store large items, such as scissors, but it is perfect for smaller items, such as ribbon, thread, and needles. Consider storing like items with like items. For example:


Place your needles, sewing pins, and pin cushions in the first compartment.
Place your ribbon, lace, and hem tape in the second compartment.
Put the buttons, hooks, and clasps in a third compartment.
Use the last compartment for zippers and elastic.
For ideas on what to fill your box with, click here.
 Because your box doesn't have a clasp, adding a handle would be a bad idea, but you can still make the box look pretty on top. Glue on some sewing-related embellishments on the lid, such as buttons and pretty brooches. Decorate the sides with lace and ribbon.

