 Unfortunately, no matter how hard you train, your Munchlax won't evolve unless you have a friendship stat of 220 or higher.The version you are playing will dictate the options available for checking your friendship with Munchlax. Common ways of checking friendship are:



Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum have a feature called the "Friendship Checker" as part of your poketech.

HeartGold and SoulSilver gauge friendship by the phrase that appears when you interact with your Pokémon outside the pokeball.

Nacrene City and Icirrus Pokemon Fan Club both have characters that can rate your friendship in Black and White.
"Icirrus Pokémon Fan Club" and Bianca tell you your happiness in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2
In Pokémon X and Y, in Laverre City and Santalune City you can check your friendship.
In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, it is the same as the original games.;
, Take Munchlax along on your adventures and gain +1 or +2 to your friendship stat for every 128 or 256 steps. The rate of increase will change according to version and your current friendship level., Things that make your Pokémon healthy, happy, and strong give your friendship stat a boost.
 Throughout the game you will find herbs, roots, and medicine that have different effects on your Pokemon. Bitter flavors, however, hurt your Munchlax's friendship stat and can interfere with it's evolution.,, In certain versions, there is an option for you to take your Pokémon to a resort or massage therapist. After a good rub down, your Munchlax will appreciate your friendship even more.


Veilstone, Castelia City, and the Resort Area by route 229 are three locations that offer Pokémon massages., Holding this will foster greater friendship between you and Munchlax.
 When your Munchlax reaches a new level, he'll feel thankful he has such a good trainer and your friendship will grow.
 Taking your Munchlax into battle is a good way to raise its level, but allowing your Munchlax to faint will reduce your friendship stat and make it more difficult for Munchlax to trust you enough to evolve.
 Now that your friendship stat is at or over 220, all little Munchlax needs is some experience or a rare candy and he'll transform into a strapping Snorlax.

