 The absolute, most effective way to stick to a healthy diet is to make a comprehensive meal plan. When you know what you are going to eat next, it makes you less likely to grab an unhealthy snack. Designate one day a week for planning and shopping, and one day to do meal prep.Plan three meals for each day, with one to three extra snacks.
Select meals that are heavy on vegetables and protein.
Include two to three servings of whole grains (brown rice, quinoa, oats), but avoid processed carbohydrates (bread, tortillas, pasta).
Try making larger meals and stretching them over a couple of days.
If you will be going to a restaurant, try to look at the menu ahead of time and select what you’re going to order.
 Some people believe that you need to go hungry in order to lose weight, but that simply isn’t true. In fact, when you eat smaller meals more often, your metabolism works harder and you burn more calories. So listen to your tummy! When you feel hungry, grab a healthy snack. It may be helpful for you to plan on eating something every two to three hours.Make sure you also drink plenty of water!
A good rule is to drink half of your body weight in ounces. (If you weight 150 lbs., you should drink 75 ounces of water each day).
 Too often, we race through meals and gobble down food before we can even taste it. This can lead to overeating and dissatisfaction. Instead, try to savor your food. Make the conscious choice to set your fork down after each bite, and concentrate on the flavors you are tasting.This also offers you more time to chew!
Effective chewing helps to improve digestion and aids in weight loss.Sit down at your table to eat. Don't eat over the sink, or in front of the TV or computer or while scrolling through your smartphone.
 If you want to stick to your diet and avoid cheating, you must always be armed with healthy snacks. You never know when a meeting may run long, or you will get stuck in traffic. If you have some trail mix or an apple in your bag, you’ll be much less likely to cruise through a drive-thru and mess up your diet.Choose a high-protein snack, like some cheese or nuts. Avoid snacks with refined carbohydrates, as this can start the blood sugars swings that make you crave sweets.

