 If you want to change your name for reasons unrelated to marriage or divorce, or if you want to change your first or middle name, you must fill out a Maryland Name Change Petition.


You cannot change your name for an illegal or fraudulent purpose, or change your name to one that would interfere with someone else’s rights. For example, you may be an Elvis impersonator, but you likely would not be allowed to legally change your name to Elvis Presley.Your petition should be filed in your county’s circuit court, along with a copy of your birth certificate, a Notice for Publication and an Order for Change of Name. If your birth certificate doesn’t show your current name, you can attach another official document that shows the name you want to change from, such as your Social Security card or your driver’s license.
Each county charges a filing fee, which you must pay when you submit your petition and documents to the clerk.
You must be at least 18 years old to file a name change petition in Maryland. If you are under 18 and wish to change your name, you must file a Petition for Change of Name (Minor). Minors also must get written permission from their parent or guardian., Before the judge will sign the order changing your name, you must have it published in your county’s newspaper of record to give anyone an opportunity to object to your name change.


In some counties, it’s up to you to contact the appropriate newspaper and have the notice published, while in others the clerk of court will do this for you. The clerk will tell you which procedure is followed in your county, and which newspaper to use.
Publication of your notice can be expensive. The newspaper will send you an invoice, which you must pay in full before the newspaper will publish your notice.
The newspaper will send you confirmation when your notice is published. Some newspapers send this confirmation to both you and the clerk of court, while others only send it to you. It remains your responsibility to ensure the clerk has received confirmation of your notice’s publication.
 After the clerk receives confirmation that your notice has been published, she will send your petition to a judge for review. Provided everything is in order and no one has objected to your name change, the judge will sign the order.


If anyone objects to your name change for any reason, you have 15 days to respond to the objection and file a request for hearing.
If no one objects, there is no reason to request a hearing. You will receive a certified copy of your order in the mail.
 Once the judge has signed the order, you must take your certified copy of the order to local offices to have your name changed on government-issued documents such as your driver’s license and your Social Security card.