 Communicating a fraction visually makes it apparent to other people. They're a perfect way to express proportions to others, especially if those people don't have a mathematical background. Visual estimations are best-suited for comparing one fraction against another. The human eye is trained to compare and measure things, even without mathematical experience. Putting something in visual terms helps to ease the mind from purely abstract, numbers-based thinking. Visual estimations are also perfect for use in casual, "real life" settings.For example, a 12/16 fraction may look bigger than 7/8 in a purely numerical form, but a simple graph of the two next to each other will easily show the latter is bigger than the former.
The two main types of visually-illustrated fractions are line and circle graphs.Lines are best for measurements, whereas circles (or "pie charts") are best for showing proportions.
 Whether you want to use a pie chart, rectangle, chart or some other way of visualizing your proportions, an illustration of a fraction will give you a reference point to think about it in more concrete terms.


Different proportions can be indicated by different shades or colours. For example, two shaded thirds of a pie circle indicates a 2/3 fraction.
It's a good idea to play around with a few visual models using the same set of fractions. This will show you how different models can represent the same thing.
 Using chocolate pieces, building blocks or even pebbles, you can estimate your fractions by setting different pieces into groups. A fraction with 50 parts (17/50+33/50) can be expressed by separating 50 pieces into two groups. With that, you'll be able to visually see how one fraction sizes up to the other.


By illustrating two or more proportions next to one another, you'll have an easy visual reference as to which fractions are biggest, and which are smallest. The human eye will be able to identify the distinction almost without thinking, so it's a nice way to communicate it in clear terms., If you're looking for a way to practice your fraction estimating, put two items of different heights next to each other. From there, try to guess what proportion of the larger object's size is matched by the smaller one.


You can check your answers by placing a ruler and measuring the appropriate dimensions of your items after the fact.
 Pie charts are a great way of expressing proportions in a visual way. If you're a visual thinker, it's a good idea to work your rounded fractions into a circle. From there, you can express your estimation without having to rely on rounded numbers that may not be accurate. Unlike graphs (which tend to rely on exact data) a pie chart is supposed to be a quick way of showing visual data. It's generally easier to visually analyze the parts of a circle than other visual models, as a full circle represents a whole.

