 This will make a crease from the shoulder seam down to the cuff. You will be using this crease as a cutting guide.You can try this method on a ¾-sleeve shirt or even a short-sleeved shirt.
This method works best on t-shirts, but you could try it on a dress shirt too.
 The lace will be on the outside of the shirt sleeve. It should be symmetrical, with either two straight edges or two scalloped edges.


Choose lace that is between 1 and 2 inches (2.54 and 5.08 centimeters) wide.
Ruffled lace, or lace that is scalloped on one side and straight on the other, is not suitable for this project.
 Keep the sleeve folded, with the pressed edge at top. Cut a short slit into the top of the sleeve, just below the shoulder seam. Cut another short slit into the bottom of the sleeve, just about the cuff. Keep them perpendicular to the crease.Make the slits about ¼ to ⅓ of the width of your lace trim. When you flatten the sleeve out, the slits should expand to be about ½ to ⅔ the width of your lace trim.
 Slide your scissors into the bottom slit. Cut straight up along the crease towards the top slit., Fold the left cut edge into the sleeve and pin it in place; use the slits as a guide. Stitch the hem down, as close to the folded edge as you can. Repeat this step for the other cut edge. When you are done, you'll have a gap that's a little narrower than your lace.If you are sewing t-shirt material, use a stretch stitch or narrow zigzag stitch. If you are using a woven shirt, use a straight stitch.
Use a thread color that matches your shirt.
 Slide one end of the lace under the shoulder seam by ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters). Pin the lace in place, if needed, and top-stitch it down., Place the lace on top of the sleeve so that it's on the outside. Pin the left edge to the left hem. Both should be overlapping slightly.Don't worry about the right side just yet.
 Use a thread color that matches your lace and a bobbin color that matches your shirt. Once again, use a stretch or narrow zigzag stitch if the shirt is a t-shirt, and a straight stitch if the shirt is woven.
, It will be very difficult to use pins for this step, so you will need to place and overlap the lace with the hem as you sew. Keep smoothing the sleeve and lace as you go., Go over your sleeve and snip off any loose threads. When you are done, repeat this method for the other sleeve.

