 A fandom is about being a fan to the biggest possible extent, including dressing like a fan, decorating your room to reflect your fandom, talking to others in forums and conferences about the fandom, and collecting items related to the fandom, and so forth. It can be a bit obsessive if you're not careful and might chew up your cash if you spend a lot on items to go with it (although that doesn't have to be the case). However, it can be oodles of fun, allowing you to explore more about the genre or type of activity the fandom relates to, meet others as into it as you and even spark your creativity through such things as writing fandom fiction, poetry or making fandom art.

Do not go into a fandom just because one of your friends is in that fandom. You will find it hard to enjoy and other fans might be disdainful or unkind to you if they discover that you don't really belong.;
, There is a range of possibilities, depending on your personality type, preference and current interests. Some examples include: Crazy fangirl or fanboy; emotional fangirl or fanboy; normal fangirl or fanboy; hip fangirl or fanboy; and the I-Know-Everything fangirl or fanboy. Or, you may simply wish to be a super fan and embrace a range of approaches to the fandom.

A normal fangirl or fanboy

, The most common genres for fandom are bands, movies, books and TV series. You might also choose cartoons, anime, documentaries or some other type of entertainment or communications field which could do with having some fans., Start participating in your fandom. Things you can do include:

Watch the shows related to your fandom or listen to the music.
Decorate your room to express your fandom.
Collect things to do with your fandom.
Join forums and chat to others about your fandom.
Go to concerts, shows, meet-ups, interviews, cosplay conventions, and the like, to meet your idols and to meet up with fellow fans in the fandom.
Write fandom fiction or poetry.
Draw, paint or create digital impressions of icons, idols and elements of your fandom.

