 Abuse takes many forms. Learn about the warning signs of abuse, types of abuse, creating a safety plan, and leaving an abusive relationship. You can help your friend by knowing what is going on, understanding the legal implications, and finding available resources.Start by visiting government websites like http://www.thehotline.org/help/path-to-safety/ or http://www.cdc.gov/ViolencePrevention/index.html which have up-to-date, valid information about domestic violence.
Remember that your friend may not be thinking clearly, so it is important for you to help him or her understand his or her options throughout the process.
 If you suspect that your friend is being abused, do not be afraid to ask him or her. Asking how he or she is doing or if a partner is hurting him or her is not a sign that you are a nosy friend, it is a sign that you care.Let them know that you understand that they are scared and feel vulnerable, but that you want to support them and help them through the situation.
If your friend insists that she is not being abused, let her know that you are there for her regardless, and that if anything ever happens that she wants to talk about, you are always a willing ear.
 Your friend's abuser is likely trying to make him or her feel alone and isolated, and your friend needs to know that there is someone who supports and understands them and is not going to judge them.Let your friend know that this is not his or her fault, and do not ask questions or make suggestive comments that imply you think your friend might be at fault or partially to blame (for instance, if your friend is experiencing sexual assault, do not ask her how often she consents to have sex with their husband).
Respect your friend's decisions, even if he or she feels that he or she should stay in the relationship.
 It is important that victims of domestic violence prepare for what to do during an abusive episode, and plan ahead for how they will leave the situation. Sometimes being in an abusive relationship makes it very hard to think clearly about possible outcomes of actions.Visit http://www.thehotline.org/help/path-to-safety/ for a step by step guide to creating a safety plan from the National Domestic Violence Hotline, a federal program for prevention of domestic violence.
Be sure that the plan includes how to stay safe during a violent episode, how to get help in an emergency, how to leave the relationship (if the friend is willing to leave), and what to do after leaving.

