 Your goal shouldn’t be to pit one parent against the other. However, asking for a little cash doesn’t need to turn into a major financial transaction. If you need 8 bucks for a movie ticket, try asking one of your parents. If you need more like 50, it may need to involve both of them.


Small amounts of money may not be much of a debate.
For larger sums of money, they will appreciate that you approached both of them, and take the allowance seriously.
You may have one parent who is more sympathetic to childhood or teenage hobbies. If you are only asking one, make it that one.;
, Your chosen parent will want to know why you want money. Your answer will be crucial in determining whether you get it. It will probably not be successful for you to lie about the reason, so be honest. There is nothing wrong with wanting a few bucks to get milkshakes with your friends or go to the movies.


A parent is more likely to give you money to fund an activity they support (something school-related, an educational trip, a reputable event, etc.). After all, this is the same rationale nonprofits use asking for charitable donations.Asking for money to buy an item might be easier to explain. For example, if you just made the school soccer team, needing a ball to practice at home is pretty self-explanatory.

If you're asking for something just for fun:Don't: say "It's not fair" or "I need it."Do: say "I know it's not something I need, but I'm willing to earn it."


, The ideal scenario would be that once you tell your parent what you want money for, s/he would give it to you without further questions. However, this won’t always be the case. Tell them why the event is important to you, and why it isn’t just a regular Saturday afternoon, for example.


Come up with two or three supporting reasons why the money is important.
For example, if you need money to go to a movie, you might have a few reasons ready, like, “Nicole wants to see a movie for her birthday, and I promised her I would come to this birthday since I missed the last one" or “We’ve been fighting a little bit lately and I really want to make it up to her by going to the movies with her on her birthday.”

, This is where you get to show off your early budgeting skills, which they should respect. Tell them exactly how much it will cost, and leave buffer room for unpredictable expenses. Be honest about adding that amount in, and they should be impressed with your ability to write a budget.


For example, look up the exact price of a movie ticket. Add the 2 bucks you always give your friend for gas money. Finally, say you want an extra 3 bucks for a soda or snack, though you don’t know for sure if you will need it.
If it is a more substantial cost, for a road trip or dinner out with a date, come up with as precise a number as you can. Your parents don’t want you not to have fun, they just need to know you have a mature understanding of budgeting.
 Your parents may not be excited about throwing you the entire cost of your dinner date, but they still want to help. Don’t be intimidated by negotiation. If you’re honest about your needs and are willing to concede, negotiation can easily help you get more than nothing.If your parents give you an "absolute no":Don't: keep negotiating.Do: leave politely and wait for a chance to bring it up again by offering a new favor.
 Be willing to offer to do something you know your parents want. For example, they may want you to do the lawn more often, so offer something chore-related. This part of the conversation will likely become controlled by your parents. If they ask you to study more and pull up your grades this month in exchange, agree to it. Following through with your promise will make them much more likely to barter with you like this in the future!

, Nothing says “I don’t take money seriously” like rolling your eyes when they seem skeptical. Convey to them you value their parental guidance and concern by asking nicely and saying thank you. Making this an exchange between two mature parties will do wonders for your relationship with your parents.

