 Children with ADHD have a hard time focusing. They find it difficult to filter out environmental stimuli. You can help by simplifying the environment. Keep electronic distractions at home to a minimum.Keep the the television off when your aren't watching it. This goes double when trying to communicate something important to the child.
Don't play music when the child is trying to focus on a task.
Keep your phone on silent to avoid the distraction of incoming text messages, etc.
 Unusual lighting can also distract people with ADHD.Try to keep lighting in your home uniform and adequate.


Shadows or unusual light patterns can cause distraction, as can flickering bulbs.
 Even smells can make it harder for someone with ADHD to concentrate.Remove strong-smelling items from your home.


This includes candles, scented air fresheners, and even strong perfumes and colognes.
 People with ADHD are constantly trying to make sense of their environments. Parents can help by organizing the home for success.


It is most important to organize the child's room and play area.
Establish a storage system that separates items into categories and reduces crowding.
Consider color-coded storage cubes and wall hooks, as well as open shelves. Use picture or word labels to remind your child what goes where.Get separate storage tubs for different toys and school supplies. Label each with pictures of the type of items that belong inside. Separate clothing so that socks have their own drawer with a picture of a sock on it, and so on.Keep a box or a storage bin in a central location of the home. Use it to collect your child’s toys, gloves, papers, and other miscellany that might otherwise spread all over the place. It will be easier for the child with ADHD to empty that bucket than to pick up all his or her things from the living room.You also might establish a rule that the third time you find an object in the living room unattended, it gets confiscated for a week. Or, if the bucket gets full, a lid will be put on it and it’ll vanish for a while with all those special treasures inside. This will create incentives for your child to remember to pick up.

