 Don't ever wait for someone to attack first. If you sense an impending attack, hit first and hit hard. This will surprise your attacker and help to level the playing field.Consider the legal consequences of your actions. You must be absolutely sure you are in danger and there is no way of escaping before you strike a would-be attacker. Otherwise, you cannot justify your actions as self defense, and the other person may win a civil suit against you.;
, Try to jab at your attacker's eyes with your fingers. Not only is this painful, but the reflex to cover the eyes is often incredibly strong. This may give you an opening to land a serious blow or possibly cause your attacker to drop a weapon.


The best technique is to grab your opponent by his or her ear and press your thumb across the entire nearby eye. Push down forcefully. This move is much more painful than a simple poke to the eye and may buy you enough time to get away., Attackers often jump their victims from behind to surprise them. Turn this disadvantage around and use it to forcefully attack your opponent's weakest areas. These techniques are especially helpful for getting out of an attacker's grip:


Throw your head back to bash the nose with a head butt. Your skull is a lot denser than the cartilage of your attacker's nose and can do a surprising amount of damage. Aim for the bridge, as a blow to it will be the most painful.
Rake your foot forcefully along your attacker's shin bone. This is an especially good option if you are wearing high heels. Alternatively, you can simply try to kick backwards against his or her shins. While less painful than a hit to the nose, a shin kick is much easier to land., Strike out at the especially vulnerable parts of your opponent, which include the eyes, ears, temple, nose, chin, throat, neck, and groin.If you can land a solid hit, there are a few ways of incapacitating an opponent:


An uppercut to the jaw under the chin will twist the head quickly, potentially causing a loss of consciousness.A jab to the temple is the most surefire way to knock someone out. This spot is very vulnerable and can easily cause internal bleeding. Keep in mind that this type of blow can seriously injure or even kill the other person., Remember that your opponent can also target your own pressure points. Pay close attention and don't let your attacker's hands get anywhere near your face and neck., Above all, you shouldn't let your attacker touch you. Don't stand still. Move from side to side as erratically as possible to confuse your opponent. Avoiding the attacker's blows should take priority over getting in your own. Every time your attacker missteps or fails to land a punch is a potential opportunity for you to run., If you carry pepper spray, a knife, or a palm stick, strike with those. If you don't, do your best to improvise. Anything hard and/or sharp can work, from a car key to a nearby rock.


High heels are an especially good choice for an improvised weapon. If you can, pull them off your feet to give yourself more maneuverability.If the fight is taking place on sand, soil, or gravel, grab a handful and throw it at your attacker's face. If you manage to get grit in your attacker's eye, it will temporarily blind him or her. You will have time to get away while your attacker attempts to clear his or her vision.
A sturdy flashlight makes for a great improvised weapon at night. Shine it directly into your opponent's eyes to blind and distract, giving you an edge. If that isn't enough to get away, turn the flashlight around and hit with it., If your attacker has long hair, try to yank it as hard as you can. This can cause pain by itself, but it also allows you to move your attacker into a better position to land a knockout blow. If your attacker wears his or her hair in a ponytail or large braid, it will be easier to grab and hold on to.
 No matter what, you should always leave the area as soon as the fight is over. If your attacker flees, he or she may come back with a deadly weapon or a few friends in tow.You also need to keep in mind that self defense is only legally justified when using reasonable force in the face of inescapable immediate danger. If your opponent is on the ground, you are no longer in danger and should have the opportunity to run. If you strike an incapacitated foe, you open yourself up to a civil suit even if that person attacked you.