 Sometimes you have to give people the benefit of the doubt: you might think that they hate you but they might be honestly trying to be nice to you. For example, when people invite you to parties, really consider going instead of just brushing the invitation aside because you don't think they're serious.
 Even when someone's making you mad, thank them for their effort to help or their suggestions. They usually mean well and being a jerk or ungrateful isn't going to make you feel any better. Just be nice and wait until they go on their way. Really, sometimes thanking someone is the fastest way to get them to shut up.
 When you're trying to connect with people, start by being honest. Say what you really mean instead of trying to dance around the subject or be passive aggressive.
 If you're uncomfortable with people, set limits on your interactions in order to keep yourself protected. For example, if they're always wanting to do things but you're not that social, tell people you're only available at certain times and on certain days (no exceptions). If someone that you have to spend time with is wanting to discuss topics that make you uncomfortable, let them know when you don't want to talk about a subject.


When trying to excuse yourself from a topic, use words like "I feel". People will usually be more respectful when you directly say how something makes you feel bad.
 Sometimes people just need to be seen and feel like you really understand them. If someone keeps bothering you, let them say what they really want to say. Let them talk about what's bothering them. This might give them the release they need in order to go back to business as usual.
 Sometimes we say things without really thinking about what those words really mean or how they might make someone else feel. Has someone ever said something to you that made you really upset? It can feel pretty bad and stick with you for a long time. It's even worse when they don't feel bad about it! Think about the things you say before you say them, and try to think of how those words affect others.


For example, a joke may be funny to you but to someone else they might be extremely hurtful for very good reasons. Saying these jokes may be what gives you problems with so many people to begin with, because you accidentally make so many people hurt and uncomfortable.

