 Perk up a door, a table or a wooden chair that has seen better days by painting them. Try painting a concrete floor, perhaps in the basement laundry area. You can also use painter’s tape to make stripes to create borders on your walls. You are only limited by your imagination when redecorating your personal space.Unify your home with white paint. If the upper cabinets in your kitchen are different colors from either separate cabinet pieces, chairs or other pieces, think about painting everything white to bring them all together.Painting a room a different color than white, though, can really bring a space to life. Don’t let a fear of color make you choose beige, white or off-white all the time. Dark hues, for example, add depth and texture to a space. This is especially true if you have a large room with a high ceiling. Conversely, if you have a small room, lighter, brighter colors can really open up the space and make it look bigger.However, when painting, consider keeping the ceiling white or painting it a light color. Ceilings that are lighter help a room appear more open and larger.;
, Sometimes just moving your couch at an angle or into another corner can make a big difference in how a living room looks and feels. Think about how you can reposition the pieces you have to make a new look, even moving them into different rooms. Why not move that big, overstuffed chair into your bedroom near the window for a cozy, new reading nook?Before you rearrange, though, be sure to clear the clutter. Any disorganization in a room distracts from its beauty. When a place is cluttered, a person’s eye goes directly there, so all you’ll see is a pile of papers on the counter, laundry in the corner and toys on the floor versus your beautiful couch or amazing table.Figure out the focal point in each room. In some rooms, it’s a set of windows, a fireplace or a bed. In other rooms, it’s the television. Once you determine what it is, arrange your seating around it. You basically want the furniture to gravitate towards the natural focal point of each room.For rooms with more than one doorway, draw an imaginary line that angles through the room from opening to opening, creating a straight trail between the furniture. This keeps the dynamic arrangement of the furniture, but it also directs people through the space.Choose a face-to-face stance. Place two couches (or a couch and a pair of chairs) directly across from one another with the focal point at one end. Positioning furniture in this way is one of the best ways to facilitate conversation. If the TV is the focal point, then that’s also within eye’s reach but there’s still an emphasis on guests talking with one another., Candles look best with they’re all together, particularly on a large surface, like a dining room table. The larger the surface, the larger the candles should be. Also gather any small to medium-size mirrors that you’re not using, and place them underneath the candles for a nice, elegant look.Create a nice vibe in the eating area. Use a group of candles as a centerpiece on your table or even on your light fixture. Also using the same colors as the furniture pieces can help greatly in unifying a room.Group them together in a corner of your bathroom. Use vivid colors to brighten up a monochromatic bathroom, or match candles to the color of the walls.Create a warm glow with candles in the bedroom. Light them on a windowsill, a side table or add lovely sconces to create a nightly glow and a beautiful ambience. Candles almost always add an old-age appeal and a little whimsy to even the most modern and contemporary rooms., Greenery is a great way to liven up a home. Enlist the help of your friends or neighbors by asking them if they will divide up one of their plants up and give it to you. Then find a planter around your home for your new, organic friend.Think about moving any potted plants that you have outside, inside, and place them in a stairway, a windowsill or in a dreary corner. You also don’t have to go for the usual vases and pots. Chances are that your recycling bin has some cans in it. Take out a few, add soil and a young plant or two, and you’ve got some beautiful planters.Use clear, small glasses of different shapes and sizes for holding cut flowers, and group them together on a table to make an inexpensive and stylish statement.Save counter space by planting different herbs in mason jars. Then think about mounting them near your kitchen. This unique wall decor will really stand out when friends and family come over.Fill an awkward space with a planter. Put a large plant in a colorful container in a bare area of one of your rooms. Small ideas like this can really make a difference., Take a look around for items that have visual appeal. Whether it’s an old kimono or your collection of boots, displaying them in a conscious way will boost both the objects and the room. Even that wicker chair with a hole on the seat can be covered with a tray and put next to the bed for a shabby chic, night stand.Think about adding a cheeky piece of furniture to a room. Consider putting a playful, swinging seat in one corner of a room. It’s comfortable, fun and it’s the very thing people’s eyes will focus on when they come in.