 If you're a total Animal Jam nerd, you will probably start to panic a bit. Here are some points to remember:

Animal Jam is just a game, the world will not end once your colored nametag and personalized badge are gone on Animal Jam.
There are lots of good things on Animal Jam that don't require membership. Make a list of all the cool stuff you can enjoy as a non-member, if you need help.;
, The best friends are those who know that being member doesn't matter!, If you have a blog or YouTube channel, make an in-depth post about becoming non member, and hyperlink the phrase 'here's how to prep for becoming non member' to this page, if you have a blog. If it's a YouTube channel, record a video of you chatting on Animal Jam to your alt account about being a non-member, and don't forget to show a few seconds of this page's URL.,,  If you're a member, chances are you have a lot more than that, but as a nonmember, unfortunately you can't have more than two.  


Keep in mind that wolves and bunnies, especially wolves, are probably the two most common nonmember animals, so try having at least one of these animals.  That aside, it's still entirely your choice.  You should judge based off of the two animals you like best and\or use most often.  Process of elimination helps.
 If you ask players what their favorite part of Animal Jam is, a lot of them would probably say "decorating my animals."  It's a very fun and important part of the game, for members and nonmembers alike.  Most jammers have a specific look that they wear most often, so that even without looking at their username, their friends can tell it's them Your appearance as a nonmember will be a lot different than as a member, but that doesn't mean your animal can't look great!  


Start by looking through your clothing inventory to find a few nonmember accessories that you really like. You can also look in Jam Mart Clothing to see if they have anything new. Make a list of all the non-member clothing items you have.
Check which ones were store bought by looking in the shops, or try to remember, so that you know which ones you will be able to get again easily. Remember, you'll want to buy these accessories now, since you won't be able to change the color of these items as a nonmember.
  Again, this won't look as nice as your member den, but with a little bit of work, it could still be quite impressive.  Look through your den inventory first to see if there's anything you like.  If so, arrange it in your den however you like it.  You may need to stock up on some nonmember den items now, in case you don't have enough already.  


If you're making a house den, you might like plushies, pillows, Cleverclaw's dresser, or striped couches for the beds.  Plants, flags, and welcome mats are nice just for decoration, or you can go on an adventure and try to get some adventure prizes for your den (most of them are for nonmembers, and look great in any den).  If you're looking to start a business, a plushie\toy store is perfect, or you could start a cafe using rectangular coffee tables and the diner stools at the Dinner Party.
  The only dens nonmembers can have are the Small Den and the Shipwreck Den, but you can have as many dens as you like.

