 Since veterinarians are licensed by states in the United States, you’ll have to contact a state licensure board directly to verify an active license. By contacting the licensure board directly, you’ll be able to find out the status of your vet’s license and other relevant information.


Many states have one department dedicated to business and professional regulation and licensure. This is the department you will probably contacting.
In some cases, you will wind up speaking to someone directly at the veterinary licensure board for your state.
Be prepared to be put on hold for a short or moderate amount of time., Make sure to get the appropriate information that you will need to identify your vet and verify a current veterinary license. Without the appropriate information, you won’t be able to supply the state licensure board with the information they will need to check the status of your vet’s license.


Make sure to have your vet’s full name.
Have your vet’s physical address on hand.
If you can locate it, have your vet’s license number at hand. Very often, vets will post their license in the lobby of their practice., You won't have to work too hard to find the phone number of your state’s licensure board. However, you’ll have to do a little work to get the number.


Use your web browser or telephone directory to find the number for your state’s department of professional and business regulation.
If you have trouble finding the direct number to the department of professional and business regulation, find a number for your state’s department of state. The department of state will be able to transfer you to the correct department or division.
If someone offers to transfer you to the appropriate department, make sure to get the department’s direct number before being transferred. This way, if you get disconnected, you’ll be able to contact that department directly., After you’ve finally made it through to someone in the correct department, provide your vet’s information. Soon after, the attendant should be able to provide the status of your vet’s license.


The state representative will be able to explain exactly what the status of the license is.
If you have any questions about the licensing process, ask the representative on the phone.
If it turns out that your vet is practicing without a license, you should notify the state representative you are on the phone with.