 You can use a tin candle-making mold, a cardboard tube with a solid bottom, or even a half-pint to pint-sized milk carton.If you are using a milk carton, open up the top all the way or cut it off so that you have a square-shaped opening.


Keep your work area clean by placing the mold on top of a baking sheet.You can also cover the baking sheet with aluminum foil first for easy clean up.;
, Fill a saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water, and place your candle-making pouring pot inside. If you do not own a candle-making pouring pot, you can use a large, glass measuring cup instead.Consider placing a metal lid or a cookie cutter under the pouring pot/measuring cup. This will ensue that the wax is receiving equal amounts of heat from all sides., You will only be using one-half to three-quarters of your mold, and half of that will be taken up by ice. Measure your wax accordingly. As a precaution, however, it might be a good idea to add 1 to 2 ounces (cc to cc grams) of wax in case something spills.If you are using a block of wax, you will need to cut it up into smaller chunks first. If you are using wax pellets or shavings, you do not need to cut them up.
If you can't get any candle-making wax, you can use old candles instead. Make sure that they are all the same color, however.
 Turn the heat up to medium-low, and let the water come to a soft boil; do not let the water come to a roiling boil, however.As the wax starts to melt, stir it often to help it melt evenly.


Do not leave the wax unattended. Melting wax is combustible.
If you are using old candles, be sure to pull the old wicks out with a fork or a pair of chopsticks once the wax has melted.
 Most candle-making wax is either white, ivory, or clear. It is almost always unscented. You can leave it like this if you want something simple, or you can make it look (and smell) more interesting by adding some dyes or fragrances. It is best to use dyes and fragrances intended for candle-making. Stir the wax until the dyes and/or fragrances are completely mixed in, with no streaks or swirls.Add 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of fragrance per 1 pound (455 grams) of wax.
How much dye you add depends on how dark you want the candle to be. Start with a few drops of liquid dye, or a few shavings of a dye block. In a pinch, you can use a chunk or two of a crayon—just remove the wrapper first!

, The easiest way to do this would be to dip the tabbed part of the wick into the melted wax, then to quickly press it against the bottom of the mold.Alternatively, you can add a few drops of wax into the bottom of the mold first, then insert the wick.Can't get a tabbed candle wick? Make your own by tying a paper clip to the bottom of a plain candle wick.
Can't get any wicks at all? Use a long candle stick instead. You will have to cut it down starting from the bottom until it is about the same height as your mold, however.
 To prevent large holes or gaps, make sure that the ice chunks are no bigger than ¾-inch (1.91-centimeter).Also, make sure that the wick is centered at all times, or it will end up being crooked when you pour the wax.Experiment with using different shapes and sizes of ice cubes. You can even crush some of them with a hammer.
 Move the pouring pot around as you pour so that you are not pouring in one spot constantly.A great idea would be to pour in a swirl or zigzag pattern.


The pouring pot/measuring cup will be hot. Use an oven mitt or a pot holder to handle it.
 It will take about 1 to 2 hours for the wax to harden.Do not disturb the wax as it sets.
 At this point, your candle is almost done. You can choose to take it out of the mold in the next step, or you can pour wax in a contrasting color over it. If you take it out now, your candle will have holes in it. If you fill it with more wax, you'll get a multi-colored candle. If you want a multi-colored candle, do the following:Melt and dye your candle wax as before. If you used fragrance, make sure that it is the same one.
Pour the wax carefully over the candle; make sure that you pour it from different places.
Let the wax harden again. It will take longer this time because you aren't using any ice.
 You can try sliding the candle out. If it won't come out, try tearing the mold away from it instead. It might be a good idea to do this over a sink as there will be lots of water.
 You may need to rotate the candle from time to time to help the water drain from all of the holes.
 Remember to set it down on a heat-safe surface, such as a dish or a candle charger, to protect your table from melting wax.

