 Before you move on to more detailed cleaning procedures, try to remove as much of the water you can.


Take a clean white cloth, and press it lightly against the water stain. This won’t work if it’s not a fresh spill, though.
Blot up as much of the water as you can. You could even try walking on the cloth to get more of the water to move from the carpet to the cloth.
You could also use paper towels to blot up the water on the carpet. Try putting a heavy object on the paper towels, and leaving it for an hour or so to blot up much of the water.;
, The first thing you should do is remove any sediment or dirt that has embedded itself in your carpet’s fibers in the area of the water stain.


To remove sediment and dirt, create a mixture of soap and water. You could also use non-bleach detergent for this process.
Any detergent with bleach in it risks creating damage to the carpet color.Mix 1 teaspoon of dishwashing soap with water in a bowl or other container, and then put a clean cloth into the mixture.
 Take the cloth covered with soap and water and gently rub it on the stain.


Don’t rub at it too hard or the carpet’s fibers could start to look worn. Start at the edges and work your way inward. You may find that the soap-and-water removes the water stain altogether as well.
The water-and-soap method may remove the stain completely if it's a small one. If that doesn't work, you will need to move on to other ingredients.
 It’s one thing if you spilled a glass of water on the carpet. Then, you know exactly where the leak came from.


It’s another thing if it came from an external source, like a leaking pipe. Carpet that gets repeatedly wet can mildew and smell.
Identify the source of the stain, and take steps to make sure it doesn’t reoccur. If it’s a plumbing issue, you’ll want to take care of it so the carpet doesn’t suffer further damage.
You may need to call a professional to help you fix the problem if, for example, your basement is overflowing. You might have roots in your pipes, for example.

