 A quotation shorter than forty words does not need to be its own freestanding block of text. It can simply be incorporated into the paragraph in which you are using it. It should begin and end with double quotation marks., When quoting an excerpt longer than forty words, start by writing a signal phrase introducing the quotation, as you would with a shorter one. Begin the quotation on a new line below this.Indent the whole quotation 1/2 inch from the left.
Double-space it (in an APA style paper, everything should be double spaced).
Do not use quotation marks.
 You need to cite the author, year of publication, and page number (preceded by “p.”) The best way to do this is to use a signal phrase with the author’s name in it, followed by the date of publication and the page number in parenthesis. For example: “Smith (2011) insists that, “Quoting books is not difficult, but it can take time to get the hang of” (p. 15).”If the author’s name is not included in the signal phrase, include the author’s last name, the year of publication, and the page number (all separated by commas) in the parenthetical citation following the quotation. For example: “He insists that “Quoting books is not difficult, but it can take time to get the hang of” (Smith, 2011, p. 15).”

, This should begin on a separate page at the end of your research paper or essay. Label it “References,” in centered text (it should not be bold, italicized, underlined, or in quotation marks) at the top of the page.Double-space the page, like the rest of the paper, but do not skip spaces between citations.
Do not indent the first line of each citation, but indent all subsequent lines by 0.5 inches from the left.
 Order your citations alphabetically by the authors’ last names. The basic format of an APA style book citation is: Author, A. A. (Year of publication). Title of work. Location: Publisher.There are many variations on this basic format based on factors like how many authors the book has, and whether it is something like anthology, an ebook, or a self-published book. If the book you are quoting does not fit neatly into this formula, consult a resource like The Purdue Online Writing Lab.