 Try making these classic Christmas treats in your own kitchen!;
, These cookie-like treats will melt in your mouth.
 Peppermint bark bagged in individual gift sacks makes a great holiday gift.
 You can allow caramel to harden in molds to make individual treats, or drizzle it over fudge, marshmallows, cookies or ice cream.
 While you're at it with the popcorn garlands, you might as well spare some for caramel corn!

, Toffee is a lot like caramel, cooked to the hard-crack stage so that it has a crunchy texture.
 Don't have time to make a full batch, but still in need of a holiday treat? Here's the answer!

, Chilling this treat in the fridge makes it a cinch to serve and eat.
 Combine gooey marshmallows with crunchy toffee!

, These treats are perfect for holiday parties (or enjoying on your own)!

, Add a wintry chill to to your chocolate by using peppermint.
 Pumpkin isn't just for fall — it can be a savory Christmas flavor, too!

, They're a little complex, but they make a pretty present.
 Fudge is a Christmas classic, and makes a great gift.
 It tastes just as good, and no one has to know you cut some corners!

, This chocolate-free twist on an old classic melts is smooth and golden-brown.
 Instead of purchasing Turtles — a chocolate, caramel and pecan confection — whip them up in your own kitchen!

, They're fluffier than the store-bought kind, and fun to make.
 Add chocolate, coconut, nuts and cherries to your marshmallows for a crunchy treat.
 Chilling them in the fridge keeps these bite-size candies from being uncontrollably gooey.
 You can use regular or maraschino cherries for this recipe.
 This classic winter treat makes a great gift once it's cracked.
 This sweet almond paste treat can be eaten on its own, or used as a topping on cookies, cakes and other candies.
 Contrary to regular toffee, this recipe features a gentle honey flavor and crunchier texture.
 These popular UK and Australian candy bars can be covered with crunchy honeycomb to make a unique Christmas treat.
 Try using red or green food coloring to make festive lollipop bundles.
 Try different flavors like rose, lemon or orange.
 This recipe includes instructions for barley sugar and fruit drops.

