 Open your book up and lay it down on its spine. Use measuring tape or a ruler to measure the width and length of the book. This measurement will allow you to cut cloth to the proper size of your book. Write down the measurements with a notepad or on your phone.;
, Add 2 inches (50.8 millimeters) to both the length and width measurement that you took down. This extra slack will help you attach the cover to your book. Use sharp craft scissors to cut the terry cloth to your measurements.You can use a marker or pen to make marks that will designate where you should cut.
 Measure to the middle of your cloth and cut a 2x2 inch square on the top and bottom edges of your fabric. This will create two cut-out square tabs on the top and bottom of your terry cloth book cover. Your cloth should now resemble something looking like an uppercase H.
 Bias tape will prevent your book cover from fraying and will straighten the rough edges of the terry cloth. Start by pinning the tape in place with sewing pins, then use a sewing machine to attach the bias tape all around the edges of your terry cloth book cover.


You can purchase bias tape online on places like Amazon or at fabric, sewing, and craft stores.
Try to find bias tape with a color you like. If you don't have a sewing machine, you can try to attach the bias tape by hand using a needle and thread.
 The velcro strips will help the book cover stay attached to the book. The rough side of the velcro is called the hook, and the soft side of the velcro is referred to as the loop. The longer pieces of velcro will attach the bottom and top of the cover to the book, and the smaller pieces will fasten the cover to the cover and back page of the book., Pin the four 1 inch (101.6 millimeter) strips 1 inch (25.4 millimeters) away from the indent on the top and bottom of your terry cloth. Put the hook side of the velcro on the top and the loop side on the bottom of your book cover., Flip your terry cloth over and place the 1 1/2 inch (38.1 millimeter) strip hooks on the left and right edge of the book. One strip should be an inch (25.4 millimeters) from the top of your terry cloth, and the other should be an inch (25.4 millimeters) from the bottom of your terry cloth. Take the four remaining 1 1/2 inch (38.1 millimeter) strip loops and pin them in the center of the top and bottom edge of your terry cloth., You should have 12 different pieces of velcro that you must sew onto your terry cloth. Once you're done, you'll be able to fold your terry cloth around your book and use the velcro to keep the cover in place. Use a sewing machine to sew the strips onto the terry cloth.


As an alternative, you can use a needle and thread, but make sure that you purchase sew-on velcro, or it may be hard to attach.
 Place your book on top of the terry cloth and open up the book's front cover. Fold the upper and lower flaps onto the cover of your book and fasten them together using the velcro. Fold the left edge in and attach the smaller pieces of velcro together. Repeat this process for the back cover of the book.
