 You can infuse almost any oil, but it’s best to get one that’s made from fresh ingredients and comes from the first pressing. Furthermore, you want to choose an oil with properties that are suited to your desired ends.If you would like to use the infusion for cooking, choose an oil that’s flavorful and heat-resistant, like olive oil, sunflower oil, or liquid coconut oil.
If you are using the oil for topical application, like bath or skin products, consider using jojoba, almond, grape seed, apricot, or flax seed oil.
When you buy an oil, be sure to get the one with the latest expiration date available. You want it to last for as long as possible.
 Wash your jar and lid with dish soap in hot water. Put the wet jar on an oven tray, and dry it in an oven that’s preheated to 350 degrees F (175 C) for 15 minutes.The jar you use for your oil should be entirely dry and have a tight-fitting lid.
It’s best to use one with dark glass since light can degrade the quality of your oil.
You’ll need two jars for this process, one to steep the oil in and one to store it in.
 Start with a proportion of about 1 to 10, in terms of the weight of dried herbs versus that of the oil.You should always use dried herbs for oil infusions. Fresh herbs can encourage mold and bacterial growth.
You can always adjust the proportions in future batches according to your taste.
 This is a fast method for making infused cooking oils that you'll be using immediately. However, oils infused quickly over heat need to be refrigerated and won’t keep as long as cold infusions, so they’re not ideal for use in cosmetic or other topical applications.Put your dried herbs in the bottom of your sterilized jar, and pour the oil over the top. Fill a saucepan about a quarter full of water, and put the sealed jar into the center so that it’s surrounded by water. Simmer the water uncovered over low heat for 4-6 hours.
After you infuse your oil, let it cool and then strain it into a freshly sterilized jar using a mesh strainer or cheesecloth.
Be sure to label the jar with the date you made the infusion. Keep the oil in the refrigerator. Use it within a month.
 This method, which lets oil steep slowly at room temperature, takes time but is very energy efficient. This form of infused oil is more stable than herbed oil made over a stovetop, so it will keep longer. Cold infusion is a good way to create oils for culinary, cosmetic, or therapeutic uses.Start by filling your sterilized jar about half full of herbs and pour oil over the top to fill the remainder. Gently stir the mixture using a dry spoon to ensure the herbs are coated and the infusion is well-mixed. Place a square of wax paper over the top of the jar, and secure the lid.
Let it steep in a warm place away from direct sunlight for 4-6 weeks, gently rolling your jar back and forth every few days to make sure the herbs continue to mix with the oil.
Strain the herbs out of the oil using a cheesecloth, and store it in a freshly sterilized jar. Label the jar with the date, and store it in a dark, cool place. Use the oil within a year.

