 Bend the lace into a loop near the base of the shoe and pinch the bottom closed with your fingers. Your loop should use up about one half to one third of the lace, and the rest of the lace should dangle to the side.


Note that this method does not begin with the usual starting knot. In fact, in this method, the two laces are not tied together and the ends are not secured.
Essentially, this is a decorative technique used to take care of the laces in a manner that keeps them from getting in the way as you walk. The coils formed by this knot method will stay firmly in place if secured well, but they will not secure the shoe to your foot like other knots will.
Make sure that your moccasins are tight enough to be worn as slip-on shoes when using this lace tying method.
 Starting with the portion of the hanging end that is closest to the base of the loop, create a tight coil around the entire loop.


You can wrap your coil in whichever direction you please.
Make this coil as tight as possible without disrupting your grip.
 Coil the remaining loose end of the lace around the loop by wrapping it in the same direction several times. Each coil should be directly on top of the last one. Continue wrapping the lace end around the loop in this manner until you reach the top of the loop and have only a short tail left.


Make sure that each coil or wrap is immediately above the one before it. Otherwise, the overall coil you end up with may not be secure enough to hold together.
Wrap the laces around as tightly as possible without losing your grip. You should be left with a very tight coil of leather lace when done.
 Take the remaining shoelace end and feed it through the small remaining gap at the top of the loop. Then tug upward on the on the coil to pinch the top of the loop closed.


The tighter you tug on the coil, the more secure your coil will be. If you tug the lace tightly enough, it should not unwind very easily.
 Use the same technique on the left lace to create another, separate coil. Try to make your left loop the same size as your right loop for a symmetrical look.

