 Depending on what type of adversity you experience, it may take some time to accept that it’s a part of your life that may change how you define yourself. The first step to creating an opportunity out of your adversity is appreciating your new limitations and accepting yourself as you are.Try not to think about things in terms of what’s “fair.” While your situation may feel as though it wasn’t fair, ruminating on the issue will not help you move forward.
You may want to consider seeing a counselor or therapist to help you deal with strong emotions tied to your adversity.;
, Whether you have been severely injured, are struggling with depression, or are dealing with any other kind of adversity, your experiences will change how you see the world around you. Take advantage of that by looking for something productive you can do with your newly gained perspective.You may want to start a support group for other people that have had similar experiences to your own.
You may have a better understanding of the struggles experienced by others as a result of your own. Use that understanding to change how you interact with people and encourage others to do the same.
 While embroiled in the emotion of adversity, it’s easy to feel as though you’ve failed. Break that state of mind by recognizing that suffering adversity is often just a part of life. Don’t say, “it’s all over,” instead look at your situation and say, “now I know a bit more about what success will take.”Be proactive in identifying and addressing issues that are within your control to help ensure you don’t run into the same problems again in the future.
Tell yourself that adversity is the mid-point and not the end. It’s important that you maintain a positive attitude.
 With a positive mindset and an understanding of where you went wrong and how you can address those issues, focus on your next steps and what you can do to help you accomplish your goals. Keeping your goals in mind can help you overcome adversity and embrace the lessons it teaches you.Engage and resolve each issue you identified to the best of your ability.
Keep your mind on your ultimate goal, but celebrate each individual accomplishment along your way.

