 For many people, the emotional concerns that surround the physical health problems may be the most distressing - things like wondering how a certain disease or condition may affect your quality of life, your quantity of life, your ability to do the things you love, or simply your ability to function in day-to-day life.


Doctors are trained to address the emotional issues that may surround your health concerns, so it is okay to open up to your doctor about your underlying fears and the emotions you are feeling around a diagnosis.
The emotional component is often very high on patients' list when they rate the quality of their doctor-patient relationship.
Do not underestimate the importance of this, as having a doctor who can address your emotional concerns in addition to your physical ones offers a much more holistic approach to your overall health and wellness.;
, One of the hallmarks of a great doctor-patient relationship is feeling inspired and motivated by your physician, and feeling a positive energy and sense of accountability with him or her.


Studies have shown that people with chronic health conditions, such as diabetes or related conditions (including high blood pressure, obesity, and high cholesterol), have better health outcomes when they share a positive relationship and a sense of accountability with their physician that helps to motivate them to achieve their health-related goals.The benefit of a positive doctor-patient relationship has been shown to be equivalent to a prescription medication, in terms of the difference it makes in health outcomes!

, Some things on your wish list may not be possible to attain, due to the limited timeframe that doctors have available for each visit. However, you can communicate that the basics of understanding you as a person and providing emotional support around the challenges you may be facing with your health is important to you.


After communicating your needs and desires, if you feel that your doctor-patient relationship remains unsatisfactory and is unlikely to improve, you can search for a new doctor.
Everyone deserves to feel that their health care is of the highest quality in all areas, not just physically, but also emotionally.
Your doctor is someone that you are trusting your life to, so it is key that he or she is someone with whom you share a positive relationship.

