 In addition to building those strong biceps, you probably want to maximize the appearance and definition on them as well. Many of the steps you’ll take to maximize biceps definition will occur outside of the gym but in coordination with your biceps-building routine. Start by cutting simple carbs out of your diet.You should decrease carbs to roughly 30% of your daily caloric intake, and 85% of the carbs you do eat should come from fruits and vegetables with the remainder coming from complex carbohydrates., If you want to build muscle while losing fat in order to maximize biceps definition, then you should really be upping your protein intake. Protein should make up about 40% of your daily caloric intake., One of the biggest mistakes people can make when looking to build muscle is to restrict calorie intake. No matter how hard you work those muscles, they’ll waste away if you don’t have the proper balance of caloric intake to help build the muscle fiber., When it comes to creating a mountain-like peak on one’s biceps as opposed to a football-shaped curve, genetics plays a huge part; however, exercises that work the brachialis and brachioradialis can actually push biceps higher to give them a more mountain-like appearance.Many of the exercises that work these muscles have already been explained above, including hammer curls, reverse curls, and preacher curls.To maximize the effectiveness of these peak-building exercises, make sure you keep your elbows locked at your sides and your wrists straight during the repetitions.The key peak-building portion of a curl comes at the end of the range of motion when the forearm is closest to the upper arm. You can additionally work on biceps peak by focusing on the upper half or the rep, especially by squeezing the muscles hard as you reach the top of the movement., If biceps length—the length from your elbow to your shoulder—is what you want, then you want to focus on the beginning of each rep as opposed to the apex, which is what builds a biceps’ peak. Put extra effort into slowly raising the weight at the beginning of each rep and also slowly lowering the weight as your arms reach the bottom again. One of the best ways to build biceps length is to resist inertia as much as possible as you fully extend each rep.
 The long head of the biceps, which is the portion at the top of the biceps farther away from the body, can actually be worked harder than the short head of the biceps—or the lower portion closer to the arm. To specifically target the long head of your biceps, use a narrower grip with your hands only a few inches apart when doing barbell curls.








If you strongly prefer using dumbbells, you can still target the long head of your biceps by curling across your chest at 45-degree angles—bringing the dumbbell up and across to the opposite shoulder—instead of simply bringing it up in a straight line.
 Using a wide barbell grip—even farther than shoulder-width especially—or curling dumbbells far away from the body will help you build the short head portion of the biceps. However, since even a standard shoulder-width grip works the short head of the biceps more than the long head, most people will start with this portion of the biceps already more developed than other portions.







