, Do the ritual in the boxing ring., Perform the ritual in the strip club., Do the ritual in the house above the alley where you start the map., Perform the ritual in the tall building in the Main Square of the Footlight District., Destroy the wall with weird symbols, then place the four Gateworms in the four fountains/goblets in the area., Head towards the center to find an altar. Activate that altar and you’ll find the Pack-a-Punch machine., Look for the question mark “?” signs on the map and memorize their locations., Look outside the station to see three symbols, which you’ll find at each of the locations represented by question mark signs., You’ll see a wall with all of these symbols. Become the beast and activate only the symbols you saw earlier. If you don’t choose the right symbols, then this won’t work., You need to charge that egg by placing it on the four gargoyles scattered around. Every time you place the egg on one of the four gargoyles, zombies will appear. After you kill off all of these zombies, the egg will receive a charge., The symbols change every time, so you’ll need to work on your memory if you want to consistently find the Elemental Sword on Shadows of Evil., Get an egg from the altar, then charge it by running around to the four different red platforms scattered all around the city. The egg will receive the charge after you kill spawned monsters., ., You’ll receive your upgraded sword., After finding the flag, carry it to the same platform where you charged the egg to receive your upgraded sword., The movement you place the flag on the platform, waves of zombies will appear. Kill all of the zombies and protect the flag. If you die, you’ll need to repeat all of these steps over from the beginning., Run around to each district and step on each purple platform to charge the flag.,, Shadows of Evil is designed to be played with four people. If you don’t have three friends with you, then you’ll need to perform the flag ritual three more times: get the flag, protect the flag, charge the flag, and use the flag to kill the wraith in each ritual room., When you enter that area, you’ll see the Shadow Man surrounded by four wraiths. The door will lock itself behind you and you’ll need to complete a round in order to proceed ahead., This will bring down his shield and allow you to attack him., After each round, bring the Shadow Man’s shield down and attack him.

Eventually, after taking enough damage, the Shadow Man will be trapped in the ritual area and die.

