 Using regular scissors or a knife, slice the 3/8 inch latex tube. Each grenade will require at least a 6-inch long tube. You can use longer tubes for larger grenades if you prefer. Measure each section prior to cutting for consistency.


Go ahead and tie one end of the 6-inch tube into a knot.;
, Using a measuring cup, measure ¼ cup of flour and ¼ cup of corn starch. This will be used to make the paint. Grab the food coloring and set aside. You can add this directly to the mix so it doesn’t need to be measured out.


You can use non-toxic, washable kids’ paint as well if you want to save more time.
 A medium sized pot will be needed to create the grenade filling. Make sure you also have a syringe or spray bottle, cotter pins or bobby pins, a clamp and several washers before getting started.


If these items aren’t readily available at home, they can be picked up at a local hardware store.
 You will only need to fill it about half way. Let this come to a simmer, not a boil. Once the water is ready, slowly pour in a bit of the flour/starch mixture and stir. Avoid making the mix too thick. It should have the consistency of cake batter. Add about 4 drops of food coloring to the mix. Consider wearing gloves and goggles while performing this task. Some of the mixture may splatter accidentally.
Choose a bright color that can be seen on the paintball field. Add more drops to produce a brighter color.
Let the mixture cool before filling the tubes. It should be at room temperature before proceeding.
 Place the open-end part of the tube snug around the spray bottle snout or syringe. If using a spray bottle, simply squirt the mixture into the tube. When using a syringe, push the mixture into the tube slowly.


If you are concerned about leaking, tie a rubber band around the spout to make it more secure.
If not using a rubber band, hold the tube onto the spout or syringe with your free hand for extra security. The tube should be pretty tight on its on though, when using the correct size.
 Once the tube is filled (3-4 inches in diameter) you can slowly remove the rubber band and the spray bottle or syringe.Twisting the open end several times will also achieve the same results.
 Fold the open end down about an inch. Remove the clamp once you have a good grip. Slide a washer down the folded side. Take a 1/8 inch cotter pin and slide it through the rubber tube, on top of the washer. , Make sure you and those around you are wearing the proper attire to launch paintball grenades. If thrown with enough force, they may cause bruising so cover up. Wear long-sleeved shirts and pants, as well as goggles.
 To achieve the best results, it’s a good idea to aim for a bunker at the paintball field or a fort.The impact will increase the spray radius. Plus you will be able to eliminate more players.
 When ready, remove the cotter pin from the tube but leave the washer in place. Toss the grenade at the intended target. Once the washer hits the ground or other hard surface, the tube will burst open causing paint to splatter for several feet. When pulling the pin, if paint starts to leak, throw it immediately or you will be covered with your own bomb!
For optimum results, throw the grenade high into the air so it has maximum impact hitting the ground.

