 Sprains occur when tissues are stretched, twisted or torn. Symptoms are pain, swelling, bruising, limited mobility and a “popping” sound when the injury occurred. The sprain is temporary and tissues are not permanently damaged. Sprains usually improve in just a few days., These conditions, also known as tendonitis, lead to pain in the elbow area of the arm. Causes usually include overuse of the muscles and tendons around the elbow joint. Pain can last several weeks or even months but taking care of the injured arm will help it heal faster.
 Bursitis is inflammation of the bursa, which are small pouches of fluid that sit over joints to protect them. Normally the amount of fluid in the bursa is very small, but with injury it can swell up and become very painful causing bursitis. It usually develops from repetitive movements of the arm, and the pain often improves in a few weeks. Swelling can last longer but will gradually get better as well.An area affected with bursitis will be swollen or red and will likely hurt when you press on it.
Cases of bursitis along with injuries that have broken the skin may become infected and require antibiotics.
 The nerves in the spinal cord can become compressed, especially as you age. Symptoms include radiating pain from the neck to the arms or a feeling of pins and needles. Pain can fluctuate from day to day but usually improves with non-prescription painkillers, such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and exercise.


A trapped nerve can happen in the arm as well. If it happens in the wrist, it is referred to as carpal tunnel syndrome, and when it happens in the elbow, cubital tunnel syndrome. Symptoms usually include pain and tingling in the affected arm or hand.
 When you use your arm or hands to do tasks regularly, such as at manufacturing, manual handling, heavy machinery and computer jobs, RSI can occur. Carpal tunnel syndrome is one type of nerve injury that can result from repetitive motion like typing. Employers can improve conditions and modify your workspace to help prevent aggravating your condition by, for example, offering an adjustable chair or moving your work platform so that you don’t have to reach up as high., Angina results when arteries that lead to the heart become hardened and narrowed. Symptoms include dull, tight or heavy feeling chest pain that can radiate to the left arm, neck, jaw or into the back for several minutes. The pain usually shows up during activity or stress. Always see your doctor if you have chest or left arm pain related to exercise.



Women in particular more commonly present with less "classic" symptoms of angina, such as arm pain only.

