 A text ratio should always be even, meaning for every one text you receive, send one text back. If two were sent to you, you can send two back. However, never send more texts than you received and vice versa. It’s the quickest way to seem desperate or needy., Practice self awareness if you notice your texts are a little long, edit them, and stop yourself from annoying people with this texting tendency.


Do not text someone you know multiple times everyday to ask about their life, unless you are really good friends. If you ask them "what's up?" or "what are you up to?" three times or more in a day, you're doing something wrong.
Texting is not a replacement for in person or phone conversations, so if there are a lot of details, save it for one of those two outlets versus a text. Important details can be lost that way., Never text someone while they are angry or upset or while you are angry or upset. Tone can be misunderstood which can prolong confrontation and negative emotions. Diffuse situations quicker by saving the conversation for later or picking up the phone to continue it.
 Receiving a text from someone before noon is a little annoying, especially on a weekend when you’re trying to get some extra sleep in. It can be disruptive.Treat texting as you would a phone call to a house phone. You wouldn’t call someone’s house before noon or after 10:30 pm, so use that as a rule of thumb of when to send text messages. If you are friends who have known each other for a while, there might be some leeway with these guidelines. Use discretion.
On the flipside, texting someone after midnight can be an alert that you are needy, wasted, or trying to hook up – signs you might not want to put out there.
 It’s the right thing to do and the polite thing to do. Sometimes not receiving a text response can be just as annoying as receiving far too many. Do your best to respond appropriately and timely to messages sent to you., If somebody does not respond, they are either busy or don't want to talk to you. Whichever the case may be, respect their decision of not wanting to talk to you.


As you would in every day face to face interactions, allow the person you’re texting to show you what your next move is. Once you’ve sent a message, don’t text that person again until they text you back.
Also avoid any annoying behaviors that undermine the other person’s attempt to distance themselves from your texts. Don’t text them again with a different comment or question, don’t text them a question mark a minute later, and don’t resend the exact same message an hour later (they definitely received your message).
If your friend tells you that she/he will "text u later" and after the whole day there is no reply from your friend, avoid texting a "good night" in effort to remind them that you were waiting for their text. It’s a passive aggressive behavior.

