 Use a wet rag to wet the spot first. Make sure this is a rag you’re ready to throw away once you’re finished; otherwise you’ll need to wash it thoroughly. Add no more than a tablespoon (15ml) of laundry detergent to your rag and blot the area. Don’t scrub the spill into the carpet, just blot it away.


This will not clean the majority of the spill, but it will serve to loosen up the paint from the carpet fibers, making them easier to clean with the following steps.Before using any product on your carpet, make sure to do a spot test on an inconspicuous area to make sure it doesn’t stain.;
, Contrary to soaps and detergents, acetone will do a better job of breaking down the paint, making it easier to lift off of your carpet. Don’t add a huge amount of acetone to your rag, only enough to wet it.Make sure you keep the area you’re working in well ventilated. Lengthy exposure to acetone fumes can be harmful for your health.
Wear a mask while working with acetone.
 While acetone will do a good job of dislodging tenacious paint, using a commercial carpet cleaner will properly clean the area. At this point, you can use a toothbrush to lightly scrub the carpet fibers, without worrying about staining your carpet. Apply the carpet cleaner directly to the carpet, then scrub with the toothbrush.Let the carpet cleaner sit for five to six minutes after scrubbing.
There are a variety of carpet cleaners available on the market. Before use, make sure to consult the product label. Not all are created equal, and they may have specific instructions or safety precautions for use.
 The carpet cleaner will have absorbed a good portion of the paint, meaning you’re able to simply vacuum it up. Make sure to use a wet vacuum to do this. The collector is waterproof, and sensitive electric parts are insulated against water and other liquids. Don’t use a dry vacuum for this step as it could become seriously damaged.
 Acrylic paints are tenacious, and you’ll need to spend a good amount of time on any spill to completely clear it up. Prepare to spend up to two hours cleaning spilled paint out of your carpet.It’s time consuming, but cleaning your carpet properly means you won’t have to deal with mold or ugly stains.

