 Smiling is attractive and causes other people around you to smile too. Most of all, smiling encourages others to see you as approachable, making them willing to talk to you.;
, Go ahead and be a comedian and tell a couple of jokes. Everyone loves a funny person, it will get you to open up and let people see your vibrant personality.
 To be honest, everyone knows what looks good on them and what doesn't, so you should already have a good enough wardrobe. Confidence is the key!

, Keep clean and smell nice, so maybe invest in some aftershave or just get some good smelling deodorant. Put enough on to make you smell nice and cover the sweat prone areas (armpits). Don't douse yourself, otherwise you will repel instead of attract!

, Be a social butterfly and try not to get sucked into long and involved conversations (unless that's what you want). You'll create more fun at the party by talking to more people.
 If they come to you, fair enough, but try to "mingle". It's really easy once you've got it and it's a great way to meet new people.
 Unless it's been really unusual, don't talk about the weather. An easy way to start a conversation is to compliment a part of someone's outfit. If they want to talk, they'll tell you about it. It can be an opportunity to flirt as well. Be natural and easy-going. No one likes forced conversation.
 There are tricks for this. Every one is flattered when you know their name because it makes them feel special and wanted.
 Everyone will remember you, but maybe not in a good way. Alcohol may be the ultimate social lubricant, but it can really hold you back, too.

Pretend to drop your phone near someone. As you either get down to retrieve it, or they do, apologize for being a bother but then start a conversation.
Ask someone if they have change for a note. This can be helpful for an initial exchange but you'll need something more interesting to keep the conversation flowing.
Pretend to ask somebody if they're a certain person, for example, "Joshua Holmes" or another name. This is a great way to start conversation but have a quick save to reply with when the person says no.

