


Go to the grocery store in the morning after breakfast or in the early evening after dinner. Go to the mall on a weekday instead of the weekend.;
, Before you even get into the car, explain to your kids what you expect from them at the store. Ask if they understand.
 Prepare a shopping list, and ask for input from your children. This will keep your shopping on track and will cut down on impulse buying.


Allow your children to carry their own lists. For example, if you need to buy them shoes or you promised them ice cream, allow them to write down those items on their list.
Ask your children to check the list if they want you to buy something that is not on there. Explain that you will add it to the list the next time you shop. This will help them understand why you are saying no, and will teach them delayed gratification.
 Avoid tantrums and meltdowns with a few healthy snacks. Pack a baggie of carrot sticks or grapes to keep little kids busy and fed.
 Give your children age-appropriate tasks.


Send older kids off on their own to locate items on your list.
Ask school-aged kids to cross items off the list as you put them in your shopping cart or basket. You can also have them read you which items are next on the list.
Let younger kids help by counting the number of items you ask for, such as apples, or taking packages off the shelf and putting them into the cart.



Ask your young readers to read you food labels or price tags on clothing. Younger kids can even look for specific letters and numbers.
Have your older children comparison shop. Ask them to find you the best deals on certain items. This will help them learn how to budget.
Encourage questions. Children can work on their social skills and learn new things by talking to sales associates and professionals in different sections of the grocery store.



Ask your children to help you load groceries or shopping bags into the car and then into the house. Let them help you put things away when you get home.
 Reinforce good behavior by acknowledging it.
 They can include any approved items that they wanted to get on that day, but were denied.

