 Though some women with a particular kind of blocked fallopian tube may experience abdominal pain or increased vaginal discharge, most experience no symptoms at all. In most cases, women only discover the problem when they struggle to get pregnant.
 From a medical perspective, “infertility” means that you are not pregnant after at least one year of regular, unprotected sex. If this happens to you, schedule an appointment with your primary care physician or gynecologist as soon as possible.


If you are over 35 years old, don't have regular menses, or have tested for ovulation and tests are negative, don’t wait a year. Schedule an appointment after six months of regular, unprotected sex.Note that “infertility” is not the same as “sterility.” If you are infertile, you may still be able to conceive a child, with or without medical help. Do not assume that you will never be able to get pregnant.
 Your doctor will probably recommend a complete fertility evaluation for both you and your partner. Your partner will need to provide a sperm sample so that a specialist can rule out a problem with sperm count or motility. You will likely need various tests to confirm that you have normal hormone levels and are ovulating properly. If all of these tests come back normal, then your doctor will recommend checking your fallopian tubes., Your doctor may recommend undergoing a sonohysterogram – a medical procedure that involves using an ultrasound to look for masses in the uterus. Your uterus will first be injected with saline water so that the doctor can see better during the ultrasound. Uterine masses can sometimes block the fallopian tubes.Fibroids, polyps or other masses near the fallopian tubes could cause the blockage.
 A hysterosalpingogram (HSG) is a medical procedure in which a special dye is injected through your cervix and into your fallopian tubes. X-rays are then taken to determine if the tubes are open or blocked.Hysterosalpingograms are done without anesthesia, and you should experience only mild cramping or discomfort. It can help, however, to take ibuprofen about an hour beforehand.
This procedure usually takes 15 to 30 minutes. Potential risks include pelvic infection or damage to cells or tissue from radiation exposure.If your doctor suspects that your tubes are blocked, they may use an oil-based dye during the procedure. The oil can sometimes remove the blockage., Depending on the results of your sonohysterogram and hysterosalpingogram, your doctor may recommend a laparoscopy — a medical procedure in which an incision in made near your navel to find (and, in certain cases, remove) any tissue that is blocking the tubes.In general, laparoscopy should only be performed after other infertility testing has been done. This is partly because it is a riskier procedure: it’s done under general anesthesia, so it carries all of the risks associated with any major surgery.
 The results of these tests should determine whether one or both of your fallopian tubes are blocked. Ask your doctor to explain the extent of the blockage. Having as specific a diagnosis as possible will help to determine a treatment plan.

