 Skype is available for use on a variety of devices, including computers, cell phones, tablets, Xbox, smart watches and televisions. Choose which device you would like to use and download Skype from your app store.Skype is available for Mac computers with an operating system of OS X 10.6 or above.
Windows 10 comes with a preview of the Skype app, which allows you to test its features without downloading the app. If you have an earlier version of Windows, you will need to download the app.Skype is available for iPhone, Android, Windows Phone, Blackberry, and Amazon Fire Phone.
Tablets which support Skype include: iPad, Kindle Fire HD, Android and Windows tablets.
 Calling another Skype user from your computer to theirs is free, but calling cell phones and land lines incurs a fee. Skype offers options of paying for Skype credit for calls or joining in a monthly plan. Depending on how much you intend to call Ireland, you may want to pay as you go or sign up monthly.With Skype credit, the rate for calling mobile phones in Ireland is 10 cents/minute. Calling land lines will cost you 2.3 cents/minute.
You have two options for monthly Skype plans. For $6.99/month, you will receive 400 minutes allowing you to call both mobile phones and land lines in Ireland. The 13.99/month plan gives you unlimited calling around the world, allowing you to call other countries as well. Be aware, though, that this plan only allows for land line calls to Ireland.
 Open the application and register for an account. You will need to input some basic information, including your name, email address, country, state and city. Create a Skype name and password for the purpose of personal conversations.


You can skip entering your birthday if you are concerned about security.
Once you set up your account, you will be given the option to add a minimum of $10 credit or skip that step and just get started.
 From the log in screen, enter your user name and password to access your Skype account. You can check the box beneath this text box to save your user name and password to your personal device for future use. Click “Sign In” to log into your account.Do not save your user name and password to a public computer.
 Type the name of the person in the search bar at the top right of the screen. This will search your address book. If Skype does not find the person in your contact list, it will give you the option to search Skype. Enter the name in the Skype search engine to find everyone by that name who is registered with Skype.If you know the Skype user name of the the person you are trying to contact, you can find them by that name, which is in bold at the top of each listing.
 Press the green circle next to your contact’s name. It has the image of a person’s head and shoulders with a plus sign. This will open the screen inviting you to add the person as your friend.A default message will appear, asking to add the contact as your friend. You can write a personal message instead by typing over the default message.
Press send to send the invitation to your contact in Ireland.
 Once the person you are calling has accepted your friend request, they will appear in your contact list. A green check will appear at the top of their profile picture to alert you that they are online and available for calls. The default option is a video call, but you can choose a voice call if you prefer.


To make a video call, click the option on their profile picture for a video call.
If you would prefer to make a voice call, you can select the arrow on the right of the video call command to reveal a drop down menu. Select the voice call option from this menu.

