 Channeling is a similar process to astral projection, though somewhat more meditative. Channeling is the process of communicating with the spirit world, and learning more abut your own consciousness in the process. Different traditions treat the concept of "channeling" in different ways, but the process is essential the same, regardless of what you believe. How you choose to assign meaning to the symbols and concepts you encounter in your journey may differ, but the basic steps are the same if you're willing to commit to the process.
 Enter a trance state, focusing on warming and relaxing each part of your body. Go slowly. Practice meditation and trance-inducement several times before you attempt to channel.


It's common to picture climbing up a long ladder in pitch blackness, or defending in an elevator into an endless cavern, to visualize transitioning into the subconscious, or into the spirit world (depending on what you believe). For some, picturing a sudden fall helps to allow the subconscious to take over, and the feeling mind overwhelm the thinking mind.
Making contact with the subconscious as a projection, or other entities in the spirit world is the goal of channeling. If you encounter other beings during your deep hypnotic meditations, keep a journal of your interactions and analyze the symbols you encounter. This might prove essential in your transition out of this life.
 The most classic method of communicating with the spirit world is by using the Ouija board, a mat covered with letters, numbers, and short words, used to allow spirits a vessel to communicate with the living. Living participants meditate over the Ouija board, then put their hands on a planchette, which is a small maneuverable pointing tool, that's used to move independently and point to the different letters, spelling out words. Getting some experience connecting via the Ouija board might help you in your ghostly ambitions.
 With the rise in ghost-hunter themed television shows, digital methods of recording ghosts gained lots of popularity in the public. It's an interesting and sometimes spooky way of communicating with the dead, and can be an instructive way of getting started. To try it for yourself, the method is easy: record, at very high volume, a silent room. Ask questions periodically, of any spirits that may be present currently. Later, turn the volume up very loud an listen back.
 To learn more about getting in touch with the world of the dead, contact an experienced medium, someone with well-developed psychic abilities and experience in communicating, to help guide you and show you the ropes. It can be dangerous, psychologically and spiritually, to attempt to get in touch yourself. It's best to consult with a professional.

