 Most prenatal care providers automatically screen their patients for certain sexually transmitted diseases, but if you are unsure or if you suspect that you have a condition, ask your health care provider to test you specifically for a variety of STIs.


The type of infection you have will determine your course of treatment. If you are diagnosed with a viral infection that cannot be cured, treatment will be more difficult than for a bacterial infection that can be treated with antibiotics. Do not attempt to treat a sexually transmitted infection independently. Only take a medicine or treatment prescribed by a health professional.
Bacterial infections that can typically be treated with an antibiotic approved by an obstetrician or prenatal care specialist include gonorrhea, Chlamydia, trichomoniasis, bacterial vaginosis, and syphilis. Certain infections require additional care to ensure that the infection does not pass to the baby at birth (for instance, they will put antibiotic drops into your baby’s eyes after birth if you have gonorrhea).
Viral infections that require more advanced treatment to prevent transmission to the baby include Human Papilloma Virus (HPV), Hepatitis C, HIV/AIDS, and herpes. In some cases, antiviral medication can be administered during pregnancy to reduce maternal symptoms. Wart medication may be approved to treat HPV during pregnancy in some cases but must be approved by an obstetrician or prenatal care specialist. In many cases, viral conditions can pass to the baby during childbirth unless treatment began during pregnancy (as with HIV) or is administered immediately following birth (as with Hepatitis C and herpes).;
,


If left untreated, many sexually transmitted infections can cause health problems for you or the baby, including premature delivery, eye infections, intellectual disability, or and even death.
If you receive antibiotics for the treatment of your condition, follow the medication instructions exactly and do not skip doses or stop taking the treatment until the entire regimen is complete. Be sure to ask your health care provider about any possible side effects of the medication or any possible risks of treatment for you and your baby.
If you believe your condition has not improved or disappeared with treatment, consult a health professional again to determine whether further treatment is necessary.
 Your overall health status will determine how seriously your condition affects you and how well you tolerate treatment for a sexually transmitted infection. By following a well-balanced and nutritious diet, getting regular physical activity, maintaining a social support network, practicing stress relief strategies, and attending regular prenatal care visits, your chances of battling the infection with positive outcomes increase dramatically.
 Most women contract sexually transmitted diseases through unprotected sex.


To protect yourself and your child for the remainder of your pregnancy from other sexually transmitted infections, be sure to use a barrier method of contraception, such as a condom.
If you have an infection, be sure to also inform any sexual partners of your condition.
It is important to keep using protection even after you have been treated for your infection so that you, your baby, and your partner are protected from future possible sexually transmitted diseases.

