 Having documentation of your symptoms and their frequency is extremely helpful for your physician. Sharing this information can help your doctor understand your situation and work toward a diagnosis and treatment plan.Even if you think something may not be important, write it down. Any and all information can be useful for making a diagnosis of any kind.


If you have been experiencing blurry vision, for example, track how frequently it happens, how long the symptoms last, if you felt any pain, and what you were doing right before the blurriness occurred.
If you experience muscle aches, note how often the pain occurs, if the pain prevents you from doing your usual activities, or if any particular physical exertion causes the pain to worsen.
 If you have undergone major life changes or have experienced high levels of stress, share this information with your doctor.Life events and stress can influence your overall health.


Being stressed about your job security, going through a divorce, and losing a loved one are all examples of difficult, life-changing situations. Be sure to tell your physician if you have experienced these or any major stressful situations.
 There is no single test that can determine if you have CFS, but your doctor will most likely recommend a blood test to help rule out any other illnesses.A blood test can check for a number of things, including hormone levels, thyroid and liver function, glucose levels, cortisol, and your overall blood count.A trained professional will draw blood from your arm, which should only take a few minutes. Your doctor will receive the results of the tests within a few weeks and will review them with you., It is easy to feel overwhelmed when visiting your physician, particularly if you are receiving a lot of new and potentially stressful information. Take a relative or friend to your appointment. He or she can help you remember the information your doctor shares, and he or she can help you ask necessary questions during the appointment.