 Going into a job interview or a public speaking engagement can be a stressful time. It will be more stressful if you are unprepared and don’t know exactly what you’re going to say. Spend some time writing out your speech or writing down answers to typical interview questions.Get yourself organized before you go on an interview or give a speech. Know where you’ve put your resume and be ready to hand it out to the hiring manager.
 Give yourself a vote of confidence by affirming your abilities. Say to yourself, “I can do this.” Tell yourself that you are confident, interesting and engaging. Giving positive reinforcement to yourself will also help block out negative thoughts that contribute to increased nerves., Give yourself enough time to get to an interview or to a new school will help calm your nerves. Plan out your route and anticipate any delays. Leave a few minutes earlier than you think you need to, so that you’re not rushing in at the last minute with sweat drenching your brow., When you’re in a high-stress situation, you can easily fall prey to your nerves and start to question yourself. By appearing confident, you can trick others – and yourself – into feeling more confident.


If you feel your hands shake, try tightening your thigh muscles. This helps redirects energy away from your hands., Particularly in public speaking, audiences want to hear your human side. Relate some of your speech to your own vulnerabilities. This makes you more relatable to the audience., Being prepared for the right audience is a key to calming nerves in a job interview or speech. When your audience understands what you’re talking about, they will respond more positively, thus reducing your nervousness.


Do some research on your audience so that you know what they would like to hear. For example, find out who you will be interviewing with and what their positions are., Yes, the interview, speech or competition is important to you. But it is likely not the only job interview you’ll ever have. Bring down the stress level by putting things in perspective.Don’t fret too much over mistakes that you make. Everyone makes mistakes, especially if they are new to something. If nothing else, these mistakes will be learning opportunities for you.
If you don’t get the job, consider the interview a practice run, and try again on another interview.

