 Before anything else, it's worth making the mental adjustment of understanding what you are really earning and can really afford to spend. Your credit score is meant to reflect how you spend your money, so begin by making sure you are well-organized and realistic in your financial choices.
 Having debt is a burden on you psychologically as well as having a negative impact on your options financially. It's time to get it in control!


While you don't want to empty retirement accounts, it is a good idea to lower the amount you owe rather than putting more toward your savings at least until you have your credit score in good shape.
Keep a close handle on your spending. Getting into debt usually happens when you spend more than you can afford, so it is important to properly understand your income and make smart choices about what you buy.
To achieve these goals, it may be helpful to create a budget. This will help you to save money in other areas of your life so that you can pay down your debt as quickly as possible.
 Maybe you have several credit cards and debt on each card. Not all debt is equal in this case, as cards with high debt to limit ratios are penalized more on your FICO credit score than cards with lower debt to limit ratios.


What is a debt to limit ratio? Also called credit utilization, it's a measurement of how much debt you have on your card versus how much you are allowed to spend.A credit card with $900 of debt and a credit limit of $1,000 has a very high debt to limit ratio, one of 90%.
Ideal credit utilization rates are under 10%. If you can get your total debt to under 10% of your available credit, you've done very well. This should be your target debt level, even if it might take you a while to get there. In general, keeping your utilization under 30% is healthy.
Transfer debt from one card to the next. If you have one card with a high limit and another card with a high debt-load, consider transferring some of the debt over from one card to the other. This might help massage the credit utilization. Keep an eye on whether you would be accepting higher interest rates, and make sure to look at your options carefully.
 If your credit score is less than stellar, this is going to be more difficult, but applying for a limit increase will lower your total credit utilization and improve your credit score.Gather any supporting documents that might demonstrate why you should be given a credit increase (a pay increase, for example) and make your case to someone over the phone.
Be careful, however, as a limit increase request may cause your credit score to go down by a few points. If the credit card company needs to make a credit score check in order to authorize a limit increase, call the request off!

