 While you want to prepare how you describe yourself in advance, your focus should be on others. Start conversations by asking about others’ professions, what they like about their jobs, what their career ambitions are, and more.You should also ask others about their hobbies and interests. Try not to focus on shop talk alone, but do your best to cultivate a sincere interest in what makes the people you meet tick.
Try asking, "So, tell me about what you do - what are your favorite parts of your job?" Ask about goals, such as, "Where do you see yourself at this time next year?" Ask them questions on topics that aren't work-related, too: "What do you do when you're off the clock? Any favorite hobbies? Read any good books or see any good movies lately?"

, Do your best to get a feel for when the conversation starts to run stale, or when it’s it time to mingle elsewhere. You don’t want to monopolize anyone’s time, and you certainly don’t want to waste your potential networking time.Try to notice if you both start to run out of things to say, if you or the other person starts looking around (as if looking for an excuse to leave), or if either you or the other person starts doing all the talking.
To excuse yourself, say something like, “Pardon, I just saw someone I’ve got to say hi to - we’ll touch base later, I’m sure!” Avoid excusing yourself by saying “I’m going to get another drink or plate of food.” It’s bad manners to get something for yourself without offering the same to the other person.
 You certainly want to be prepared with an ample supply of business cards. However, you should offer one just in case you actually need it. Don’t just decide on a number and hand them out trying to meet a quota.Give someone a card only after having a conversation with them. A card is useful if you've talked about reasons to touch base afterward, like they want to look over something you wrote or designed, the fact that you both have been meaning to keep in touch with people from other departments, or you have a mutual interest, like tennis or golf, that you might do together in the future.

