 To be a successful tutor, you will need a background in science. High school is designed to lay the foundation of several different subjects, including the sciences. A high school diploma is also an important stepping stone to higher education.If you did not graduate high school, you can obtain a graduate equivalency degree, or GED.
 With a college degree, you can specialize in a particular science in a way that high school does not offer. Major in physics, chemistry, biology, or another science program. You also have the option to get a teaching degree with a science concentration., A tutor certification is important for getting hired on to some tutoring companies or school boards. There are multiple certifying organizations such as the National Tutoring Association, and the American Tutoring Association.Tutoring certifications usually require that you pass an exam. Usually a fee is involved, and there may be classes offered to prepare you for the exam. You should look at the guidelines given by the certifying body that you wish to be affiliated with.
 People often choose tutors because the tutor is a specialist in their field. Having the experience and knowledge beyond that of the average person will allow you to structure your teachings with direction and purpose. Look for tutoring jobs in the field(s) that you specialize or have degrees in.For example, if you have a degree in chemistry and research experience in biochemistry, then tutoring in biochemistry would be a great option for you.
 If you are struggling to find a need for tutors in your specialty, you can branch out to closely related topics. This opens up more opportunities for you to tutor, and will enhance your skills on topics related to your specialty. Advertise yourself as a tutor in several different, but closely related subjects.


If your specialty is biochemistry, you could advertise yourself as a tutor in chemistry, biology, and biochemistry.
 Ultimately, what you teach will be governed by what students need to learn. If you are having difficulty finding students in need of your tutoring services, ask some students what topics they need assistance in. It may be outside your area of expertise, but you could possibly still offer assistance.


Many students need help in mathematics for example. Even though math is not in the title of a biochemistry major, you will need to complete several chemistry courses that require relatively strong math skills to acquire your degree. So offering assistance to students in basic math courses would not be out of the question.
 Different tutoring jobs come with different pay and benefit packages. Sometimes, you can be hired as a tutor by the local board of education and be paid a set rate. Alternatively, you could tutor as a private tutor and set your own schedule and rates. Tutoring agencies also offer a good way to connect with students and keep steady work.

