 You may choose to start a beauty blog on your own. Or, you may want to start out working for another company or through an agency. You can also do both. Keep in mind that if you decide to work for someone else, you may be responsible for maintaining a certain amount of social media interest in your material (for instance, through “likes” or “shares”).If you choose to work for another company, you can do so as a freelance journalist or a salaried employee. To browse current opportunities, enter “hiring beauty blogger” into search engines, or use keywords like “beauty blogger,” “beauty journalist” and “freelance beauty” on career search websites.;
, Don’t expect to become a successful beauty blogger overnight.If you’re starting your own beauty blog, you will need other ways to support yourself financially – at least at first. Have a strategy for paying your bills until your blog generates enough income to be your fulltime career.You may want to have a full-time job doing something else, with time set aside on evenings and weekends for your beauty blog., A niche is a topic with a specific focus. Think about what makes your beauty routine unique and try to come up with a topic that relates to you. Make a list of niche ideas, and then perform online searches to assess how much competition you will have in that area. You don’t need to be the only beauty blogger in your niche, but you don’t want to pick a topic that is so general that you will have difficulty making your mark. Keep in mind that you will want your blog to adhere to your niche as much as possible, so don’t choose a topic so ultra-specific that you will run out of ways to write about it.For example, if you have curly hair, your blog could focus on products, tutorials and hairstyles for managing curls.
There is a lot of competition in the realm of general cosmetics. If you want to blog about cosmetics, try to think of a way to make it different than what’s already out there. For instance, you may want to narrow the specificity to makeup for a certain skin type or face shape. Or, you may want to blog about a specific style of makeup such as daytime looks for career professionals, or makeup artistry for the runway and special occasions., Beauty companies may send you free products if you are willing to write reviews about them. Typically, sponsorship opportunities materialize once your blog has an established following. If you are interested in writing promotional reviews but your blog is still new, try looking for start-up companies on places like Etsy or Storenvy – they may be interested in getting product reviews out there regardless of your website’s audience size.


The main advantage is that you get to try new things and don't have to spend a penny on it.
The disadvantage is that it can affect your credibility. Sponsored posts or “brand placement” may result in your audience trusting you less; they may perceive you as biased since you are receiving compensation for your opinion of the product. If your audience doesn’t trust you, your viewership will likely decline. Be honest when you review products and don’t recommend things you don’t like.Search engines may penalize your website’s rankings over lack of value if you promote affiliate content without providing added worth.If you decide to write sponsored reviews, make sure that each of your pages also is full of original written content. Google suggests that you disclose why you’re writing the review and use nofollow links. Nofollow links tells search engines not to crawl them, so that the links don't affect the page ranking of your blog or the affiliate website. Affiliate links should include <a rel="nofollow"> in them., Once you’ve figured out your niche, you can determine who your target audience is. Get to know who they are and what they would like to read about.Think about what would motivate the people who would visit the type of content you’re offering.For example, if you want to write about anti-aging products, your target audience will be women over 25 years old who are interested in skincare. To cater to that audience, you may decide to use a mature writing style, an elegant layout, and an overall classy vibe.

