 Prep school is a serious commitment of your time, energy, and your family's finances; you and your family want to be certain this is an excellent investment. You also need to be fairly certain you will thrive in such an environment, which can be very different from your local high school. Some things to consider:

Prep schools are often very high-pressure institutions. There is often a lot of homework, competition, expectations, and challenge. The rewards can be very high, but it often comes with a lot of pressure.
Prep schools are often mono-cultural. Although there is at least an effort to include diversity, most prep school students are from upper-middle-class to wealthy families. Minority ethnicities, low socio-economic level individuals, and people from very urban or rural backgrounds are sparse. Students who do not come from the typical "prep school set" may feel like outsiders.
These institutions often have a very deep school culture. Especially if you live at a prep school, your daily life will be deeply rooted in the school. It becomes your life in a way that living at home and going to school does not.
Prep schools may not have any special education department. Many institutions can accomodate special needs, but are not mandated to (at least in the United States).
While a prep school is a great resource for getting into an elite university, it is not necessary to do so. If your goal is to get into Yale or Oxford, prep schools can certainly help. However, students from non-prep-school backgrounds get into these institutions every year.;
, Remember that there is a fee for each application. If you're really serious about going to a prep school, you should apply to at least 4. If you're really serious and need financial aid, you should apply to over 5. Begin looking at schools in the early to mid summer.
 You should try to schedule an interview during the summer, even if you have no intention of interviewing during the summer. If you can, you should try to interview at few schools during the summer, just to get it out of the way. You should schedule all of your interviews around the early fall. You can do this during other times of the year, but this is the most typical route.
 Begin working on it ASAP. You should have submitted the first part (Candidate Profile) by the middle of October at the latest.
 Try to register for the October or November test, because if you do poorly, you will have a chance to retake. Don't over-study for these tests; begin about 6 weeks in advance and study from 15-45 minutes a day, depending on how good you are at taking standardized tests.
 Make sure you are nice to all of your teachers. You don't want a bad letter of recommendation. You should give these to your teachers after Thanksgiving.
 If you haven't began writing them by Thanksgiving, you should really get on it.
 If you have a special interest in anything ranging from football, dance, or photography, you should definitely contact the appropriate faculty member and try to schedule an appointment, or talk through email. You can usually find a faculty list on prep school's websites. If you can, try to arrange a visit when you are touring campus. Also, if music or visual art is your talent, send in a CD/portfolio! You should aim to get these in around December.
 That envelope should be pre-addressed and pre-paid with delivery confirmation. At most, each envelope will cost $8.00 but it will all arrive at the school admission office together, and hopefully by the appointed deadline (you will also be able to trace the package). My experience with teachers mailing off their recommendations proved to be a very difficult one because some of the letters were not delivered using the regular stamp on envelope method. I learned the hard way and this approach will make everything much easier and more guaranteed to arrive.
 Once you send in your applications, make sure you keep up your grades, focus on your extra-curriculars, and otherwise keep doing what will help you stand out as a student.

