 In a large skillet, cook 4 strips of bacon that have been cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces on medium-low heat. Allow the bacon to cook until it is crisp, and then transfer it to a paper towel-lined plate to set aside until later.You can substitute turkey bacon for regular bacon if you prefer.
Don’t drain off the bacon fat when you remove the bacon pieces. You’ll need the grease for the rest of the recipe.
 Once you’ve removed the bacon from the pan, add 2 finely chopped onions to the skillet. Saute the onions in the bacon fat over medium-high heat until they become tender, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.You can add 1 stalk of diced celery and 1 small diced green pepper to the onions if you want to include more vegetables in the dish.
 When the onion is tender, mix a 6 ounce (170 g) can of tomato paste, 2 ¼ cups (532 ml) of water, 3 teaspoons (15 g) of salt, 2 teaspoons (10 g) of sugar, and ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of black pepper into the skillet. Allow the mixture to cook on medium-high until it comes to a boil, which should take approximately 3 minutes., Once the skillet comes to a boil, add 1 cup (185 g) of long grain rice. Stir the rice into the mixture well until it’s fully incorporated, and then allow it to come to a boil again, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.When you add the rice, you can also stir in up to 8 tablespoons (120 g) of bacon fat. That will help deepen the smoky flavor of the finished rice.
 After the rice mixture has come to a boil, turn the burner’s heat down to low and cover the skillet. Cook the rice until it is tender and all of the liquid is absorbed, which should take approximately 15 minutes.If you don’t have a lid for your skillet, you can place a baking sheet or a piece of foil across the top to help trap the steam.
 When the rice is finished cooking, remove the skillet from the burner. Fluff the rice with a fork, and stir in the cooked bacon pieces until they are well incorporated. Serve the rice with your favorite Southern main course.