 Once you identify a potential future boyfriend, in order to find out if the two of you are compatible, it is a good idea to spend time in casual settings, such as hanging out with friends in a neutral location or playing video games together.
 A great place for a brief first one-on-one meeting is at a coffee shop where you can have coffee or tea and lots of conversation. You can also go to a movie, but you will not have as much time for conversation since a movie theatre requires silence.


When you meet someone at a coffee shop, you do not have a big time or financial commitment, and it can be over quickly if you find that there is no chemistry or interest.
Even when the occasion is casual, be sure to look your best when you are getting to know someone. While you definitely want to be yourself, you want to be the best version of yourself.
 With the popularity of smartphones, many people communicate by text, but the problem with texting is that you cannot read a person’s tone through a text message. While you can certainly invite someone out on a casual date through texting or email, it is best to have a conversation in person or by phone so that you can hear his voice and so that he can hear your voice.
 No doubt about it, asking someone out, no matter how casual, can be intimidating. A great way to handle this is to simply say the following: “I would love an opportunity to get to know you better, are you available for coffee on Saturday.”


When asking for a date, be sure to break the ice first by asking about how his day is going or by having a conversation about another topic of interest.
If you are asking someone on a date and you have never had a conversation with him before, you should still use an icebreaker or small talk, such as: “Do you know any great restaurants in the area?” When he answers, you can then say: “If I go to that restaurant, would you like to join me?”
Avoid using pick up lines because people can tell when you are not being sincere and that will usually reduce the chances of the person accepting your invitation.
 Nobody likes rejection and sometimes it can be difficult to handle. You must decide in advance that you will not take it personally if he says no to your invitation. You can also prepare a response so that you are not speechless if it happens.


If your invitation is not accepted, your response might be as follows: “I understand. If you change your mind or if your schedule opens up, feel free to give me a call.”

