 Support groups are really great for quitting smoking. You can find like-minded people who are going through similar ordeals as you. It helps to talk to people who understand.These people might be able to give you some tips and suggestions on how to overcome obstacles and face any problems you’re having.
The internet can be a great resource when you’re trying to stop smoking Hookah. You can visit forums dedicated to quitting smoking and find an online support group. You can talk to other people who have quit smoking and been through the same thing you are going through.
 A counselor might be when you are trying to quit smoking. These counselors can help you deal with your addiction and give you steps and tools to help you overcome it. You can meet a counselor individually or talk to one on the phone.Quitting coaches can help you identify feelings and activities that trigger your smoking.
Coaches can help you learn ways to control and cope with smoking urges.
Coaches can provide information about the health benefits of being smoke-free, how nicotine leaves the body, and anything else you might have questions about.
 Quitting smoking on your own may be too difficult. You may face extreme withdrawal symptoms as your body gets used to a reduced amount of nicotine. A smoking medication may help you quit successfully.Try a nicotine replacement therapy. These medicines give you a little bit of nicotine as your wean yourself off of it. They come in gum, patches, lozenges, nasal sprays, and inhalers. You can get some of these without a prescription.
You can also get prescription medicines, such as Buproprion or Varenicline. These help reduce the urge to smoke and helps reduce withdrawal.
 Stopping smoking, even hookah smoking, may cause unpleasant side effects. Withdrawal symptoms can be severe, so be ready to deal with those. Withdrawal symptoms may affect your mood and your sleep. You may feel anxious, nervous, depressed, or frustrated. Know these things will happen, so you do not turn to hookah to help make you feel better.Know that you may have smoke cravings. Replace smoke cravings with a preplanned list of activities or with low-calorie snacks.

