 Bitcoin mining software is designed to perform a series of calculations to search for stray bitcoins online. While the practice is not illegal, it's probably a waste of time. Many users are currently mining bitcoins and there is a limited amount in circulation. You are unlikely to find many bitcoins, if any, via mining so it's probably best to save your time and save money on the software., If your bitcoin wallet gets compromised, make sure you know how to recover it. Having a strong password and a variety of information to authenticate your account can help.


Memorize or write down any data associated with your bitcoin, such as passwords, URLs, and answers to secret questions. This can all be used in the event of an emergency to restore your wallet and get your bitcoins back.It's a good idea to have a list of any information about your bitcoin account somewhere safe in your home. Consider investing in a safe or safety deposit box and keep your bitcoin information stored there., When buying online with bitcoin, you need to be careful about who you're conducting business with. Bitcoin is very prone to hacks and you do not want your information compromised.


If anyone claims they want to buy your bitcoins, be wary. If someone offers money for bitcoins without asking for any information about your, such as your name and bitcoin address, may be simply trying to steal your bitcoins. Do not send them any bitcoins unless you see money upfront.Only do business with people you know or businesses you trust. As bitcoin is so new, there are a lot of breaches in data and security and information is often stolen., Because Bitcoin is so new and not widely understood, it is a ripe ground for scammers. Here are some things to watch out for:


Ponzi schemes.Beware of anyone making promises that you can easily make incredibly high returns by getting in on the "ground floor" of a new phenomenon, especially if that person promises you little to no risk. You should also be on the lookout for any "investment opportunity" that does not have minimum investor qualifications, or that has complicated fee structures or strategies.Phishing. You may receive spam emails saying that you have been awarded Bitcoins.These emails will usually provide a login link and ask for your Bitcoin wallet credentials. Don't give these credentials to anyone! These emails are scams.
Exchange scams. Check to make sure that any company you do business with has been publicly audited. When you can, also do private background checks on the company. Search online in Bitcoin forums and other places to see if anyone is discussing possible scams at your prospective company. If you have trouble getting in touch with someone at the company or your questions go unanswered, don't do business with them.