 The easiest way to tell is to see what most people are wearing or ask a friend who knows for some fashion advice. (This is if you're just clueless about fashion... if you dress in a different way on purpose then this does not apply.);
, You can be a huge Magic: the Gathering, Role Playing, Anime, Star Trek geek and still be considered completely normal. How? By not letting it restrict your socialization. You need to be able to tell when someone is not a fan of your hobby and when you figure that out (hopefully almost immediately), you avoid talking about it and instead focus on things that other people are interested in.
 Having the wrong hair style can make you look really bad. And people will judge you if you have a really bad hair cut/style. For example, if you have a bowl cut just because you've always had one since you were five years old and you don't know what to do with your hair, ask for some advice or ask your barber/stylist to give you suggestions.
 This one is tricky because you want to invite yourself to events and most of the time that's fine. But sometimes people don't want you along and are too polite to flat out deny you. Consider a few things before you invite yourself, such as who is going, and what the event is. If you're not sure whether or not you'll be appreciated, then ask about it, but don't explicitly ask to be invited (unless you're sure it's ok). If they just forgot to invite you, they will invite you when you just casually ask about the event.
 Adhere to the "toothbrush rule". If you are in some one's room/apartment, and they start brushing their teeth or giving you any kind of signal that they're about to go to bed or go out, you should start to make the motions of leaving. For example, getting up and saying "I should get going now." They will stop you if they want you to stay. This doesn't apply to people that have no qualms telling you to leave.
 Everyone has his or her own personal space. It might be really close (i.e. inches away from them) or it might be pretty far (i.e. 2 feet away). Whatever it is, if someone invades that space (and it's unwanted), it's very annoying. Of course, you have to use cues to figure out the extent of others' personal space.
 Good ways to know are if the other person isn't making eye contact with you or if the other person isn't giving you verbal prompts such as "yes, and?", "then what", or "oh really?". In these cases, it's probably time to shut up or ask them a question and let someone else talk for a while.
 Turn off your phone's ringer in a theater. If you answer your phone (on vibrate) in a theater, whisper and don't let it last more than 10 seconds. It's best, however, simply not to answer your cell phone in a theater, unless it's an emergency. If you're indoors in a public area, step outside for long calls if possible. If you're in a public area but cannot step out, then keep your voice down.
 Looking at your feet or those of the other person makes you seem insecure. Looking away makes you look distracted or trying to say "you bore me". Looking at a females breasts makes you look like a pervert. Don't stare too intensely into someones eyes though, because it's likely to make the person uncomfortable. However this varies in different cultures. In the US and the UK, from .5 to 1.5 seconds is about right. After that, glance down at the table, or at another part of their face (not lower than that!). However, keep your face pointed towards their face.
 Most people hate a clingy person unless they really get along well with them. If the person in question has other groups of friends, give your friend his or her own time to do his or her own thing. Don't monopolize his or her time unless you're sure it's wanted.
 Stay healthy. Being in decent shape will help in many ways. Your health will be better, you'll feel more energetic, you'll look better, you'll fit clothes better, you'll feel more confident. It may also help your body odor, strange as it might seem.

