 If you don't have a spare room, consider rearranging a living room or dining room to divide it into two parts. A tall bookcase or a tall-backed couch can create a section of the room to use as a den.
 Do any repairs, cleaning, or redecorating to the room while it is at its emptiest. Does your room need new flooring or new paint to be attractive and comfortable? Tackle that now.
 Think about what activities you or your family will pursue in the den, so you can make it as comfortable as possible. Here are some activities you might want to design your den around:


Quiet, relaxing activities, such as reading, sewing, or other hobbies.
Group activities, such as playing games or watching movies or sports.
Desk activities, such as using a desktop computer, making art projects, or building things.
 This can be anything from a pool table to a writing desk, depending on the primary purpose of the room. As you arrange the other furniture, keep it oriented toward this focal point. This will make the den feel cozy and aesthetically pleasing.


For smaller dens without space for large furniture items, arrange around a large window, a fireplace, a tapestry, or a painting.
 Easy chairs or sofas are fine, but don't rule out bean bags, floor cushions, hanging sling chairs, or papasan chairs. Make sure there's comfortable seating for people of every height.


If your den is in a basement, shed, or other area with less temperature and humidity control, consider wooden patio furniture instead to minimize mold and other damage.
 You may want comfortable, low light if you want the atmosphere room to seem more like a lounge. On the other hand, if you are reading or doing crafts in the den, you will need appropriate task lighting.
 If you like, add a small fridge, a television or computer, or a foosball table. If you have the space, consider a sound system, exercise equipment, or a dedicated area for playing musical instruments, weaving, or other space-intensive hobbies.
 If your family will be listening to music, watching DVDs, playing games, doing crafts, or reading books, you'll want storage. You can use an existing closet or add storage in the form of bookcases, media racks, cabinets, and so on.
 Now that you've installed all the furniture, decorate the rest of the den however you'd like. Add a throw rug and couch pillows, hang up posters, or place decorative items on shelves.

