 If you’re tackling a big goal, you may start to lose morale as time goes on. Before you know it, you are completely off track. Stay on track by setting natural milestones into your goals and celebrating when you pass them.For example, if you want to write a novel, you might set milestones for ten thousand words, twenty-five thousand words, and so on. When you reach each milestone, reward yourself.
 The people you spend the most time with have a significant impact on your journey to success. If you’re around the wrong people, they may distract you, expose you to temptations, or discourage your goals altogether. The right people, however, will push you to be your best self.


Find these people by joining clubs and organizations dedicated to your goals. For instance, if you want to lose weight, you might participate in a local Weight Watchers support group or join the MyFitnessPal online community., If you are not actively managing stress in your life, you are setting yourself up for failure. Too much stress can affect your health and lead you to engage in self-sabotaging behaviors. When you have a stress management plan in place, you can keep stress in check so you stay on track with your goals. Try this:Get at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night.
Exercise for at least 30 minutes each day.
Eat real, unprocessed foods.
Find a hobby that you enjoy.
Practice relaxation exercises like deep breathing or meditation.
 What is the use of goals if you can’t enjoy the journey? Having goals and structure is important for personal and professional growth, but being goal-oriented can be unhealthy if taken to extremes. Make sure to leave time for fun and for others, like friends and family.

Make time for others. Don’t forget to connect with loved ones – your friends and family – and nourish those important relationships. Call your parents. Go for coffee with your friends. See a movie with a group of loved ones.
Have fun from time to time. Do something just for the pure fun and enjoyment of it. Taking breaks will help you recharge and be more focused and ready to pursue your goals.

