 A Google Analytics account will allow you to track the traffic that your Facebook page receives. A basic account is free, and all you need to do to sign up is to link your current Google account to Google Analytics.


If you do not have a Google account, create one. You will need to create a user name and password, and you will also need to verify your age and agree to the terms of service.
Note that you can only use Google Analytics to track Facebook pages associated with businesses you own. It cannot be used to track traffic that visits your personal profile.



If you do not already have an account associated with your Facebook page, create one by clicking on Create new property first.
Once this account is set up, click on it to open its page.
Click on + New Web Property.
Indicate that you want to track a website when asked and fill out the information about the industry category and time zone.
Click on Get Tracking ID to finish up.



Turn on the tracking options you want and hit Save.
Highlight the code and copy it by hitting Ctrl + c on your keyboard, or by right-clicking with your mouse and selecting Copy.
 Do an Internet search for something along the lines of "free Javascript converter" to find an online tool that will convert this code to usable HTML.


Facebook does not permit the use of Javascript, which makes it necessary for you to convert the code before you can continue.
Select and copy this new code.
 Do a search on Facebook for "HTML box". Several apps should appear in the search results.


Quickly review an app before you install it.
Once the app is installed, you should notice a box on your page or a box on the app page where you can paste static HTML.
 Right-click in the box and select "Paste" to put the HTML in.


Alternatively, left-click in the box and hit Ctrl + v on your keyboard to paste the code in.
Hit the "OK" or "Confirm" button to confirm the code.
 Analyze your numbers to determine why they change and who might be responsible.


If you recently networked with another business or reached a new client base, watch for increases.
Watch for increases if you started a new promotion.
Expect decreases if you lost a major client or had a recent scandal.

