 In order for the quest to be available to you, you must use Aisha and must be level 15 and above. Otherwise, the quest won't appear in your Quest Log.;
, Enter the Underground Waterway under the Very Hard mode to collect 10 Dead Tree Branches and 30 Runic Power Crystal from the Ghost Magician and White Ghost Magician, respectively.


The task is fairly easy, especially if you're in a party for quick raid.
 Buy these from the Potion NPC in Elder Village.
 The Suburbs of Wally's Castle can be found in Elder Village map. Enter the dungeon under Very Hard mode and do the following:


Kill 14 Jangos and 14 Kid Phorus
Clear the dungeon with B rank.
Collect 3 Quest Items from Bomber Mongs and 1 Special Nut from William

, After you have completed the quest, return to the village and check your Quest Log. Hand in your quest items by clicking Complete Quest, or talk to the bulletin board found in the low middle level of the village.


You can now proceed to choosing the quest for one of the three advance classes for Aisha.
 Stationed at the highest middle level of the village, an NPC named Hoffman will be waiting for you. Talk to him regarding your class-advancement change and then choose which class you're going to take.


Choose Battle Magician; he will then give you a set of tasks to complete.
 Enter the Suburbs of Wally's Castle under Very Hard mode to hunt for this item.


The strategy for this is to go through the dungeon with a party, preferably your friends. Rush to the last floor where you get to fight the boss, William, as he's the only monster that drops the required quest item.
If you're unable to get the pendant, you have to repeat the raid until you succeed. Skipping other floors will save you time, but you will miss mini bosses and useful loots.
 For the next leg of the quest, you're required to kill monsters in the dungeon of Elder Village. This includes the final boss, Wally No.8.


You must enter Wally’s Castle under Very Hard mode.
Wally's Castle has a lot of floors, so make sure to enter each of them to find mini bosses. These mini bosses drop rare items that you'll find useful in survival and a good source of gold if you plan on selling it to other players.
It is recommended to enter this dungeon with a party, then enter each floor to clear it of all monsters before heading for the final boss.
There is no time limit for this quest.
 After completing the quest, return to Elder Village to hand your quest item to Hoffman, or simply open your Quest Log and click Complete Quest.


Your character will instantly change its class to Battle Magician after giving the quest item to Hoffman or clicking on Complete Quest in your Quest Log.
Take note that there's a small bug: if your character didn't change its class despite of completing and handing in the quest item, log off then log in again to fix this.
 Stunning your enemies is one of the new combos for Battle Magician and is found the most useful when dealing one-on-one combat. By pressing arrow toward your enemy twice, your character will start running. Press Up to jump and then X to release a small energy ball ( >> or <<, Up, X ).


This attack can cancel the enemy's skill and make them vulnerable to combo attacks.
This skill will only cause your opponent to twitch, not knock them down.
The downfall of this is that, compared to the basic Aisha's Fireball, the energy ball travels slow. #*This skill is best used when in close combat.
 A lot of players prefer skills that won't knock down their enemy as they can do more skill combos and juggle. However, for Battle Magician, it is important to have a knock-down attack to prevent the enemy from getting too close.


Knock your enemies down by pressing Z four times; your Battle Magician will execute her basic combo. Once hit, the enemy will be knocked down at the fourth Z ( Z, Z, Z, Z ).
 If the knock-down isn't enough, you can throw the enemy into the air. It's similar to Aisha's old skill, but much better with an addition of teleportation and bigger physical damage.


To do this, dash toward your enemy by pressing the arrow twice, press Z to hit with melee attack, followed by X three times ( >> or <<, Z, X, X, X ). Your Battle Magician will teleport behind the enemy then unleash a skill to throw them off the ground.
This is a bit difficult to execute compared to the other combos, but it inflicts the highest damage once successfully performed.

