 For students or workers with a long daily commute, it can be important to anticipate snow at least a day in advance. Local news broadcasts typically include a weather report with a five-day outlook or more. Check local listings for broadcast times and channels.


Weather forecasts are predictions and there is significant room for error.As a general rule, predictions are most accurate within a range of two days and typically reliable as far in advance as seven to ten days.;
, If your interest is primarily whether there will be a snow day, you should look specifically for closing announcements. Regardless of actual snowfall, most schools and organizations will not reverse a cancellation notice once it has been made.


Check the phone or email that your school or employer uses to contact you. You can also check a local news station’s website for a list of cancellations. These are usually updated as soon as decisions are announced.
 You can get weather forecasts as part of broader local news radio coverage. News radio is broadcast throughout the day with regular weather updates, so you will not need to wait for the specific broadcast times of televised news. If you do not know the frequency of a local news station, scan the dial or search a list of local station frequency numbers and programming format.


The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration broadcasts weather forecasts and alerts all hours of the day through the NOAA Weather Radio All Hazards system. You will need a special receiver to pick up the frequency; look for radios with the Public Alert logo or the NOAA Weather Radio (NWR) All Hazards logo at an electronics store. Check the NOAA website for a list of nationwide frequencies.
 You can find national weather coverage online through the National Weather Service. The Weather Channel also provides national weather coverage and forecasts. Typically, the site will recognize your general location. Search by zip code, city, or place name for a forecast in another region.


The National Weather Service provides the data that most meteorologists use in making their predictions. Different meteorologists arrive at different forecasts by using different models.Websites for broadcast news, like CNN and local news affiliates, typically provide weather forecasts on their websites as well. Each prediction may be different, so it may be worth checking multiple forecasts to establish the probability of snow.
 You can receive regular weather updates by installing a weather forecast app such as Weather Underground, DarkSky, The Weather Channel, or RainAware on your phone. These apps will allow you regularly check updates to the forecast.

