 Remember to talk this over with the person you are engaged to. A dream wedding for one may not be right for the other. You'll need to know how many people are going to attend for the purposes of venues, catering and invitations.


As part of this decision, choose your bridal party. How many bridesmaids and groomsmen do you want? From none to a dozen, the choice depends on what you have always dreamed of and what space you'll have available for everyone to stand in at the ceremony. Remember that your total number of guests includes your bridal party.
This decision is usually done at around the ten-months-to-go mark.
 The sooner this is done, the better, so that you know you have the place you really want. Check out the spaces offered, the catering deals, the marriage fees, the ability to decorate a church or synagogue, wedding space, etc. Find out whether the prices quoted cover everything or whether you'll be expected to pay for extras.


Be aware that even church and synagogue venues may charge fees.
Research into venues for the wedding and reception usually starts around the 12 months-to-go mark, with bookings occurring within the month once you've made up your mind.
 The factors in choosing a date include the availability of your venue, friends and family. Think about who you must have at your wedding, and try to set the date with their availability in mind. Most people will do their best to accommodate a wedding, so unless you know this person has major surgery or a competing wedding in their calendar, you should be fairly right with directing their calendar.


Send out "save the date" cards to your guests. Once the venue and guest lists are confirmed, let everyone know what's coming up. Send emails if you know people will read them, otherwise, send cards to their postal addresses.
Setting the date usually occurs at the same time you've confirmed the place of the wedding and the place of the reception. Finalization of the guest list should be done when there are about seven months to go. Do expect some cancellations and possibly some last-minute additions due to illness, pregnancy, overseas travel, etc. It often can't be helped, so go with the flow.

