 Even if you have not already performed in a movie, you will need a resume to get started. It should include your name, physical description, contact information, relevant experience, training, and any special skills you have.Your name should be in the largest print and listed at the top of the resume.
List your height, weight, eye and hair color.
Include your email and phone number so the casting agent can easily get in touch with you.
If you don’t have any film credits, but you do have theater credits, you can list those for now. As your film resume increases, you will want to replace your theater credits and list just on-camera credits from film, television and commercials. List the title of the production, your role and the production company.
Include any relevant training through a college, community theater, or acting school. List the title of the course and the instructor. Only include courses which you have already completed.
Regularly update your resume to reflect your experience.;
, A class will be the best way to prepare yourself for the work of being on set and in front of a camera. You will learn what is expected of you, expose yourself to the process and understand the lingo you may experience when shooting a movie, and it will look good on your resume.Shooting a film involves several “takes” of the same scene to get it just right and allow the scene to be shot from several camera angles.
Extras are considered part of the background and will be used to fill in scenes, which will be shot in many takes. You will be told where to be and what to do, and will be expected to repeat this as exactly as possibly to maintain continuity in each “take.”

, There is a language which is specific to the film scene. It is helpful to learn some of the lingo in order to understand the directions you are being given. On-camera classes as well as books about acting in film can be helpful in learning this lingo.


”Back to one” instructs the talent to move back to the place where they were when the shot began, in order to prepare for a second take.
”Rolling” means the camera is filming, and is a warning that everyone should be prepared for “action.”
”Cut” lets actors know that they are no longer filming, and action has stopped.
 A headshot is a professional photo of the actor’s head and shoulders. Print several 8x10, color headshots. Attach your resume to the back of your headshot with a staple in the corner. Take a couple of copies of your headshot and resume to every audition.You will also want a high-resolution, digital copy of your headshot for submitting yourself online.
Professional headshots will cost at least $200 by the time you have completed the shoot and printed about 50 copies.
Avoid wearing patterns in your headshots. Keep it simple so that the focus is on your face instead of your clothing. Bring several different shirts to the photo shoot and have pictures taken in a couple of different options.Let your personality shine. While you certainly want to look friendly and personable, you also don’t want to just smile for the camera. Relax and have fun during the shoot and see what your photographer can come up with to make you look unique and interesting.
Your headshot should look like you. You will need to update your headshot as you age, or your features change. This includes things like cutting or coloring your hair into a different style, or shaving a long beard., It is sometimes true that it’s all about who you know in this industry. Go to film screenings, fundraisers, and acting classes to meet other people involved in making films. Mingle and find out what work is coming up and how you might be able to get involved.
 There are several online casting networks where you can post your headshot and resume to be found by casting agents. You can submit yourself directly through these sites. Most are free or have a small fee for submitting or posting extra pictures or film reels.


Try “Casting Networks” and “Extras Access” for posting your headshot and resume online., Local theaters, acting schools, and colleges will have a “call board.” This is a bulletin board in a common area where they will post jobs and casting notices.
 You can go through a large casting site, like Backstage, or check with your local film commission to see what will be filming in your area. There are also films listed on Craigslist under “Jobs.”Backstage allows you to search within a certain radius of major cities. It also allows you to filter casting calls so you can search by age range, gender, type of film and roles. Click on “Roles” to find the option to check “Only Background Roles/Extras.”

, Once you have found auditions online, submit your headshot and resume through their portal to be considered for the role. Write a short note acknowledging what role you are submitting yourself for and asking to be considered.
 Cattle calls are large auditions, which do not require an appointment. Expect to spend time waiting in line in order to meet the casting agents. Bring several copies of your headshot and resume and a pen to fill out any forms they may have at the audition.Find cattle calls by searching the website for your local film commission.There may be a casting agency which specializes in casting extras in your area. Ask around and register with this casting agency to be notified when films are casting near you.
 This applies to auditions and jobs once you have been cast. The general rule is that 15 minutes early is on time, on time is late and late is unacceptable. A simple way to prove that you are a professional is to show up a little early., As an extra, you will likely be expected to wear your own clothes for the shoot. You will get instructions on what to wear when you are cast. Be sure that you have these items on hand, can borrow them, or purchase them.If you don’t have the clothing they are asking for, it is possible to purchase the items and return them to the store after the shoot date.
Generally, filmmakers like to avoid red and stripes, which can effect the camera shot.
 A large part of being an extra is sitting around and waiting for something to do. They crew spends a lot of time setting up cameras, lights and sets. The extras will wait in the “holding area” until they are instructed on what to do. Not every extra will be used in every shot.You are more likely to be used if you are ready and available when the Production Assistant enters the holding area to find extras for a scene.
Bring something to keep yourself occupied while you wait.
 The job of an actor is to follow directions. Whether you are on-screen or in the holding area, be easy to work with. This includes doing what the director asks of you while you are performing as well as being generally respectful, like staying quiet on the set., You can find the current rate for background actors by searching the “SAG/AFTRA” rate sheet. The current base rate, through June of 2016 is $157/day, and will will increase to $162/ day in July. There are certain allowances for using your property or special skills. You can earn extra money above the base rate by doing additional work or using your property.Special skills will earn you more money. This includes skills such as dancing, singing, stunts, and piloting.
If you are asked to furnish formal attire or special outfits, like uniforms, you can be paid extra money as a rental fee for using your clothing as a costume.
You can be paid for allowing your car or pet to be included in the shoot.
Bonuses are paid to extras who take on additional roles, like speaking a line of dialogue or standing in for one of the lead actors.
You will be paid overtime if the shoot runs long or meals are delayed.
 When you work on a feature film, you will receive a voucher at the end of the day. Ask questions to be sure that you fill it out correctly. Keep a copy for yourself, and turn the other one in to the appropriate person before leaving set.The check will be mailed to you in about 2-3 weeks, so be sure that you have listed a valid address.
Just like any other job, you will need to be able to prove that you are able to work as a citizen. Be sure to have an appropriate, valid ID with you when filling out your voucher. This includes unexpired driver’s licenses, social security cards and passports.

