 Boys and men in certain sports and activities are more at-risk for developing eating disorders. Particularly, men who play sports that require certain weights, such as gymnastics, wrestling, track, and swimming are more at risk. Other activities, such as dancing, may place similar restrictions on men that put them at risk., Many men who develop eating disorders also develop an obsession with increasing muscle mass. In turn, that means they may spend excessive amounts of time lifting weights or at the gym. If you notice someone who has an obsession with muscle toning, especially if he gets very upset about missing a session, that could indicate he has an eating disorder.Some people also develop an obsession with one part of their body. They may never be satisfied with this area no matter how toned it is.
 Steroid usage can help men build muscles, but with significant side effects. Many men who use steroids are trying to build muscle at a faster rate than their normal body would allow. Like muscle toning, this behavior can indicate an obsession with body image, which in turn can indicate a possible eating disorder.One of the main signs of steroid use is dramatic mood swings, often known as "'road rage."
Other common side effects include paranoia, increased muscle mass, acne, enlarged breasts (in men), and hyperactivity.
 This disorder is characterized by a fear of gaining weight, which in turn translates to the person severely restricting their diet. Men may also push towards being muscular in attempt to attain what culture has held up as ideal.The primary sign of this disorder is increased anxiety around eating, along with behavioral changes related to eating. You may notice the person counting calories excessively, avoiding eating, reading labels, and adopting food rituals. The person may lose a large amount of weight.
They might also avoid eating with other people or they may lie about having already eaten or claim that they will eat later.
The person may also weigh themselves obsessively or ask about other people’s weights.
Other signs of this disorder include brittle nails, dry skin, hair loss, and depression.
 Bulimia nervosa is a disorder where men compulsively binge eat, but then try to balance that binge eating with behaviors to keep them from gaining weight. Like anorexia, most men with this disorder have an intense need to keep their bodies a certain size or shape.Men with this disorder may induce vomiting, use laxatives, try diuretics, or exercise excessively. They may also use fasting as a way to compensate.
Common signs include large amounts of food going missing (as men with this disorder may hide their eating binges) and bathroom trips immediately after meals. You may also notice marks or callouses on the man's hands (from inducing vomiting) or bloating in the face.
 This disorder is primarily characterized by an obsessive desire to have a muscular body. Men will often have a level of shame about their bodies, with body-checking being a prime symptom, along with a desire to hide their bodies.Men with this disorder will often work out excessively, control their diet to an extreme, and participate in harmful activities such as taking steroids.
You may notice the person becoming anxious about making sure they get workouts in, as well as increased anxiety around food and dieting.
 Men who have binge-eating disorder typically engage in food binges more than once a week. A binge is characterized as a person eating more in a short period of time (say two hours) than others would generally eat in that time. Usually, they feel like they have no control over how much they're eating.Those who binge eat will often do it in secret. In addition, these binges are generally followed by guilt and shame.

