 Some symptoms of schizophrenia are more noticeable than others, but by getting a sense of even the symptoms you don't observe, you will have a better sense of what the person you are talking to may be going through. Signs of schizophrenia can include:


Unfounded expressions of suspicion.
Unusual or strange fears, such as saying someone wants to harm him/her.
Evidence of hallucinations, or changes in sensory experiences; for example: seeing, tasting, smelling, hearing, or feeling things that others at the same time and place, in that same situation, don’t experience.Disorganized writing or speech. Mismatching facts that don't relate to one another. Conclusions that don't follow the facts.
"Negative" symptoms (i.e., reductions of typical behavior or mental functioning) such as a lack of emotion (sometimes called anhedonia), no eye contact, no facial expressions, neglect of hygiene, or social withdrawal.
Unusual adornment, such as offbeat clothing, worn in a crooked, or otherwise inappropriate manner (one sleeve or pant leg rolled up for no apparent reason, mismatched colors, etc.).
Disorganized or abnormal motor behavior, such as putting one's body into weird postures, or engaging in pointless excessive/repeated movements such as buttoning/zipping up and down one's jacket.;
, Schizoid personality disorder is part of the schizophrenic spectrum of disorders — both disorders are characterized by difficulty in expressing emotion or making social connections; however, there are some notable differences. The person with schizoid personality disorder is in touch with reality and does not experience hallucinations or continual paranoia, and their conversational speech patterns are normal and easy to follow.A person with schizoid personality disorder develops and displays a preference for solitude, has little or no sexual desire, and may be confused by normal social cues and interactions.Though part of the schizophrenia spectrum, this is not schizophrenia, so the methods of relating described here for the person with schizophrenia won't apply to the individual with schizoid personality disorder.
 Even if the person displays symptoms of schizophrenia, don't automatically assume schizophrenia. You definitely don't want to get it wrong by deciding the individual has or does not have schizophrenia.


If you are unsure, try to ask friends and family of the individual in question.
Do so tactfully, by saying something like "I want to make sure I don't say the wrong thing or do something wrong, so I wanted to ask: does X have a mental disorder, perhaps schizophrenia? So sorry if I'm wrong, it's just that there were some of the symptoms, and I want to make sure I treat him respectfully."

, Once you have learned about the symptoms of schizophrenia, do your best to step into the shoes of the individual suffering from this debilitating disorder. Taking the person's perspective, by empathy or cognitive empathy, is a key factor in successful relationships because it helps one to be less judgmental, more patient, and allows a better sense of the other person's needs.Although it may be difficult to imagine some of the symptoms of schizophrenia, you can still imagine what it is like to be out of control of your own mind and possibly to not be aware of this loss of control or to not fully grasp the real situation.

