 Lazy eye is a term used to describe the medical condition called "amblyopia." Amblyopia is a condition that develops most often in children sometime before the age of seven. It starts with one eye being stronger than the other, and an automatic response in the child to use the stronger eye more than the weaker one (as the child gradually begins to favor the strong eye more and more). This leads to reduced vision in the weaker eye due to incomplete development of the visual pathway, which worsens over time (the longer the condition goes untreated).It is for this reason that diagnosing and treating amblyopia as soon as possible is key. The sooner it is recognized and dealt with, the better the outcome and the quicker the fix.There are usually no long-term consequences from amblyopia, especially when it is caught early and is a minor case (which the vast majority are).Note that, over time, as the "good eye" continues to get stronger in relationship to the "bad eye," the "bad eye" will begin to be misaligned. What this means is that when you look at your child, or when the doctor examines her, one eye (the "bad" one) may appear to be wandering off to one side, not focused on the object at hand, or somehow "not perfectly straight."
This misalignment is quite common with amblyopia and usually resolves with prompt recognition and treatment.;
, Since amblyopia is a condition diagnosed most commonly in children, if you suspect your child may have the condition it is best to see a physician as soon as possible. For the best chance of catching a case of lazy eye early, ensure that your child receives regular eye exams while she is young — some doctors recommend exams at six months, three years, and then every two years after that.Although the prognosis is typically best for young lazy eye sufferers, recent experimental procedures have shown promise for adult sufferers.Talk to your doctor or ophthalmologist to learn the latest treatment options available to you.
 For certain cases of lazy eye involving impaired vision in one eye and normal vision in the other eye, patching or covering the "good" eye may be required. Forcing the lazy eye sufferer to use his "bad" eye to see gradually strengthens the vision in that eye. Patches are most effective in patients younger than the age of seven or eight.The patch is typically worn between three to six hours per day for a period of time ranging from a few weeks to as long as a year.


A doctor may recommend that, while wearing a patch, the lazy eye sufferer concentrate on performing activities like reading, schoolwork, and other activities that force her to focus on up-close objects.
Patches may be used in conjunction with corrective eyewear.
 Medication— usually in the form of atropine eye drops —may be used to blur the vision of the good eye in order to force the weaker one to work. This treatment works according to the same principle as a patch treatment works by — forcing the "bad" eye to see gradually strengthens its vision.


Eye medication can be a good choice for children who are reluctant to wear an eye patch (and vice versa). However, eye drops may not be effective when the "good" eye is nearsighted.Atropine eye drops are sometimes associated with minor side effects, including:Eye irritation
Reddening of surrounding skin
Headaches



, Special glasses are commonly prescribed to improve the focus of of the eyes and correct misalignment. For certain cases of lazy eye, especially when nearsightedness, farsightedness, and/or astigmatism contribute to the condition, glasses can fix the problem entirely.In other cases, glasses may be used in conjunction with other treatments to fix lazy eye. Talk to your doctor or optometrist if you are interested in obtaining glasses for your lazy eye.


In children of a sufficient age, contact lenses may sometimes be used instead of glasses.
Note that, initially, people with lazy eye may find it more difficult to see when wearing their glasses. This is because they have become accustomed to their impaired vision and need time to gradually adjust to "normal" vision.

