 Buy a gift card for the online store you want to make your purchase from. You can find a big variety of gift cards at grocery stores or at the desired store itself, and most gift cards should be able to be used for online purchases.


If you can’t get a gift card for the specific store you want to buy from online, you can buy a Visa gift card, or other similar prepaid credit card, to use anywhere. Or try an Amazon gift card to buy anything from Amazon.com.
Remember that when ordering online, there will be tax, shipping, and handling charges added to the price, so the total will be higher than the listed price. If you want to avoid the extra cost of shipping and handling, try to get your purchase in person at a store. But keep in mind some websites like Amazon and Best Buy offer free shipping and handling on qualified items so check the policy on shipping and handling before buying the item on that site.
 Go online to where you want to purchase your item and enter all the information they ask for at checkout, including name and address. Enter the code on your gift card when they ask for your payment method. Don’t use a credit or debit card that your parents use to pay online, as the purchase will show up on bills and statements.


Make sure you enter an email address that only you have access to so that you get the confirmation email and any updates sent to you.
Avoid having your purchase shipped UPS or FedEx, as they will sometimes require a signature from an adult when it’s delivered. Choose regular mail such as USPS if you can.
Consider getting the permission of a friend to have your purchase sent to his or her house to avoid the chance of your parents seeing the package. In this case, enter the person who will receive the package for you name and address when ordering, but still use your email address.
 Go back to the website you made your purchase from or check the confirmation email sent to you for a link that says “Track your package,” or something similar. Continue to check the location of your package in this way so that you know when it will arrive at your house or a friend’s house.


If you’re not given the option to track your package, pay attention to what the online store says about how long shipping takes on average. Notice if they send an email when the item has shipped, and then it should arrive something like 7-10 days after that, or whatever range of time the store provides.
 Try to check the mail before your parents do every day during the time you expect the package to arrive. When you finally get it, slip it into a backpack or other bag you normally carry to bring it into the house and into your room.


Pay attention to what time the mail comes every day so you can be available at that time and ready to go out to check the mailbox or front step right away. You can even go talk to the mail carrier if you see him or her outside to ask if they have a package for you.
If the mail typically arrives while you’re at school or another activity, you may want to have your package sent to a friend or other person you trust to receive it and give it to you.

