 Often, a beginning smoker chooses lights or ultra lights. This is recommended as the nicotine content is usually in lower in light and ultra light cigarettes. Once you have a handle on how to smoke properly, try scaling yourself up to regulars. Many claim this will give you a better experiences because of the increased nicotine and fuller flavor. The only way to find out which brand you like the best is to try a variety. Experiment with it.Some of the most popular and highly rated brands include: Marlboro, Camel, Lucky Strike, Newport, and Pall Mall.Taste is somewhat subjective. You may find you dislike the taste of Marlboros but enjoy the taste of Camels. Therefore, you may have to try some trial and error before you find a brand of cigarette that's truly enjoyable for you.;
, If you find the taste of regular cigarettes harsh, consider switching to menthols. Menthol cigarettes contain a non-tobacco additive that creates a minty taste when inhaled. Most major brands of cigarettes, like Camels and Marlboros, carry a menthol variety.If you do not like mint-flavored foods and drinks, you are unlikely to like menthol cigarettes. They carry a very strong mint flavor.
If you've smoked regular cigarettes in the past, you may not like menthols. Many people who have acquired a taste for natural cigarettes strongly dislike menthols., Cloves are a common spice used in cooking and baking. Cloves can be infused with tobacco to create a flavored cigarette.If you dislike the taste of menthols and regular cigarettes, cloves can be a good in-between option. The added flavor can make them taste harsher than a regular cigarette. However, the taste is far more mild than the taste of a menthol.
Cloves can be very strong, so be careful when smoking them. As they can leave you somewhat lightheaded, it's not a good idea to smoke a clove when driving., If you're looking for a particular taste, there are a wide variety of flavored cigarettes on the market. Cigarettes come in flavors like cherry, chocolate, orange, mango, and so on. Flavoring is fairly self-explanatory. Cigarettes are designed to taste similar to the flavor on their label. Flavored cigarettes can be a good option if you dislike regular cigarettes but also dislike cloves and menthols., Most brands of cigarettes benefit from a good packing. Packing your cigarettes will "tighten" the tobacco, resulting in a slower burning cigarette. Before opening the plastic film around your pack of smokes, smack the pack filter-side down onto the heel of your palm rapidly for roughly 10 to 20 seconds., Some cigarettes, American Spirits, for example, are already packed with tobacco. American Spirit actually suggests unpacking their smokes by rolling the cigarette between your fingers, filter to end, so that a pinch or so of tobacco comes out. Clove cigarettes also shouldn't be packed., Bic dollar-lighters are cheap and work fine, but they do not give the same satisfaction as using a classic Zippo style lighter. Not only do the first drags of the cigarette taste different with a better lighter, but you will learn to love and cherish your lighter if it's of a higher quality.
 Hold the filter end of the cigarette to your lips. Light your lighter and hold the flame just bellow the end of the cigarette. Puff the cigarette by inhaling gently into your mouth. Do this until the whole end of the cigarette is glowing and lit. You can rotate the cigarette as you light it if it isn't evenly lit., When smoking, be sure that you are not rushed, that you will not be bothered, and that you are either alone or with people you like. This will allow you to enjoy your smoking time that much more, especially if you have smoker friends with you., When putting a cigarette up to your lips, it should not pass your teeth. There are many ways to get tobacco smoke into your lungs. The most common way to do this is to rid your mouth of air, put the lit cigarette up to your lips, then suck air into your mouth (not into your lungs), hold the smoke there for a second, then inhale normally, through your mouth, drawing the smoke (which has now cooled) into your lungs.When inhaling be sure to bring your tongue up to nearly touch the butt of the cigarette so that any smoke has to pass along your tongue. This will allow you to taste your cigarette, and allow you to understand the difference between good and bad cigarettes.
Some recommend wetting your lips with your tongue slightly before putting the cigarette to your mouth, so the cigarette doesn't stick to your lips., After inhaling, keep the smoke in your lungs for a short while then exhale. Smoking a cigarette is not like smoking marijuana; you will not get high from inhaling and waiting until you nearly pass out to exhale. Instead, breathe in normally lung capacity, hold it for a moment, then exhale., The cigarette should be ashed whenever the ashes get to the length of about a 1/4" inch or more. There's no precise length at which one should ash a cigarette, so use your best judgment. Ash the cigarette in an ashtray if available. To ash, tap the cigarette lightly on the ashtray, or if outside and not near an ashtray, shake the cigarette swiftly with your fingers.


Don't aggressively flick your ashes away., Once the cigarette is down to just before the filter, extinguish it. When outside, throw the butt down near you, and step on it, twisting your foot on top of it before removing your foot to ensure it has gone out completely. When putting a cigarette out in an ashtray, hold the cigarette vertically, lit end down. Push and grind the cigarette into the tray until there's no sign of glowing heat. Make sure to throw the cigarette in a trash can if outside. Do not leave it on the ground.Don't keep smoking the cigarette once it gets closer to 8mm to 12mm close to the filter. The smoke will get hot at that point.
 Hold the cigarette between your index and middle finger, somewhere on the filter. Exactly where to hold it depends on what's comfortable for you. Be wary of the lit end of your cigarette when holding it idly. It is considered bad etiquette to burn someone or something with your cigarette., If you have to point or gesture toward something while talking, you use your other hand. The hand holding the cigarette should be relatively still except when bringing the cigarette to and from your lips., If you're in someone's backyard, or in their car, don't light a cigarette without asking. If someone doesn't want you smoking on their property, be respectful of this., Don't throw cigarettes into trash cans without fully extinguishing them, as that's a fire hazard. Don't thoughtlessly throw finished cigarettes onto the ground. That is littering. Your finished cigarette should be extinguished into an ashtray or hard surface, and then thrown away.