 Take any size piece of paper and fold it in half to make your card. Of course, you can make the card as big or small as you want and fold it to open sideways or flip up. Decorate the front and inside of your card however you wish. Add bows or glitter to make it original.When you decorate the inside, plan how many flowers you want, how large you want them, and where you want them.
 Once you’ve decorated your card, open it and use a pen to mark with an X where you plan to place your pop up flowers. This will give you a final number of how many you need to make. Once you mark the spots, put your card in a safe place so that you can make your flowers.
 Using colorful paper, outline as many flowers as you had X’s on your card. You can make them all the same kind and color or you can vary them. Try cutting out two flowers and gluing them together. Rather than gluing them directly on top of one another, twist one so that the petals from the bottom are seen in between the petals of the other.The size of your flowers and the length of your springs depends on how much wobble you want the flowers to have. Larger flowers will be heavier and flop around more, while smaller flowers will stay in place easier. Make sure you aren't obstructing your text with overly large flowers.
The easiest flower to draw will have four to five petals and you can easily draw one by placing a small circular item on your paper (a penny is a good starting point). Next, simply trace a bubbled outline around the circle to make your flower.
 Now that you have all of your flowers cut out, you can decorate them. Use glitter, markers, or chalk to add fun to the future pop up flowers for your card. To make them 3D, you can fold the petals to give them some structure. Simply crease the petals down the middle so that the petals stand up.
 There are 2 methods for this. For one, cut strips of construction paper three inches long and the width of your flowers. Cut as many strips as you have flowers. Take a strip and fold ½” up. Keep this fold and make a second fold by going the opposite way. This will create a Z shape, with one strip longer than the other. Repeat this back and forth fold all the way up your strip of paper. Notice that it creates a spring.Alternately, you can cut strips an inch or two longer, and fold them like an accordion. This will really make your flowers pop.
 If you’ve added glitter, glue, or anything else to your card that needs time to adhere, wait for it to dry before you add your flowers. This way you can move your card freely to place your flowers where you want.
 Rubber cement will hold your springs the best, but standard glue will work as well.Place a drop of adhesive on your X and place the bottom fold of your spring on it. Hold it in place for a few seconds. Repeat with all of your X’s and springs.
 Now that you’ve glued your springs to your card, place a drop of adhesive to the top flap of a spring. Using both hands, place one of your flowers on this spring. Pinch the top flap of your spring and your flower together to ensure it sticks.
 Once the springs and flowers have dried, carefully close your card. When you do so, it will squish the flowers to the card. When it is opened again, the flowers will pop up.

