 Decide whether you want to host the party at your home or at a different venue. Ideally, you should pick a location that fits with the luau theme. Pools, plentiful outdoor space, and BBQ areas help create a breezy luau vibe. If you want to host your party at a pool but don’t have one at home, community clubhouses and parks often have pools, and can usually be reserved for a reasonable fee.If your child is under five, it may be better to hold the party at home. New environments can easily overwhelm younger children.;
, If you are hosting the party outside, take weather into account. The party date will probably be too far in advance to check the forecast, but consider the time of day. If you live in an area where it rains every afternoon in the summer, host the party in the evening.

If you are afraid a rainshower might spoil your outdoor luau, it’s a good idea to plan some indoor-friendly party activities just in case.
 Pick bright, tropical colors to play into the luau theme! Lime green, turquoise, bright orange, and hot pink are all great options. You can go for a rainbow scheme, or opt for more specific tropical colors. Your color scheme will help you select decorations that match.For example, you might want to focus on pinks and oranges, or greens and blues.
When selecting a color scheme, consult your child or think about their favorite colors.
 Leis are colorful Hawaiian necklaces made of flowers, and sometimes shells, seeds, and feathers. They are a symbol of affection and are often worn at celebrations.Spread the luau spirit by purchasing plastic or fabric leis in bulk from you local party supply store.Leis can double as a decoration and a party favor! Hang leis on tables and chairs for an instant luau feel, and give leis to kids as they arrive so everyone looks festive!

, Bright flowers and green plants create a tropical Hawaiian atmosphere. Depending on your budget and preferences, you can purchase live plants or synthetic ones. Put the plants on counters, chairs, and tables to turn your home or pool deck into a Hawaiian getaway., A bowl of assorted tropical fruits makes a beautiful centerpiece, and can double as a party snack! Try coconut, kiwi, lime, mangoes, and citrus fruits., Grass table skirts can completely transform your tables. Simply attach the skirt to the rim of your table according to the directions on the package. Many skirts have an adhesive backing. You can purchase grass table skirts at your local party supply store., To have a party, you’ll need to invite your child’s friends! Parents should make the guest list for kids under 4. Think about family friends and friends from school who you’d like to invite. Children over 4 should probably be given a say in making the guest list., You can buy luau-themed invitations from your local party store, or you can try your hand at making them! Depending on the size of your guest list, making invitations may not be feasible.Invitations should include the time, date, and location of the party. Don’t forget to mention any special details! For your luau-themed party, you might want to direct children to bring their swimsuits.
 Go for colorful, tropical invitations decorated with flip flops, flowers, or ocean waves. If you are buying your invitations, consider using Hawaiian postcards.

If you decide on homemade invitations, flip-flop-shaped invitations made from construction paper are a cute, easy option. Print the invitation text on colored cardstock, then trace and cut out a flip-flop shape. You can find stencils online and print them. Glue on a silk flower for extra flair.The possibilities are limitless. You could make flower-shaped invitations, or even attach invitations to a lei! Visit party planning websites or blogs for more ideas., You should give the guests enough time to plan ahead, but not so much time that they forget about the event. Send out invitations at least two weeks, but no more than four weeks, before your party., You can cook the food for your party, or hire a catering service. If you have a large number of people attending your party, cooking may not be feasible. On the other hand, if you are not planning to serve a lot of food or the party is small, cooking can be a fun and cost effective option., Do you want to serve a full meal at your luau party, or would you rather serve only snacks? It’s entirely up to you. For shorter parties, cake and ice cream may be the only refreshment needed., The food at your Hawaiian luau-themed party doesn't need to be completely authentic. Hawaiian food is full of fruity and tropical flavors, so focus on incorporating those into traditional party foods.Try a tropical fruit salad, mango ice cream, or pineapple salsa and chips!

, A roast pig, or Kalua pua'a, is the central dish of the traditional Hawaiian Luau. It is usually seasoned with sea salt and green onions, and baked in an underground oven.Roasting an entire pig is probably a little ambitious for a children’s party, especially since kids are picky eaters, but you can opt for easier, party-friendly pork dishes inspired by the traditional Hawaiian dish.


Serve a ham baked with pineapple rings, or pulled pork sandwiches on Hawaiian sweet buns. You could even order a Hawaiian pizza for extra picky eaters!

, Whether you are making the food are having the party catered, finger foods are great options for a luau party, where kids will likely be grabbing food quickly as they play. Plus, you’ll save on plastic cutlery.

Kabobs are easy and tropical. Try making fruit kabobs or ham and pineapple kabobs.Pizza and sandwiches are simple and versatile.
Ocean-themed candy and snacks go well with a Hawaiian luau party, and are easy to buy in bulk! Try Swedish Fish candy or Goldfish crackers., Cold drinks are luau must-have, especially if you are hosting the party outside on a hot day. Stock up on water, but consider serving other beverages as well, especially ones fruity ones! Fruit smoothies and juices are great.

Garnish your beverages with slices of oranges, paper umbrellas, and colorful straws.Look online for tons of fun non-alcoholic drink recipes. You might even want to serve some tropical cocktails for your fellow parents.You may want to set up a “bar,” where kids and adults alike can go to get fruity drinks!

, For many kids, the cake is the focal point of the party.Buy or bake a cake that fits with the luau theme. It should be colorful and beachy. Cakes shaped like flip-flops, fish, or sand castles are sure to delight partygoers.

When buying a cake, consider allergies and the number of guests. You may need to buy 2 cakes for especially large luaus!

, The activities you plan for your party should depend on the average age of the children attending. For younger kids, you should plan simpler activities, and if you’re hiring performers, keep the performances short.If you are hosting your party at a pool, the water may provide all the entertainment you need, particularly for younger children.
 Planning the party activities for your luau party can be simple: just tweak classic party games to fit the theme.

Play hot potato using a tropical fruit, like a mango or a coconut, as the "hot potato." Or, play ring toss using leis as rings. Have players try to loop the leis around mini tiki torches.Buy a beachy pinata that fits with the luau theme, and fill it with tropical candy, like fruit gummies, Swedish fish, and citrus-flavored starbursts. Blindfold each child, and let him or her take a swing at breaking it open!

, Hula is a traditional Hawaiian dance, and is considered one of Hawaii’s oldest traditions.Turn on some Hawaiian music and have a dance contest, or hire a hula instructor to teach the kids.

Consider providing hula skirts so kids can wear them as they dance. These can double as party favors!

, Limbo is a classic island game in which participants bend backwards and dip under a bar without touching it. Those who touch the bar are “out.”The bar moves lower and lower, and the last player standing wins. This fun party game requires minimal supplies. Just turn on some Hawaiian tunes, find a limbo stick, and play!No need to buy a limbo stick--a broomstick works just fine.
 A hula hoop competition is a simple and fun luau party activity for older kids. Have the kids compete to see who can hula hoop the longest, and don’t forget to play Hawaiian music., Lei-making is a simple craft that even preschool-aged children can do with a little help from their parents. Provide string and assorted fabric flowers with holes punched in the middle. Kids can select their favorite flowers and string them together to make custom leis.If you want, you can purchase beads and shells for kids to add to their leis.
You can let older children use construction paper to cut out their own flower designs. Provide a few different flower stencils and let them get creative.Kids can take these DIY leis home as party favors!

