 There are some online databases that may help you narrow down your therapist search. The American Psychological Association has an online locator that lets you search for a therapist by specialization, gender, insurance accepted, geographical area, languages spoken, cultural background, and sexual orientation.The locator's specialization option will help you find a therapist for the mental health issues for which you are seeking treatment, such as domestic abuse, depression, body dysmorphic disorder, anorexia, or trauma related issues.
 There are certain therapists who specialize in anxiety and depression, which will be the best kind of therapist if you suffer from these disorders. The Anxiety and Depressions Association of America has a directory that will allow you to look for therapists that specialize in these mental health issues.


You can search geographically as well as by type of issue you have, such as agoraphobia, bipolar disorder, or generalized anxiety disorder., If you suffer from stress-related issues, such as post-traumatic stress disorder or issues related to trauma or natural disasters, you can look for a therapist specifically trained in that area. The International Society of Traumatic Stress Studies has an online search engine that will help you find a therapist in your area.


You can also narrow it down by languages spoken, issues the therapists covers, or the age group the therapist works with., There are many different organizations that offer help if you are at risk for suicide. The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline has a collection of therapy services that vary depending on whether you are a suicide survivor or just thinking about it.There is also a hotline you can call 24/7 at 1-800-273-8255. If you are outside the US, look here for a number to help you.
 The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) put together an online locator for services that help with substance abuse. The locator uses your geographical location to find you help in your area.


This organization also helps you find help for specific substance abuse problems, such as pain relievers, heroine, or alcohol., If you believe that your mental health issue would benefit from behavioral and cognitive therapy, there is a directory put together by the Association of Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies that will help you find one in your area.


Cognitive behavior therapy is a type of short-term, goal-oriented treatment, generally between six and 22 sessions, that helps teach you certain skills that will help you change your behavior to improve your mental health.