 Making milk chocolate is very similar to making dark chocolate. The major difference is that milk chocolate incorporates milk powder. When you make milk chocolate, you don’t just have to make chips. You can also use it to make chocolate bars, sauces, and other yummy treats. To make milk chocolate chips, you'll need your ingredients, plus:


A double boiler or metal bowl and saucepan
Metal spoon
Whisk
Parchment-lined baking sheet
Pasty bag with a small circle tip
Toothpick

, You can also cut the cocoa butter into small chunks. Place the cocoa butter into a double boiler over medium heat. You can also use a bowl set on top of a saucepan filled with one inch (2.5 cm) of water over medium heat. Stir with a metal spoon until the cocoa butter melts.Make sure the bowl isn't touching the water to avoid burning the chocolate. If the bottom of the bowl is touching the water, remove the bowl and pour out some water.
 Add the pinch of salt, followed by the cocoa powder. Stir to combine, then add the sugar and stir. When that is all incorporated, add the milk powder and stir until everything is mixed together.


Once the ingredients are fully incorporated, whisk the chocolate vigorously until it becomes glossy.
It’s important to use powdered milk when making chocolate instead of liquid milk. Milk contains a lot of water, and water causes chocolate to seize, meaning it clumps up into a chunky mess., Spoon or pour the chocolate into the pastry bag fitted with the circle tip. Dab pea-sized dots of chocolate onto the parchment-lined baking sheet. While the chocolate is still warm, dab a toothpick into the center of each chip and lift to create a peak in the middle.If you don’t have a pastry bag, use a freezer bag. Fill the bag with the chocolate and use scissors to snip off a small hole in one of the bottom corners. Push the chocolate out of the hole like you would with a pastry bag.
When you’ve finished piping out the chips, set them aside to cool to room temperature. When they're cool, transfer them to an air-tight container.
