 The amount of wax that you’ll need for the candles depends on the size of the jars you’re using and how many candles you plan to make. For four 8-ounce (227 g) candles, you’ll need approximately 6 cups (1419 g) of wax flakes.You can use whatever type of wax you like for the candles, but soy wax tends to absorb fragrance better than beeswax or other waxes.;
, Once you’ve measured out the necessary wax for the candles, place the flakes in a medium size pot on the stove. Turn the burner to medium-low, and allow the wax to melt completely, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.Wax can ignite fairly easily, so watch the pot closely as the wax melts.
Be sure to stir the wax with a wooden spoon or chop stick, while it’s heating to break up clumps and ensure that it melts evenly.
If you find that it’s taking longer than 5 minutes or so for the wax to melt, turn the heat up to medium.
 After the wax has melted completely, remove the pan from the burner. The wax will be too hot to scent right away, so allow it to cool for 2 to 3 minutes.The wax will cool more quickly if you transfer it from the pan to a cool bowl or other container.
 While you’re waiting for the wax to cool, it’s a good idea to get the wicks ready in the jars. Place a small dab of glue from a hot glue gun on the bottom of the wick, and drop it down into the center of the jar. Allow the glue to set for several minutes before pouring the hot wax into the jar.If you don’t have a hot glue gun, you can also dab the bottom of the wicks with a small amount of melted wax, drop it down into the jar, and allow it to set for several minutes. Wax usually isn’t as secure as hot glue, though, because it may melt again when you pour the hot wax in.
 While securing the wick to the bottom of the jar helps keep it in place, the length of the wick may fall into the hot wax when you pour it into the container. To keep that from happening, tape the end of the wick to a chopstick or pen. When the wick is taped to it, rest the chopstick or pen across the top of the jar., Once the wax has cooled for a couple of minutes, it’s time to add essential oil(s) to it to create an aromatherapy effect. The amount of essential oil depends on how potent the oil(s) you’re using are and how strongly scented you want your candles to be, but 80 to 100 drops is a  good number to start with. Stir the oil(s) into the wax well to ensure that it’s well combined.If you want extremely fragrant candles, you may want to add more than 100 drops. Experiment to see what the right amount is.
You can use a single oil or mix two or more types of essential oils to create custom scents for your candles.
You can also purchase fragrance oils designed specifically for making candles. They come in a wide variety of scents, including specialty fragrances, such as Christmas Cookie or Fresh Cut Grass.
 The hot wax can sometimes splash up the sides of the jar when you pour it in. To avoid a mess, place a small funnel in jar, and pour the wax through it into the jar. Fill each jar in the same way.Depending on the size of the jars and how much you fill them, you may have some wax left over. To dispose of it, wait for it to solidify and then scrape it out of the pot or bowl. Never pour hot wax down the sink -- you’ll wind up clogging your pipes.
 Once all of the jars are filled with wax, you have to wait for the wax to cool completely before you can light the candles. As the wax cools, it will solidify, which should take approximately 1 hour.You can tell that the candles are finished cooling when the wax becomes fully opaque.
 When the candles are completely cool, remove the end of the wick from the chop stick or pen and use a pair of scissors to trim it to your desired length. In most cases, a ½-inch (1.27-cm) wick is sufficient. Light the candle and enjoy the scent that you’ve created.In addition to making candles for yourself, these homemade aromatherapy candles make ideal handmade gifts. You can customize the scent for each recipient for a lovely, personalized present.

