 Seek out friends and acquaintances from diverse racial, cultural, and religious backgrounds. You’ll be less likely to be influenced by racist ideas if you know and respect people of other races in your personal life.As you develop close friendships with people, you can ask them about their experiences with racism to gain new perspectives on it. Listen carefully and don’t dispute them when they share their experiences.
Be aware, however, that having friends of other races isn’t enough by itself to prevent you from being racist. If your friends of color do not speak with you about racism, then you have acquaintances and not friends.
 Instead of making judgments about others, cultivate a sense of curiosity about what their lives are like. Ask questions and keep an open mind about the answers you get.Be polite when you ask questions. Don’t ask anything too personal, unless you already know the person well.
For example, you might say, "I noticed the unique pattern on your scarf. Does that represent your cultural background? I'd love to know more about it."

, Instead of assuming that you could never understand someone, try putting yourself in their shoes. Imagine what it would be like to live their life. Look for similarities between your own experience and theirs.Empathizing is especially effective when you combine it with curiosity. You’ll probably find that you have a lot in common with others, regardless of race.
 Don’t try to pretend race doesn’t exist, or it will become the elephant in the room. Avoid claiming that you’re color-blind. Race often has a profound impact on a person’s life, and it’s important – not racist – to acknowledge this.Acknowledge and celebrate the differences that you have with other people and speak openly about the richness that diversity brings.


Telling someone that you don’t think of them as being part of a minority group is often insulting and hurtful, even if you don’t mean it that way. It implies that you think they are somehow “better” than other members of their group, and it dismisses the unique problems they may face as a minority.
 When you’re in the wrong, swallow your pride and admit it. Ask the person you hurt to forgive you, and let them know that you won’t make the mistake again.For instance, say something like, “Anthony, I’m really sorry that I made that racist joke last week. I didn’t realize that it would hurt your feelings, but now I see why jokes like that aren’t funny.”
Don’t expect your relationship with the person to go back to normal immediately. It may take some time for them to trust you again.

