 Any designated cross country skiing area should have smooth, groomed trails, often with two tracks to slot your skis into. This is the best way to learn cross country skiing. Skiing off the trails, or "back country" skiing, requires significantly more effort, and is only recommended once you are comfortable on the trails, and have a heavy-duty pair of skis.If you are not at a prepared skiing area, pick a flat area of powdery snow with no obstacles.;
, Stand on flat ground with your skis parallel to each other. Bend forward at the ankles, and slightly at your knees. Keep your torso straight, not bending at the hips.This position helps keep you balanced, with your weight over your feet.
 Scoot one ski at a time slightly forward, getting a feel for the amount of force you can apply without losing your balance or bending above the hips.


It takes significant leg strength to turn this shuffling motion into the "kick and glide" motion described below. Many recreational skiers prefer to only use this shuffling technique of moving forward., Every skier falls, so learn the correct way to get up early on in your practice. Set the poles aside after a fall. Adjust your skis so they are parallel to each other, rolling onto your back if necessary to get them untangled. Place the skis onto the snow, to one side of your body, and crawl forward until your feet are behind you. Kneel on top of the skis, and use your poles to push yourself up.If you fall on a hillside, raise your skis in the air and bring them down on the slope below you to get in a more stable position. Crawl to a flat area before you stand up. Keep the skis to one side as you crawl, not directly beneath you, or your weight could push them down the hill.
 Leave your ski poles aside for the moment, so you can practice this new motion without relying on your arm strength. Push your right foot down into the snow to get moving, swinging your right arm forward and your left arm back. Immediately shift your weight over your left ski and raise your right ski slightly above the track, gliding forward with your right ski trailing behind you. Return your right foot beneath you, then push off with your left foot and glide on your right ski. Alternate between feet to continue moving. Try to find a rhythm where your legs alternate in even strides as your hips adjust your weight from side to side.


Push down into the snow with a slightly forward stride, not with a backward kick.Relax your body while you are gliding, keeping your weight slightly forward to keep your momentum.
This can be exhausting and difficult for a beginning skier. If you get tired, take a break or return to the shuffling motion for a while.
 Once the "kick and glide" movement forward feels a little more automatic, pick up the ski poles. Immediately after you kick forward with your right foot, and shift your weight to your left foot, plant your left pole angled backwards and push with it to give your glide extra momentum. Use your right pole to give yourself momentum after a left kick.Plant each pole close to your body, barely extending your arms forward., Practice the "herringbone" method of stepping up hills. Point your toes outward to make a "V" shape with the skis behind you, then roll your ankles slightly inward to push the edge of the skis into the snow for a firmer grip.Lift one ski completely off the ground and step forward. Maintain your balance with the ski pole on the same side as the ski with which you are stepping. Alternate with the ski and pole on the other side.
 As a beginner, only glide down gently sloped hills that contain tracks for your skis. Lean further forward over your skis when gliding downhill to avoid falling backward.If you are not comfortable gliding down a particular hill, point the toes of your skis inward in front of you, and angle them so the edge closest to you is digging into the snow.Step down in small steps, keeping your weight back above your feet.


If you need to stop suddenly halfway down a slope, crouch low to the ground and lean backward, letting your skis slide out from under you. Hold your poles out of the way behind you, where you won't run over them or fall on top of them.

