 Stay sweet, relaxed, cool in every situation, and be polite. Try not to gossip, interrupt, or curse. Speak to everybody, treat them well and don't notice the "cliques". Choose your friends wisely though (not everyone likes kinder people). Treat adults like how you should treat them. Most importantly, be yourself, you want everyone to know the real you because every girl (wealthy or not) has different personalities from one another.;
, Remember not to sacrifice comfort though! Wealthy people tend to wear very nice clothes only because they can afford the high-quality. Your garments should be freshly washed and not controversial (i.e. involving politics, racism, etc.). And wear what you like, feel yourself in, and want. You want to be happy and feel yourself in every outfit you choose to put on, and not pressured into what the others wear. Every girl (rich or not) has a style of their own!


Most rich girls look preppy, so you can dress that way if you want. Wear Lacoste polos, Tommy Hilfiger sweaters, Chloé blouses, Acne clothes, Herve Leger dresses, Levi's, Acne, Calvin Klein jeans, and Burberry scarves.
If you're not into the "preppy" style, just wear what you like. Hollister, American Eagle Outfitters, Abercrombie and Fitch, PINK by Victoria's Secret, Wet Seal, Target, H&M, J. Crew, Express, and Forever 21 are all totally cool to wear. The trick is to just make your clothes look more expensive than they are (by using accessories, layering, making small changes, etc.).
To get an idea on attires: Jeans, chinos, good quality basic shirts, different patterned pants, boots, blouses, flirty dresses (to parties), cardigans, blouses, layered shirts, sweaters, sandals, skirts, and sweatshirts from well-known quality schools (Harvard, Naval Academy, West Point, etc.) are what many casual children from wealthy families wear.
 Ideally, one for formal occasions and one for everyday use. Louis Vuitton (Speedy 30 is a very classy, chic and elegant model, and the damier pattern is fabulous one), Chloé (Paddington is also a chic model), Mulberry (Alexa in light or dark brown, Mitzy Tote in camel is also very chic) or a Chanel 2.55 in black, it suits for most occasions). If you cannot afford it, buy a cheaper one, like GANT, Hilfiger, HM, or you can buy one from Forever 21. Try to avoid buying purses with unreal designs. If money is an issue, buying bags in a similar, "inspired by" style is fine. If you do choose to wear unauthentic designer wear, be prepared to tell the truth. Any avid bag lover can spot the difference depending on the quality of the knockoff. Not all rich girls wear 700 dollar bags.
 During the day, you can use a light foundation, neutral eye shadow, lip-gloss, black or brown mascara, bronzer, blush and, if you want, black or brown pencil eyeliner. If you're going to a party, you can use darker or glittery eye makeup. Don't get too many piercings. If you do, get them only on your ears. Take showers every day and make sure you have a clean skin. If you don't buy a product for clear skin.
 Wear your hair down, or up, but don't mess with it most of the time. It's okay to use a gel or spray, just make sure to take care of it.


Wash your hair every two or three days with a good shampoo and conditioner for your hair type. Hair care shouldn't be costly, as some great drugstore brands include Herbal Essences, Aussie, Dove, Infusium, Organix, Pantene, Garnier, and Très Semme. Condition every time you shampoo, and leave the conditioner in for about a minute for very soft and frizz-free hair.
Try different styles on special occasions like curling, straightening, a chignon, or braided bun.
 Well, it would be good to have good-looking and good-mannered parents. However, if nothing else, you should just seem as if you were well-disciplined when you were younger, and be respectful to them.


Try to convince your mother to dress pretty and elegantly. Some good wardrobe basics would be Louis Vuitton, Michael Kors, Chanel, Banana Republic, Talbots, Vineyard Vines, Bottega Veneta, Mulberry or Chloè  handbag, a Burberry or Hermès scarf, a little black dress, and a pair of pearls or diamonds.
Try to convince your dad to dress well. Some good choices would be Lacoste/ Tommy Hilfiger/ Polo Ralph Lauren/ Calvin Klein/ Nautica polos and 2 or 3 Pierre Cardin jackets. An Armani suit would also be good. If convincing doesn't work, just ask him to look clean, comfortable and classy.
 Just make sure that your house looks clean and classy. Most rich families have a maid to come over to their house once a week or two and help them with the chores, but you can probably keep your house clean yourself. Just try to keep your home cozy, nice-looking, and clean.


You can buy small things to decorate your house, like a beautiful vase, placemats, silk pillows, pictures (of family or artwork), scented candles, or pretty lamps to ensure that it looks good and cozy. You should consider painting artwork yourself, and ask to put them on a wall.
 Don't be afraid to go out with your parents sometimes. Ask them to go to a classy restaurant once in a while. Visit with them galleries and events, where you'll be dressed beautifully. Also, be the one friend who invites others to the mall, beach, restaurant, etc. Most rich girls have a huge schedule, almost everyday doing something with friends or extra-curricular.
 Most rich girls show their passion through music, painting, dance, or sports. But whatever you're talented at, classically know you've got it, and make practicing part of your daily basis.


The piano, violin, and guitar are very common instruments to play.
Most rich girls play tennis. Horseback riding, soccer, basketball, cheer, volleyball, crew, and lacrosse are other sports rich girls often go in for.
 Be a good student (go for As and Bs and be nice to the teachers/staff), but that does not mean you have to be a nerd. Just get good grades and show others you actually aim to get a good future.
 Be a friendly, sweet and loyal friend. Develop social skills, have a social life, be charming, and never gossip. People will automatically trust you and love you!

, Rich people are, well, just people, and they know it. When they go shopping, even they are the ones who say about a $40 flimsy sweater, "That's really overpriced". Keep a low-profile when it comes to clothes or houses. Rich people are more humble than they seem.

