 If your main parachute malfunctions or fails to open and your reserve chute also doesn't work, it's natural to think the worst and prepare for death. However, it's imperative that you keep your wits about you so that you can plan how and where you fall to increase your chance of survival. Concentrate each incremental step that you'll have to take in order to increase your chances of survival.Regulate your breathing and clear your mind as you're falling. Inhale deeply through your nose and out of your mouth., Emulate the skydiver pose and try to get as flat as possible horizontally so that you can reduce your speed. The front of your body should be facing the ground and your arms should be raised above your head so that you achieve the most drag that you can in your situation. Arch your head and back upward.
 Tree branches or snow can help absorb your impact and slow your descent before you make contact with the hard ground. Avoid hard objects like concrete, buildings, or flat fields. Aim for hilly areas as the decline can help absorb some of the impact as you fall.Steer left or right by lowering your elbow and leaning into the direction that you want to turn. To move backward, bend your knees and push your arms forward. To move forward, straighten your legs and put your arms to your sides., As you approach the ground, you want to adjust yourself, so you land on your feet. Put your feet together with your heels up and pointed towards the ground. Flex both your knees and hips and prepare for an intense impact., If you are freefalling over a body of water and can't aim towards a marshy or wooded area, you must tighten your body and fall feet first. Fall straight with your hands to your sides and your feet close together., Make contact to the ground in the skydiver's landing stance, with your feet pointed towards the ground and your heels up. Landing on your feet can help your legs can absorb some of the impact from the fall. While you may injure your legs or hips, landing on your feet may prevent other vital organs from being damaged as well.
 Hitting your head or spinal cord could result in a life-threatening injury. Hitting the ground with your feet and rolling forward as if you were doing a somersault may help you absorb some of the impact. Protect the top and back of your head by using your hands and arms to cover your neck. Bend your neck forward and tuck in your chin to help protect the back of your head.