 Look through your powder eye shadows and blushes to find one or more shades that is similar to the lip color that you have in mind. However, it’s important to make sure that the eye shadow and/or blush is safe to use on your lips.It’s usually best to use mineral makeup for mixing up a custom color with eyeshadow and blush because they’re often made with all-natural ingredients.
 After you’ve found the powder product(s) in the right shade, take a clear lip gloss or balm and use a lip brush, small metal spatula, or cotton swab to mix some of the powder(s) into it. Blend until the powder is completely blended into the clear lip product.If you’re making the lip color for one-time use, you can mix the powder and lip product on the back of your hand, a makeup palette, or a plastic plate or dish. If you want to make a lip color to use in the future, mix the two in a small plastic pot or a metal makeup pan.
It’s easiest to use loose powder eye shadows and blushes to mix into the lip gloss or balm because you can just sprinkle them in. If you’re using a pressed shadow or blush, you’ll need to use a butter knife or nail file to scrape some out of the pan.
If you’re mixing the powder product with a clear lip gloss, it’s easiest to use one that comes in a squeeze tube because you can squeeze out the amount you need. If you’re using a gloss that comes in a tube with a doe foot applicator, wipe the excess product off the applicator onto your palette or into your container or on the back of your hand.
If you’re mixing the powder product with a clear lip balm, it’s easiest to use a formula that comes in a pot so you can just scoop out the amount you need. If you’re using a balm that comes in stick form, you’ll need to use a butter knife or nail file to scrape off some of the balm from the stick.
 Once the powder product is fully mixed into your clear lip product, use your finger or a lip brush to test the color on the back of your hand. If you’re happy with the shade, you can apply it to your lips. If the color isn’t exactly what you want, mix in a little more of one or more of the powder products to tweak it.A custom lip color made with a clear gloss or balm will be on the sheer side. You’ll have to layer on the color if you want it be more opaque.

