 Is there anyone who is talking to you more than normal or looking at you in a flirty way? Is there someone who acts awkward around you but looks like they're trying to hide it?


Try to notice whether anyone has been staring in your direction a lot. If so, pay a little bit more attention to them. Look into their eyes and give a sly smile. If this person shows any more signs of attraction, he or she might be your admirer.
 Create a web of information to help you find your secret admirer more quickly. Reach out to your friends for help, and see if they can give you any clues. Even if they don't outright know who your admirer is, they might have heard some gossip that points you in the right direction. Be careful who you tell about your secret admirer—some friends might take the opportunity to give you unreliable information, to gossip about your situation, or even to forge "secret admirer" notes of their own.


If someone left a note or delivery at your doorstep, ask your neighbors if they saw the deliverer. If so, ask for the deliverer's physical appearance.
 If you think you have found your secret admirer, the surest way to know is to ask. It may be better to ask and be wrong than to not ask and never know. Keep in mind that if your admirer is keeping her identity a secret, she is probably shy about talking to you directly. Don't confront this person loudly, in public. Be gentle, tactful, and open-minded.


Look at their eyes when you ask. See if you can spot any visible changes. Do you see the person's pupils getting smaller? Any signs of blushing or flushing, or the maybe-admirer moving his or her head back slightly?
If the person repeatedly denies that they are your secret admirer, then they're probably telling the truth. Do not push them. Keep looking.
 You don't need to flat-out ask "Do you like me?" Try something more subtle, like "I've been finding these really sweet notes in my locker this week, with the most beautiful drawings on them. Do you know anything about that?" Try asking your suspected admirer questions, face-to-face, that might reveal him or her as your admirer. If your admirer added you on social media, ask the suspect whether he or she uses that site. If your secret admirer draws you pictures, ask the suspect whether he or she likes to draw.
 Consider why your admirer chose to keep his or her identity a secret. Your secret admirer may be hiding their identity because they are not free to admire you openly. They could be shy, they could have strict parents, or they could be in another relationship that they are not prepared to risk ruining. It's okay to confront your admirer, but you may not want to be to be too forward. If you are patient, your admirer might reveal his or her identity to you.


Consider whether you really want to know. Deep down, maybe you want them to remain secret so as not to burst the bubble. Sometimes it can be reassuring to have a secret admirer in the background.
 Once you have found your secret admirer, there may be a bit of tension. Your admirer has made his or her feelings clear, so now it's your turn to reveal whether or not you feel the same way. If you like your admirer, get to know each other. Consider asking them out or waiting for them to ask you out. If you are not interested, you will need to be clear about your feelings so that your admirer knows it's time to back off.


If your secret admirer is not who you had hoped, be kind and turn them down gently. They will probably admire you even more for your honesty. Be direct and straightforward. Don't play with their emotions.
 Maybe you will find your secret admirer, you'll fall in love, and you'll live happily ever after. Right now, however, you don't know anything about them. Your secret admirer might be someone that you don't want to get involved with. He or she might even be your friend or sibling playing a prank! Do your best to find your secret admirer, but don't take it too seriously until you know who you're dealing with.


If you are patient, there's a good chance that your secret admirer will get over the shyness and reveal him or herself. You may be the object of their affection, but that doesn't mean that you're obligated to go seek them out.
Try to not to build up a fantasy in your head. Your admirer could be anyone, and you don't want to get your feelings hurt if he or she doesn't turn out to be the person you expect.

