 There are five areas FICO considers when calculating your credit score, and each is weighted differently. The importance of each areas is approximately:Payment History — 35%. The most important factor in your credit score is whether or not you have a good track record of paying your debts on time.
Amounts Owed — 30%. This examines how much you currently owe. Owing money isn't automatically a bad thing; FICO will examine how much credit you have available and how much of it you are currently using.
Length of Credit History — 15%. A young person with no credit will likely have a low score here, but this can be balanced out by having high scores in other areas. Generally, a longer credit history will give you a higher score in this area.
New Credit — 10%. If you have opened several new accounts over a short period of time, especially if you have a short credit history, this can lower your score.
Type of Credit Used — 10%. This area examines your retail, installment loans (such as auto payments), mortgages, and credit cards. Your score will be higher if you show you have a good, balanced mix of credit.
 Your credit has a direct impact on whether or not you are eligible for a loan, as well the amount of interest charged on the loan. Lenders will examine your credit score to determine if you are a good risk and likely to actually repay the loan.To get a loan and good terms, you'll want a good credit score. If you have a bad credit score, see what you can do to improve your credit before taking out a loan.
 There are three credit bureaus lenders may use to check your credit score — TransUnion, Equifax and Experian — and they will provide you with a free copy of your credit report once a year. Your credit report is used to calculate your credit score, so it is essential that you check your report for any errors. Note that credit bureaus may use different versions of the FICO score, so you should check all three reports yearly.


Order your credit report from annualcreditreport.com. Keep in mind you will be provided with a free copy of your credit reports, not credit scores. You will almost always have to pay a small fee to find out your actual score.
 If you do find a mistake on your credit report — perhaps you paid off a loan but it is showing up on your report as unpaid — you will need to make sure these errors are corrected. Start by reaching out to the vendor who reported the incorrect information and ask them to correct the error. Contact the credit bureau as well, providing copies of any evidence proving they have incorrect information. The bureaus are required to investigate your claim within 30 days.If possible, communicate with everyone via mail, keeping copies of any correspondence as proof.

