 You can either hang the picture or you can set it on the floor, if it is big enough. This offers a good alternative to painting or wallpapering, but still makes the wall more interesting.You could also do this with a large mirror.
Be careful if you choose to hang the picture! Some walls may not be able to support the weight, if it is heavy.
 Choose photos that you like of varying sizes, and put them in frames. Hang the photos in the center of the wall.The photos can be of anything you like. It could be family photos, vacation photos, photos of animals, anything!
You can buy frames that all match, or you can choose various funky frames to mix it up a bit.
On a large wall, it is recommended that you hang the pictures somewhat asymmetrically.Try arranging the photos in a mixed pattern on the floor before attaching them to the wall.
 You could choose a map of your city, of places you’ve visited, or of places where significant life events have occurred (e.g. where you were born, where you got married, etc.)More generally, you could consider looking for a map wallpaper, and install that instead.
 You could hang the drawings on the wall in a symmetric fashion.
 For some, using posters or photos might be too obvious. You can also try creating large panels and covering them in fabric.Be sure that you install the panels securely to the wall!

, Try hanging a tapestry on a large wall.The nice thing about this, is that tapestries come in hundreds of colors and designs. When/if you get tired of a particular design, you can change to a new tapestry.


Tapestries can also help to dampen the noise of a room, which can be helpful if you have an especially large room.
Be aware, though, that if the tapestry is hung on a wall that receives direct sunlight for much of the day, that it can fade the tapestry over time.You can occasionally clean the tapestry using a soft, dry brush., If you want to hang a large photo, you can have it printed into a grid (usually 3 or 4 photos, that when put together, make up the whole photo).This will require you to visit a professional photo printer, who can help you blow up the photo of your choice, and print it on canvas or paper.

