 If your'e using the Wii U Gamepad, there are two joysticks, one on the left and one on the right. The one on the left is used to move your character. On the right side of the controller there are four buttons labeled A, B, X, and Y. These are used to perform various moves.


The top of the controller also has buttons. On the upper left head of the controller there are the L and ZL buttons and on the upper right head are the R and ZR buttons. The START key is used to pause and end the current game session.;
,


Using the left joystick, move the cursor on the screen to Greninja's icon. His icon can be found in the third row, fourth from the last.
 Before you get to learn Greninja's moves, you must first learn how to control him. Using the left joystick will move him in the direction you want to go.


Moving the joystick to the left and right will move him in those directions. Quickly moving the joystick twice in the same direction causes your character to start running, which is helpful in dire situations.
Moving the joystick down makes your character duck down. Holding the joystick down and moving it to the left and right allows them to crawl.
Moving the joystick upwards will make Greninja jump, and moving it up twice will cause a double-jump.
 These moves are performed with the A button on the controller.


The jab, or also known as the neutral attack, is done by pressing A one time. This is great for close combat and keeping enemies away. Try pressing A multiple times to continually jab opponents, inflicting even higher damage than just pressing it once.
While running, pressing A will cause Greninja to slide and inflict damage to foes.
The combination of A and the joystick can also be quite useful. Slightly tilting the joystick upward and pressing A will perform an up attack, which can be used to hit enemies that are falling. Tilting downwards and pressing A allows you to do a low blow to your enemy. Tilting to the left and right and pressing A can perform a side attack.
 These moves are performed with the B button on the controller.


Press B to perform Greninja's neutral B, also known as his water shuriken. Holding B increases the size of his shuriken and also inflicts more damage.
Like the basic attack moves, the use of the joystick and B can provide you with more moves. Tilting to the left or right and pressing B will allow you to perform a shadow dash. This inflicts a lot of damage, but pay attention to your shadow when using it. If your shadow falls off the map then so do you!
Moving the joystick down and pressing or holding B allows you to protect yourself for just a couple seconds. If an enemy hits you in this time, then you will block their attack and inflict damage on them instead. Moving up and pressing B allows you to perform the single-shot pump, which can be used to push enemies away.
 These moves are done by tilting the joystick all the way and holding A in whichever direction you want.



Holding Up A will shoot enemies far upwards. The longer you hold A, the more damage inflicted.
Combine holding the A button with any direction to cause major damage to your opponent, and to keep them away. Decide which direction to tilt the joystick based on where your opponent is coming from.
 Grabbing can be done by pressing the ZR or ZL button when close to an enemy.


Once you grab the enemy, you have to decide what you want to do with them. Continuing to press ZR or ZL while they're in your grasp makes Greninja jab them repeatedly.
Pressing the A button when their grabbed will cause Greninja to punch them away from him.
You can throw your opponent up, smash them down, fling them behind you, or toss them forward by using the joystick when they are grabbed. Just move the joystick to the desired direction.
 Land battling can get boring, so use Greninja's aerial attacks to spice things up on the battlefield. These can be performed in midair or after jumping.



Jumping and pressing the A button will perform the neutral aerial move, which launches any enemies in its reach.
Moving the joystick in midair while pressing A will cause Greninja to swing his water sword in that direction. Moving the joystick downward and pressing the A button makes him dive straight down for a powerful aerial attack.
 Every character has a final smash with different ranges and power. To obtain the power to perform this move, one must break the smash ball that appears randomly throughout the game. You can break it with all the attacks you've learned in this WikiHow so far.



You'll know you broke it when Greninja starts glowing. Trust me, you'll know when you see it.
Greninja's final smash requires you to be close to your enemy. Once you get close, press the B button and watch him destroy his opponent off the map.
 Assuming you aren't an expert player yet, you should definitely expect other players to knock you off the map as well. However, do not give up right away. You can recover when pushed off the map with the single shot pump move you learned earlier.


To remind you, press B while holding the joystick upward to shoot yourself back on the map. You can also choose the direction you want to go and do a double-shot pump.
After the first shot pump is done, move the joystick left or right to shoot yourself again in that direction.
 Now that you have learned every attack, mix things up. Do not wait for your enemy to let you hit them. Play offensive and defensive.


Combine your upward grab with an upward special attack to double the damage and shoot your opponent even further upwards.
Get creative. Every player is unique and utilizes the same moves in different ways.
 You learned how to play offense, now it is time to learn to play defensive. You can shield enemy hits, and even evade them.



Pressing and holding the L or R button on the top of the controller will make Greninja shield enemy attacks. However, do not overuse this because there is a limited amount of time one is allowed to shield. If used too long, Greninja will be temporarily stunned.
Holding the L or R button combined with moving the joystick in any direction will make Greninja swiftly dodge oncoming enemy attacks.
 You cannot fully experience the fun in this game without taunting your enemies after you have killed them. Use the control pad on the left side of the controller to perform these taunts.


Every character has four taunts, one for each direction you press on the control pad.
Experiment with these taunts and use them wisely.
 Now that you are a Greninja master, continue to practice and show them who's boss.

