 Prepare two baking sheets by lining them with parchment paper or aluminum foil.


You will need one baking sheet for the fried chicken and one baking sheet for the waffles.
Note that the oven is not strictly necessary since it will not be used to cook the chicken or the waffles. It can be very useful, however, since you need to cook the food in batches and need a way to keep the earlier batches warm while finishing the later batches.;
, Place the eggs, water, and hot sauce in a medium mixing bowl. Beat together with a whisk until evenly combined, then set aside.


If you use the full amount of hot sauce, use the minimum amount of water. If you skip the hot sauce completely, use the maximum amount of water.
You could also reduce the amount of hot sauce without eliminating it completely. No matter how much you use, make sure that you have a total of 3/4 cup (180 ml) liquid between the water and hot sauce.
 Pour the oil into a deep, heavy stockpot. Place the pot on the stove and heat on medium until the oil reaches a temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).


Check the temperature of the oil using a candy thermometer.
If you do not have a cooking thermometer, test the oil by dropping a small dollop of finished batter into it. The batter should float to the top and immediately begin to sizzle if the oil is ready.
Note that the temperature of the oil will fluctuate throughout the cooking process, so you will need to keep an eye on it the entire time. Adjust the temperature controls of the stove as needed to maintain a consistent temperature.
 Place the two ingredients in a second medium bowl and stir them together with a mixing spoon until evenly mixed.
 You can use bone-in or boneless chicken for this dish. Bone-in pieces can be used as they are, but boneless chicken pieces can either be used as they are or pounded flat using a meat mallet.


If you want to eat the chicken and waffles separately, then you do not need to flatten the chicken. If you want to eat the dish sandwich style, however, flattening the pieces out first is strongly recommended.
To flatten the chicken, begin by slicing each thawed chicken breast in half horizontally, roughly two-thirds of the way through the piece.

Open the piece up and spread it out as flat as possible in between a top and bottom layer of wax paper.
Starting at the center, pound the chicken with a meat mallet or rolling pin until it is roughly 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) thick. Remove the chicken from the wax paper when done.


Alternatively, you could buy thin-sliced chicken breast or use chicken tenderloins.
 Sprinkle both sides of the chicken with salt and garlic powder. Use a generous amount of salt and a light amount of garlic powder.


The amounts provided in the recipe list are only estimates. You can add more or less according to your own tastes.
 Dip each piece of chicken into the egg mixture. Allow the excess to drain off into the bowl, then dredge each piece in the seasoned flour.


Make sure that all sides of each piece are coated.
Instead of coating all of the pieces at the same time, you should coat each piece immediately before you intend to fry it.
 Place the chicken in the hot oil one piece at a time and fry for 5 to 14 minutes.


Thin, flattened pieces of chicken may only take 5 to 8 minutes.
White meat, boneless or bone-in, could take 8 to 10 minutes.
Dark meat, boneless or bone-in, will usually take 13 to 14 minutes.
 Use tongs or a slotted spoon to remove each piece of chicken from the hot oil. Place the chicken on a plate covered with several layers of clean paper towel. Allow the excess oil to drain off for a few minutes.
 If you prepared the chicken before preparing the waffles, you will need to keep the pieces warm as you cook the rest of the food. Do so by transferring the fried chicken to one of your prepared baking sheets and keeping the cooked pieces in the preheated oven.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions to preheat your waffle iron to a medium-high heat.


Most waffle irons already have a nonstick coating, but it is still a good idea to spray both sides with a light coating of nonstick cooking spray.
If the temperature controls are labeled as “high,” “low,” and so on, set the control to medium or medium-high. If the control allows you to specify a certain doneness based on color, choose “medium golden” or “medium golden brown.”

, Prepare a baking sheet by covering it with aluminum foil or parchment paper.


If you already made the chicken, then your oven should already be preheated.
As with the chicken, you will use the oven to keep earlier batches of waffles warm while you cook later batches.
 Combine the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium mixing bowl, stirring the ingredients together until evenly dispersed

, In a separate small bowl or measuring cup, combine the buttermilk, egg, and vegetable oil. Beat by hand with a whisk or fork until the ingredients are well combined.
 Slowly pour the wet mixture into the dry mixture. Use a fork or whisk to beat the mixtures together, stopping shortly after all the dry ingredients have been moistened.


It is acceptable for a few small lumps to remain in the batter, but any large lumps should be beaten out before you press on.
Avoid over-beating the batter. Doing so could cause the air bubbles to deflate, thereby creating dense, chewy waffles instead of light, airy ones.
 Pour enough batter into the preheated waffle iron to cover the bottom iron.


Note that the precise amount of batter you should use will vary depending on your waffle iron. You should refer to the manufacturer's instructions to verify that you are adding the correct amount.
You may find it easiest to use a ladle when pouring the batter into your waffle iron. If you attempt to pour straight from the mixing bowl, you might make more of a mess.
 Close the iron and cook the waffle until it turns a medium golden brown color.


Remove the waffles with a heat-resistant spatula or similar utensil. Avoid forks and other sharp utensils, however, since the pointed metal can scratch the nonstick surface of the iron.
 Transfer the cooked waffles to your prepared baking sheet and place them in the oven. Keep the early batches warm as you finish preparing the rest of the waffles.
 Combine the two ingredients in a medium stainless steel saucepan. Mix gently with a whisk to spread the thyme throughout the cream.


Fresh thyme works much better for this recipe than dried thyme, but if you want to use dried thyme, cut the amount used to a third. In other words, only use 1 tsp (5 ml) dried thyme.
 Place the saucepan on the stove and cook over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, for 10 minutes or until the liquid is reduced to half its original amount.


Stirring the mixture prevents the cream from curdling.
Do not allow the cream to boil too rapidly since it is more likely to burn or curdle at a high temperature.
 Remove the saucepan from the stove and add both Dijon mustards and the salt. Whisk well until the mustards melt down and the entire sauce is even in color and consistency.
 The sauce can be kept on the eye of the stove with the heat turned off until you are ready to use it. Serve the sauce while still warm.


To save time, you can make the sauce a day or two in advance. Transfer the finished sauce to an airtight plastic container. Cover it, then refrigerate the sauce for up to three days. Reheat chilled sauce over medium-low heat on the stove, stirring constantly, when ready to serve.
 You can eat the chicken and waffles by arranging them side-by-side on the same serving plate or by stacking them together sandwich style.


To serve the dish sandwich style, place one more more flattened pieces of fried chicken in between two waffles.
 Drizzle the dish with warm Dijon cream sauce. For a more traditional taste, skip the cream sauce and serve the chicken and waffles with butter, maple syrup, and hot sauce, instead.


If preparing the dish sandwich style, place these condiments on the chicken in between to the two layers of waffle rather than on the outer sides of the waffles.
 Your meal is ready—dig in while it's still warm!

