 Getting clean and quitting club drugs will not be easy and you’ll have moments of weakness. The important thing is to stay focused on the long-term. Always keep your goal of sobriety in mind and recall why you want to be clean in the first place.Try making a list. On the list, write all of the positive and negative things that come with your using club drugs. More specifically, what has your drug abuse cost you? Has it prevented you from achieving your dreams? Has it affected your relationships or wellbeing?
Add to the list things that sobriety will enable you to do, but also what’s at stake if you fail. The list will help you to see just how the pros and cons balance out in your life.
Put your list in a place where you’ll see it every day, like in your kitchen, in your office, or on the bathroom mirror.;
, It will be really hard (or maybe impossible) for you to get clean if you are tempted to use. Limit your exposure to triggers – these are people, places, situations, smells, tastes, feelings, and memories that all give you the urge to take club drugs. People who are dealing with addiction need to know what their triggers are and steer clear of them.One obvious trigger for club drug use is raves. You’ll almost certainly need to stop attending raves and other clubs where there are freely available drugs. It’s best to stop going entirely, even if the rave is supposed to be drug-free.
What are your other triggers? Do you want to use when you’re feeling down or stressed? Do you use when you’re around a certain group of friends? You will have to find ways to avoid these situations and people.
 Some club drugs like Ecstasy are physically addictive. This means that you’ll have symptoms of withdrawal and cravings for the drug when you stop using it. You’ll have to find ways to cope with these cravings, perhaps even after your body moves past the withdrawal stage.Consider taking up new hobbies and establishing new habits to focus your mind elsewhere. Take up painting or art, for example, join a recreational sport league, or enroll in exercise classes.
When you have cravings, try to distract yourself until they pass. Pick up a book and read, make a phone call, go for a walk, or hum a tune.
Alternatively, try holding an ice cube in your hand for five minutes or dunking your head into some cold water. This strategy is used in something called dialectical behavior therapy, which can prompt your central nervous system to reset itself., A major trigger for drug use can be the people that you know. Friendships with the wrong people can fuel addictions, especially if you are associating with other addicts or people who encourage or enable you to use. You may have to cut such people out of your life.You will probably have mixed feelings about cutting friends out of your life. But think of it this way. True friends care about your wellbeing. Someone who encourages you to use drugs is either not concerned about your welfare or is too addicted to help you.
 Club drugs like Ecstasy, Methamphetamine, GHB, and Rohypnol affect the body in different ways. Users will have different symptoms and issues than, say, people who are getting treatment for alcohol or opioid dependency. You’ll need to find a program that can cater to your specific needs.Look for centers that can treat club drug addictions. You might start with the US government’s Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services (SAMHSA). They host a search function for health services centers. Just go to their website and enter your ZIP code into the service locator. Also try calling SAMHSA’s Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP (4357).Alternatively, make an appointment with your doctor and ask for recommendations for substance abuse treatment.
 Rehab for club drugs is not always straight-forward. This is partially because users don’t always know what kinds of drugs they have been taking. They may go from rave to rave and have no idea what they’re using or may be ingesting drugs that are added to foods or drinks. Once you choose a program, you’ll need to work with the staff to find the right kind of treatment.Cooperate with the drug-screening. A battery of tests will help doctors figure out just what kinds of drugs you have in your system and how to best treat you.
It’s possible that doctors can control your withdrawal symptoms in rehab. You’ll need to share your symptoms so that they know what meds to prescribe, whether for nausea, sleep problems, or depression.
You should also ask about in-patient or out-patient treatment and what’s best for you. In-patient programs will require you to live at the center for anywhere from 30 to 90 days. Out-patient programs let you live at home, are less structured, and can include weekly therapy sessions and consultations.
 Of course, drug rehabilitation should try to get at the deeper reasons of your use. Meds may help you feel more comfortable, but they don’t get at the root causes of addiction. That said, be open to therapy to help pinpoint and address what makes you use in the first place.Consider Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, for example. In CBT, addiction is treated as the result of “maladaptive thoughts.” You’ll talk to a therapist, who will help you recognize untrue or false thoughts about your use and help you to change them.
Don’t be afraid to seek help for other issues, too. Addicts can often experience depression, for example, and you may need help from a therapist to get through these low feelings., To ensure that you stay sober, keep your eyes on staying well and on your goals for the future. Remember all of the reasons that you have for not returning to your old ways and using club drugs. One way to do this is by setting short-term goals.Make sure that your short-term goals are concrete and realistic. They can help you build up your confidence and reinforce your abstinence. Consider writing them down in a list, as well.
For instance, you might set short-term goals like completing a 30-day in-patient rehab program, to exercise at least four days per week, to spend more time with your family by setting aside Sunday as “family day,” or others.
 Give yourself bigger reasons to stay on track in dreams and aspirations for the future. You can aim big but, like your short-term goals, these should still be realistic and concrete. Write them down in a list, too, if it helps you to keep them at the front of your mind.You might take as a long-term goal something like being sober and drug-free for one year. You can also give yourself a reward for reinforcement, i.e. “If I’m sober for a whole year, I’ll treat myself to a vacation in a place I’ve always wanted to see.”
You can also have goals that have to do with your relationships, treatment, or career, i.e. “My goal is to form a circle of new, sober friends who will support me,” “I want to attend therapy at least twice a week for the next year,” or “My goal is to work hard and get a promotion in the next two years.”

, Goals are great because they provide focus in life. They will give you things to care about and work towards, which are big motivators in staying clean. Try to fill your life with as many people and activities as you can that will keep you centered and remind you of the value of sobriety.Do you have a partner or children? Link them to your sobriety. Remind yourself that you could jeopardize your relationship to them by using club drugs.
What about artistic pursuits, sports, friendships, or causes? Any of these can be a focus for sustained clean living, too.

