 Your pallet should be loaded per the instructions to stacking a pallet guide prior to applying film. Peel out approximately a yard of the plastic and squeeze 8 inches (20.3 cm) or so of the end together into a loose rope.


PVC is the older, more common, and less expensive film. It is usually used to individually wrap items as it is more brittle than polyolefin.Polyolefin is newer and more expensive, but has less of an odor and is less brittle, making it a better choice for most heavy jobs., Starting by threading the "rope" end of your film in and around one corner of the pallet, wrap your film around the pallet and the base of the items that you have stacked on the pallet.You will want to keep the film tight without stretching or tearing it. Start slow until you get the hang of it.
 Always working in the same direction as you started, wrap the base enough times so that the plastic is snug. It should help by sticking to itself. Having a secure base is the most important part, so wrap it least four or five times. Make sure that the wrap goes around and under the corners of the pallet.
 Rotating in the same direction, move up as you wrap film around the pallet and items, this will secure all items to the base of the pallet. Each layer should be wrapped firmly do the one below it, and so on. Be sure to take as much stretch as possible out of the plastic film while you are wrapping.
 When you wrap the top of the pallet you can either end there or wrap back down the pallet again. If the job looks thin or loose, you will want to wrap back down to the base of the pallet. An insecurely wrapped pallet is a dangerous pallet. Once the pallet is firm, tear the film off of the roll and fold it under one of its own layers. This will keep your wrap job from coming undone.
 For most heavy or industrial jobs you will want to heat the shrink-wrap to stabilize the pallet and ensure the safety of both the items and any people that might be working with them. This is especially true if the pallet is going to be either transported or stored for an extended period of time.

