 All items should be taken out of the cage. Unhook the water feeder from the side. Rinse out the food bowl and water bottle. The toys do not need to be cleaned unless they are covered in feces or urine.
 While you clean the cage, you can put the guinea pigs in a smaller carrier case or in a closed-off pen on the floor. You can also allow another family or house member to hold them while you clean., If you are using wood shavings, you can use a dust pan to scoop it up and dump it into a trash bag. Use a large trash bag and dispose of these immediately. Be careful not spill shavings on the floor.


Afterwards, if you choose, you can vacuum up any remaining shavings or bedding.
 If you are using newspaper lining—either as bedding or as a lining beneath the shavings—you should roll it up before throwing it out. Fold over the edges so that feces and loose shavings do not tumble out.
 If you are using fleece bedding instead of shavings, take it from the cage. Brush off any wood chips, shavings, or poop into a trash bag. Put the blanket in the washing machine. Use warm or cold water and a mild detergent. Hang to dry.You can add a half cup of vinegar to the wash to deodorize the fleece., Spray down the cage in the disinfectant. After letting it sit for a few minutes, wipe it down with a clean, dry cloth. Pet stores will sell pet-safe disinfectants. You can also make your own by mixing one part white vinegar to one part water., Wait until the cage is completely dry. Once it is, you can put fresh, clean bedding back in the cage. You want to make sure that there are no gaping spaces on the floor of the cage. This will make cleaning easier next time.


If you use newspapers, line the bottom with overlapping sheets so that the entire floor is covered.
If you are using shavings, dump a fresh layer that is 1 to 1.5 inch (2.5 to 3.8 cm) thick.If you use a fleece blanket, drape it over the bottom and straighten it out so that the floor is completely covered.
 Make sure everything is dry before you put them back in. Don’t forget the water bottle or food bowls. Cleanings should take place weekly. Your guinea pig’s cage should not smell. If it does, it will require another cleaning., Between cleaning sessions, scoop out any droppings or debris. You should do this once a day. Keep a regular schedule for scooping out your guinea pig’s cage.

