 While DCM is by far the most common heart condition in dobermans, these dogs can have other heart issues. The signs of congestive heart failure, and other health problems related to heart disease, include:Coughing: If your dog is coughing regularly for an extended period of time, for example more than three days, then it should be looked at by a veterinarian.
Problems Breathing: This could be while the dog is at rest or if it gets winded after very mild exercise.
Changes in Behavior: If your dog becomes withdrawn, less energetic, and tired all the time, then that could be a sign of a health condition affecting its quality of life.
Weight Loss or Gain: A heart condition could affect your doberman's appetite, whether increasing it or decreasing it. This is also a symptom of a variety of health problems, so any extreme change in appetite or weight should be checked out by a veterinarian.
Fainting and Collapsing: This is a sign that your dog may have a serious health problem, one of which could be a heart condition. If your dog faints or collapses, get it seen by a veterinarian immediately.
 If you suspect a heart condition, or some other serious health problem, the best thing you can do is get your dog checked out by a veterinarian. The veterinarian will be able to assess the physical health of your dog and give you some indication about what is going on.


Your dog's illness may be very obvious to the veterinarian or it may take some testing and sleuthing on your veterinarian's part. Be open to your veterinarian running multiple tests on your dog to help them figure out what the problem is. These could include an echocardiogram, a blood test, a Holter monitor, or electrocardiogram, among others., Depending on the seriousness and exact diagnosis, treatment for different heart conditions varies. Some diseases can be treated with medication, even forms of heart failure, while others need surgery to correct.Discuss the options with your veterinarian and decide what is best for your dog and you.


You need to take your dog's quality of life, its age, and your financial stability into account when deciding on what treatment to go forward with. For example, older dogs with heart failure may just need palliative care, as opposed to treatment that seeks to fix the problem.

