 One of the most important duties of a juror is to listen to evidence presented and determine the facts of the case.Make sure you are actively listening to the judge, the lawyers, the witnesses, and all other court personnel. You can do this by making a conscious effort to pay attention, physically demonstrate that you’re listening, deferring your judgment, and responding appropriately.Always look directly at the speaker, putting away side thoughts, and eliminating distractions like side conversations.
Defer your judgment by providing feedback, even if it’s just in your head. Avoid allowing your assumptions and beliefs to distort what you’re hearing. Instead, reflect on the evidence by periodically summarizing what you have heard.
Respond appropriately. When the time comes, take all the information you have heard and respond in an open, honest, and respectful manner.;
, Some courts offer jurors stationary for the sole purpose of taking notes.Still, other judges don’t allow any form of note taking during the trial. If you are allowed to take notes, it can be a helpful method to keep your attention and ensure that you are actively listening. In addition, notes can be used to help you deliberate while in the jury room.When taking notes, try to write down key names, key words, and key concepts. Avoid using complete sentences and utilize abbreviations instead.Some judges caution against using notes because they feel it should be a person’s memory that controls the deliberation, not their notes.
If you do take notes, make sure you follow all rules regarding them. For example, it’s common practice that notes not be removed from the courtroom or shared among jurors.
 Your posture, body movements, body gestures, and facial expressions can demonstrate friendliness. Relax your body, lean forward rather than back, soften your face and eyes, and open your chest to avoid looking defensive.


Avoid having a blank, open-mouthed look as it demonstrates that you’re zoning out.Always ensure you are making eye contact with the person speaking.
Sit up straight, keep your head up, and try not to yawn.
Some courts allow you to bring cell phones and other electronic devices into the courthouse but they must be turned off when the judge orders you to do so.Make sure you power down all electronic devices to show both courtesy and your intent to listen., You should not discuss details of the case with anyone until the trial is over. That includes family, friends, co-workers, or anyone involved in the case. Information may not be shared via phone, text, email, or social media. Sharing information may cause confidential evidence to be leaked and could influence your verdict.


If this rule is broken, you may face a hearing of your own where jurors will testify about your conduct. Additionally, the verdict may be thrown out for jury misconduct and a new trial ordered.
 Don’t allow your opinion to go unheard during deliberation. The presiding juror will encourage discussion and keep the deliberation focused to allow all jurors to openly voice their opinions. Always follow the judge’s instructions about the law, respect and value others’ opinions, and never feel bullied into changing your opinion.After final arguments, jurors are sequestered into a room where they review evidence and try to come to an agreement on the verdict. All federal cases require a unanimous decision some civil cases allow less than a unanimous decision.Always stay calm, avoid putting down the other person and their beliefs, and actively listen to their opinion. Use “I” statements to communicate how you feel and what you think. For example, “I understand your point of view but I found his testimony to be unbelievable.It’s okay to change your mind, but don’t change your mind because you feel coerced or rushed.

