 Dating someone who is into the underground vampire culture is like dating the ultimate “bad boy” who lives by his own rules. You need to really feel the attraction in order to take a leap of faith. Several elements to consider include:


Physical appearance: although film and television vampires are undoubtedly the hottest creatures around, make sure you feel a physical attraction to your real life vampire before agreeing to go out for a bite.
Personality: even though he or she may be hot, you will want a vampire who has it all--charm, intellect and a sense of humor. Typically those who dabble in vampirism are pretty open-minded and like to experiment so chances are your date will have something interesting to bring to the date.
Mutual interests: if you are not part of the human vampire world, find common ground with your potential date. Perhaps you both go to the same school or hang out at the same clubs--look for similarities that you share, which can act as a springboard to developing the relationship.;
, Most vampires gravitate toward the entire Goth movement. From dark clothing and brooding music to hanging out in dangerous areas of the city; vampires love to head to the dark and daring side. Ways to assimilate include:


Purchase and learn to appreciate music by Goth bands such as Marilyn Manson or some of the retro groups like Bauhaus, Depeche Mode or The Sisters of Mercy.
Check out Goth fashion. Generally dark, sweeping clothing with almost a medieval appeal meets Goth fashion approval. Doc Martin boots, black nail polish, ripped fishnet stockings, heavy black eyeliner and shiny black hair are also appropriate.
Consider piercings. A big part of vampirism is achievement of pleasure through pain. Piercings allow your vampire date to experience ecstasy through the pain of being pierced in numerous areas of the body. If you consider a new piercing for yourself start slow and be deliberate about which area of your body you pierce. The good news about piercings is if you don’t like it, you can always let the hole heal.
Avoid the sun. In line with fable Dracula, modern-day vampires avoid the sun as much as possible. Slather up with SPF 50 when you go outside during the day and consider carrying a black-fringed parasol with you for extra protection. The upside to ditching your summer tan is that being pale reduces your risk of skin cancer.
 A huge part of the vampire culture is actually drinking blood. Human vampires will use a clean scalpel or a knife to make a small incision on his or her “victim’s” body before actually drinking the blood that is oozing from the wound. While most likely neither safe or sanitary, if your date wants to drink your blood:


Politely decline. Numerous deadly diseases, like HIV and Hepatitis B can be transmitted through cutting yourself and then allowing another person to drink your blood (and vice versa). Instead of putting yourself in harm’s way, tell him or her that you would rather not partake in this aspect of vampirism, but are o.k. if he or she wants to find someone else to snack on.
Excuse yourself from the room. Unless you are completely fine witnessing someone drinking blood from another person, you may want to leave the room to avoid passing out or looking disgusted. If blood drinking is the only aspect that turns you off about your vampire date, politely excuse yourself and wait in the other room until he or she finishes--then go back to your date.
Watch and take notes. If you think blood drinking looks cool, ask your date if you can remain in the room and watch as he or she performs the ritual of cutting another person and then drinking blood.
 Just because you are dating someone who is into vampirism, it doesn’t mean that it has to be a one-sided relationship. While you can learn to appreciate Goth and tolerate blood drinking, it doesn’t mean that you have to lose yourself in the relationship. Bring your personality and quirkiness to the table and introduce your date to activities that hold your interest. A true gage of whether your date could turn into a steady is how he or she reacts to learning more about what you like to do.

