 Selecting biennials is largely a matter of aesthetic preferences. Because they are drawing from 2 years worth of plant growth, the flowers produced by biennial plants tend to be larger and more impressive than those of annuals. This makes them ideal for high-impact focal points in your garden landscape. Some examples of popular and hardy biennials include Hollyhock, Foxglove, Wallflower, Sweet William, Forget-me-not, and Evening Primrose.;
, A few weeks before the last frost, you can start sowing the seeds. This is best done indoors using plastic cell packs, egg cartons, or other small containers. Fill the containers with potting mix and sprinkle the seeds over the top. Moisten the soil and cover loosely with plastic wrap to hold in the moisture. As soon as the leaves begin to appear, remove the plastic wrap. Keep the containers in a sunny location.
 After a few weeks, the plants should have grown 2 or 3 leaves, at which point they should be transplanted outdoors. You can plant them in their permanent location at this point, but they will fare better if placed in a nursery bed, cold frame, or greenhouse. Make sure to keep them watered and weeded for the first few weeks.
 You can do this anytime during the first growing season, but you must get the plants into their permanent location at least 6 weeks before the first frost or they won't establish themselves for the winter. By the onset of the first winter, biennial growth will be limited to a basal rosette of leaves - a circular cluster of leaves positioned near the soil.
 Covering the biennials with mulch is a good way to protect them from harsh winter weather, especially in cold regions. Mulch helps regulate soil temperature as well as preventing any weed growth.
 Because biennials only flower after 2 years, you'll want to sow new plants the second year so that you can enjoy flowers each year. This can be done following the same process as above. Note that most biennials are very adept at self-sowing, meaning they will readily seed the ground around them with new plants. This process can often provide you with continuous growth without any outside help.
 After the plants have finished flowering, you can either let them wither away in place or uproot them. Uprooted biennials can be placed in your compost pile, although you should take care to avoid getting their seeds in your compost or you will have them sprouting up everywhere in your garden.

