 Chronic illnesses and health conditions can lead to unhappiness. If possible, maintain healthy habits in order to keep your mood high, and see a doctor regularly in order to prevent chronic health conditions from worsening., Much of what makes people happy is situational, but there are also physical properties behind feelings of happiness: serotonin, dopamine, and oxytocin all allow a body to feel joy and connection with others. Sometimes these chemicals can be disrupted or imbalanced, leading to depression. If none of your lifestyle changes is allowing you to create happiness, you might need to consult a doctor in order to receive the proper medication to regain your balance and your happiness., Physical activity leads to more positive feelings and can help combat negative ones.You don't have to be a star athlete to gain the positive effects: even light activity for just 20 minutes a day can be enough to elevate your mood and feel more hopeful about life.


Always talk to your doctor before beginning a new exercise regime. Your doctor will be able to guide you to the safest way to begin exercising and make sure that you avoid injury.
 Emotional connections with other people are essential to happiness, but physical connections also help people stay happy and emotionally healthy. Hugging, kissing, having sex with a loving partner, or just getting a massage can all trigger happy feelings.If you are an adult in a romantic relationship, try to initiate a romantic evening with lots of positive touch. Make this physical relationship a priority, and make time for kissing, snuggling, and sexual relations.
If you are not in a romantic relationship, see if you can get a hug from a close friend. If you live far away from all your loved ones, try to get positive touch in other ways: you can get your hair done, schedule a massage, or get a manicure or pedicure.
If you are not comfortable with physical touch from other people, consider making friends with animals in need. Petting an animal can have many of the same benefits as hugging another person.Consider cat sitting or dogsitting, or even volunteering at a shelter.
 Even if you're not feeling happy, acting as if you are happy can help your feelings catch up to your facial expressions. While the effects might not be long-lasting, they can provide a short-term boost to your happiness levels.Smiling has also been shown to relieve stress., Sleeping an extra hour each night is more important than money in terms of building long-lasting happiness.Other key ingredients to sleeping well include setting up bedtime rituals (usually without screens such as computers or televisions), having a cool, dark place to sleep, avoiding too much caffeine, and minimizing stress., The more fruit and vegetables you eat, the happier you will feel over the long term.Eating at least seven servings of fruits and vegetables per day is the ideal number, but any increase in your fruit and vegetable intake will help you feel healthier . . . and happier.



If you can't get outside, try imagining yourself in a peaceful, outdoor environment. You can get many of the same benefits as you would from actually being outside.Make sure that you are maintaining your health when outdoors on sunny days. Wear sunscreen, sunglasses, and a hat to minimize sunburn. And be sure that you stay hydrated when the weather is warm.

