 Low-fat or fat-free mayonnaise is full of fillers that probably do your hair more harm than good. Choose regular mayonnaise for best results.Avoid mayonnaise that contains extra flavoring, such as herbs or spices. Besides smelling funny, these extra components may not be good for your hair.
If you're concerned about using the best possible product for your hair, go for an all-natural, organic mayonnaise. This type of mayonnaise usually contains olive oil and other nutritious ingredients that are great for your hair.;
, Use approximately 1/2 cup of mayonnaise, more or less depending on the length of your hair. You want to use enough mayonnaise to entirely coat your hair from the roots to the tips. Don't use more than you need, though, since it can be tricky to wash it all out.
 Take the mayonnaise out of the refrigerator half an hour to one hour before using it and allow it to warm a little. The fats and oils from the mayonnaise enter the follicles of your hair more readily if the mayonnaise is warm.
 This makes it easier to smooth the mayonnaise into your hair. Don't shampoo or condition your hair; just get it wet with warm water. When your hair is heated the follicles open, allowing the mayonnaise to enter the strands and condition your hair.
 Take care to coat each strand well, and concentrate on working mayonnaise into the tips. You may want to use a wide-tooth comb to help distribute it throughout your hair.


If you don't seem to have enough mayonnaise to coat your hair, apply an extra teaspoon or two.
Apply a little warm water to loosen the mayonnaise if it clumps in your hair.
 You can also use plastic wrap or a plastic bag. This will trap your body heat against your head and help the mayonnaise get to work deep conditioning your hair.Leave the mayonnaise in your hair for at least a 1/2 hour and up to 1 hour, depending on the level of conditioning your hair needs.


f you don't have time to do the full conditioning treatment, you can use mayonnaise as a pre-conditioner in the shower. Wet your hair, apply the mayonnaise, and let it sit for five minutes while you go about your shower routine. At the end of your shower, shampoo it out.
For maximum conditioning benefits, you can leave the mayonnaise in overnight and wash it out in the morning.
 Remove the towel and plastic covering and rinse the mayonnaise from your hair with warm water. Use just enough shampoo to remove the mayonnaise. Your hair should feel soft, but not oily.

