 In order to attract a sponsor, you will also need to develop a clearer picture of your previous relations with sponsors. If you have had sponsorships before, try to get testimonials from the companies that you worked with in the past. Consider putting these testimonials and other materials documenting your history in a press kit for potential sponsors., Once you meet to pitch your event, you will need to have detailed demographics about your target audience. You will want to demonstrate the areas in which there is overlap between your demographics and the sponsor’s customers. If a company is considering making an investment, they will need full details on who has attended the event in the past.Prepare some visual aids like charts and graphs to convey the areas of overlap.
 A sponsor wants a clear-cut answer to what the company gains by supporting your event. Give the sponsors a clear picture of how the event will benefit them. Avoid being vague or making any soft promises. Describe the marketing advantages or the financial incentives for supporting your event in detail., Detail your vision of the event and outline how you intend develop it. Bring promotional materials from previous events and discuss any changes to the old theme. This is especially helpful for those sponsors who may not be familiar with the event.You should talk to the sponsors about their presence at the event. For example, let them know where their booth will be located.
Be flexible and let the sponsors have some input about the theme. This may make your event more attractive.
 Include details about what type of media you will use, and how you will promote the sponsor in pre-event publicity. Discuss how you have marketed the event in the past. Be sure to bring any available marketing materials to the pitch and show it to the sponsors.For example, bring any print material and show the sponsors where their logo will be displayed. Show them any previous commercials or advertisements for the event.
Link your sponsor's existing marketing campaign to your event if possible. The clearer the connection, the more attractive your event will be to the sponsor.
 Instead of only pitching your ideas about marketing and potential profits, try to connect with the marketers on a personal level. Appeal to their companies stated mission or history of sponsorship. When appropriate, appeal to representatives' emotions, especially if the event's goal is to raise funds for a charitable cause.For example, if your potential sponsor has a stated commitment to the environment, mention how your event recycles and lowers its carbon footprint.
Building a strong relationship will keep the sponsor coming back year after year or for multiple events.

