 The best way to properly wash polyester clothes is the follow the directions on the care tag on the item. By following these directions, you’ll maintain the look and feel of your polyester clothes for a much longer time than you would otherwise. Consider:


Items that indicate "Dry Clean Only" should be taken to a professional dry cleaner instead of washed at home.
However, tags that simply say, "Dry Clean" may often be washed safely by hand.
When in doubt, follow the directions on the care tag.;
, A polyester-knit blend fabric can be snagged easily and may catch on clasps, trim or buttons from other items. To avoid any snags or damage to your garment, turn it inside-out before tossing it into the washing machine. , Soak white garments overnight in a mixture of 1 gallon (3.8 L) of warm water and 1/2 cup of automatic dishwasher detergent. This will help remove dirt and stains from your white fabrics in advance of washing them.


If you have less time, you can soak for 1-2 hours.
The dishwasher detergent helps to brighten the whiteness of the item.
Consider bleach for colors if you have extra-dirty colored polyester fabric.
Avoid using bleach when washing white polyester items., Many experts recommend using permanent press for your polyester. With permanent press, your fabrics are cooled before the spin cycle. This lowers the chance that your clothes will emerge from the washer wrinkled., Most experts agree that polyester is best cleaned with warm water. Warm water strikes the best balance to clean and protect your polyester clothes. As a result, stick to warm water if you want to prolong the life of your polyester.


Cold water may not effectively remove stains from polyester, especially oil-based stains.
Hot water may cause gradual shrinkage and color bleeding.
Warm water will help to remove stains and retain the garment's shape and size., Most standard detergents will work well with polyester fabrics. Try to avoid picking a detergent that is “tough on stains” or formulated for deep-stains. This might fade the color of your fabric or otherwise harm the quality of the fabric., Polyester is susceptible to static cling without fabric softener. Static cling is when light and small objects cling to larger objects. For example, if you wash polyester shirts with white towels, you’ll notice small pieces of white lint clinging to your polyester shirt., Hand-washing your polyester fabric is the surest way to maintain quality. But if you choose to do this, you need to make sure you’re gentle with the fabric and not in a hurry. When hand-washing:


Soak them in warm water with a light detergent.
Swirl them in warm water.
Rinse with cold clean water.
Fold them and press them against the basin side to squeeze out extra water.
Items that are stained with an oil-based stain or have yellowed with age should be machine washed to restore them to prior condition., Since polyester is susceptible to static cling, you may want to consider using a dryer sheet. A dryer sheet may help to reduce static cling in the dryer. In addition, dryer sheets might help reduce wrinkles on your polyester fabrics. Consider:


If you’ve already used a fabric softener during the wash, you don’t need to use a dryer sheet.
Most dryer sheets are scented, so make sure you pick one you like.
This is optional., Before drying your polyester fabrics in a conventional dryer, make sure to place the dryer on low heat. This is because polyester can melt or shrink when exposed to high heat levels. Depending on the reliability of your dryer, low heat is safe for most all polyester fabrics.


Run a test with a polyester fabric you don’t care too much about if you have a new or new-used dryer.
If you’re concerned about maintaining the quality of your polyester, use the lowest heat setting possible.
Read your dryer's manual if you have any questions about the heat level., One of the easiest ways to avoid shrinkage or other damage caused by drying your clothes in a conventional dryer is to air dry your polyester fabrics. Consider the following:


Hang your polyester fabrics on plastic coat hangers or a clothes line.
Make sure they’re hung outside on a dry and sunny day or in a place in your house with excellent air flow.
Take them down when they are dry.