 Flowers, piping, tall-tiers, and intricate designs will increase the price of your cake. The more add-ons, the more expensive your cake will be. Consider a cake with a simple, clean design. Flat designs and painted flower motifs are less expensive options.If you have a design that you like, show a picture to your baker and ask what some more cost-effective alternatives are.
For example, Small frosting dots and solid color tiers are alternatives to intricate lace designs.Square cakes are less expensive and will feed more guests.
Uniquely shaped cakes are more expensive as well. The baker often has to cut away layers of the cake to create the shape., Sugar flowers take a lot of time and work, and your baker is charging you for the amount of time and effort it takes to design the cake. Use fresh, in-season flowers to decorate the cake instead. They are beautiful and will save you money.Let your baker know that you plan to use fresh flowers. The flesh flowers should be pesticide free and food safe.
If you prefer sugar flowers, talk to your baker about flowers that are not as detailed. For example, hydrangeas and calla lilies are less intricate than roses and peonies.Flowers made using butter cream instead of gum paste are less expensive., Ask your baker to make a one or two-tier cake for you to cut and bake a sheet cake to serve to your guests. You could save about 20% per slice if you use this method. The cake table will be a little empty because your cake is small, but think of this as an opportunity to decorate your table.The table can be decorated with flowers, candles, or a beautiful table cloth.
You can also get a decorated base board from your baker.
 Have baker create a simple cake for you and add the decorations yourself. You can buy fresh flowers for your cake. You could also decorate your cake with lace or satin ribbon or create your own wedding cake topper.Practice your decorating skills on another cake before you decorate your actual wedding cake.
Make sure the flowers you buy are pesticide free and food safe. Check the flowers for small bugs before you place them on your cake.

