 If you hear or see abusive activity that seems immediately threatening, call the police. You can also call the police if at any time you feel afraid for your own safety.


Be aware that in some cases, the victim of domestic violence may deny or downplay what has happened out of fear of the abuser. Do not blame or become upset with the person if this happens.If you don’t want to call the police but you hear abuse happening, you can “drop by” and ask to borrow something to interrupt the violence. Abusers will often not want to show their true behavior to others., While it’s natural to want to help, calling the police or authorities to report domestic violence if the person being abused doesn’t have a safety plan in place can actually create more problems.Talk with your loved one about your concerns and their wishes before you do anything.


Choose a safe place away from the person you suspect of abuse. Don’t mention your concerns in front of the abusive person -- this could put your loved in even greater danger later.Be honest and supportive with your concerns. Don’t make accusations or ultimatums.
 Many victims of domestic violence don’t leave the abusive situation, and each person may have many reasons not to do so. Don’t criticize your loved one or act as though you “know” what they need to do.Believe your loved one. Many abusers tell their victims that nobody will believe them or care for them. Tell your loved one that you believe them and are there for them, no matter what.Reassure your loved one that their feelings are normal. It’s common for victims of domestic violence to feel confused, embarrassed, depressed, overwhelmed, or frightened about their situations.
 Your loved one will need a way to assure safety once the domestic violence has been reported. While many states have “mandatory arrest” laws that arrest suspects of domestic violence, many of these abusers are released and take “revenge” on those who reported them. The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence has a PDF form that can help you and your loved ones make plans.


Keep a copy of your loved one’s safety plan at your home. This way you’ll know exactly what you can do to help.
Agree on a “code word” or signal. Many abusive partners monitor their victims’ communications, even on the internet or cellphones. Come up with a signal that your loved one can use to let you know they're in trouble.Keep an emergency bag for your loved one at your home. This should include copies of all important documentation (passports, birth certificates, photo IDs, etc.) as well as several changes of clothes, a prepaid cellphone, money, and any necessary prescription medications., Understanding what your loved one is going through, and knowing the resources available, will help you provide better support. You can call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-SAFE for a referral to an agency in your area.


Domestic violence agencies generally have advocates who can help the abused person get in touch with the authorities, stay safe, and escape the abusive situation.
 It can be incredibly hard to know that a loved one is the victim of domestic violence and is staying in an abusive situation. However, you have to remember that it is not your place to “save” or “rescue” your loved one. Offer your unconditional support and caring, and let them make their own decisions.Victims of domestic abuse often feel disrespected and without any power in their own lives. By showing that you support your loved one and respect their choices, you are giving them something they may not get from anyone else.


