 Actively demonstrate your love for your country by being part of its political process. Continually strive for a better country for all! There are a variety of ways to contribute your time, effort, and knowledge to the politics of your country.


Volunteer at a voting or polling area. Take part in the voting process by helping others who may not be as versed in politics, or who may not understand specific ballot measures upon which they are voting.
Be part of a phone bank. Call several people with the script provided by your political party, or member running for office. You’ll appreciate it when you reach someone who shares your appreciation for the political process.Raise funds for your candidate’s campaign. Whether it’s asking for large donations from big contributors, or hosting a fund-raising event, running for office takes a significant amount of money., Grow their national pride so they will have respect someday as a citizen. This is the best way to set a positive example. As children grow older, explain to them why you feel they should hold their country in high regard.


Remember that blind patriotism can be dangerous. Encourage your children to use their minds.
 Look for a person who is a good role model and embodies the values your country holds dear. Find one who will make you proud to be where you call home. Seek out a hero who was instrumental in your country’s history and development.


Medal of Honor winners are perfect role model. Whether it’s the Victoria Cross of U.K. and Commonwealth countries, the Congressional Medal of Honor from the U.S., or the Order of Taegeuk Military Merit from South Korea, someone who is awarded the highest military honor has most likely sacrificed much for their country.Great leaders responsible for sweeping reforms are great role models. One such ruler, King Chulalongkorn of Siam, became the king and immediately attempted visionary reforms such as ending slavery, remodeling the judicial and financial systems, avoiding colonialism, and setting up the structure for current-day Thai citizenship.Athletes are sometimes great national heroes. For instance, during the buildup for WWII, Adolf Hitler planned to use the Olympics as a display of Aryan dominance. U.S. track star Jesse Owens ruined those plans by capturing four gold medals in as many events., Nothing speaks more to the commitment for one’s nation than joining the military. It is the ultimate act of willingness to sacrifice life for the liberty of countrymen. It is so important that, in some countries, like South Korea, the mandatory conscription may even lead to pro-military voting habits as an adult.