 Varnish remover has a strong chemical odor, and can be harmful if inhaled continually. Before applying your remover, move to an area with a fan, a window, or both.If you do not have a well-ventilated room, take your project outside to a yard, porch, or balcony. Avoid using solvents indoors whenever possible.
 To prevent stripping or staining of whatever surface you are working on, place a protective layer beneath the brass, such as a sheet of newspapers, a tablecloth, or a strip of plastic.

Paint dropcloths also work well, and are usually thick and durable enough to withstand the caustic nature of varnish removers.
 Working with varnish remover, you’ll need to keep your hands, lungs, and face protected. Wear gloves to prevent the solution from reaching your skin, and place a face mask over your mouth and nose to minimize the amount of fumes you inhale.Covering your mouth and nose is particularly important if you do not have access to an outdoor space or well-ventilated area.
 To apply the lacquer remover, simply place a paintbrush into the remover and apply it directly to the brass. Make sure you do not leave behind any of the brush’s bristles, as these may interfere with the remover’s efficacy., Coat the entire piece in a generous layer of remover, making sure you don’t skip or miss any spots.If your brass piece has a lot of small nooks and crannies, you can use a bottle brush or small rag to access hard-to-reach spaces.
 Different brands have different wait times, so make sure you follow the directions on your particular brand of lacquer remover. While it may be tempting to use the remover for longer than is recommended, you may actually damage the brass by doing so. Only use the remover in recommended increments., Following the directions for your remover, wipe away the removal solution. This should take the lacquer with it, revealing the unfinished, raw brass beneath. If the varnish remover does not take away all of the lacquer, repeat as many times as necessary to remove all of the coating.To reach hard-to-reach spots, you may want to enlist the help of a second brush to remove varnish.

