 Keeping a dog hydrated on long walks can be a real challenge. A dog water bottle solves this challenge. Dog water bottles come with little bowls on the top of a water bottle, so that the dog is able to lap up the water., Jackets are sometimes used to keep dogs warm in the winter and especially if it is a breed that is not well adapted to a cold environment. You might consider purchasing a dog jacket, which can be found at your local pet store. Remember to get the size of the dog before you buy it., You can find television channels such with a focus on nature, wilderness or dogs. These channels, such as DogTV, can help to relax your dog and reduce separation anxiety., A dog ball launcher saves your hands from getting wet with slobber and mud when you are playing catch with a dog. Dog ball launchers eventually wear out, so the pet lover in your life may need a new one.
 Find an old cardboard box that is large enough for your cat to sleep and move around inside. You might consider an old appliance or book box. Tape the bottom of the box. Cut a door in the front and decorate it to create a cat condo., You can get refillable catnip toys in a variety of shapes and sizes. Go to your local pet store and find a suitable catnip toy in your price range., If you notice the furniture at your pet lover’s house is worn down by scratching, consider getting them a new scratch toy for the cat. You can find scratching pads in fun shapes, such as a turntable, that might be a good addition to their home., If the pet lover in your life has a lot of goldfish, you could get them a water garden. A water garden has an aquarium in the bottom and then a small garden in the top., To make this toy, you will need a piece of office paper (i.e., 8 ½’’ by 11’’), some tape, a sock, catnip, nontoxic fabric glue, and a piece of felt. Roll the office paper into a funnel and connect it with tape. Using the funnel, pour catnip into the sock until it is about half to three quarters full. Tie a knot above the catnip. Then, make some little eyes and a mouth with the felt and glue them to the sock to make a little fish face. Give it to the cat lover in your life.