 Face-to-face, one-on-one recruitment usually has the highest rate of success. This is not often practical as the only recruitment strategy, due to the high time commitment per volunteer, but it's a great strategy to use on friends, family members, neighbors, and coworkers.
 Post recruitment messages on sites such as Idealist.org, VolunteerMatch.org, or Craigslist. If your organization maintains a social media presence, hook new volunteers by posting inspiring or funny images and stories related to your work., Most large, and even some smaller, companies encourage their employees to volunteer individually and in groups. The employees may even become long-term volunteers after staffing a one-time event.
 A short advertising slot on a local radio or television station can be an affordable way to spread the message. In the local newspapers, offering to write an article about your organization's work or recent success story can be more effective than paying for advertisement space., Include positive stories and photographs depicting your organization's work, along with your contact information. Make these the size of a standard sheet of paper, since some bulletin boards do not allow larger materials. Display these in community centers and local businesses, with permission.


A local copy shop may volunteer their services to you for a good cause, or give you a discount.
Posters may work best when your organization is already somewhat known. They also circulate for a longer time than most advertisements, which makes them useful if you'll still be needing new volunteers weeks from now., Ask permission to set up a table at local events, such as parades or job fairs. Keep the table staffed with one or two people qualified to answer questions, and provide printed materials for people to take with them.
 Community centers, religious organizations, schools, and youth organizations are all excellent places to spread the word about volunteering. Ask leaders in these communities to make an announcement on your behalf, or to arrange a time when you can come in and make a presentation. Many schools now have a community service requirement that must be fulfilled in order to graduate.


Provide printed materials to pass out during announcements and presentations.

