 Although some tastes are in vogue and others are not, do not hide your own likes and dislikes. It might not be cool, but if you have a passionate affection for 90s boy bands, own it! If you don’t like the resurgence of bluegrass, don’t listen to it. It’s that simple.Acknowledge your likes and dislikes, but don’t put anyone else’s down.
To acknowledge your likes and dislikes, you might say, “Could we put on a country station? Country music is my favorite.” or “I love Greek food--let’s do Greek food for lunch.”

, A lot of girls feel too intimidated or nervous to join in a spirited debate, or to disagree with someone in a group conversation. To stand out and set yourself apart, speak your mind. Although you should always treat other people with respect, you do not have to keep your thoughts and ideas to yourself.Speak your mind in a civil, kind tone. Standing out from other girls can also be achieved by dominating male-oriented conversation.
When speaking your mind, be strong but not overbearing. If you are talking about politics, for instance, you can say something like, “I’ve been following the New York Times’ coverage of (political movement), and I agree with…”

, Magazines have countless articles dictating what women should and should not wear based on a variety of ever-changing variables. Scrap Cosmo and wear whatever makes you feel good. If you have an apple shape and love drop-waist dresses, forget what anyone else says, and rock that drop waist.If you feel best copying the looks in magazines, own it! Wear and do what makes you feel good.
 Just as respect comes from self-respect, gaining the love of others requires you to first love yourself. Practice loving yourself outright--your flaws, your quirks, your talents, your strengths, and your weaknesses. Most women struggle with self-loathing at worst, or a hefty list of insecurities at best, so loving yourself with truly set you apart.A simple way to practice loving yourself is to speak kind words to yourself in the mirror each morning. Something as simple as, “You look beautiful today” can boost your confidence.
Loving yourself can mean exercising in a way you find fulfilling, or wearing clothes that make you feel your best, even if they aren’t in keeping with the latest trend.

