 First, go to school like you normally do (must be Friday for shopping spree on the weekend). No need to worry about fashion, makeup, or anything like most articles tell you to. Just make sure you have these:


A phone, iPod touch, or any small device you can bring to school that you can save notes in.;
, What you will use with this is take notes on what all the popular girls wear, they way their attitude is, and the main thing why they are popular. If you are questioning on how come you can't bring a notepad and pencil to do this, well it's because writing things (especially when your locker is around other people) makes people curious. Some people will stroll by and might see what your writing, and this can cause trouble. Especially when it's someone who is popular. Using your phone will just make people seem like it's nothing, you're just texting or seeing the score of the big game or something.
 After your first day of trying to become an alpha is over, go home and review everything you typed. If the girls wore Aeropostale, how can you make it better? If some girls were mean, how can you make it better? If girls were known for their pretty nails, how can you make it better? Once you have it figured out, tell your mom or dad that you would like to go shopping sometime this weekend. Some parents will disagree, but if you tell them you will use your own money they will let you go shopping.
 Preferably, these will be more so than what anyone else wears. Like Forever 21 or something like that. Some other good stores are Claire's, Bath and Body Works, and Justice. Remember to buy and/or make sure you have all of this:


Face Soap
Body Soap
Shower Gel (nice scented)
Deodorant
Moisturizer
Powder
Razor, shaving cream
Perfume
Q-tips
Makeup remover
Toothbrush
Dental Floss
Toothpaste
Mouthwash
Tweezers (optional)
Eyelash curlers
Mascara
Zit Cream
Cover-up
Visine
Nail polish (top and base coat too)
Nail polish remover
Nail file
Cuticle clipper
Eyeliner
Eye shadow
Blush
Lip gloss
Lip balm
Lipstick
Shampoo
Conditioner
Deep Conditioner
Leave-in Conditioner
Brush
Comb
Hair dryer
Diffuser
Curling Iron
Flatiron
Loofah / Washcloth
Anti-frizz serum
Shine serum

, If it's over your budget, skip minors things such as anti-frizz, deep conditioner, leave-in conditioner, Q-tips, etc. and save for later.



Take a shower. Remember to use shampoo, and all conditioners. Also put shower gel on a loofah or washcloth and scrub all over your body except your face nicely like you normally would for soap and wash out. Also remember to shave your under arms and possibly your legs if you think it needs it. Tip: Always keep a dry Washcloth and wet Washcloth (no soap on it) by you at all times just for when you get shampoo in your eyes. If you do, first wipe your eyes with the wet washcloth, and then dry them with the dry.
Dry your hair and comb thoroughly. Avoid using combs that are somewhat pointy. That can make your scalp more itchy. Use a comb with small circles on the end of them. Once your hair is completely dry, put your hair up in a bun. Then brush your teeth, floss, and use mouthwash. Now it's makeup time!
Apply little amounts of blush and eye shadow. Use blush and eye-shadow that is natural, such as peach for blush, and brown for eye shadow. Then moisturize your lips by using chap stick, then apply lip gloss. Also add cover up for pimples, curl your eyelashes, and pluck your eyebrows (remove a few eyebrow hairs that aren't in the shape of your eyebrow). Tip: Can't get rid of dark circles? Sometimes you don't need cucumbers, you really need water. Drink two glasses of water right now and walk to the mirror. Looks better, right? Tip: Want really moist lips? Get a not used toothbrush and put Vaseline on it, then brush your lips for three minutes straight. You will have moist lips for up to eight days!
Put down your hair and get styling. Curl it, braid it, straighten it, crimp it, anything you want! There really is no hair style for being an alpha, so just do whatever you want! Tip: Want a cute hair accessory? Make your own! Search "How to Make Duct Tape Bow" on YouTube and click on the first video made by "theduckbrand".
Find the perfect outfit. Make sure you know what the weather will be like; search the weather for help. But remember, you can't always rely on weather reports. If you aren't sure, wear something according to what season you are in. Like if it's winter and its always cold then wear long sleeve shirt and long pants. Also remember to stick to your outfit's theme. Don't wear the perfect combination of blue and white and then wear orange!
Compliment yourself! Look in the mirror, and compliment yourself, and smile. Now your ready for school. Decide a song for you to listen to when you walk down the halls - remember a good song, get the beat, and listen to it in your head as you strut down the hallways looking very confident. People may or may not stare at you. If no one looks at you, like most girls do for the original popular girls, don't stop and retreat, just keep going.
 Get your friends, or make brand new friends. You should have 3-5 girls in your clique, counting you. Make sure you all have something in common. Maybe your clique loves cheer, maybe they love fashion, whatever it is! Also, make sure to name your clique. It can be maybe: The Blonds if you all have blond hair, the Darling Dancers if you all like dance, WHATEVER YOU WANT! Get creative! And if no one in your school has names for their clique, don't be afraid to get the clique name out of your social bubble.

