 For most children, their work is something very personal. Realizing that they’ve made an error might frustrate them or diminish their self-confidence. Explaining that self-editing is important for every person, even famous people they like, can help them get into the right mindset to revise their work. This can also help you clearly tell them what the self-editing process looks like.Give your child examples of people who self-edit their work as a motivation. For example, “Do know who also goes over their work, Sam? Shel Silverstein! He went over all of his stories so that you and other kids love them.”
Assure your child that self-editing is makes good work great. For example, “You always do your best, Max. Taking a few minutes to edit your work will make it even better!”;
, Write out a detailed list of things kids need to edit. This can help them better understand the process of self-editing. It also helps them get through simple tasks that may prevent frustration.Work with the child on the list. For example, “What steps do you need to take to edit this story, Taylor?” Praise them and make suggestions, “That’s great, Taylor! You’ve got punctuation and spelling listed. You really understand what you need to do.”, Ask what things on the list are most important to do and in what order. This can help the child break up their list into smaller pieces. Encouraging this can also help them learn to more independently self-edit and minimize frustration.For example, “You’ve made a great list, Ayelet. What things do you think are most important parts?”

, If possible, tell the child to wait a day or two to self-edit. Explain that it’s easier to proofread when they’ve let something rest. This can also help kids distance themselves emotionally from the work.Explain this in words kids can understand. For example, “Sam, when you’re writing a story, let it sit for a couple of days and then go back and read it out loud. This can make it easier for you to see or hear mistakes. You might also realize that there are better words you can use.”

, Avoid putting your child in a situation where they feel rushed to self-edit. This may cause frustration, stress or anxiety. Involve kids in deciding a good time and place to work so that they have some control over the process.For example, “Hey Charlotte, you do a really great job self-editing before dinner. Do you feel like this works for you? Where do you like to work?”

, Once you’ve picked the best time and space to self-edit, work it into the child’s daily schedule. This can help them anticipate and more independently self-edit their work.It may also reduce any stress or anxiety they feel.Stick to your routine if possible. Tell kids about any changes and what alternatives are available. For example, “We’re going to meet some friends for dinner at your favorite restaurant, Dahlia. I know you’re working on some hard math problems. Let’s finish what we can tonight and then check the answers tomorrow morning. You can also work on your problems at the restaurant and no one will bother you.”, Kids may need some incentive to self-edit their work. Offering them small prizes or other things they may want can motivate them to edit independently.For example, give kids a gold star to put on a chart when they self-edit their work. When they earn 25 stars, let them choose a small prize to keep up their good work.
 Kids need different writing implements and other tools to self-edit their work. Have them gather anything they may need before they begin. This can prevent procrastination or interrupting their workflows. Some items kids may want or need include:Pens and/or pencils
Paper
Ruler
Calculator
Computer
Dictionary and/or thesaurus
Worksheets and instructions
Checklist of tasks and goals

, Some kids may need some help self-editing their work. Giving a little support when necessary can prevent frustration and keep them on track with self-editing.Keep help you give constructive and interactive. For example, “What do you need help with, Christopher? Did you leave this problem and come back to it? Ok good, now show me where you’re having trouble. Let’s tackle this together.”
Give concrete examples on how to self-edit the work if you can. For example, “See this number here, Christopher? Ok, what if we switched that we another number? What could we use? Does that help solve the problem?”

, Reinforce your willingness to help kids self-edit their work. Tell them that as long as they are trying and looking for solutions, you’re happy to help.Reassure kids if they get frustrated. This can help them better learn how to independently self-edit. For example, “Let me help you out, Emma. I see you’ve been struggling with this paragraph for a bit.”

, Include kids in any self-editing or work you may need to do. Showing that you self-edit, too, can show them that it’s an important process in finishing their work.For example, “Jack, I’ve got to edit this report for my boss. Maybe we could sit down together and edit our work. This way, we get it out of the way and can go play afterward.”

, Kids love to hear praise because it makes them feel good and offers incentive to self-edit. As they self-edit, give plenty of verbal praise for following their checklists or finishing tasks. For example, “Wow, Felix, you’ve done so much of your checklist! That’s awesome! Gimme a high five!”, Avoid showing any signs of impatience or not understanding your child. This can further frustrate or stress them. Remain patient and calm as you talk them through any problems they may have with self-editing. This can help your child relax and get them to work on their own again.Take a deep breath before you say anything negative to your child.

