 Physical exercise is a good idea for almost everyone post-mastectomy to prevent lymphatic disorders. Exercise can increase the uptake of lymphatic fluid,preventing buildups which can lead to painful swelling. Talk to your doctor - s/he will be able to inform you how quickly to proceed with new exercise after a mastectomy.


If you are considered "at-risk" for lymphedema, or are already showing signs of lymphedema, your doctor may recommend Lymphedema Remedial Exercise - repetitive motions in the affected arm (often performed while wearing special compression bandages) which can help "pump" lymphatic fluid away from the swollen area.;
, Avoid abrupt increase in physical work on the arm on the side where the surgery was done. If your previous exercise regimens included arm weights, don't immediately resume performing exercises with the arm on the same side as your mastectomy. Ask a doctor how long you should wait before resuming this activity. Though you should eventually rebuild strength in this arm, it is important, after a mastectomy, to approach strength exercise in the affected area gradually.
 Stretching exercises are useful after a mastectomy (as they are after many other surgeries) to prevent scarring and minimize joint contracture.More importantly, since good lymphatic function requires full range of motion in the affected area,stretching exercises are important for maintaining healthy lymph nodes and preventing fluid buildup. Talk to your doctor - generally, you can begin stretching about a week after the surgery or radiation therapy.


Stretching exercise should be part of a long-term effort to maintain overall fitness after your mastectomy. Be prepared to continue exercises for up to 18 months to maintain your body’s range of motion.
 As is the case with many, many other medical disorders, physically fit people recover more easily from lymphedema and are less likely to become afflicted with it in the first place. Scientists have shown a definite link between people who are obese and an increased likelihood of lymph node swelling. If you are overweight or obese, talk to your doctor about your options with regards to special diet programs designed to reduce your weight after you have a mastectomy.


In serious cases, you may want to talk to your doctor about surgical procedures such as liposuction or stomach stapling to reduce your weight. Besides simply increasing your chance of lymphedema, obesity can dramatically reduce the length and quality of your life.
 Unfortunately, there is no definitive "cure" for lymphedema.Treatment efforts are designed to reduce swelling and pain, not necessarily to fix the condition. As such, recovery from lymphedema following a mastectomy can be a long, arduous process. Be in frequent contact with your doctor as you fight with lymphedema - s/he will be your best resource for exercises and preventative measures you can perform to improve your condition.


If, at any time, your lymphedema appears to worsen or becomes irritated and/or inflamed, contact your doctor immediately - this can be a sign of a serious blockage or infection.
 Avoid wearing or carrying anything that compresses or squeezes your affected arm and/or hand. Tight sleeves or bracelets can constrict circulation in your arm, contributing to fluid build up which can lead to lymph node swelling.


Forcing the affected arm or shoulder to bear excessive weight can also contribute to lymphedema. Be sure to carry a light bag or purse and avoid handling heavy bags, (especially avoid carrying them on the shoulder or the crook of your arm) to minimize pressure and constriction on your arm.
 Blood pressure cuffs measure your blood pressure by constricting around your arm, temporarily stopping circulation. Since, to avoid lymphedema, you want to maintain healthy, free circulation in your arm, it's a bad idea to take blood pressure readings in the affected arm, which can contribute to further swelling and fluid buildup.
 Try to avoid exposing yourself to extreme temperatures, which can disrupt normal circulation to your arm. For instance, it's recommended that you avoid using hot tubs, saunas or steam baths.When you bathe, use warm or lukewarm (rather than hot or cold) water.


Also avoid burning or irritating the affected arm in any way by exposing it to extreme temperatures, which can increase fluid buildup .
Apply sunscreen at least SPF 15 during the day. This prevents sunburns, which can irritate the skin on the affected arm (and, in extreme cases of lymphedema, even cause the skin to break down).
 When sitting for a long period of time or sleeping, you may want to elevate the affected arm. Use a pillow, another similarly-sized object, or a medical arm support to prop your arm in a position that has it comfortably resting above your heart. This will naturally and safely decrease the the circulation to your arm, helping to minimize fluid buildup.


Be sure to avoid lying on the affected arm for an extended period of time. If needed, pack extra pillows behind your back or around your sides to prevent yourself from unconsciously turning over while you sleep.

