 Try placing comment cards near the exit to your restaurant so that you can receive comments from customers. You can also ask customers for feedback or look out for social media posts about your website to find customer comments. When you have a collection of good quotes, you can then use these customer testimonials in advertisements, on social media posts, or on your website.


You can also pull feedback from reviews on local listings websites., Promotions can be useful both for gaining new customers and for earning return business. However, many restaurateurs advise against offering discounts on your food, as it devalues what you offer. That is, customers will come to think that the discounted price is what your food is worth. Instead, try offering free add-ons to meals, like a free appetizer or dessert with the purchase of an entree. This brings in customers and also gets them to try menu items that they otherwise might not be willing to order., Plan special events in your restaurant to draw in customers for a special purpose besides simply eating your food. For example, you can hold a daily happy hour, advertise specials for sporting events, or host a wine tasting. Alternately, you can host closed parties, charitable events, business socials, or food tastings. Hosting these events may help you draw in a large crowd and earn some return customers., The best way to stay in touch with customers is by having them sign up for an email newsletter. Sign up for an online emailing service like MailChimp, GetResponse, or Robly to get started. Then, start collecting customer emails by including a mention of the newsletter on receipts and on flyers around the restaurant. You can offer a special discount or deal to those who subscribe to your newsletter. You can also invite your subscribers to special events or offer competitions through email to your loyal customers.


If your receive any questions, concerns, or comments through email, be sure to respond to them., Remember that restaurant promotion is only part of building a successful restaurant. You'll have to maintain friendly and professional service, as well as excellent food quality, to keep customers coming back. Make sure that you have these areas covered before spending more time and effort on promotion.

