 You can opt out of receiving pre-screened offers for credit cards by visiting https://www.optoutprescreen.com. This website was created by the nation’s major credit bureaus (Experian, Equifax, TransUnion) and is approved by the Federal Trade Commission., You are given a couple of choices. Your choice will determine how you opt out:If you want to opt out of receiving offers for five years, then you can opt out electronically.
If you want to opt out permanently, then you’ll need to print and complete a form.
 You can opt out by calling 1-888-567-8688 or by using the optoutprescreen.com website.You should enter requested personal information. You are not required to give your Social Security Number or date of birth, though that will help speed up the process., At the optoutprescreen.com website, click on “Permanent Opt-Out by Mail” and provide all personal information identified as “required.” Print off the form and sign it.


Mail the form to the address provided on it.
As soon as you enter your information, a five-year opt-out request will be processed. This request will be made permanent as soon as they receive your signed form., Your request should be processed in five days. However, offers won’t immediately stop being sent to you. Instead, it might take several months before all offers are suspended., Using the above website won’t stop all offers, because some card issuers get their information from sources other than the national credit bureaus. You can stop other offers by contacting the Direct Marketing Association and signing up for their opt-out list.Visit the DMA’s website here: https://dmachoice.thedma.org/. You will have to register by clicking on the “Get Started” button. It costs $2 to sign up for the list.At the website, click “Remove My Name” or go through the listing of businesses and remove yourself from them individually.
Alternately, you can use mail-in registration. Download the form or write a letter with your name and address to DMAchoice, Data & Marketing Association, P.O. Box 643, Carmel, NY 10512. It costs $3 to use the mail-in option. It also takes longer to process.
If you continue to receive offers from financial companies, you’ll need to call them directly and ask them to stop mailing you offers.

