 MyWebSearch is good at hiding from many anti-virus and anti-malware suites, but Malwarebytes Anti-Malwarecan find and destroy all of its elements on both Windows and Mac. Point your web browser to malwarebytes.org and click “Download.”


Windows users will then click “Download Free” to begin the download. When prompted to save the file, choose a location you’ll remember, like the desktop, and click “Save.”
Mac users, click the link next to “To protect your Mac, go here,” then click “Download.” Save the file to your desktop.
If you’re having trouble downloading software because of pop-up ads, use a different computer and save the software to a flash drive. Once the software is saved to the flash drive, plug it in to the infected computer and run the installer from there.;
,


Windows: double-click the installer on your desktop (called MBAM-setup), select a language when prompted, then click “Next.” Accept the agreement, click “Next” to choose an install location, then “Next” again to choose a name for the start menu shortcut. Click “Install.”
Mac users: double-click the installer (called MBAM-Mac) on your desktop, then drag the Malwarebytes icon to the Applications folder when prompted. Click “Open.” Type the admin password when asked, then click “Install Helper.”

, Launch Anti-Malware for the first time by double-clicking the icon created by the installer (in the Applications folder on Mac, in the programs menu or desktop for Windows).
 Anti-Malware knows to find Mywebsearch, so let’s make it happen. Click “Scan.”


Windows users, your scan will probably take several minutes, perhaps longer.
Mac users, this scan will be relatively fast, as there aren’t as many places for sketchy software to hide.
 Mywebsearch also installs other software on your computer, so if you see other things you don’t recognize, they might have come with MyWebSearch.

Put checks in the boxes next to everything that appears under “Threats” unless you know for sure that you trust that program. Some computer manufacturers, such as Lenovo, install harmless software that can be misidentified as adware/malware. Remove the checks next to entries that say the name of your computer manufacturer to protect those items. Other than that, if Malwarebytes Anti-Malware lists it as a threat, you can safely remove it. The following programs are all known to be affiliated with MyWebSearch and can be safely removed:

Mywebsearch Bar
Mywebsearch Smiley Central
Mywebsearch Outlook Express or Incredimail
My Way Speedbar Smiley Central
My Way Speedbar Yahoo or AOL
My Way Speedbar Outlook Express or Incredimail
Search Assistant My Way
Search Assistant Mywebsearch
Fun Web Products Easy Installer
Weatherbug


If other items you don’t recognize appear, make sure they are also checked.
Click “Remove Selected” to remove all checked options from your computer.
 Once the programs have been remove, restart your computer and log back in.
 Malwarebytes Anti-Malware does a great job at removing Mywebsearch on its own, but you may need to make some tweaks to regain control of your web browser. If opening your browser brought you to the MyWebSearch site, read on. If you no longer see the MyWebSearch toolbar and you’re brought to your normal homepage, you’re done!

, Even if you don't use Internet Explorer (IE) regularly, you'll want to reset it to clear out any settings that MyWebSearch changed. While this does reset your browser settings (such as search engines and homepage preference), your personal data will be unaffected:


Open the IE Tools menu (or the Gear button) and select "Internet options."
Click the "Advanced" tab and then click "Reset." Check "Delete personal settings" and then click "Reset."

, Resetting your web browser won’t touch your saved passwords or bookmarks, but you’ll have to install any additional toolbars or browser extensions you use (such as ad blockers) when you’re done. Make sure you do this on every browser on your computer, not just the one you use most.


Chrome: Click the Menu (☰) button and select "Settings." Click the "Show advanced settings" link at the bottom of the screen, then "Reset settings." Click "Reset" to confirm.
Firefox: Click the Menu (☰) button and select "?" Click "Troubleshooting Information,” then click "Refresh Firefox." Click "Refresh Firefox" again to confirm.
Safari: In the Safari menu, click “Reset Safari,” then “Reset” to confirm the change.
 Once you’ve restarted the computer, MyWebSearch should be completely removed from your computer. To verify, run another Malwarebytes scan and wait for the results.


If your computer is infected with other adware or malware, you may have to take additional steps to remove those threats.


