 Keep the shrimp in a single layer with the tail ends pointing inward.

A 12-inch (30.5 cm) shallow, round, glass casserole dish is recommended, especially if it has a microwave-safe lid. Any dish that can fit the shrimp in a single layer could be used, though.
If you have one, a silicone steamer is actually the ideal choice, but these can be difficult to find. These steamers create a vacuum that allows steam to build from the food's own juices.Avoid using a dish that requires you to stack the shrimp in multiple layers. If this happens, the shrimp may not cook through evenly.
 Drizzle with the liquid ingredients. Lightly sprinkle with salt and pepper or other seasonings, adjusting the amount as desired according to your own tastes.


You should only have a small amount of liquid in the dish, so hold off on any liquid seasonings other than those mentioned here. If you have too much liquid, the shrimp with boil instead of steam.






Gently toss the shrimp with a form to coat each one in the mixture of flavors. When done, though, make sure that the shrimp are returned to their original position with the tail ends pointing inward.
 Cover the dish with microwave-safe safe plastic wrap and cook on high until done. When done, shrimp should also curl up into a C-shape. Note that the exact time will vary based on the size of the shrimp.Miniature and small shrimp will need 2 1/2 to 3 minutes.






Medium or standard shrimp will need 3 to 5 minutes.






Large or jumbo shrimp will need 6 to 8 minutes.
Colossal shrimp will need 8 to 10 minutes.
Check for doneness after the minimum cooking time.
Vent the plastic wrap by poking it once with the tips of a fork.
Alternatively, if the dish has a microwave-safe lid, cover it with that, instead. Make sure to vent the lid by placing it on the dish slightly askew or by opening any built-in vents.
The dish needs to be mostly sealed in order to allow steam to build inside, but do not keep it completely sealed. Doing so could cause too much pressure to build inside.
 Allow the shrimp to stand for 1 to 2 minutes before draining excess liquid from the dish. Serve while still hot.


Miniature to medium shrimp will only need to stand 1 minute, while jumbo and colossal shrimp will need 2 minutes.
Drain the shrimp by pouring out excess liquid or by removing them with a slotted spoon and placing them on a serving dish.
Since the shrimp has not been deveined, you should provide your dinner guests with a paring knife that they can use to fish the vein out of the cooked shrimp as they consume it, if they so desire. No harm will come from eating the vein, however, so this is mostly for the sake of aesthetics and texture.
Alternatively, chill, and serve cold. If you want to serve the shrimp cold, transfer the cooked shrimp to a bowl of ice water to stop the cooking process immediately. Afterward, place it in the refrigerator for at least 30 to 60 minutes.

