 If the door swings inward, toward the inside of the building, you're in luck; you might be able to kick it in. If it swings outward, however, don't waste your time; you won't be able to kick it in, and you could break your foot if you try.Most doors on residential homes or apartments open inward. You find outward-opening doors on commercial buildings.
If you determine that the door opens outward, removing the door hinges might be an easier way to get in. However, many commercial door hinges have theft proof hinge pins that do not allow them to be removed.;
, Some doors are made cheaply, while others are built to last. Take a look at what the door and its frame are made from; the building material will determine the level of force required to kick it in.


Hollow core doors, made of hollow wood or another material that isn't solid, are usually found inside homes between rooms. These doors usually have no insulation or security, and they require minimal force to kick in.
Solid core doors are made from chipped or shaved wood with frames that have laminate on each side. They require a bit more force than hollow core doors.
Solid wood doors are made of hardwood and require an average amount of force to kick in.
Metal clad doors are made from softwood with a thin metal covering and require an average to above average amount of force.
Hollow metal doors are much heavier than other doors, have reinforcing channel around the edges and the lock mounting area, and some have insulating material. They require maximum force; it may not be possible to kick these in.
 Every door has a weak spot, depending on how it's made. Examine the door to figure out which part is made from the weakest materials. A swift kick will break the weakest part of the door which is usually the frame, the latch, or the lock.


Is it the frame? If the frame is made from lightweight wood, that may be the weakest part. Even if the lock is heavy duty, you should be able to kick in a door with a weak frame.
Is it the latch or lock? Heavier doors are weakest at the latch, the part of the door that clicks into the frame. They may also be weak just below or above the lock.

