


Research local building codes for any requirements that apply to your project.
Contact your local post office to ensure that your planned mailbox will meet their requirements.;
,


Dig out the base of the mailbox and remove it.
If the mailbox has a concrete base, remove the concrete.



Dig an 8 inch (20.32 cm) hole.
The hole should be slightly wider than the mailbox that you plan to build.



Use a trowel to smooth out the concrete.
Use a level to ensure that the concrete is level.
Be sure to level out the concrete within 45 minutes. After 45 minutes, the concrete will become unworkable.
Allow the concrete to sit for 7 days.
This will be the footing of the mailbox.



Use a trowel.
Mark out an area for 2 8x8x16 inch (20.32x20.32x40.64 cm) cinder blocks to lay.
,,,


These should be laid perpendicular to the first set.
Press them into place.
,


Lay the first brick into the mortar.
For the remaining bricks, add mortar with a joint tool to 1 end of each brick and press it against the last brick that you applied.
Do this until you have a full layer of bricks around the cider blocks.
Use a level to ensure that the bricks are level.
Make any necessary adjustments.
Repeat this entire step until you have completely surrounded the cider blocks with bricks. Each brick should be offset from the 1 beneath it in order to stagger the joints.
,,


Using mortar between each brick and on the top of the structure, lay bricks vertically in back and on the sides of the mailbox.
Apply mortar to the top of the mailbox and lay bricks horizontally across it, using mortar between each brick. You may make multiple layers if you would like the height of the mailbox to be higher.
Ensure that the back, sides, and top of the mailbox are fully covered with bricks.
Fill in any open spaces (other than the mailbox itself) with mortar.



This can be purchased at a home-improvement store.
Apply mortar to the top row of bricks on the mailbox.
Apply the capstone to the mortar and press it in.



Wait several hours after you have completed building the mailbox.
Use a heavy brush along the joints to wipe away excess mortar.

