 DO NOT encourage the person to talk and unless you are being talked to, keep your mouth closed and do not utter a single syllable. IF this person has some form of social intelligence, which should not be the case or else this would not have happened, he/she will take the hint and drift away, but as mentioned, the case is probably some what more complex than that;
, IF by chance they are funny, hold your tongue, turn away your head or simply eat something, to keep yourself from laughing. A laugh is an invitation, the opposite of what you seek. This, indeed, might be hard, especially if you have a bad sense of humor, but try at least and stuffing something in your mouth helps a lot. STAY AWAY FROM WATER! you will only choke yourself.
 Always. See them in the hallway? AVOID EYE CONTACT and quickly walk away. Run if you have to. if they ask you why, say you forgot to do something or have to print out some school stuff, find an excuse or two or ten. Whatever you do, DO NOT STOP.
 If he/she sits at your table, exclude him/her, not to be rude, because if you are talked to, remember to answer,. But simply do not give this person any opportunity to interfere. Talk about intern things you and your friends did last week, or some funny stuff that happened on the way home etc. Whatever it is, make a big deal about it and keep the conversation eloquent. as long as you guys are talking, they cannot randomly interrupt you.
 One can never get enough fluids. Excuse yourself and run to the nearest water-fountain, claiming you're suffering from dehydration. Since the water at the 3rd floor is clearly infected with poisonous calcium, you have no other choice but to go down all the way to the 1st floor. You can take your time because of all the stairs and claim as a result, that you need to use the little lady's room due to a high intake of h2o.... as if that didn't take enough time, there was a long queue and you could not go up all the way to the 4th floor because the toilets there do not work.
 what better way is there to get them to stop talking, when one completely disagrees with everything they say? this may be fun for you and so very annoying for them, which truly is a win-win situation for yourself. this also gives one a great opportunity to be as ridiculous and objectifying as possible. warning!: this may lead to people thinking that you may be uneducated, but that is a small price to pay if this results in people staying away because you are clearly not able to have a normal conversation without disagreeing.
 BUT, if one of you fail, the person MUST somehow let the others know and shake the clingy person off. how? Well, excuses, excuses. Tell him/her you have to use the bathroom and are going to stay for a long time. unless this person is invalid or something, he/she will most probably not follow. then you have clear sight, and can find your friends. just remember to say that you met some one in the hall and had to finish this project you forgot about! silly you!

, A very efficient way, indeed. Eat your lunch in the most creative places. You and your friends can eat out, eat in the gym, eat on the roof, eat in a tree, eat in a stairway, in the hallway, in the classroom, in the computer room, wherever! Use your imagination, but remember, do not seek the same places everyday. Never underestimate your enemies. They can figure out and then you are screwed. So remember to alter between the places you seek and be unpredictable.
 Never agree to anything he/she says. "the weather is beautiful today!", they might say. What do you do? Disagree. "you think so? it way to hot. I hate the sun. I prefer rainy days..." here you might sound emo, but hey, do you want to get rid of the person or not? so act cool, disagree and hold your mask.
 ignore, ignore and ignore. "whoops, did not see you in the hallway! to busy with my...hair!" IGNORE as much as you can. IF all of the other steps fail, this one might just save you. ignorance is what makes us feel unwanted. so if all of the "nice and discrete"-steps fail, this one is doomed to succeed!

