 Fresh asparagus is a luxury vegetable, and its prices tend to reflect this. You can buy fresh, frozen, or canned asparagus. If you're buying fresh, look for bright green or violet-tinged spears. Spears should be straight, firm, and uniformly-sized, with closed (not flowering) tips. Ideally, buy fresh asparagus on the day that you plan to use it.Asparagus spears range from thick to thin. Some people prefer one kind over another, but size does not generally signal quality or flavor. Thicker spears are more mature, and thinner spears less so. Thicker spears often have tougher, woodier ends, and most people chop these off before cooking.
Asparagus goes bad quickly, so it’s important to pick bundles that are refrigerated or on ice. Do not buy asparagus that isn't being kept cool, as it may go bad even more quickly.;
, Asparagus is one of the first green vegetables to come into season at the end of winter. Fresh, American-grown asparagus often appears in stores in late February, but the vegetable is at its best – and is usually cheapest – in April and May. You can eat frozen or canned asparagus year-round, but many consider fresh asparagus a delicacy., Use asparagus within two or three days of purchase, and preferably sooner. If you do need to keep it for a day or two, the best way to preserve the spears is to place them upright in a bowl (or even a small vase) of cold water. You can wrap the ends of the spears in a damp paper towel and refrigerate them. You can refrigerate them in a plastic bag for up to three days.
 Blanching is an important step in preparing vegetables for freezing. Scalding the vegetables stops the enzymes that break the vegetable down. This may help preserve flavor, crispness, and color. Blanching before freezing also cleans the surface of the vegetable, slows the loss of vitamins, and makes the veggies softer and easier to pack.
 You can start these plants from seeds, or you can plant their crowns for faster results. Mature asparagus plants yield spears every spring for 12 to 25 years.

