 If your toddler can understand the difference between a wet and dry diaper, they might be ready for potty training. Your toddler might pull off their wet diaper and may even ask you to change their soiled diaper.When your toddler recognizes their diaper is dirty, they may remove it themselves, touch it with their pants on, or they may seem or look uncomfortable.This is a big point that your toddler understands the difference between wet and dry.;
, Your toddler may start showing an interest around toilets or bathrooms. They might want to follow you as you enter the bathroom, observe and explore the sink or toilet, and try going in the bathroom on their own to explore for themselves.Your toddler may also start asking you questions such as: What do you do in the bathroom?
What is the toilet for?
Why do people enter the bathroom?
What is the bathroom for?

, Your toddler should be able to stand and get on a step stool independently and should be able to already grasp basic motor skills such as turning the pages in a book, stacking blocks, and rolling balls.If your child already has good motor skills, it might be time to start potty training since they'll be using a lot of motor skills when they're using the potty such as pulling their paints up, going on a step stool, flushing the toilet, putting the sink on, getting toilet paper, etc., If you start to notice your toddler's diaper being dry during nap time or playtime hours during the day, this is a good sign your child has control of their bladder. You may want to consider potty training during this time since your toddler has the ability to control their bladder., If your toddler is able to communicate slightly using words or signs, this might help as they start potty training. Your toddler will be able to communicate when they need to go potty by using their language skills. If your toddler is a late bloomer when it comes to communication or social skills, and you fail to understand your toddler at times, you may want to consider starting potty training a little later until they're able to communicate more clearly., Before you begin potty training, look for a potty that's comfortable and sturdy. The potty should be comfortable to sit on and should not cause pain or discomfort. It may help to find a potty that has a foam bottom to keep it soft and comfy for your toddler.The potty should also not wobble around if sat on; it should be sturdy and firm. You'll also want to find a good-quality step stool for your toddler to reach the sink when it's time to wash their hands.
 Before your toddler begins to learn what the potty is for, allow them to explore it by touching it and feeling it with their hands. Speak to them while they're exploring the potty by telling them what they are feeling. Examples include:


"You are touching the bottom part of the potty where we sit on, Nick."
"This is the inside of the potty where all the pee and poo go in."
"That's the lid of the potty, Jasmine. You can close the potty using the lid. Would you like to try? Close it like this."

, While your toddler explores the potty, explain what the potty is for. Explain this is the place where they will go pee and poo, and that they won't be using their diapers. For example, you could say, "Since you're a big boy now, you'll use the potty to pee and poop instead of your diaper. You'll call me when you need to use the potty." Ensure your toddler understands what the potty will be for and that they will be using it when they feel the urge to go potty.
 This makes it easier for them to independently use the potty, and also makes it easy with their visual disability. Avoid letting them wear pants with zippers and buttons as these are hard to open and close. Find underwear that is comfy and slightly loose for comfort and ease towards your toddler.Avoid having them wear diapers or training pants during the day. This usually prevents your child from feeling the urge to use the bathroom and can stop them from feeling an accident happening., While you may be tempted to place the potty in your child's bedroom or playroom, keeping the potty in the bathroom is essential so your child can understand that this is the place where they go potty.Keep the potty in the bathroom at all times so your child can develop an understanding where they need to use the bathroom.This may be especially important for children with visual disabilities who need to know where to locate the potty reliably, even without being able to see it.
 The best way to teach your toddler how to use the potty is by guiding their hands when it comes to taking off their pants and underwear, as well as other bathroom tasks. Talk your way through as you guide their hands and show them what to do. Ensure the bathroom is adapted with their visual needs, too. You may need to increase the lighting, create color contrasts, reduce glare, and prevent certain bathroom hazards.Teach your toddler how to wipe and flush the toilet, if they're using the adult toilet. Guide your toddler's hands and explain what their doing and what's going on (e.g. "Right now we're going to flush the toilet. The pee is going to go down the toilet. There we go. Did you hear the toilet? You flushed it.")
Teach your toddler how to wash their hands. Try to use a soap dish or container that contrasts with the sink or countertop so your toddler can easily see it. Keep the soap and towel in the same place at all times so your child can locate them easily without any trouble. , Your toddler make be nervous or frightened around the potty, especially because they're not able to see clearly what's going on. They might be afraid of the inside the toilet, afraid of the noises the toilet or sink make, etc. Address these fears and talk to your child about them, helping them cope and deal with these feelings. Examples:


"I've noticed you start to look startled when you flush the toilet. Would it help to cover your ears right away once you flush?"
"The sink makes a loud sound since water is gushing out. Would you like to lower the amount of water coming out?"

, When your child starts to wobble and shake (also called the "potty dance"), hold onto their pants, and make an uncomfortable look, they probably need the potty. If you recognize these signs, ask your toddler if they have to go potty. If they do, take them right away to the potty. , Instruct your toddler to tell you when they have to go potty, whether it's using their words or making a sign, whatever is easiest for them. Explain to your child when they might need to go potty by explaining the "feeling" near their abdomen. You might say:


"Mohammad, when you feel a funny feeling right here, you might need to go potty. Tell me right away when you feel like you need to go and I'll take you to the potty."
"Whenever you find yourself doing the potty dance, Caroline, make a sign for potty and I'll take you."
"If you feel uncomfortable right here, you probably have to go potty, Jason. Tell me right away when you do."

, During the day, allow your toddler to sit on the potty for short periods of a time, usually about 10-15 minutes. This encourages them to use the potty, prevents accidents, and allows them to get used to and comfortable with the potty.If your child is too bouncy and wants to leave the potty early, try to distract them. Read them books, sing songs, and hand them toys or stuffed animals so they can play.
 Accidents are normal and will happen, whether your child is sighted or not. When you notice an accident or if your toddler mentions it to you, explain how your child feels and what's happened. When your child changes their underwear and pants, explain how good it feels to be dry and clean. Then provide further direction on how to use the potty in the future (e.g "When you feel a funny feeling right here, tell me, and I'll bring you to the potty."). Some examples of what you could say to your toddler when they have an accident include:"Uh uh, your pants and underwear are wet, Chloe. You've had an accident. You probably want to change. Let's go change into nice, clean clothes."
"Oh, why are your pants wet? Have you had an accident? You probably feel disappointed! Let's go change into dry clothes."
"Oh no, your underwear is wet! Have you had an accident, Steven? That's okay, let's go change into clean, dry clothes. You probably feel uncomfortable in wet underwear."

, When your toddler successfully uses the potty, celebrate and exclaim how great that is. Provide plenty of praise when they've used the potty; it'll encourage them to use it again and keep it up. Some examples you could say:


"Great job, Katie, you did it! You used the potty! I knew you could do it."
"You did it, Greg, you used the potty all by yourself!"
"Zara, you peed in the potty! Nice job!"

, Your toddler may be a late bloomer when it comes to potty training, and may have a lot of accidents, especially with their visual disability. Know that this is okay and your toddler will get the hang of it with more time and practice. Stick with it and keep trying, but avoid scolding your toddler. This can cause fear towards them when it comes to potty training, and will end up making them learn even later out of fear., While your toddler stays on the potty you can sing songs, tell poems, and make up rhymes about using the potty to encourage your child to stay on the potty and encourage them to use it as well, making the process more enjoyable.
 While your toddler sits on the potty, read stories of children with visual impairments or normal toddlers using the potty, too. This encourages your toddler to use the potty and helps them understand they're not alone. While they may not see the pictures of the story because of their visual disability, they'll still enjoy the fun of storytelling while you read the story. It can also distract them if they're too bouncy and want to get off the potty too early., Playing games to encourage your child to use the potty makes the process more fun and easier for both you and your toddler. You can role-play with toys to demonstrate and teach your toddler to use the potty. While your child sits on the potty, you can provide a tray of toys and coloring pages so they can get distracted while they sit on the potty.
 When your toddler successfully uses the potty, you may want to provide small rewards. This encourages them to keep using potty and will prevent accidents. Some small rewards you may consider for your toddler:



Small, mini toys. You may offer tiny plastic cars, small yarn dolls, mini-sized bouncy balls, etc.

Candy. Some parents are wary of giving out candy when their toddler does something good due the negative effects of candy, but others find it a good reward. Stickers. If your toddler is visually impaired, use colorful, jumbo stickers so they're able to see the stickers more vividly.
 When your toddler successfully uses the potty, be sure to tell others in the household. You can cheerfully say, "Guess what Avery did today?" when their other parent comes home and then state the news. Be sure your toddler hears you clearly when you tell others the news. This encourages them to keep using the potty and to keep trying.
 Throughout the day, allow your child to drink plenty of liquids such as fruit juice, milk, or water. This can help them use the bathroom more often, which allows more training so they can have a chance to practice using the potty. Your toddler may also like:Fruit juice popsicles
Ice lollies
Milkshakes
Smoothies
Slushies
Shaved ice
Flavored ice cubes

, Throughout the day, allow your toddler to wear underwear so they're able to feel the wetness of the urine if they have an accident. During the night, consider wearing training plants in case they do have an accident while they sleep. Potty training at night is possible, but it's best to focus on training during the day until they're more experienced, to make it both easier and less complicated for you and your toddler. , Your toddler's doctor and visual therapist may have more advice and tips to help your toddler with potty training. They may suggest different methods, ideas, and products to make the training easier while suiting your toddler's visual needs, as well as answer any questions or concerns you might have about your toddler's training.
 Your toddler may take longer than a normal toddler would because of their visual impairment, and that's okay. They may have more accidents and it will take lots of time, patience, and lots of encouragement. Your toddler will get there, don't stress!

