 To make invisible ink many things can be used, choose from one of the following:


Orange juice
Milk
Lime
Grape juice. ;
, For example, a cotton bud, toothpick, paintbrush or a fountain pen.
 Let it dry completely before sending to someone.


Attach a note. Writing invisible messages is fun but it can be a problem if the person who gets the invisible message does not know that it has a message; he or she might think of it as something else like a prank. If the recipient isn't aware, send a note along with it saying, for example: "Dear , This blank paper has an invisible message. To read it heat it or look at it under a bright light."

,, Some are highly toxic (potassium dichromate, potassium nitrate or iodine compounds).
,, Don't worry if the powder wasn't all dissolved. You should keep the powder on the filter paper.
 Cover the jar with something, such as a layer of wax paper or a lid or maybe a filter paper. Otherwise, the solution may attract some impurities from the air and then it will grow many "parasitic" crystals.


Don't put the jar on a heat source.
 A big crystal isn't going to grow all of a sudden. Wait a while. The next time you take a look at your crystals, you'll see that there have grown many crystals. Choose one that you like (a seed) and put the remaining crystals where you put the remaining powder.


If you want to grow many little crystals quickly, you can heat the water. However, if you want to grow big nice crystals, you shouldn't do that, as it won't work for a large crystal.
If you want to grow a little crystal quickly, you can put a little "crumb" from the powder as the seed.
 Then put your little crystal into the solution. (You may do this every time you see little crystals.)

, When you see that in the jar isn't enough solution to cover the whole crystal, make some new solution as you have made the first one (I mean make the solution in a clean jar, filter it and then fill the jar that have you're crystal).


Growing crystals takes a lot of time, so be patient. They take at least a few days.
If you have some small crystals sticking out of your crystal, put your crystal in water and leave it there until you don't see any more small crystals.
Crystals are fragile and break easily. Move the jar with care.
 Use clear PVA solution––this is the secret to great slime. The measurements do not have to be exact but it’s a good idea to start with the proportions below for the first batch. Just vary the quantities of each ingredient to get a new and interesting batch of goo.


Elmers glue (8 oz bottle of Elmers Glue-All) 
Borax (a powdered soap found in the grocery store)
Large mixing bowl
Plastic cup (8 oz size works well)
Spoon
Measuring cup
Food coloring
Water
Paper towel (to clean up)
Zipper-lock bag (to keep it when you're done)
Water.


This recipe is based on using a brand new 8 ounce bottle of Elmer’s glue.
, Pour the glue-water mixture into the mixing bowl and use the spoon to mix well.


Go ahead. Add a drop or two of food coloring, if using.
 Add a teaspoon of borax powder to the water. Stir the solution – don’t worry if all of the powder dissolves. This borax solution is the secret linking agent that causes the Elmer’s glue molecules to turn into slime.


While stirring the glue in the mixing bowl, slowly add a little of the borax solution.
 Immediately you’ll feel the long strands of molecules starting to connect. It’s time to abandon the spoon and use your hands to do the serious mixing. Keep adding the borax solution to the glue mixture (don’t stop mixing) until you get a perfect batch of Elmer’s slime. You might like your slime more stringy while others like firm slime. Hey, you’re the head slime mixologist – do it your way!

, When you’re finished playing with your Elmer’s slime, seal it up in a zipper-lock bag for safe keeping.