 Microsoft Publisher organizes its invitation card templates according to the type of occasion you want to invite the card recipients to.


In Publisher 2003, select "Publications for Print" in the New Publication task pane and then click the arrow to the left of Invitation Cards. Click one of the types of invitation listed to display the available designs in the Preview Gallery.
In Publisher 2007, select "Invitation Cards" from the Publication Types list at the left edge of the screen. Invitation designs are grouped according to the type of event the invitation is for, followed by a section of common blank sizes, followed by blank sizes grouped by stationery manufacturer. You can highlight any design to see a larger version of it at the top of the Task Pane at the top right.
In Publisher 2010, select "Invitation Cards" from the More Templates section under Available Templates. Invitation designs are grouped according to the type of event the invitation is for, followed by a section of common blank sizes, followed by blank sizes grouped in folders by stationery manufacturer. You can highlight any design to see a larger version of it at the top of the Task Pane at the top right.
If you don't see the template you want, you can download additional templates from Microsoft if you have an Internet connection.;
, Each invitation card template comes with a default color and font scheme, but if you wish to use a different color or font scheme, you can do so by selecting the appropriate new scheme. Choose a new color scheme from one of the named color schemes in the Color Scheme dropdown and a new font from the Font Scheme dropdown.


You can also create your own custom color or font scheme by selecting the "Create new" option from either the Color Scheme or the Font Scheme dropdown.
 Your invitation card will be printed on a single sheet of paper, but can be folded in 1 of 3 ways. You choose which way your card is folded from the Page Size dropdown in the Options section of the task pane. The available options are these:


Quarter-page side fold. Your card pages will print on one side of the page, and when folded, will produce a card that opens on the left side.
Quarter-page top fold. Your card pages will print on one side of the page, and when folded, will produce a card that opens at the top.
Half-page side fold. Your front and back covers will print on one side of the page, and the card interior will print on the other. You can orient the contents so that the card will fold either on the side or at the top. A half-page card will fold to a larger size than a quarter-page card.
These options are not available if you select one of the blank templates, as their page-folding schemes are pre-determined.
 Although each of Publisher's invitation card templates has its own default layout of the card's design elements, you can change the layout of those elements to your liking by selecting one of the options in the Layout dropdown on the task pane.


These layout options are not available if you select one of the blank templates.
 If you're using Publisher 2003, the program prompts you for this information the first time you use it. Afterwards, you select this information from Personal Information in the Edit menu to insert it in your invitation. In Publisher 2007 and 2010, you can select your company information set from the Business Information dropdown or select "Create new" to create a new information set. This information will be inserted into your invitation card.
 In Publisher 2007 and 2010, click the "Create" button at the bottom of the task pane to create your brochure. (Publisher 2003 automatically assumes at this point that you are creating a brochure and does not feature a "Create" button on its task pane.)


At this point, you may want to print out the invitation to see if the design is what you want or create a PDF to email to others to get their input on the design.

