 Work with your child's pediatrician to find out how many calories they should get every day. Your child needs about 40 calories for every inch of height every day. For example, if your toddler is 28 inches tall, they'll need 1,120 calories every day. Try to give your one year old at least 1,000 calories a day.In general, your toddler needs this many calories a day:


One year old: 1,000 calories.Two years old: 1,000 calories.
Three years old: 1,200 to 1,400 for boys or 1,000 to 1,400 for girls., Remind yourself that toddlers are developing eating behaviors. Your toddler may clean their plate one night, but barely pick at it the next night. Avoid forcing your toddler to eat everything or foods that they don't like. Instead, continue to offer more of the foods that they do want to eat at that meal.


As long as you offer a variety of healthy foods, your child's diet will balance out over several days.
 Feed your toddler soft food or food that's cut into small bites. This will prevent your toddler from choking on food that they don't chew well. For example, cut carrots into quarters lengthwise and then sliced into small pieces, and cut grapes in half or in quarters. Avoid offering marshmallows or small nuts which could become stuck in your child's throat.You can also mash food to make it easier to eat, especially if your toddler is very young.
Never let your toddler eat food and run around. You should always supervise meal and snack times.
 Young toddlers (one year olds) may prefer to snack throughout the day, especially if they're still getting nutrition from breast milk. By the time your toddler is two or three, you should be giving them three meals a day and at least a snack or two. Don't expect your child to eat all the food you set out throughout the day, but always offer the food.You may want to leave the snacks out so your toddler knows there's food available if they become hungry.
 Toddler are still developing their sense of taste, so don't be surprised if your toddler says that something is too spicy or doesn't taste good. Flavors may seem stronger to small children. Instead of forcing them to eat foods they dislike, give them lots of options at each meal.Remind yourself that your toddler will eat when they're hungry. When they do, ensure you're giving healthy snacks or meals.

