 The contract should spell out the minimum level of care that you expect for the puppy. While you cannot specify every aspect of the puppies care, this can reassure you that the puppy will be treated well. It can also help the new owner understand how to care for the puppy. You can require that:The puppy will be fed an adequate amount of food every day.
The puppy will be disciplined using positive reinforcement and not physical punishment.
The puppy will receive the right amount of exercise for their temperament and breed.
The puppy will have a comfortable, quiet place to sleep.
The puppy will live inside.
The puppy will be microchipped.
 Your contract should stipulate that the buyer may not resell the puppy. This will prevent puppy mills or unscrupulous buyers from selling puppies at a profit. The contract should also state that if the new owner can no longer care for the puppy, you will be informed first. The new owner must offer you the puppy before they take the dog to a shelter.


If you are a responsible breeder, you are obliged to readopt the puppy at any point of their life should the new owner be unable to care for them., To prevent the puppy from ending up in a puppy mill or as a backyard breeder, you should add a statement in the contract stating that the new owner will not breed the puppy. To ensure this, both you and the new owner should agree that the dog will be spayed or neutered before going into their new home. You will then be responsible for spaying or neutering the dog.If someone wants the puppy to breed, they should be able to present a reference or credentials from a breeding club, the American Kennel Club, and/or the United Kennel Club. Without these references, you should not knowingly give away a puppy to be bred.
 Once you have discussed the contract with the potential adopters, you should have them sign it. You may want to get it notarized, just in case. If the adopter does not want to sign it or if they refuse to agree to certain clauses, you may want to find somebody else.

