 Although most headphones look the same, they're all very much different. Some of them boost a certain part of the music, some of them are designed for comfort and some of them are made to block out all other background noise. Some cheap headphones are lacking in all of these things. There are two ways to decide what headphones you want.


By effect.

Bass booster. Bass booster earphones make your music sound very bassy. Most of the time, they block out all outside noise. Some good bass booster headphones are Beats by Dr Dre but they can be quite expensive. Bass booster headphones are good for dubstep and pop music
Music clarity. Music clarity headphones make your music clearer. If you find that too much bass is ruining your song, music clarity headphones can sort that out. They're mainly used for rock, punk and sometimes folk or classical.


Overhead or in ear

In ear earphones are good for travelling with as they are lightweight and flexible. However, they sometimes lack the bass that you find in overhead headphones. If you are into rock music and don't mind getting some music clarity earphones, in ears are great. You can also use them for sport easier and share them with friends. If you like to listen to music causally, you can put only one earphone in and still have a conversation.
Overhead headphones tend to block out all the sound around you and focus on bass. They can be quite hard to travel with and use during sport as they tend to be big and inflexible. Beats by Dr Dre do fold up, on the other hand. You can't share headphones with someone as you can with earphones. However, they play music much louder and allow you to focus on the song.

;
, If you don't want to spend £300 on big headphones, you don't have to. They will however, have much better sound quality than £1 headphones. The minimum you are willing to spend should be no less than £5. Anything below that will just sound horrible. The more expensive doesn't always mean better though so choose wisely.
 Now that you know your price range and what exactly you're looking for in a pair of headphones, it's time to buy a pair. A good way to do this is to go on the website of a shop that sells headphones and have a look. You may or may not find your perfect pair. If you don't, just look somewhere else. If you do, start reading reviews on that particular model and find somewhere you can test them out. If you can't test them; you'll have to rely on the reviews to make your decision.
 Too many times people have traveled to the store only to find that what they're looking for isn't in stock. To avoid this happening to you, make a reservation beforehand. It's quick, simple and should only require you to enter a few details. Be sure that you've made the reservation at the right shop and be clear when they're holding it until. You don't want to show up a week later to find that they've got rid of them, do you? On the other hand, you don't want to go there right now and find that they haven't come in yet.
 Tell the people in the store that you've made a reservation. They will probably ask you for a reservation number. Give it to them and they'll find what you reserved on their computers. When you get the product, inspect the box to see if it's in good condition and if it looks new. If it doesn't, ask for another one. If you can test it out in the shop then do just that. Taking it home and finding it broken is the worst feeling ever. They should work, however. Once you've paid for the headphones, take them home and enjoy.

