 Meditation is one of the most powerful methods to improve concentration. Before you can start, it’s good to know some basic facts about meditation practice.Meditation is an active lifestyle practice that teaches you to direct your focus on one specific area.Humans have practiced different forms of meditation for thousands of years. It has had different purposes, from finding inner illumination to relaxing and learning to concentrate.
Meditation forces you to truly unplug from the world and focus internally. Having this unplugged time will teach you to concentrate. Another benefit is that it will help you relax, an important component of improving your ability to concentrate.
 A daily period of meditation offers the chance to work specifically on directing concentration on one focal point.


Set up a daily schedule to meditate. Allot time every day for meditation practice. Start with 5-10 minutes and gradually increase your time as you become more proficient at meditating.Find a quiet and comfortable place where you’ll be uninterrupted. By eliminating any distractions and sitting upright, yet comfortably, you’ll make it easier to focus your attention on your breath and let go of any thoughts or sensations that arise., Once you’ve prepared a schedule and quiet place to meditate, you’re ready to begin developing your skills. Remember that meditation is an active process and not a time to completely chill out.Sit upright and still and close your eyes. Proper posture is a vital part of meditation. It allows your breath and blood to flow, which helps your brain learn to focus on one point. Closing your eyes will help keep distractions at bay.Breathe easily and evenly. Don’t control your breath; rather, let it come and go. An excellent technique to help your concentration is to focus solely on your breath by saying “let” on the inhale and “go” on the exhale.Be aware of physical and mental sensations. Let them come and go to help you relax and go deeper into your meditation practice.
If you lose your inner concentration during your meditation session, take a deep breath and refocus your energy inwards. It’s completely normal for this to happen, especially as you develop your meditation practice.

