 It may be called "Human Services", "Family Services", or "Adult and Family Services".


Run a Google search that includes any of the above terms and the name of your city (e.g. "human services san Francisco" or "family services Chicago"). You can also find the local branch by looking in the "Government Pages" section of a local phone book.
 When you find the local branch of your state Human Service Department, call and ask to speak to a case worker. Briefly explain that you want to schedule an appointment to apply for TANF: "I am calling because I want to apply for welfare with the TANF Program. Would it be possible for me to schedule an appointment for this week?" Work with the case worker to find the first available date for your appointment.


When you speak to the case worker, he or she should give you a list of the documents that you need to bring to your appointment. If not--ask about which documents you will need.
 Your case worker should tell you which documents that you need to bring. They will usually include proof of income, official photo identification, and proof of residency. You may also be asked to prove that you have children who meet TANF guidelines.


If possible, bring your driver's license or another state-issued form of ID. If you cannot provide one, bring a birth certificate or a Social Security card--this may be enough. If you do not have state-issued ID, ask your case worker what to do.
You can usually provide proof of residency by bringing your recent utility bills (e.g. water bills, gas bills, electricity bills).
If you have children, bring their birth certificates or school transcripts to prove that they are legal residents of the U.S.
 If possible, access the Department of Health and Human Services website for your state. Locate and print out the forms and the official application before you visit the welfare office.


Again, you should be able to find your state DHHS website by running a Google search that includes "department of health and human services" and the name of your state.
Fill out your paperwork to the best of your ability before you show up to your appointment. This will speed the process along.
If you do not have access to the Internet or to a printer, you can ask your case worker where you can obtain these forms in advance.
Do not worry if you can't fill out the forms completely before you arrive. If you have any questions, ask your case worker at your appointment. Fill out the remaining fields once you understand what is being asked of you.
 Show up to your appointment on time and bring all required documents and forms.


During your appointment, ask your case worker about any questions that you have. He or she will review your documentation and paperwork to determine whether you are eligible and how much aid you are eligible to receive.
Be patient. Your case worker may finish the process by the end of the appointment, but in many cases you will not hear back about your application for anywhere from a few days to a few weeks.
 While you are on TANF welfare, you will be expected to either work or engage in work-related activities (e.g. job-training programs).


You must begin work no later than two years from the start of your TANF application and acceptance. You must work at least 30 hours per week. If there is a child under the age of six living in your household, then you only need to work 20 hours per week.
You can use nine core work activities to satisfy the work requirement: unsubsidized employment, subsidized private employment, subsidized public employment, job search and job readiness, community service, on-the-job training, work experience, vocational educational training, and caring for a child of a recipient in community service.
You can use three additional work activities to supplement the nine core activities have been met: job skills training directly related to employment, education directly related to employment, or completion of a secondary school program.
 You can only receive, at most, 60 months (five total years) of TANF assistance within your lifetime. Welfare is not designed as a permanent solution--it is designed to help you find a way to support yourself.


Note that in some states, TANF benefits you receive as a child do not count toward the 60 months of aid that you can receive as an adult. This can vary by state, however, so be sure to check your state's guidelines.

