 If you can find a recording online of rain falling, this can be a great source of pink noise. The sound of rainfall is one of the most soothing forms of pink noise available.You may be able to find YouTube videos that play the sound of rainfall for hours.
You can also find tracks that play rainfall on a loop.;
, Just as you can download a white noise application, there are many pink noise applications you can download on your smart phone, tablet, or laptop. You can turn the application on before bed and fill your room with the sound of pink noise to help you drift off to sleep.Keep in mind, however, you should not look at a phone or computer screen too much before bed. Electronic screens can stimulate the brain, making sleep difficult.
 The steady flow of traffic is another popular form of pink noise. See if you can find any videos or recordings of traffic online. You can play these in your room at a low volume to create pink noise to help you sleep.Make sure you find recordings of continuous, steady traffic. Recordings of horns honking and accidents will not help you sleep.
 You can find audio files online that provide pink noise. You can download these onto your laptop and play them from there. You may be able to download some files for free, but most will come with a small fee.Make sure you only download pink noise files from reputable websites. You do not want to end up with a computer virus from downloading pink noise files.
 A fan can be an excellent source of pink noise. If you're struggling to sleep and think pink noise would help, try turning a fan on in your room. You can turn on a fan on the floor or a ceiling fan if you have one.If it's cold in your room, you can point the fan away from you or out the window so it's not blowing on you.
 If you live near a street that gets traffic at night, you can take advantage of the traffic flow to create pink noise. Keep a window open so you can hear traffic from the street. This is a great source of pink noise that can help you fall asleep.However, keep in mind traffic can be unpredictable. You do not want to listen to the flow of traffic if you live on a busy or noisy street or in area where cars may honk.
 If it's raining outside, natural rainfall can be a source of pink noise. Open your windows slightly and listen to rainfall to soothe you to sleep.If it's storming outside, you should avoid using natural rainfall to generate pink noise. The sound of thunder may wake you up.
 Many people enjoy falling asleep to the gentle hum of pink noise. However, unlike white noise, pink noise does not actually block out unwanted sounds. If you live in a noisy area, white noise may be a better option than pink noise to help you sleep at night.If white noise bothers you, you can try using ear plugs to block out unwanted sounds.
 Pink noise does not help everyone sleep at night. While many people fall asleep easier listening to pink noise, many people find pink noise distressing. If pink noise keeps you up, look into other means of helping yourself fall asleep.You can try getting on a better sleep schedule. If you fall asleep and wake up at roughly the same time each day, your body's natural circadian rhythm will adapt. You'll end up getting tired around the same time each night.Try a relaxing ritual before bed, like reading. This will help you wind down and shut your mind off for sleep.
 While pink noise can help you sleep, it cannot necessarily counteract bad habits that prevent you from sleeping. Work on phasing out behaviors that prohibit your sleeping. This will make pink noise work more effectively.


Dim the light settings on electronic screens close to bed. Limit your use of your phone and laptop before bed.
Avoid drinking caffeine in the evening.
Avoid napping, especially during the afternoon. This can affect your ability to fall asleep at night.