 Locate the crank pulley near the bottom of the engine. This circular pulley provides power to accessories like your power steering and air conditioning through the serpentine or accessory belts. At the center of the pulley will be a nut. Place an appropriately sized wrench on the nut and turn it counter-clockwise to rotate the motor.Be sure to use the correct size wrench or socket, otherwise you could damage the bolt on the pulley.
It may take a decent amount of force to rotate the motor. Larger motors will be even more difficult than smaller ones.
 As you go about determining top dead center, you will need to rotate the engine assembly. Do not turn the key in the ignition to use the starter to do so, as it can cause serious damage to the engine if the piston strikes the piston stop tool you inserted.With the battery disconnected, you won’t be able to start the engine.
Never attempt to start the engine while you have portions of it disassembled.
 Continue to turn the pulley with the wrench until the piston in cylinder one comes into contact with the piston stop tool. When it stops, mark the pulley location on the harmonic dampener surrounding the pulley with a marker.Be sure you can clearly make out the mark you draw on the harmonic dampener.
A sharpie or paint pen will both work to make your mark on the harmonic dampener.
 Once you’ve made your first mark, use the hand or socket wrench on the crank pulley to rotate the engine back in a clockwise direction until it comes into contact with the piston stopper tool once again.Mark the second spot on the harmonic dampener where the pulley stopped turning because of the stopper tool.
Be sure both marks are clearly visible on the harmonic dampener before moving on.
 With both marks clearly visible, find the center point by measuring the distance between them and dividing by two. That should allow you to measure from on of the two lines and identify the exact center point between the two. That center point is top dead center.Be sure to remove the piston stop tool and return the spark plug prior to starting the engine.
Reconnect the battery to restore power to the vehicle once you’re done.

