 These sails should be rectangles about 2” wide by 12” long. Using medium-grain sandpaper, sand the edges until smooth.Do not use MDF or chipboard as it will not hold up in outside weather.
 The circle should be 1” thick, so use 1” plywood or glue two ½” plywood circles together. Use a jigsaw to cut out the circle.
 Use a pencil and a ruler or straightedge to draw a line that divides the circle into two halves. Draw another line that divides it into quarters. Then draw two more lines to divide those quarters in half. When you’re finished, the lines on the circle should resemble a sliced pizza.


Drill a ⅛” hole in the center of the circle. This should be the spot where all the lines you just drew intersect.
 Begin at each of the lines you drew in Step 3 and use a pencil to draw 45-degree angled lines across the edge. You may find it easiest to use a protractor or a “speed square” (a type of protractor used in construction).
 Repeat Step 3 on this side of the circle, placing your ruler at the other end of the 45-degree angled lines you just drew. When you’re finished, you should have two sets of lines that are offset from each other by about a half-inch., Each cut should be about 1” deep. Use a chisel or file to make sure these cuts are wide enough to fit the sails.


To give the circle stability as you cut, you will probably want to clamp it to a worktable or large piece of wood set on two sawhorses. Move the clamp as needed.
 Center each sail in a groove and fit in place. Set aside and allow the glue to dry completely. This may take between 24-48 hours, depending on the humidity in your area.


Once the glue has completely dried, you can use a chisel to remove any excess glue.
 The tail will be shaped like an elongated baseball “home plate.” Draw a 6” square on a piece of ½” plywood.


Place a ruler or straightedge at the top of the square 2” from the outer edge of the square. Tilt it to a 45-degree angle.
Use a pencil to draw a straight line from the top of the square to the outer edge of the square. This should create a triangle shape. Repeat on the other side.
 Follow the lines you just drew so that the top of your tail angles inward and the bottom of the tail is square.
 The dowel should be at least 16” long as it will form the “boom” for your windmill. Use small finishing nails and a hammer to attach the tail.
 Use outdoor latex paint or a waterproof stain and clear polyurethane to paint the boom and the windmill (the circle with the sails attached). Allow to dry completely.


You can wait to paint or stain the whole thing until it’s fully assembled, but that may be more difficult.
 The screw should be at least 2” long and 3mm in diameter (approximately a #10 screw). Screw through the hole in the center of the windmill. Thread another 1” washer onto the screw., Attach the windmill to the boom by screwing it into the hole you just drilled.


Don’t attach the windmill too tightly. It should be secure, but still loose enough to allow complete rotation of the circle.
 Balance the windmill by holding the boom on one finger. Adjust its position until you are able to balance the windmill on your finger. Mark that point in pencil., Attach windmill to a post by screwing through this hole into the post. Many hardware stores sell pre-cut fence posts.


You can also use the rest of your wooden dowel as the post. Most dowels sold at hardware stores come in 48” lengths, so you should have about 32” remaining after you cut off the boom.

