 If you don’t want any tortillas, you can order a burrito bowl or a salad.You can choose to order a “double-wrapped burrito” with two flour tortilla shells at no additional charge. This is best to do if you like more of a bite or if you plan on piling your burrito too high to wrap with just one tortilla.
The standard “tacos” orders will get you three tacos with the choice of soft flour or corn tortillas or crispy fried corn taco shells. You can also order a “single taco” or "two tacos" as long as you specify it at the beginning of your order.;
, Burritos and burrito bowls will also come with brown or white cilantro-lime rice, which you can decline if you choose. Brown rice is the healthier choice with a slightly thicker texture and a nuttier flavor than white rice.
 Black beans have slightly fewer calories in them than pinto beans, but other than that, there’s not much difference in nutritional value.
 Made with bell peppers, onions, and fresh oregano, the veggies add color and a wonderful flavor to your meal., You can ask for a little more or less protein if you feel like the 4 oz serving doesn't suit your tastes but keep in mind that you will be charged extra if you ask for a double serving of meat, and if you choose to get less than a serving, you'll get charged for the 4 ounces.


Braised pork carnitas, the CEO, Steve Ells' favorite and the least spicy meat.
Adobo-marinated grilled chicken, the second least spiciest meat and the most popular protein option.
Sofritas, Chipotle's vegan protein option. Made from poblano peppers and tofu, sofritas packs a punch.
Barbacoa, shredded beef, the second spiciest meat on the menu.
Adobo-marinated steak. There is no spicier meat in the entire restaurant. Milder tastes beware!

, Customize your order by saying you want a lot or very little of these items. They have several kinds of salsa, so choose according to the amount of spice you like:


Fresh tomato salsa (mild)
Roasted chili-corn salsa (medium)
Tomatillo-green chili salsa (medium)
Tomatillo-red chili salsa (hot)

, Some Chipotle fans claim that if you order it on the side, you get substantially more, even though the amount should add up to 4 oz either way.
 You will get these items for free. You will choose these items when your order is half filled and a Chipotle employee is adding fresh ingredients to the top before they wrap it up.
 This is an extra charge with any order. Chips are around $1.27, while chips and guacamole are close to three dollars.
 There are two options. All kids meals have the choice of a small bag of chips or fruit on the side and organic milk or juice to drink.


A small cheese quesadilla with two sides. Chipotle workers may automatically add rice and beans as your side, but you have the choice to pick anything off the line. You may add meat or guacamole to the quesadilla for an extra charge.
A build your own kit. This comes with two soft or crispy taco shells, one meat, and any two ingredients of your choice.
 Some locations have margaritas or beer at for between $4 and $7.

