 Ellie is normally quiet, unless around her friends. She loves to read and write, and is very smart, but isn't nerdy. She often notices small details. She is very blunt and too the point, and sometimes sarcastic. But she's also very friendly and sweet. She is always there for her friends. She is not the always depressed type.;
, Sometimes she will put the top layer of her hair in many small braids. With that she will either leave it down and straight or put it in high pigtails. Another common hairstyle is two low pigtail braids in the front. She also sometimes wears a big headband and uses it to hold her hair up high(see pic 1). She often just leaves her hair down and straight or in a high bun with the front hanging down(see pic 2).
 Her most common look is medium-thick black eyeliner all the way around her eye, and maybe a little lipgloss. She also wears black eyeliner and a brightly colored eyeshadow sometimes. Some days she wears none at all, too.
 One common accessory is a belt around her waist, but a little above her pants. She also wears a lot of arm warmers; stripes in black and a bright color, or just black. Other patterns will work too. She normally wears at least one bracelet on each wrist, such as a stud bracelet or a bead bracelet. She generally wears 2-3 rings on each hand. They can have gems or something on them. She also wears a lot of chokers and short spike necklaces. She has two ear piercings on one ear and five on the other, including a cartilage. She likes to wear tiny silver hoops in each hole. She also has her belly button pierced. However, you don't have to get piercings just to look like her. Stick with what you're comfortable with!

, For bottoms, she wears skirts most of the time. But she does wear dark blue, black, or gray skinny jeans sometimes. For skirts, she wears plaid a lot, like black and red or black and white. She also wears ruffle skirts or black tutu-like skirts. Under the skirts she wears diamond fishnet tights or black tights/leggings. She has worn black skinny jeans under them before, too.
 But she wears other colors too. She wears a lot of shirts where the sleeves are see-through or netting. She wears stripes a lot, or cobweb patterns. She wears collared shirts with a tank top over it. She also wears solid color shirts where the sleeves come down to her elbows. She wears tank tops, too, with patterns like union jack or a skull. She wears gray or black hoodies sometimes over a t-shirt.
 They are pretty much always black. Sometimes they have studs or something. Sometimes they come up to her knees, or her ankles. She has worn flats before, with tights. She also wears knee-high socks.

