 A mentor can help you integrate into the workplace and be a guide to the ins and outs of the job, the unspoken rules, and what things to focus on and avoid.A mentor is typically someone who has worked at the company for some time and is willing to help you succeed as an employee. Especially if you have a mental illness, your mentor can help motivate you and give you feedback as to how things are going.


A mentor can also help you navigate the social atmosphere of the workplace. If you struggle to interact with others, this person can clue you in on the social climate of the workplace., Success at some jobs involves a level of emotional intelligence. This can include competencies in skills such as empathy and self-awareness.Skills in managing and building relationships are increasingly important in the workplace, and can help determine success in your career.


To build self-awareness, spend time everyday reflecting on the day: you can journal, pray, go for a walk, or meditate. Seek feedback from others to increase self-awareness.To build empathy, listen to other people with your full attention. Challenge your prejudices and be curious about other people. Imagine what it may be like to live a day in the life of a co-worker to better understand what life may be like., If you endure a difficult meeting or run-in with a co-worker, have ways to handle the stress while it work.You may want to take a few moments to return to an emotional space that allows you to work. Especially if you’re working long hours, take some time during the workday to take care of yourself. Go for a walk or listen to calming music. Don’t let the tension follow you throughout the day; it’s best to deal with it sooner rather than later.


You may find doodling or coloring a helpful stress reliever. Keep pens or crayons by your desk so that you can relax when you feel stressed.
 If you find yourself showing up late, becoming less productive, cooperating with co-workers less, making excuses for missed deadlines or meetings, or experiencing a decrease in interest in your work, then you may be struggling with some mental health issues.Note any significant changes in work habits or behaviors, and communicate any difficulties with either your workplace or a therapist, as they can indicate problems with mental health.


If you notice your work habits or behaviors changing, ask yourself if it may be related to your mental health.

