 Having a copy of all your information—from our profile info to your friend's list and photos—is never a bad thing to have as a backup. To do this:


Click the account menu icon (white triangle) at the top right of any Facebook page.
Choose Account Settings

Click on Download a copy of your Facebook data
Click Start My Archive

This will take a while, especially if you have a lot of photos and are active on Facebook.
 When your archive is complete, empty out all fields that aren't required, and delete. For required fields, use names that are clearly fake (Frondheim Dingleschmidt) or hopelessly general (John Smith).


If you want to reuse your phone and email information in the new account, change those to something meaningless before you begin the deletion process. Facebook will not let you have multiple accounts with the same information.
 To delete your primary email account, you must first create a new one—Facebook will verify the email address, so you can't just make one up.


Create a new browser tab (Control-T on a PC, Command-T on a Mac).
Go to a free email provider, such as Google or Yahoo
Create a new account. It can be a normal email account that you might want to use for real at some point, or a temporary one you will use once and trash. One advantage of an alternate email account is that you can use it for all spam-generating sites—you never have to check it, so anything that is in it will always be spam!

, In your soon-to-be-defunct Facebook account, go to General Account Settings, edit the email settings, and click on Add another email.


Enter your new email address, and your password, and click Save Changes.
You will be sent a confirmation email to your new email address. Be sure you accept the new email. You will be returned to Facebook's account settings page, where you can now make the new email the primary.
Click the Primary email: button next to the new email address, enter your password, and click Save Changes. This will close the edit window for your email. Re-open it, and you will see your new email address on top, as the primary email. To the right of your old (real) email address, it will say Remove. Click that, and your old email is cleared out.
 See above, under Creating A New Account, for the steps to accomplish this.
 You may be the admin of one or more groups or pages. Before you delete your old account, set up your new account to have admin rights as well.


From the left side column of your Facebook timeline, click on the group or page you administer. It will open in the Admin Panel.
From the Edit Page menu, select Admin Roles.
Add your new account as an administrator.

