 You need a single policy that details all the rules and regulations for posting company news online, which includes your company website as well as company social media accounts.You may want to reach out to a business attorney who specializes in libel and defamation law to help you craft your policy.
Also check the policies of major, reputable news outlets, and read the section on libel and defamation in the AP Stylebook for pointers.
 Since truth is an absolute defense to libel, if you post anything negative about any particular people or businesses, make absolutely certain that everything you've posted is true and accurate, and can be proven so.Take particular care with any statement that could reflect badly on the individual or business named. In these cases, the truth of a statement can reduce – but not eliminate – legal risk.
Although truth is an absolute defense, it is still a defense – meaning it doesn't come up unless the person sues you. The more damaging the statement, the more likely the person will sue you for harming their reputation.
Keep in mind that sharing information from a different account or website does not necessarily shield you. For example, if a Twitter user with 10 followers posts a Tweet that says your competitor bakes rats into his cupcakes, re-Tweeting that on your account with 50,000 followers could expose you to liability.
 Although it's very difficult – if not impossible – to remove something completely once you've published it online, anything that's potentially libelous or defamatory should be removed immediately upon discovery.This includes not only posts you generated yourself, but any comments to those posts that appear on your website.
If someone shares your post and adds libelous or defamatory statements, that's generally outside of your control, and doesn't appear on your website.
However, if you host comments on your website or social media account, those comments must be monitored regularly to ensure that nothing is posted there that poses a legal risk to your company.
 Something that may be good news for your company, or that may seem like good news for your client, could nevertheless be considered defamatory or cause problems regarding a separate contract or situation of which you were unaware.Get permission in writing and keep that document as long as the post remains on your website or social media account – which essentially means indefinitely.

