 You shouldn't think any better of yourself than you do for that person because everyone has his/her own problems. Also, that person may not even be aware that he/she is irking you! Keep in mind that you also may be annoying someone else unconsciously.;
, They could be trivial (ex: the person wears the same hairstyle) or the reasons could come from a bad experience you've had with that person in the past. Perhaps you are suffering in a bad situation with that person right now! Nevertheless, come up with three or more valid reasons why you think that person is annoying.


If you can't come up with good reasons, you may want to reconsider labeling the person as "annoying" and someone to avoid.
 Remember that he/she might be going through a tough time that you and your classmates are unaware of. Being what you call "annoying" - whether the person is conscious or unconscious of it - may be that person's way to free him/herself of bad thoughts and emotions. For example: If that person acts self-important and arrogant, chances are that he/she feels very insecure about him/herself.
 No matter how annoying he/she can be, put that aside and treat him/her kindly - similar to how you would treat one of your good friends. Although it may be difficult for a while, it'll gradually become natural for you, and you'll one day be kind to him/her without even having to think about it! Plus, it's good to get that person on your side.
 While it may be tough to find any positive about him/her, know that he/she may be going through a difficult situation you don't know about and that you need to give him/her a chance.


Remember that you too have your own flaws, and you wouldn't want to have to add "quick to judge others" to your list of flaws!







, If you judge him/her too quickly, you may have just missed the opportunity to make a difference in that person's life! Take it slowly and - no matter how tempted you are to permanently label him/her as "annoying" and avoid him/her as much as possible - be patient with that person. You may be surprised to find that the person isn't as annoying as you thought he/she was.


As you talk with the person you call annoying, keep in mind that if you're patient and kind enough, you may be able to gently open up some secrets that he/she has been keeping from others.






For instance, that person could be going through suicide depression or being abused at home, but no one knows about it. Even if his/her situations aren't as serious as suggested above, know that - whether you'll be able to see it or not in the end - you'll be able to make a difference in his/her life - big or small, subtle or noticeable.







