 Hypochondria is a mental disorder, just like depression or OCD, and a real illness. Even if the illness is not real, the stress feels very real.Severe illness seems like a serious possibility to your loved one, and bland reassurances won't make it go away.


In everyday life, we are sometimes overwhelmed with news reports about another round of bird flu sweeping the world or toxins in food that cause cancer. Helping a person who has hypocondriasis avoid as much of this information as possible will help to filter some of that out.;
, Those who are struggling with hypochondria need to be heard. This helps to prevent anxiety and panic which can be caused by being ignored. If no one seems to take notice, your loved one’s beliefs about the illness may multiply, causing him or her to believe that the fictional condition is getting worse.


Active listening does not mean agreeing with the person’s fear. It means giving your loved one the time to be heard in a supportive manner and letting your loved one know you are hearing his or her concerns., People who have illness anxiety disorder tend to worry excessively about their symptoms.By acknowledging your loved one’s symptoms, you may help to validate his or her feelings. This puts the person at ease. By gently suggesting the pain he or she is from a less serious cause, you can also offer an easier solution to your loved one’s fears.


For example, you might say "I get similar shoulder aches from carrying a heavy backpack. Maybe you're tense or sore from activity."
Or, "Stomach pains usually don't mean stomach cancer. What's most likely is that you are stressed, under the weather, or digesting something that didn't agree with you."

, If your loved one has a stomachache, offer stomach pills. If your loved one’s shoulder hurts, offer to show him or her some stretches. Doing something about your loved one’s symptoms--even something small--can help your loved one stop obsessing over the symptoms.


Treat the pain or complaint without speculating about the possible diagnosis. Overreacting and assuming the worst is a big part of their stress so avoid buying into this stress.
Assume that the symptoms are real. Your loved one is certainly experiencing real pain. He or she might have a physical cause, such as knee strain or mild flu, or it may be caused by stress. Either way, your loved one will probably benefit from treatment. Seek medical advice from a trusted doctor to address the pain., Try getting your loved one to go outdoors or to engage in a favorite activity. This may help your loved one remember that she is more than her symptoms, and may take her mind off of worries for a while. Getting more physical activity can be especially helpful for anxiety, well-being, and physical condition.