 Jade is really good at math, and can add numbers really quickly. If you are bad at maths, keep practicing!!!! If you are bad at Science, keep practicing!!!! Seriously, do you think Jade divided the first time she picked up a pencil? Keep working on it!!;
, Jade can make almost anything! She goes to Home Ec classes, so you might want to as well. If you don't have material big enough for a human, you could buy a Bratz doll, and practice on that. If you don't have any material at all, you might want to start something like "Barbie clothes cut them then your Barbie will be fashionable Throw any old doll clothes here!" Then, you can cut them up, and get designing! Jade loves all kinds of fabric, so be creative!

, She wears plaid skirts and sweater vests in front of her parents, but when she gets to school, she changes into totally cool fashionable clothes. You don't have to do this, but you will be more like Jade if you do. When she is in her "fashion" clothes, she wears tight trousers, blue hair extensions, high heels, mini-dresses, leopard stilettos (they have laces which reach halfway up your leg) and tons of stuff like that!! In her closet, she has her "plain" clothes, but she also has a button which opens into her "fashion" closet.
 Jade spends her time with geeks, but calls them interesting people. Don't make fun of anyone, and be really kind. Jade is really accepting people for who they are.
 If your hair is blond, you don't have to dye it. It would make you more like Jade if you did, but if your parent/guardian doesn't want you to, or you feel uncomfortable about it, just get a wig. You may not want to wear it in P.E. at school, as it may fall off. Make sure to wear a wig cap. If your parent/guardian doesn't let you dye your hair, you can ask for highlights.
 OK, Jade does have a lot of black eyeshadow and mascara around her eyes, but you can pull the look off without your Mom screaming. Here's how:


Put a light shade of pink onto your eyelid. Don't put it up any farther.






Put a slightly darker shade (just a small bit) above. Then keep going, until you reach your eyebrow. Then come back down, but doing the opposite of what you did before. Put your lightest shade on the darkest, etc. etc. Then do the same on your other eyelid. Then, put some light eyeliner and mascara on. You should be starting to look a little like Jade.






Add a light touch of bronzer or bronze colour blush to your cheeks. Don't put it on anywhere but your apples (the part that sticks out when you smile). Add a lighter shade of brown, dissolving into your ears. If you have done this properly, your bronze should look a little darker than it really is. You can also use this technique for faking a tan.






For the lips, you can use any color! Depending on how dark you want the finishing result to be, you can choose from white to brown. What you should do, is put your shade on your lips, then use a darker shade for the outline. Put the darker shade on your lower lip, and your lighter one on your top lip. Then, smack them together, and you should have a darker shade. If you don't, then you may want to put a little more of the darker shade on your top lip.
 Jade has three BFF's: Yasmin, Sasha and Cloe. If anyone is like them in comparison, you my want to be their friend. If you are shy, try not to be shy! Think to yourself, that you are Jade, and she is the most sociable person ever!

, One minute it is loose, and includes blue extensions, and the next, it is cropped, and black. Not to mention brown in a side ponytail, and 4 plaits in each side (small ones, taken off from the top layer of hair). So get experimenting, girl! You can look through fashion magazines, you can surf the Internet (type Bratz Jade into Google images, and you should find loads of her looks. If none come up, you can also type Jade the Bratz movie), you can do anything to get the latest trends!!

