 This could be a silicone mold from a dollar store or something as simple as a leftover disposable cake container. Select a suitable shape that will leave plenty of space for writing the pet's details on and adding some decorative effects.
 It is recommended that you put down a few layers of newspaper, to catch any cement slops as you work with the cement; it's much easier to throw out the paper than scrape it off the ground.


Put old clothes and shoes on. If cement slops onto these, it won't matter.
 Place sufficient cement mix into an old bucket. Add water according to the manufacturer's instructions and mix to combine. It should have a thick consistency when it is ready to use.
 While it is possible to simply pour the cement from the bucket straight into the mold, this can be messy if you have an accident. It's best to use a yogurt or dip container that can be disposed of after use and dip this into the cement, transferring small portions of cement to the mold at a time.
 Once in place, continue scooping in the remaining concrete mix until you read the top of the mold (or wherever you'd like it to end).
 You can also use your hand provided you're wearing rubber or latex gloves.
 The setting time will depend on the manufacturer's recommendations, the humidity and warmth. The important thing is to not let it completely set, as you're going to write in it but it also needs to be sufficiently set to ensure that the writing doesn't just disappear. Wait at least half an hour to an hour, then try writing.
 Write your pet's name as a minimum. If wished, you can write the date of birth and death, a favorite word/saying or something else meaningful.


If you make mistakes, just use the same method for making the top smooth as you did before, then start over.
 This is optional but can add character to the whole design. Things such as glass cabochons, small plastic toys, or the pet's favorite something (make sure it will weather okay) can be included in the cement.


You could make a border using small tiles, beads, etc. around the edges, if wished.
A laminated photo of the pet could be included. Cut down to size, such as making it circular or a square.
 Once it is properly set, you can either stop here or you can paint the writing using acrylic paint suitable for outdoor use. If you do paint the letters, allow them to fully dry before sealing the whole marker.
 Polyurethane sealant added thinly in about five coats should protect the marker well. Allow to dry completely between each coat and before using as a marker.
 Place the marker at the head of the pet's grave. It can also be propped up using a large pebble or a small log behind it.

