 If there is a large number of quills, the experience will be much less painful when performed by a doctor. Do not attempt to remove quills on a person's face or throat at home.
 The removal process is painful and requires the patient to sit still for a long period of time while quills are extracted. Remove the quills as soon as possible after the injury occurs.


If the injured person struggles, there is risk that the quill tip may break off and lodge deeper in the skin, which risks causing serious problems. Take the person to a doctor if the person will not remain still.
 Many people cut the hollow quill before removing so that it deflates and become smaller. Professionals, however, advise not to do this, as it can make the quill harder to grasp and could cause it to break apart into several splinters.
 You may need pliers of different sizes if there are both small and large quills present. Quills require tools for removal because they have barbed ends along their surfaces which make them easy to stick into an object but difficult to remove in the opposite direction. If you attempt to pull quills by hand they will burrow into your fingers.
 Use the tool to grab the quill as near to the skin as possible. You could even push the skin down around the quill, as long as you are careful not to break the quill or cause too much pain to the injured person.
 Use a powerful, rapid motion to pull the quill out as firmly and quickly as possible. Do not twist the quill, which can cause breakage. Try to pull it out at the same angle it entered, directly backward out of the wound.
 Broken quills can embed themselves into the skin and cause infection. See a doctor if this occurs.


If you are not able to visit a doctor, sanitize a pair of clean (dirt-free) tweezers by putting them in boiling water for five minutes. Remove the tweezers from the water with tongs and let cool on a clean paper towel for a few minutes before you use them to remove the broken quill tip inside the wound.
 Ask the patient if they have any pains elsewhere on their body, which could indicate smaller quills or broken off quill tips neither of you noticed. Remove quill tips as described above.
 Dip a cotton ball in hydrogen peroxide and wipe the wounds clean with it.Sterile alcohol pads found in first aid kits will also work. Use mild soap and water if nothing else is available.
 You may wish to apply a bandage over the ointment to hold it in place if the injured person will be participating in energetic activities, or if he or she is likely to scratch at the wound. Otherwise, keep the region open (without a bandage) so you can watch for infection.
 Possible infection can appear as redness, swelling and oozing pus. You should visit a doctor if this occurs so you can be prescribed a safe and effective antibiotic to fight off the infection.


If the person has any unexplained pains in the next few weeks, take them to a doctor and mention the porcupine quill incident. There's a possibility a quill tip remains lodged under the skin or has traveled deeper into the body where it can cause serious damage.
 While rabies is mostly transmitted through bites, you should not take any risks. If someone is unlucky enough to pick up the rabies virus from a porcupine and did not receive a prompt vaccine or a vaccine in the recent past, there is a high chance of death.


Even if the injured person received a vaccine in the last three years, ask a doctor whether it would be wise to receive another one after possible exposure.

