 Excessive wear can cause pilling, especially if the garment doesn’t have time to rest in between. To prevent this from happening, give clothes at least 24 hours to rest and return to their original shapes before putting them on again. This includes sweaters, shirts, pajamas, and other garments.


Wearing garments too often can cause pilling because when you wear an article of clothing, the fibers tend to stretch. This can cause the shorter threads in the yarns to come loose, and then they tangle and pill.;
, Backpacks cause pilling because they cause friction when you move. Anywhere that the backpack has contact with your clothes or body is likely to pill, such as the back, shoulders, and under the arms.Instead of a backpack, use a handbag that you can carry, a suitcase, or a wheeled carry-on bag.
 Purses can also cause friction and pilling, especially in the shoulder area. When you carry a purse, carry it in your hand instead of on your shoulder if you're worried about pilling.


Over-the-shoulder bags, messenger bags, and other accessories that you wear against your body can all cause pilling too., Fabrics that tend to pill should never be rubbed against each other, other fabrics, or other materials. There are a number of actions that can cause rubbing and friction, and all of them should be avoided, including:


Resting elbows against a table when you're working or eating
Sliding around on the floor (can cause pilling on socks or the seat of your pants)
Crawling on your knees when you're wearing pants
Sitting on rough surfaces

, Many times, the first reaction upon finding a stain is to squirt some stain remover on it and rub the fabric together until the stain disappears. But this is another instance of rubbing that can cause pilling, and it should be avoided.To treat stains on fabrics that pill, place the stained fabric on top of an old towel or clean rag. Apply a stain remover of your choice, and then blot the area with a clean towel. The stain will transfer to the towel below without causing friction.
 Velcro is very sticky, and it can attach itself to the yarns in clothes and other fabrics. When this happens, the Velcro can pull shorter threads loose, and then they're at risk of pilling.If you have clothes with Velcro on them, always keep the Velcro tabs closed, especially when you wash the garment.

