 Imitating the normal night-time routine that you follow at home even though you are traveling can promote relaxation and rest, as your brain associates these activities with sleep.Do what you usually do at night - use the bathroom, brush your teeth, wash your face, change into sleep attire and read a book or watch a movie to help you drift off.
Turn off screens one hour before you want to fall asleep. The blue light they release affects our ability to fall asleep., Even in coach seats there are a few key things you can do to get comfortable.


Be aware of your body temperature. On planes, cabin temperature can vary considerably even during a single flight, so wear lighter layers that can be taken on and off easily.
Wear lose-fitting clothing in natural fibers that will allow your body to breathe and release heat. A hat or a hood may also be a good way of keeping light out of your eyes.
Get some comfy socks. Research suggests that wearing socks can promote sleep because heating cold feet causes the blood vessels in the feed to dilate (known as vasodilation). This signals to the brain that it can redistribute heat throughout the body and prepare for rest.Bring comfortable shoes for the train. Shoes are required to be worn at all times on Amtrak trains so pack some light plastic sandals or other comfortable footwear for the journey., If you have a sleeping bunk on a train, you can expect pillows and blankets be available. Some airlines also provide them.


A neck pillow is important if you are unable to fully recline because as we fall into a deep sleep the muscles in our body relax more and more. In a seated position, therefore, it is more difficult to fall into a deep sleep because the neck muscles have to keep working to support our heads.
Use the classic U-shaped travel pillow. Experts suggest using it the other way round, with the back of the pillow against the front of your neck. This will stop you jerking awake as your head falls downwards and could help with neck cramps.Bring blankets to keep you warm. On an airplane, buckle your seat belt over the blanket to avoid being woken up by cabin crew if the seatbelt sign goes on.
 Avoiding certain foods that inhibit good sleep and trying to eat at regular meal times can help you get some rest.


If you drink alcohol, limit it to one drink. Even though alcohol helps you fall asleep, it reduces REM (rapid eye movement) sleep which is the most restorative, so you will not sleep as deeply.Don’t consume caffeine before or during the flight as caffeine is a stimulant and inhibits sleep. Be aware that it can take up to 6 hours for caffeine to be eliminated from the body.Sip water to stay hydrated but not enough that you constantly need to use the bathroom.
Try to eat at regular times, as your internal body clock affects your digestion.It can be difficult to sleep after a heavy meal or if you are hungry.
 There are several you can do while in your seat. For example, deep muscle relaxation exercises where you flex or clench your muscles and then gradually focus on letting go and relaxing them can be very effective.Start with the muscles in your toes or fingers and then move carefully around the body, by the end you will feel a deep sense of relaxation.
 Deep breathing helps achieve a state of relaxation conducive to sleep. Focus on maintaining a steady inhale and exhale. If you find this difficult, try the 4-7-8 technique, where you inhale through your nose for four seconds, hold your breath for seven seconds and then exhale through your mouth for eight seconds.Repeat until you fall asleep.

