 Studies show that spending time outside, even just 20 minutes a day, increases happiness.The time you spend walking in the park or laying out on the beach is absolutely essential for good mental health, so stop thinking of outside time as a luxury. It's a necessity.


If you’re not used to spending time outside, since you're so busy with other things, make it a priority. Schedule in a walk before or after work or school, or plan to spend the evening outside in the backyard.
Try to find a place to spend time in a natural setting; a city street isn’t going to have the same effect as a park.
 Studies show that people with long commutes are less happy than those who live close to work.The discrepancy is so pronounced that it might be worthwhile to take a job that’s less prestigious and well paying in order to have a shorter trip to work. This is a specific way you can increase your happiness, if you're brave enough to make the leap.


Spending less time commuting gives you more time to do things like hang out with your family, cook a good meal, or go for a walk outside. All of these activities lead to decreased stress and increased happiness.
 When you don’t get adequate sleep at night, you’re more sensitive to negative emotions. A comment you might normally let roll off your back might flare up into a bout of tears or a panic attack. Aim to get seven to eight hours of sleep every night for best results. You'll feel refreshed and better able to tackle whatever issues come your way throughout the day.
 Exercising your body releases endorphins that physically change your mood and make you feel happier. Doing it every day simply increases this effect. If you think you hate exercise, work up to it in small increments. Aim to get 30 minutes to an hour of exercise, even just walking, every day.


Exercise also leads to a boost in self esteem and helps you feel more in touch with your body's capabilities.
Exercise is so effective at increasing happiness that it's an effective treatment for depression.