 It is important to know and understand how your pension funds are being invested. For instance, you may have a workplace defined-benefit pension. In this case, your employer will be responsible for deciding where and how to invest your allocated pension.Alternatively, you may have a defined contribution personal or workplace pension. In this instance, you get to determine what type of investments you want to make with your pension.
 If you have a defined contribution pension and you are still aways from retiring, you may want to take on risky investments. As a general rule, you can afford to take more risks with your investments when you are young.Risky investments, such as stocks and shares, have more potential for growth, however, it is not guaranteed and you could end up losing money.
 If you are over the age of fifty and planning to retire within the next ten years or so, then you should place your pension into low risk investments. Low risk investments, such as cash and bonds will make a steady and consistent amount., You can also consider a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), which gives you access to a larger range of investment options, however, these can have higher charges than other pension options. This can be risky if you do not know a lot about investing in the market.Alternatively, you could hire a financial expert to manage your investments.
 If you have a personal pension that is self invested, you should look to see how much you are paying in management fees. Compare the amount you are currently paying with other pension companies. If you find a company with cheaper fees, you may want to consider switching companies., Do not invest all of your pension into one highly specialized fund. This can be extremely risky because that fund may dip causing you to lose a lot of money. Instead, you should diversify your investments. This can be done by placing your money in a variety of highly specialized funds or by investing in one well managed and diversified fund.