 Your screenplay should have a title page, as this will make it appear more professional and polished. The title page should contain the title of the screenplay, the writer’s name, and contact information. Do not include any other information on the title page, as you do not want to appear cluttered or unprofessional.Make sure the title appears in quotation marks and in all capitals in the center of the page. For example, “FIRE ON MAIN STREET.”
There should be four blank lines between the title and the author’s name. The writer’s name should be centered and appear one line below “Written by.”
You can include your basic contact information at the left margin of the title page. The last line of your contact information should appear one inch from the bottom of the page. You do not need to include a draft date on the title page.
 If you are adjusting the margins in the screenplay manually using your keyboard, you should make sure your margins are always correct for each notation in the script. Do not try to narrow your margins in an attempt to cram in more content into the script. Scripts with incorrect margins may be seen as unprofessional and inaccurate, as it is difficult to determine the running time of the film if the margins are off.Make sure all scene headings have a margin of 1.7” to the left and 1.1” to the right. Leave two blank lines before every scene heading.
Check that all dialogue has a left margin of 2.7” and a right margin of 2.4”. The names of characters over dialogue should have a left margin of 4.1”.
All parenthetical directions within the dialogue should have a left margin of 3.4” and a right margin of 3.1”.
The top page margin should be 0.5” or three single lines before the page number. The bottom page margin should be 0.5” or three single lines from the end of a scene.
 You should always use 12-point font in black colored type in your screenplay. Go for a font called Courier, not Courier New, or Prestige Pica, as these are the standard fonts used in screenplays.You should make sure the fonts are fixed-pitch so they create ten characters per horizontal inch and six lines per vertical inch.
 Your script should include page numbers at the top of each page. The page numbers should align with the right margin and be followed by a period. You do not need to put “Page” before the number.Make sure the page numbers are the same typeface and size as the body text. Start the page count on the first page of the screenplay, not on the title page.
Your screenplay should be between 100-120 pages, with about 55 lines per page. Try not to go over 120 pages, as shorter, punchier scripts tend to be more appealing.

