 Probably the most common roulette strategy out there, the martingale relies on doubling bets after a loss in a ~50/~50 chance game. This way, the first win recoups all the previous losses, along with a small profit for the gambler.









The advantage of this strategy is intuitive. In basic roulette, you're playing a coin-flip game. You bet on a color, and your color either wins out or it doesn't. If you only bet on a single color, and you keep doubling your bet until you win. Provided you keep doubling losing bets, as soon as you win, you've recovered all your losses.
The are a couple disadvantages to this strategy. First, keep in mind what is called the gambler's fallacy. Just because black has won 10, or even 100, times in a row does not mean that red is any more likely the next time around. The chance is 50% each spin. Actually, it is slightly less than 50/50 with the 0 and 00.
Another disadvantage of this strategy is that, eventually, you may reach the maximum bet, or run out of money, after several consecutive losses. As soon as this happens, you're in the red, even if you win. You need to continue making larger bets — or winning out — in order to recoup your losses.;
, You want to start small and have the opportunity to double your losing bets almost ad infinitum. Hence, a small minimum bet and a high maximum bet.
 American roulette tables have 37 pockets, including the 0, meaning that the ball has an equal probability of landing in either the black and red pockets, even or odd, and the small digits (1-18) or the larger digits (19-36).









For the sake of example, we'll assume that your bet is going to be red or black, even though you could easily bet even or odd, 1-18 or 19-36.
 Alternately, you can leave the casino, although leaving with $2 instead of $1 isn't very satisfying. It does beat leaving with $0, however.
 In other words, if your losing bet was $1, you should now bet $2. If you bet on black, you should bet on black again.
 If you win, you've made just as much money by winning on your second bet as you would have had you won on your first.
, Remember that this is not a sure-fire way to win money, it is just a way to maximize your odds at the table with the worst odds (for the gambler) in the casino.








