 The process of looking for work in Norway is essentially the same for citizens of countries outside the EU/EEA. You will still need to trawl through online listings and look for a job that you meet the requirements for. Language could be a significant barrier, but try typing “English” into the search bar on job websites to narrow down the search.If you are invited to interview for a position, but are not at that time living in Norway, ask for a Skype or telephone interview.
Be sure you check the validity of your qualifications in Norway before you apply for a position.
There is a long list of regulated professions in Norway, which require you to obtain authorisation or recognition of your qualifications.
Browse the list and find the details for each regulated profession online: http://www.nokut.no/en/Foreign-education/Other-recognition-systems/Authorisation/List-of-regulated-professions/


, If you are hoping to move to Norway from outside the EU/EEA, you will need to obtain a residence permit. In most instances, you should have secured a job before you apply for the permit. The type of residence permit you apply for will depend on your skills and experience, and the type of work you will be doing in Norway.


There are different permits, for example, for skilled workers, seasonal workers, self-employed people, and those who work for non-profit or humanitarian organisations.
You can start your application online on the NDI website: http://www.udi.no/en/want-to-apply/work-immigration/?nav-veiviser=12910

The instructions are in English, and you will be guided through the process.
You will be required to attend an appointment at a police station or Norwegian embassy to progress your application., If your application has been successful, and you have been awarded a residence permit, you can now travel to Norway to begin your new life there. When you arrive you will have to register at your local police station. Here you will receive your residence card along with any further information or guidance that you might require.


Normally you will book your appointment with the police through the online application portal used for your residence permit application.It is possible to appeal the decision, if your application for a residence permit was turned down.
You must register an appeal within three weeks of finding out you were unsuccessful.