 It can look surprising but our mind can be trained like another things. We can train our mind to think in a particular way. For mind it is said that "mind takes the shape on which it rests". Once you will train your mind to think or work in a particular way then next time it will be easy for mind to follow that path or way. You can train your mind to think positively or to generate innovative ideas. You can train it to solve various problems in a creative manner. However in starting it can be difficult but with time it becomes habitual. For example you can train your thought process to deal with difficult and dangerous situations by imagining all situations in your mind. By imagining you can learn how to remain calm and strong in odd situations.


Start any task that you like and as you go on, your mind will help you to learn it better. If you will practice learning something regularly then mind gets started becoming smarter in it. Remember there are various hidden powers of mind that you don't even imagine. When you started practicing something then you mind works consciously and unconsciously on it and ultimately making you perfect day by day.
 Reading books is a very good habit. Books don't only give knowledge but many times tell you how to live the life. Read as many types of books as you can. Good books often shape the mind in a better way. You can read various self improvement books, philosophy books, psychology books, etc. Reading books can help you to generate your own ideas.


It should be noted that any book can't be read in one time. Whenever you read it again,you will find something new. So never drop the idea of reading a book again if you had already read it.
 Writing is a very effective tool for mental growth. Write whatever you want. write about yourself, your feelings and what is happening in your life. When you will write about you and your feeling then you will know more about yourself. Write short stories if you can or generate new fresh ideas by brainstorming. Whenever you have some stress or problem just write down what is troubling you and then try to find a solution to get rid from it. In actual by writing you make your unconscious trouble conscious and then you can better understand them. Our brain works better when it remains stress free, so work on different ways to make it stress free.


Your ideas, decisions and even your thoughts depend on your belief system. Our belief system is developed by our experiences throughout the life. So give time to yourself for analyzing your belief system. It is because of your belief system , some things hurt you and you feel bad about them. By changing your belief system, you can change the quality of your thoughts and life.
Surprisingly your soul has every wisdom you need in your life. But you need to be very careful and peaceful to hear the voice of your soul. Try to write it down patiently. It will tell you all the amazing things which your mind can't configure easily. By writing , you are just bringing your unconscious wisdom to your conscious mind.
 Asking questions leads to increment in knowledge and understanding. Whether you are a student or a professional, asking questions comes in handy everywhere. It has been seen that the child who are more questioning in nature, grasp more knowledge in comparison to other children.


If you can ask good questions then you can understand the things thoroughly. Questions make your thinking precise and more goal oriented.
Questions aren't always meant to ask from others. Many times we should question ourselves to solve a problem. And this is the way how we can become a critical thinker. Because if you can't ask right questions ,you can't get the desired information.
Questions define what information you are trying to find. And more precise your question more are the chances to get the right information.
 So the real experience can't be gained without the experiments. Experimenting means, you are doing something different that you don't usually do. When you will do something different from your usual routine then you will see different results and hence your mind will gain experience by analyzing the new results.


Don't do risky experiments without any guidance.
 The brain needs exercise like any other part of the body; when the brain gets the exercise it needs, the mind flourishes. Brain exercises can involve solving Sudoku, crossword puzzles, math problems etc. With the development of technology there are many other options to exercise your mind. If you have an android device then you can find a suitable application for mind enhancement. In-fact there are an enormous amount of application on play store and you can download one for you. Many of these apps concentrate on improving mental skills like Memory, Speed, Attention. Play more and more computer games, it will help to enhance your brain quality. Video games have different challenges in them. By playing them your mind can learn how to tackle different difficult situations.


Make sure you take breaks often, as excessive amounts of video games may be harmful.
 If you are an adventurous person then you will have a mind sharper than others. Adventurous people love to take risks and ready to do dangerous things. This is the reason that they have more mental energy than others. Moreover it is a scientific fact that when we face danger then our mind and body reacts vigorously and their efficiency to do work is immediately increased.
 Thinking is also an important tool in order to expand your mind. Think on various topics, things, your problems etc. Try to find how various things work and be curious about science and nature. For thinking you can choose an alone and quiet place and decide beforehand what do you want to think, you can also take notes.


Be careful that you are not thinking very much as excessive thinking can be harmful and can generate severe mental problems. But it is true that until you don't take risk you can't achieve great!!

, Meditation helps in building new connecting neurons and also help in changing your brain structure. Sit in a quite place and close your eyes then pay attention to your breath. Take deep and slow breathe. While doing meditation don't make trouble to yourself. Just feel relax and keep an eye on what is going in your mind but be careful that you have to only observe your thoughts, don't get indulge with them.


Meditation helps you to relax your mind and you can easily feel the peace inside you.
It disconnects the unnecessary thinking threads of worries and fear.
It makes you more aware and you can focus on your work in a better way.
 Your mind is full of emotions and until you control them, you can't help your mind to expand! Discipline is an art by which we can use our potential in a great way. There can be no alternative to discipline. If you aren't disciplined then you'll surely waste your energies and can't focus them in the right direction. It is also true for our mind. If we'll not focus our mind in the right direction then it can lose its track and can create problems. Set some objectives and decide which dimensions of mind you want to expand. Then work carefully on each objective for better results. You should also be careful about your mental health. It is true that your mind has amazing potential but its potential can be uncovered through step by step process rather putting too much pressure on it.
 Being selfish can look nice but it is not much effective in long run. Helping others is like investing your money which will come back to you when you will require it most. So just be careful around you and help those who are in need.


Use your common sense and intelligence if the other person actually require your help, don't unnecessarily give your help.
When you will help the needy ones , you will feel good.
Don't seek a reward immediately, good things will definitely come to you.
You won't never feel lonely in adverse situation if you always helped others.
 The true power of your mind can be uncovered when if it works under pressure. Working under pressure means to deal a number of or more difficult tasks in given duration of time. You can make your mind to learn how to work under pressure. In beginning we can start with less difficult tasks and slowly we can increase the difficulty level. For example when we give a written exam then we have to write and think various things in give finite time. Its the reason that we are able to write more in exams in comparison to normal times. Because in exams our mind remains under pressure.


Be careful that giving too much pressure to your mind can be harmful and can give harmful results.
 Every person has some type of bad feeling or bad memories in their mind. These bad feelings can be associated with a particular task or any past memory. So whenever the person tries to do that task again , these bad feelings discourage him. One of the best way to get rid of these feelings is to see them with a new positive perspective.
 Performing physical exercises regularly can be beneficial for your mind. However you need not to perform vigorous exercises. Jogging in the morning and some stretching and warm up exercise can be helpful. Exercising increase the blood circulation in the body and also in brain. Moreover exercise make you mentally strong and keep you away from boredom and depression.

