 A box the size of a fridge is ideal, but it may be hard to find a box big enough for your needs. It should be in a rectangular shape. Here are some places to look:


Go to a supply store and buy the biggest cardboard box they have.
Go to a grocery store. Grocery stores often try to get rid of their extra cardboard boxes in the mornings or late afternoons, so don't be afraid to ask. Just don't pick a box where any really smelly food has been stored.
Ask someone who recently moved if he can spare a box.;
, Next, paint the outside of your box either silver or gold — a nice futuristic color. Make sure you're using safe paint meant for this purpose, not house paint or anything too intense, or you will compromise your health.


When the paint is dry, sprinkle some glitter on top of it.
 Cut the paper into big circles or squares. Once the box is done drying, tape them to the outside of the box. Now you have windows! They are tinted, of course.


Alternately, you can get a box cutter and cut actual windows in the machine. This may be a bit tricky.
You can also paint windows on the outside of the box.
 If you painted the outside silver, paint the inside gold, and vice versa. You don't have to put as much time or care into the inside, since you will be the only person seeing it.
 Glue a white piece of construction paper to the inside of the box, and write the numbers 0-9 on it, just like you would see on a keypad. This is what you will use to gear up the time machine.
 You'll need it for emergencies.
 Place a soft red pillow on the bottom of the machine. You'll need something to sit on since you might be traveling for a long time. You can also drape a red blanket across the bottom of the machine.


A velvet or satin material is best. The inside of your time machine should be classy.
 Bring an old computer joystick inside with you. You may need it to operate the machine. An old modem could also help you on your journey.


Anything with dials, buttons, or especially buttons that light up will help you. Just don't bring in an item that could cause you harm.
 Bring a bottle of water, some dry snacks, and a calculator with you, or you may get hungry or bored during your adventure.
 Now that your machine is ready, you just have to get it started. Talk in a robotic voice and start pushing the buttons on your keypad. Type into your calculator and move around your joystick for extra emphasis.


Inevitably, something will go wrong, and you'll need to yell wildly and pound the machine like a true mad scientist.
 For your time machine to work, you need to doze off or pass out. This could either happen while you're reading a book on time travel, or it could be from a fake "explosion" that occurs when you're trying to fix the dials.


Close your eyes for a few minutes, and when you open them, you will be transported!

, You need to do something to show that your machine is working. Your friends could make a buzzing sound effect, or you could play eerie "time machine" music. Try the music from The Twilight Zone, for example. Here are some other ways to show that your time machine is working:


Have someone flicker the lights when you're in the machine, or flicker them yourself.
Get a mist machine and have mist go off while the machine is working. Only do this if it's safe to use it in your yard, garage, or another open area where you have built your machine.
Have someone blow bubbles all around you.
Someone can throw glitter or confetti in the air, but this could get messy.
Turn on a loud fan and aim it at the machine.
When the noise dies down, one of your friends could say "processing complete" in a robotic voice.
 Once the time machine has run its course, you have officially made it into a new era. Before you can fully enjoy your magical trip through time, there are a few things you need to do to make the most of your experience:


Give yourself a weathered look. You have traveled through hundreds, thousands, or even millions of years, so a little bit of wear and tear is expected. As you emerge from the machine, you can spike up your hair or add some dark makeup to your cheeks to show that you've been "blown away" through your experience.
Make sure to surround the machine with items from the new time period.
Your friends should be dressed in the clothes from the time period as well.
As you explore your new surroundings and new friends, be utterly confused. Cause a ruckus.
You may even decide that you'd rather go back home, and you can try stepping into your time machine again. But be careful — there's a good chance your machine may not work again!

