 Aloe vera lotion or gel may help ease redness, scaling, itching, and inflammation of psoriasis plaques. Aloe cream is readily available at most pharmacies and drug stores. Keep a bottle at your desk or, if you drive a lot for work, in your car. Apply it regularly – it’s safe to use often.Keep a small bottle in your purse or briefcase if you’re often on the move.;
, You may find that you prefer a traditional moisturizer over aloe. Any heavy cream or ointment moisturizer can help you manage itch at work. Keep a container readily available and apply it as regularly as you’d like.Use moisturizer with an SPF of at least 15 if you work outdoors.
 Cold baths and ice packs can help alleviate itch from psoriasis. Since you probably can’t shower at work, keep a cold pack in your office refrigerator. Use it at your desk if you start to itch.Be courteous to your coworkers by keeping your cold pack in a bag, so it isn’t touching food.
If you work outside or on the move, use a chilled lunchbox to carry a cold pack with you.
 Whether you use calamine lotion, hydrocortisone, camphor, or a prescription itch-relief medication, keep a spare bottle at the office or in your car.Ask your doctor for a spare prescription so you can have an extra bottle on hand.


If you take oral medication, know which medicines cause drowsiness and don’t use them at work.
 If you feel particularly self-conscious one day, simply cover up whatever problem areas you can. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, or long skirts to cover your neck, arms, and legs. Use a colorful scarf or accessorize with gloves if you have plaques on your hands or neck., Body makeup and concealer can help to mask the redness and scaly skin of psoriasis plaques. These shouldn’t be used all the time because they can irritate your skin, but you can use them some days if it makes you feel better emotionally.Ask your doctor or pharmacist about what types of products you should avoid. Don’t use makeup on open cuts or sores. Always do a patch test on a small area of skin to make sure you don’t react to it.There is an art to covering rough, uneven skin with makeup. Ask a professional at a makeup counter for tips!

, The red patches caused by psoriasis are sites of inflammation. To relieve your symptoms, take measures to reduce and prevent inflammation in your body.


Exercise can reduce inflammation and stiffness. Outside of work, try incorporating exercises like walking, swimming, and yoga into your life.At work, aim to stand and walk around at least once an hour.

An anti-inflammatory diet, in which you eat foods known to reduce inflammation, may help provide relief. Leafy greens, fruit, and foods with Omega-3s like olive oil may all help.Ask your doctor about taking a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), such as ibuprofen, aspirin, or a prescription drug. These can relieve inflammation and pain.

