 Challenge your kids to do things that are hard. You’ll have lots of opportunities to do this as your kids grow. For instance, for a younger child, they might say that it’s too hard to clean their room. In this case, say, “I know it’s hard, but sometimes in life we must do things that are difficult, even when we don’t want to.”As your child grows, you could push them to do something more legitimately difficult. For instance, if your child struggles with algebra and gives up because it’s “too hard,” sit down with them and again, remind them that they must do their homework. Encourage your child by saying, “You can do this, I believe in you.”
When your child grows tired toward the end of their task, push them to keep going. Say something like, “You’re doing great. Don’t give up now!”
If necessary, help your child with the tasks they struggle with, but never do the whole thing for them.
If your child does extracurricular sports, look for coaches who give honest feedback and ask your child to put more energy into what they’re doing.
 The sweet taste of victory is nothing unless one has also tasted the bitterness of defeat. Failure can be an important learning experience, and provide your child with a new perspective on their behavior and performance. After failing, your child will toughen up mentally and redouble their efforts the next time around to avoid the feelings of disappointment that accompany failure.For instance, if you told your child to pack their shoes and they didn’t, don’t rescue them by running home to get the shoes yourself. Let their failure serve as a lesson to help them remember to be more responsible next time.Don’t be worried that your child will suffer a self-esteem blow when they fail.
While it is important to cheer your child up, you should also provide gentle but honest feedback to your child. If you believe the reason for your child’s failure lies with them, explain yourself in terms they understand., Your child will often have to be mentally tough in the face of academic or professional situations, especially as they grow older. But developing mental toughness is best achieved by ensuring that the child has a few activities like sports or competitive video game clubs that require a real passion and love. If your child is enthusiastic about facing new challenges, they will need little encouragement from you to level up their strategy, improve their technique, and achieve a clarity of focus that builds mental strength.Encourage your child to do things they like to do and challenge themselves within those preferred arenas.
Help your child see that they can apply the same skills and attitudes that they developed in their hobbies to other areas of life to achieve success.
 Whether your child succeeds or fails after any sort of competition, talk to them about what they did right and what they did wrong. Helping them understand the outcome in an explicit way will allow your child to learn more about themselves and/or their experience, and thereby become mentally stronger.Talk to your child about what went right with their performance by asking them directly. Say, “What do you think you did well back there?” They might point to many hours of practice, a willingness to take risks, or careful planning.
You should also be direct when talking to your child about what they did wrong. Ask them, “Can you think of anything you could have improved?” They might list a lack of preparedness or underestimating the competition.
If your child doesn’t perceive factors relevant to their success or failure, help them identify those factors. Focus on the nitty-gritty details that might be harder to see.In some cases, it might help to provide your child with evidence – for instance, a recording of their game, or a direct examination of their test – to point out where they went wrong and what they did right., Too much stress can cause your child to mentally clock out and lapse into depression and apathy. But if your child has an active life where they are trying to juggle school and a social life and extracurricular obligations, they will grow mentally tough by developing habits and lifeways necessary to manage their time and energy.Encourage your child to take on additional obligations. Sign them up for one or two extracurricular activities per school year. They don’t need to be sports, either – chess club, regular volunteer positions, or school plays can all prove moderately stressful situations that will challenge your child to grow stronger mentally.
As your child grows, help them identify specific talents or interests they have, and encourage them to zero in those areas of expertise.