 Tell them that you would really appreciate the opportunity to explain why you should be allowed to have such an account. This may not work if your parents are very sheltering.;
, However, don't read off of the paper when you're talking to your parents. It will look too planned. So instead, try to memorize your key points. It will look like you're speaking from your mind rather than practicing for a public speaking event. Try to be mature and reasonable with your parents.
 Be clear that you will not use the account to talk to people they do not know and do not approve of. The general purpose of Facebook is to catch up with your friends from school, friends you meet at summer camp, old friends that had moved away, and people that you met from other schools.
, Show them how you can restrict access to your page so that only your friends can see it.
 Reassure them that you will follow all sensible steps to stay safe.
 You will have to judge what your parents will find an acceptable amount of time spent on Facebook. Assure them that all homework and chores will be done before you spend time on Facebook or the computer in general.

If they are worried that you will get addicted to Facebook, offer to write down a list of boundaries to be posted beside the computer (such as "I will only use it for 60 minutes a day", "I will only use it only if my room is clean", "I won't go online until all my chores are done" etc.)







, If they don't think you're mature enough, prove it to them. It may take two or three months, but it'll be worth it.
 If your parents stand firm and it doesn't happen, wait a while. Let them forget about it, and then ask them again in a few weeks.
 Memorize something like:


"I want a Facebook account to keep in touch with friends who are not allowed to have a phone yet, and that do not spend as much time on their phones. I can restrict access to my page so that only my friends can see my name and page. I can design it how I want to show my personality, and what goes through my mind by posting pictures. I can have the page however I want as well. I will let you guys tell me how much time I can spend on it, because I know it can be addicting. It will not get in the way of any homework or sports. And at school everyone talks about Facebook, and it makes me feel left out." You could also involve a friend to show the point that nearly everyone else has it, including the friend. But do not use the phrase "everyone else is doing it"."

, If your parents have an account, add them so that they can see everything that you are doing and what pictures you are posting. If neither of your parents have an account and that is what they're worried about, suggest that you could add a close friend of your mother's or an uncle or aunt as a friend who could keep an eye on what you were doing.

