 Regular veterinary care is essential to protect your dog’s health, so good dog owners take their dogs to the vet at least once per year for a checkup and make sure their dogs are up to date on their shots. When you first get your dog, you should take him to the veterinarian for his first check-up and initial shots as well. Then, make sure that you take your dog to the veterinarian once per year for a checkup and updates on shots.Observe your dog for signs of a health issue. Being a good dog owner also means taking your dog to the veterinarian right away if you suspect that he is having a health issue. If you notice that your dog seems sick or that his behavior has changed, schedule an appointment with your veterinarian right away to find out what is going on.;
, Flea, tick, and heartworm medications are necessary to protect your dog from preventable health problems. Make sure that you administer these medications as recommended by your veterinarian along with any other medications that your veterinarian prescribes for your dog., This helps stem the tide of companion-animal overpopulation. Spaying female dogs reduces the stress and discomfort endured during heat periods, eliminates the risk of uterine cancer, and greatly reduces the risk of mammary cancer. Neutering makes male dogs much less likely to roam or fight and prevents testicular cancer., Getting your dog licensed and purchasing dog tags for him is important in case he ever runs away or gets lost. It doesn’t cost much to license your dog and in most states you are required to license your dog and keep his tags on his collar at all times. Not doing so may cost you up to $250.Your dog’s tags should include his name, and your phone number or street address.


You may also consider microchipping your dog to increase your chances of finding him if he runs away or gets lost. Your veterinarian can inject a microchip with a tracking number on it that can be scanned in the event that your dog gets lost and ends up in a shelter.