 Offer to clean your room and the kitchen every week, get all A’s and B’s on your next report card, or another similar deal that you and your parents can agree on in exchange for their permission. You can also participate in volunteer or extracurricular activities if that’s something your parents want you to do more of.


Give your parents something specific, both to show that you’re willing to work for what you want and that you can make specific goals. Rather than saying, “I’ll work on getting better grades,” say “I’ll get better grades in Math,” or whatever subject could use some improvement., Tell your parents that you’ll pay for the cost of piercing, jewelry, and cleaning supplies. Research all the costs ahead of time and save up your own money from an allowance or a job so you have the full amount ready to offer as soon as your parents agree to give their permission.


Try raising the money with a lemonade stand or other simple fundraising activity that your parents approve of.If you can’t save or raise the entire amount of money yourself, ask if your parents will match the amount of money you have or chip in the rest. Say: “Mom/Dad, I have enough money to pay for the piercing itself. Will you chip in for the cost of the jewelry?”, Promise not to get any more piercings after this one, or set a limit for the number of piercings that your parents are comfortable with. You can also agree with your parents on wearing a certain type of jewelry in the piercing, like smaller studs instead of dangly or large earrings.


If you are going for gauged ears, agree on a size that you won’t go over when stretching.You can even let your parents choose the jewelry you get pierced with, or choose the piercing place where you get it done.
 Tell your parents that they can come with you to the piercing place, either beforehand to check it out, during and throughout the piercing process, or both.


It may be a long-shot, but you can ask your parents if they want to get their own piercing with you! Depending on the type of people your parents are, they may appreciate this effort to include them and experience exactly what you’re experiencing.
 Whatever bargaining tactic you decide on or agreements you come up with with your parents, write it down or type it out as a way of showing them you are making a well-thought-out decision that you’re committed to sticking to.


Try making a checklist or a step-by-step process for everything you’ve agreed to do to get the piercing and what’s required afterward.