 What exactly is your friend doing that is getting on your nerves? Is your friend too clingy? Does your friend gossip or say mean things to you? Is you friend constantly making fun of you? Are you just annoyed by your friend for no reason?The source of the annoyance will help you figure out what you need to do.
If your friend is too clingy, you need to create space between the two of you.
If your friend is being mean and hurtful towards you, you should let them know how you feel.
If you cannot identify why you are so annoyed with your friend, you might need to do some self-evaluation. Have you changed or out grown your friend?;
, Instead of spending time alone with your friend, only see them when other people are around. This can create a buffer between the two of you. You will not have to talk to your friend as much. If your friend starts being annoying, you will still have other people you can talk to.


Make sure that other people are around when you hang out with your annoying friend. For example, make plans with some other friends and then invite the annoying friend to come along or eat lunch with a group of people instead if just you and your friend.
If your friend invites you to go somewhere and you know it will only be the two of you, decline the offer or ask if you can bring someone else along.
 If you want to maintain the friendship, you can create some space between the two of you. This will give you the break from the person and send a signal to the person to change their behavior.


If the person calls and/or texts too much, do not respond to them every single time. Only answer when you feel like it or really want to talk to them.If you have to call them back, call them when you are about to do something else. This way you can keep the conversation short. For example, you could call and say, "Hey, I saw your missed call. I'm about to eat dinner with my family, what's up?"

, Your friend may be engaging in certain behaviors because they enjoy the response and attention you give. Your friend may say negative things or complain a lot to get sympathy and attention form you. Your friend may make fun of other people to get laughs. By responding, you may actually be encouraging the annoying behavior.The person may eventually stop the behavior if you ignore them.
For example, if your friend is always making fun of others to get laughs, stop laughing and do not respond at all when they make a comment.
If other friends have noticed the annoying behaviors, all of you should stop responding.
When you ignore the person, do not roll your eyes or make a face.This is still a reaction to what the person is doing. You may also hurt your friend's feelings if you are rude.
 If you have a clingy friend, encourage them to try a new hobby or spend time with other people. This will take some of the pressure of off you. Your friend will be less annoying to you when you spend time together.You may tell your friend, "I love being friends with you, but I think we should try to meet new people too."
If your friend tells you about an activity they did without you, tell them how great that is and you are proud of them.
You can also suggest specific activities for your friend to do. Choose activities that your friend is interested in, but you are not interested in. For example, if your friend likes to draw but you do not, find an art class or art exhibit and tell your friend about it.

