 When you see a kitten who appears to be alone, your first step is to figure out if the mother cat is still in the picture. It is possible that she has abandoned her kitten, but it could also be that she is simply out hunting for food. The only way to know whether the kitten is motherless is to wait. You will need to observe the situation for more than just a few minutes. Try watching from a spot where the kitten won't notice you and be frightened away.


Be patient--remember, you want to help the kitten, not unnecessarily remove it from its mother. Mother cats usually search for food in the mid-afternoon, while her kittens are sleeping. If you are seeing the kitten alone in the morning, it's an added sign it has been abandoned.;
, While you won't be able to get an exact number, it is very important that you attempt to figure out how old the kitten is. Mother cats usually begin to wean their litters at about 6 weeks. You'll need to know if the kitten is younger than that so that you will be prepared to care for it.


There are a few ways that you should be able to get a rough estimate on the kitten's age. Kittens open their eyes at about 10 days; if their eyes are not open yet, you know you're dealing with an infant.Another good way to tell is to gauge the kitten's activity level. Typically, kittens begin to walk at about 3 weeks. If you see a kitten who seems to be able to walk and play without too much wobbling, you can be pretty sure that your kitten is at least 4 weeks old., You definitely want to make sure that the kitten in question is actually a stray. Even though it is young, it could still be somebody's missing pet. Take some time to try to investigate. Chat with the people who live near you to see if they have noticed the kitten and if they have any information about where it belongs. You could also post flyers around your area, in addition to chatting face to face with your neighbors., A stray kitten may also be called a feral (wild) cat.When you are dealing with any non-domesticated animal, you will want to be cautious. It's good to be aware that stray cats are very different from the kitties you see in a pet store or at your friend's house. They are skittish, and not used to humans.


Also, you can't be sure what the medical history of a stray cat is, so it's good to be a little wary (no matter how cute it is). Try calling a local vet or animal shelter to ask if they have any good information on cats living in your area. , Obviously, you want to do the right thing to ensure the kitten's safety. But that is going to take some consideration and planning on your part. There are several questions to ask yourself. For example, do you have the amount of time you need to do this right? Catching a stray cat can take a few days, and you will also need to schedule some time to care for the kitten after you catch it. Make sure you have all of the materials you need, and that you have contacted a vet so that you know where to take the kitten for medical care.


Whether you plan to keep the kitten or find it another home, you'll want to make sure it is healthy.Make sure you've giving some thoughts to the steps you'll take to catch the kitten and to handle it after you succeed.