 Natural food dyes are typically vegetable or fruit juices. Juices work better than purees for icing as icings tend to be a thin glaze. You can buy the juice from the store or make your own. Depending on what color you want, you can use different types of fruits and vegetables to color your icing. Some natural products that work well in icings and frostings include:



Red: beet juice, pomegranate juice, or strained raspberry purée

Pink: beet juice, cranberry juice, or raspberry juice

Orange: carrot juice

Green: liquid chlorophyll, matcha powder, spinach juice

Blue: red cabbage juice and baking soda

Purple: blueberry juice, blackberry juice, concentrated grape juice;
, Vegetable and other natural dyes can flavor an icing as well as color it. Keep this in mind as you prepare your natural frosting. Choose vegetables that have a neutral flavor or consider how the flavor of the dye might mix with the flavor of your dessert.Beets, spinach, and liquid chlorophyll all have neutral flavors.
Carrot juice adds a slightly sweet flavor.
Fruit flavors, such as pomegranate, raspberry, and blueberry juice, might pair nicely with chocolate or vanilla desserts.
While some people use spices like turmeric, saffron, and paprika for natural food dyes, these may be too strongly flavored to use in an icing.
 You can make vegetable juice for your dyes by placing the beets (red or pink), cranberries (pink), or red cabbage (purple or blue) in a pot with water. Bring to a boil, and then simmer for between five and forty minutes. Simmer longer for a deeper color and shorter for a lighter color. Afterwards, drain the juice into a dish to cool. Save or discard the vegetables.


If you want to produce blue, boil and simmer red cabbage using this method. Wait for the purple juice to cool completely before adding ¼ teaspoon of baking soda.The longer you simmer beets, the more red the juice will be. The shorter you simmer beets, the more pink they will be. You can simmer beets for more than forty minutes to produce a darker red.Let the vegetable juice cool completely before you use it to dye icing. You can place it in a refrigerator to speed this process.
 If you have a vegetable or fruit juicer, all you need to do is place the vegetables inside and turn on the machine to produce a brightly colored juice. If you don’t have a juicer, you can place the vegetables in a food processor with a tablespoon or two of water. Process the fruits or vegetables until they liquefy, adding more water if needed. Strain the pulp with a cheesecloth, and collect the juice in a bowl. The juice will act as your dye.This method works with:


Carrots (orange)
Spinach (green)
Beets (pink or red)
Raspberries (red or pink)
Strawberries (pink)
Blueberries (purple)
Blackberries (purple)

