 What function will it serve? Think about the features you’d enjoy most as you begin constructing plans. The most common backyard ponds fall into one of the following categories.A wildlife pond is perhaps the easiest type of pond to construct. It doesn’t require a pump, so it needn’t be close to a source of electricity. A wildlife pond is built to look like a natural part of the landscape. Because it isn’t stocked with fish, it is attractive to frogs, slugs, water sliders, and other animals that may come to it to have a drink or bathe away.
A garden pond is more ornamental in appearance. Garden ponds typically have lily pads and other aquatic plants, and are built to complement the design of one’s garden. Artfully arranged stones, small pump-based waterfalls, and a smattering of goldfish are often features of garden ponds.;
, Most ponds do best in spots that get mixed sun and shade, since this environment allows plants to grow and keeps algae at bay. You may want to locate the pond in a place you can see from your home, so you can enjoy it even in cold or rainy weather.If you’re constructing your pond in the backyard, the first thing to do is call your gas and electric company and ask them to come to your house and mark the locations of your gas and electric lines, so you’ll know not to dig in those spots.
If you have a larger property, other considerations may be involved. Call the Department of Agriculture to find out if there are places on your property that are protected watersheds, and ask if there are any other local regulations you should know about before you begin digging.
Don’t choose a spot too close to trees, as you may damage their root systems.
 If you live in a wet region, such as in the eastern region of the United States, your pond can be just a few feet wide and deep. If you’re in a dryer regions, like the southwest region of the US, a shallow pond will evaporate quickly. Conduct research to find out what depth makes sense for your region.








Larger ponds are easier to to maintain. They’re more stable, so plants and other wildlife have a better chance of survival.
Use a rope to lay out the shape of your pond and get a sense of the size you want. Keep it in place to guide you as you begin to dig.

