 A reflective collar will help keep your dog safe at night, as it will make your dog more visible. This step is particularly important if your dog has a tendency to get away from you. You can find reflective collars at pet stores or online.You can also add reflective tape to your dog's collar.;
, In addition to your dog's collar, making your dog's leash more visible can keep your dog safer. You can buy reflective leashes, or you can wrap your dog's leash in reflective tape. That way, your dog is visible if headlights flash on it., Another option to keep your dog safe is to add a blinking light. Lights provide more protection than reflective surfaces because they are visible all the time at night. For instance, you can buy lights that attach to your dog's collar or leash to make it more visible.These lights are specifically designed for this purpose. Basically, you just clip it onto your dog's collar and turn it on. That way, anyone can see your dog coming, even if they aren't shining a light at it.
 One way to make yourself more visible is to wear a reflective vest, which catches the light of passing cars and street lamps. It helps to choose one in a bright color. That way, you will also be illuminated if a car comes by, so you'll be safer, too., You can find any number of lights that attach to your body. For instance, you can get lights that are attached to a headband, which keeps your hands free. Adding light makes you much more visible, increasing your safety. Plus, it makes it easier to see where you're going., Even if you don't wear a light, it's a good idea to carry a flashlight. You never know when you'll find yourself in a dark area. Plus, a flashlight makes you more visible to cars if you use it the whole time., As dogs age, they may have increased vision problems. They could also have problems like arthritis, and with decreased vision at night, they may have more trouble avoiding obstacles. Ask your vet to give your dog the once over to make sure it's up for walking at night.You could ask questions such as, "Do you think it's safe to take my dog out at night? Is my dog's vision up to walking at night?"

, If your dog is susceptible to cold, you might consider adding a vest to help keep it warm, particularly if you have a small dog. As a bonus, you can add reflective tape to the vest to make your dog more visible.You can find vests for dogs at pet stores and online.
If you notice your dog is shivering on a walk, it may be time to get it a vest.
 Make sure your dog's tags are up-to-date before taking it out at night. If your dog gets away from you, you'll have a harder time catching it than you would in the daytime. Tags can help ensure your dog is returned safely to you if someone else finds it.Also, it's a good idea to use reflective tags to make your dog more visible.
You can also get your dog microchipped. Basically, a small chip is embedded under you dog's skin that provides contact information for places that have readers (generally vet clinics and animal shelters). A microchip remains in place even if your dog loses its collar.
 When walking at night, try to stay in areas that are well-lit. Dark areas are a perfect place for crimes to take place. Don't try to cut through places like parks or alleys if they're dark. Staying in the light will keep you and your dog safer, plus make it easier to see where you're going., You don't want to get lost while you're out at night, so stick to areas you know. Plus, it's a good idea to walk in areas where you know people. That way, if you do find yourself in a dangerous situation, you have somewhere to go.For example, don't take a back route just to try it out at night. Instead, stick to the places you've walked in the day. It can even help to drive the route at night so you can inspect how well-lit it is from the safety of your car.
 It can be fun to listen to some tunes while you're taking a walk. However, that can distract you from your surroundings, making you less safe. Take the headphones out, and put your phone in your pocket. Take the time to enjoy being with your dog, instead., As much as possible, stay out of the road. Being in the road with your dog puts you at greater risk of being hit. If you must walk on the road, make sure to face oncoming traffic, so you can see what's headed your way., It's best to cross at marked crosswalks, so that cars will expect there to be pedestrians. In addition, make sure to only cross when the light says to, so that you won't be fighting traffic to cross.Make sure your dog is good around cars before going out in heavy traffic. You don't want your dog getting confused and attempting escape when you're trying to cross in heavy traffic.
Make sure to keep your dog close when crossing the street by keeping its leash short.
Also, act like the driver doesn't see you. That is, don't just assume an oncoming car will avoid you. It's possible that the driver hasn't even seen you. Make sure to move out of of the way of any car that's coming your direction to avoid putting you and your dog at risk.