 This is an especially-convenient way to prevent tears — every kitchen has a sink. As soon as you remove the peel from both onion halves, transfer them to a bowl of water. Let them soak briefly. 15 minutes is generally plenty of time.Note that this can make your onion taste a little more mild.
This works because the water draws out the sulfur-containing compounds that cause the stinging effect in your eyes., Believe it or not, simply getting your onion cold can be enough to greatly reduce your tears. Before you peel the onion, stick it in the freezer for about 15 minutes. After waiting, pull it out, peel it, and chop it immediately (you may want to set an alarm so you don't forget about it). Any tears should minor.


This is thought to work because chemical reactions generally proceed much more slowly at low temperatures. Cooling the onion slows the rate at which the tear-causing compounds are released once it's cut open.
 If your kitchen has an oven vent, simply turn it on, move your cutting board over an unlit burner, and start peeling the onion here. The fan in the vent will pull the tear-causing chemicals away from your eyes and safely outside. Higher fan settings tend to reduce tears the most.
 Even small flames (like the ones on candles) can help, but a large stove burner is generally best.The closer you can get the onion to the flame while you're peeling and cutting, the better. However, be sure to stay at least an inch or two from it to avoid burning the onion (or yourself).


This trick works because the flame pulls in air as fuel while it burns. If it's next to your onion, some of this air will be the air that contains the tear-causing chemicals., This works the same way as the "bowl of water" trick did above. Be careful when working with a knife here — it's easy to lose your grip on a wet, slippery onion, so cuts are a concern. Setting a non-slip cutting board in the sink can help somewhat.
 An easy way to keep yourself from crying while peeling and chopping onions is to simply put a barrier between your eyes and the tear-causing chemicals. Basically any airtight pair of goggles will work — goggles meant for swimming will work fine, as will (clean) chemistry lab goggles.
 The more time a cut onion is allowed to sit out, the more tear-causing chemicals it will be able to release into the air. Expert chefs can often prevent tears while working with onions by simply finishing before the chemicals have a chance to make it to their eyes. If you can get quick enough, you can use this method to avoid tears even when none of the others are available.


This is a matter of long-term practice. Your speed will gradually increase over time as you continue to work with onions. Don't push yourself to rush, especially when you're working with a sharp knife — mistakes can be painful.

