 If you've been doing the same thing for a long period of time, not only might you get mentally bored, but your muscles may be getting bored too. Every few weeks, choose something different to do to shake up your routine.You don't have to do something completely different, if you only enjoy particular types of activities. For example, if you normally run on the treadmill you might switch over to an elliptical or an exercise bicycle once or twice a week.
If you're lifting weights for strength training, research different exercises you can do that work opposing muscle groups. This will keep your muscles in balance and can prevent injuries as well as boredom.
You can try learning a new sport or skill. For example, you could join an adult soccer team or hiking group. Or, you could take cycling, swimming, or dance classes.
 You can prevent boredom in your fitness routine by working out in different places. After a while, going to the same place at the same time everyday can get monotonous, leading to boredom.If the weather is appropriate, going outside can be an instant way to invigorate your mind and body and get back your enthusiasm for your fitness routine.
If you're a member of a gym, find out if your membership is transferable to other locations. You might try going to a different location a day or two a week, which will give you a change of scenery as well as new people to interact with.
 Fitness classes inject some variety into your routine, as well as giving you the opportunity to learn a new skill or meet new people. You typically can find shorter term or introductory classes that don't require a gym membership.Check with your local community center or nonprofit organizations to find out what sorts of fitness or wellness classes are available. There also may be information at your public library.
Keep an open mind and be willing to try something even once to see how it feels. Most gyms and fitness clubs will give you the opportunity to try something once to see if you like it before you commit.
 Even if you can only afford a couple of sessions, a personal trainer can help you identify the reasons you may be starting to get bored with your fitness routine. They can offer you a new plan that will help prevent boredom in the future.If you're a member of a gym, find out what kind of personal training services that gym offers. Typically you get a reduced rate if you sign up for multiple sessions up front, so you can find a package that suits both your needs and your budget.
For example, you may want to work out on your own but check in with a trainer once a month. Talk to the trainers in your gym to find out if this is an option.
If you work out at home, you may be able to hire somebody to come over and work on a new routine for you. This may be more expensive than the services offered at a gym, so it's important to communicate with the trainer you choose and be up front about your goals and what you want out of your fitness routine.
 If you typically listen to music while you're working out, you may get bored listening to the same album or playlist over and over. Choose different music that's upbeat and motivational.Many athletic companies have designed playlists timed for specific types of workouts that you can download. One of these might work for you and give your fitness routine the jump start it needs to prevent boredom.
You also might try listening to a podcast or audio book, particularly on days where you're just jogging on a treadmill or using an exercise bike. Your interest in getting to the next episode or chapter will fuel an interest in exercising.

