 For this poncho variant, you won't use all of the fabric, but, rather, a circle-shaped portion in the middle. Because of this, you may want to pick a slightly bigger piece of fabric than you would have for the standard poncho above. To begin, fold this fabric so that its edges meet as you normally would.
 The next few steps can be tricky - your goal is to map out the cuts you'll make to create a circular piece of fabric. First, use a tape measure to find the midpoint of the folded edge. Use a pencil or washable pen to mark this point, which will become the center of your circle.
 Next, determine the desired length of your poncho (remember that, generally, ponchos hang about wrist-low on the sides). Mark two more points on the folded edge - one on either side of the central point. Each should be the distance from your center point that you've chosen for the length of your poncho.









For example, if we wanted to make a 22-inch poncho for our child, we'll mark the two points along the folded edge that are 22 inches (55.9 cm) from the central point - one on either side.
 Next, you'll want to start marking points on the top layer of fabric to mark the edges of a half circle centered on the midpoint of the folded edge. To do this, you may want to measure out the desired length of your poncho (this is the same length as in the previous step) with a tape measure, then keep one end of the tape measure on the central point and mark dots in a half-circle. When you're done, you should have a series of dots making a half-circle on the upper layer of fabric.









Following along with our 22-inch poncho example, we would now mark a series of dots on the upper layer of fabric, all of which are 22 inches (55.9 cm) from the central point. This will create a half-circle with a radius of 22 inches (55.9 cm).
 The hard work is done - now, just connect the dots. Use circles to cut along the series of dots you made. Be sure to cut both pieces of the folded fabric together. When finished, you should have a circular piece of fabric! Discard or recycle the extra material.
 You now have your circular fabric - now, you may proceed as you would with a square poncho. Cut a head hole or slit at the center of the fabric's folded edge, hem the head hole if desired, add decorations or flair, and so on. Congratulations - your circular poncho is ready to wear!








