 In order to qualify for the Exercise Physiologist certification (EPC) exam, you must either have (a) an academic degree (BS or MS) with a major in exercise physiology, or (b) an academic degree with a major in exercise science, kinesiology, sport science, human performance, or a related degree, and grade of “C” or better in seven out of nine specific courses.The nine courses are exercise physiology, fitness assessment, exercise metabolism, kinesiology, research design, biomechanics, environmental physiology, nutrition, and exercise in special populations.
You will want to take this exam as soon as possible after completing your highest degree.
This exam is completed online. As such, it can be taken anytime throughout the year.
 In order to take the EPC exam, you must have a current ASEP membership. Memberships cost $175 annually, and can be obtained through the ASEP website. Select the appropriate membership level (student, professional, fellow, international, or affiliate), fill out the form, and pay the fee.
 As it stands currently, graduates of both ASEP accredited and non-ASEP accredited programs may register and take the EPC exam. However, as stated above, you do need to meet certain academic requirements. Submit your transcripts through the ASEP website. It may take up to 48 hours for approval., Once you are a current member of ASEP and your transcripts have been approved, you can register to take the exam. You will be required to pay a fee of $300, however, graduates of ASEP-accredited programs will be eligible to take the exam at a discounted fee of $50.
 Prepare for the exam by reviewing what you learned in school. If you graduated from an ASEP-accredited program, you will have been perfectly prepared for this test. If your program was not ASEP-accredited, you may need to do some topic-specific studying. According to the ASEP website, the exam covers the following 8 areas:Exercise physiology: 72 questions (36%)
Cardiac rehabilitation: 37 questions (18.5%)
Exercise metabolism and regulation: 23 questions (11.5%)
Kinesiology: 21 questions (10.5%)
Research: 13 questions (6.5%)
Sports biomechanics: 12 questions (6%)
Environmental exercise physiology: 12 questions (6%)
Sports nutrition: 10 questions (5%)

, The EPC exam is an online test that you can take wherever you decide. The most important factor when selecting a location is a steady, trustworthy, high-speed internet connection. Next, you’ll want a place that is free from distraction, and where you stay for the four hours needed to complete the exam., The test consists of 200 multiple-choice questions. You are allotted four hours in which to complete the exam. Each multiple choice item consists of a “stem” (which includes factual data or describes a situation) and four answer choices. You will select the best answer for each one.You should have a pencil, some scratch paper, and a calculator handy for the exam.
Results will post immediately upon completion. They will also be sent to the email address on file in the member profile.
Once you have passed, you are officially a board-certified exercise physiologist.
 As a board-certified exercise physiologist, you will have no trouble finding work. As a matter of fact, this is a rapidly growing field. Through your membership with ASEP and your board certification, you can search for job openings by logging into the ASEP member area. By virtue of your certification, you are not only eligible, but quite desirable for almost any position in this field.

