 A complaint can be a very minor matter (such as if you buy a shirt that has a tear in it) or a very significant--even criminal--matter (such as if you are defrauded out of a significant amount of money). Consider carefully what exactly your complaint entails. Some common reasons to make a complaint include:Buying a defective product
Ordering a product that is not delivered in a timely fashion
Being charged the wrong price for a purchase
Having your credit card information stolen and used improperly;
, Depending on the severity of your complaint, you might wish to achieve very different goals. Ask yourself what would solutions would make you happy. You might also want to consider whether the company can take any action that would make you want to return as a customer. Keep your ideal goal in mind as you pursue your claim. Some possible solutions to a complaint include:Getting a replacement product
Having your money partially or entirely refunded
Receiving store credit
Being paid restitution or damages

, As a consumer, you have the right to be treated in a fair and above-board manner. Many municipalities and nations have laws that protect consumers from fraudulent behavior. Examine your consumer rights carefully to prepare yourself for a confrontation with the company. If you know your rights, you are less likely to be intimidated into withdrawing your complaint., Many services and products involve a signed contract. This contract might include information about how grievances can be filed and about what grievances are legitimate. Make sure you understand clearly what you have signed your name to and what the company has agreed to.If you are uncertain whether a contract you have signed is legitimate or not, you might contact a consumer attorney who can help you navigate the legalese.
 Many companies have a department devoted to customer service. If you have a problem with a product, you will likely want to get in touch with that department. Other possibilities might include management, an Ombudsman (if you feel like you have been mistreated), or human resources (if you suffered abuse at the hands of an employee). Look through the company website or navigate their voicemail system to determine whom you should contact., Before you make your complaint, make sure you have all the necessary paperwork and dates at your disposal. Many companies require a proof of purchase before exchanging or returning items, and you will want to have yours handy. If your transaction involved a transaction number, be sure you have that written down in a handy place.Things you might gather include:


A copy of your receipt
Your credit card slip
Your credit card bill with the relevant transaction on it
Your emailed transaction confirmation
The date and time of your transaction
Your warranty
The defective item

, Before handing any documents over to the company, make sure that you have back-up copies safely stored at home. This is especially important for receipts and contracts: never give up your originals until your complaint is resolved.You should also document your phone calls: jot down the time you called, the people to whom you spoke, and the details of your conversation.
 Especially for minor complaints, you can try to resolve your complaint with a quick phone call or visit to the appropriate employee. Many retail stores have a customer service desk you can visit, for example. If your complaint is small and does not involve potentially criminal activity on the part of the company, try to resolve the issue in this quick and easy way., Be upfront, polite, but firm when you articulate your complaint to the customer service representative. Make sure that you detail exactly what your problem is, the date of your transaction, and how you envision the problem might be resolved. Try to avoid extreme emotions or oversharing at this stage: after all, you want the customer service representative to be on your side.For example, you might say:


"I purchased this new phone last week. Unfortunately, the phone battery does not hold its charge. According to my warranty, I should receive a brand-new phone. Can you help me resolve this?"
"I bought these earrings on October 19. I was told that they were hypoallergenic. However, they are still causing an allergic reaction. I am hoping to exchange them for actually hypoallergenic earrings. I have kept my receipt and credit card slip."
"When I came in to the store yesterday, your sales clerk named John made an insulting remark about my appearance. I am very concerned since I visit your shop quite often and have been a loyal customer. I would like to file a grievance with your company."

, Even if you are feeling very frustrated, it is best to remain calm and polite at this stage. Resist the urge to yell or use insulting language. Some tips for controlling your anger include:


Taking deep breaths.Avoiding hyperbole and keeping your problem in perspective.Focusing on solving the problem.Communicating clearly., "I" statements are an effective way to express yourself without appearing to blame or take your anger out on someone. In an "I" statement, you simply state how you feel in first-person terms. For example, you might state:


"I am disappointed in the quality of this product" instead of "Your company made a terrible product."
"I am frustrated that the delivery did not occur on time" instead of "Your delivery driver sucks."
"I hope that we can come to a resolution" instead of "You had better make this right."

, Sometimes a company might offer you a solution that is not quite what you had hoped for. For example, they might offer you store credit when what you want is a refund. Or they might only offer you a product repair instead of a new product. Consider whether what they offer you initially is fair. If not, hold firm about what you wanted to achieve through your complaint. Do not give in right away: be persistent and see if you can achieve your goal., Many companies will attempt to help you at this stage by refunding your money, replacing your product, or giving you store credit. If this was your ideal solution, then you have effectively solved your complaint. Thank the customer service representative for his efforts. If the representative went above and beyond his duties, you might also write a letter of appreciation to his superior to express your happiness at his performance.


If you are ignored or if your ideal solutions are not met at this stage, however, you might have to take further action.
 When both parties have agreed to a solution, give the other party ample time to implement it. After a fair amount of time, call them back to verify that the solution has been put in place. If they have been able to honestly and fairly assist you, they’ll be glad to be able to give you the good news of your problem’s resolution. If not, then you might want to consider contacting management or bringing in a third party.
 In some cases, a customer service representative may not be helpful or might refuse your call. In a case like this, social media can help draw attention to your plight and cause the company to begin working on your behalf.Consider writing a public Facebook post that links to the company's Facebook page or composing a Tweet directed at the company. This might help your voice be heard., If you do not have any luck with customer service, consider talking to someone in a management or supervisory position. Be sure that you mention the steps you tried to take to resolve the issue before now and how disappointed you are in how you have been treated. If you get a supervisor's attention, you might be able to get the attention you deserve.
 At this stage, you will want to communicate with the company in writing. Writing conveys a sense of seriousness and also creates a paper trail that can help you pursue your complaint. Use a business letter format in order to write a letter of complaint.You can find a sample complaint letter here: https://www.usa.gov/complaint-letter.


Keep a copy of your letter for your files.Be sure to include photocopies of relevant supporting documents such as receipts, credit slips, warranties, or contracts as evidence for your case.
 If the complaints has not been resolved to your satisfaction yet, you might need to bring in a third party. There are many governmental and nonprofit agencies that exist to protect consumers and to regulate business practices. Some examples of these agencies include the Better Business Bureau, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the Federal Trade Commission. Many of these agencies allow you to submit a grievance through a simple online form.


If you are located in the United States, you can find your local consumer protection agency using this web address: https://www.usa.gov/state-consumer

The Better Business Bureau provides an online form you can use to file a complaint here: https://www.bbb.org/consumer-complaints/file-a-complaint/nature-of-complaint/

If your complaint is regarding a financial institution or transaction (such as a line of credit), get in touch with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: http://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/

If your complaint has to do with fraud or identity theft, you can get in touch with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.https://www.fdic.gov/consumers/assistance/protection/index.html


, Many businesses are required to maintain a license with a local or national board. For example, doctors, restaurants, salons, and optometrists often need to maintain their standing with a licensing board. If your complaint is serious, you might consider contacting a representative of the licensing board to let them know of your concerns., If you think you have been the victim of a crime, you should contact the governmental authorities.Your complaint might help them prevent future scams and thefts.If you have been scammed, defrauded, or had your identity stolen, your complaint is serious enough to involve the state and is too serious for the company to handle internally.
 Small claims courts allow you to sue for small amounts of money--usually under $10,000.This amount is not worth the cost of most litigation proceedings, but small-claims courts provide a simple and inexpensive way to try to recoup your funds.Some of the most common cases in small claims courts are breaches of warranty or breaches of contract.Visit this website to determine the small-claims limit in your state if you live in the United States: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/types-cases-for-small-claims-court-29918.html


, Make sure that other potential customers are aware of serious issues with how a company does business. Provide an honest, objective review with consumer protection websites and publicly viewable review sites to ensure that others do not encounter the same problems you did.Alternatively, if your complaint was resolved in a quick and professional manner, you can leave a positive review with these sites and agencies to reward the company for their good work.

