 It should be sulfate free. Wash your hair once every week or two. This sounds gross, but eventually your hair will get used to it and it will grow stronger, thicker, and healthier.;
, This gives your hair shine and luster.
 This will give your hair a healthier and softer feel.
, Blow drying hair is very damaging. If you must blow dry, use it on the coldest setting.
 It can be beach waves, pin straight, or ringlets. Of course you can change it, but this will be how your hair is most days when you "don't do anything" to it.
 Bangs are a good idea! You can have side bangs or straight bangs. Also, little face framing layers are really cute. The length is your choice, long or short, depending on your taste and hair health. Get your hair cut once every 6 months/year

, You can dye your hair any color you want, but no highlights! Blonde, brunette, red, black, blue, pink, rainbow, it doesn't matter as long as you maintain the dye job.
 You can do half ups, pigtails, buns, or braids. As long as the hairstyle is oh-so-cute it is great. Cute "school girl" ponytails are very cute.
 Use little bows, tiny hair ribbons, cute barrettes and bobby pins, or anything else. If you see it and you'd think a porcelain doll would wear it, then it is perfect.
 Cream is preferred, but gel is acceptable if that is all you have. If you are under 13 do this step 2 times a week. Rinse with warm water.
 This will get rid of dirt and dead skin cells, leaving brighter, lighter skin behind. Only do this twice a week.
 Masks clear your skin, shrink your pores, and make you feel fresh. Rinse with cold water.
 Coconut oil is good for night and a sunscreen/lotion mix is good for day. Massage it in and lightly tap your skin. This increases circulation in your skin thus increasing blood flow.
, This will relax you and help prepare you for what is to come.
, Dolls don't have body hair!

, This is especially important if you shaved/waxed.
 So do lots of cardio! Make sure you mix some weight training in there so you aren't flabby. A little 6-pack and toned arms, legs, and butt are what living dolls are made of!

, Eat tiny sandwiches and crackers and fruits and vegetables. Little sweets are good sometimes. Just eat small proportions and those extra pounds will fall off. Also, you will be much healthier if you only occasionally eat junk food.
 That means no tanning, no injuring, and no dirtying. You don't want old haggard skin that is dirty, wrinkly, spotty, and broken, do you? If not, always wear sunscreen, be careful, and clean yourself.
 Throw out anything you couldn't see a China doll wearing. Organize and sort through the clothes you have left and hang them up in an easy to find way.
 Here is a list of the basics you will need:


3 Cardigans (Pink, White, Blue)
1 Blazer (Navy)
As many skirts as possible (Floral, Patterned, Solid)
1-2 Lace Decorated Shorts (Light Blue)
1-3 High Waisted Pants (Dark Blue, Black, Peach, Pink, Striped/Polka-dotted)
2-4 White Blouses (Button Up, Bow, Collared, Long Sleeved, etc.)
2-4 Pink, Navy, Pastel Blouses (Same as Above)
2 Floral Dresses
2 Kitten Heels/Wedges
3-4 Knee Socks
1-2 Bootcut Jean for cold weather

, Nobody is stopping you. Remember, innocent, girly, porcelain.
 Be kind to everybody, even bullies. Treat others as you would like to be treated.
 Many living dolls know Japanese, English, and Russian. Almost all of them speak at least two languages. Also, being smart will break the dumb girl stereotype. Just because dolls don't have brains doesn't mean that you can't!

, Most living dolls have YouTubes, Tumblrs, Instagrams, Blogs, Google+, and Twitters. They post photo-shoots of themselves, hair/fashion/makeup tutorials, blogs, reviews, etc. Take pictures with your cute friends and upload them. Take pictures of what you are doing, stuff you buy, and places you go. You may soon get a fan following. Try not to edit your pictures that much, this only causes drama and controversy. If you do, admit to it. If you lie about it, more problems will arise. Watch/Follow other living dolls on social networks.

