 Pay attention to if she has broken the touch barrier with you. If she has, you need to figure out if it is friendly or flirty. She might just be giving you a friendly pat on the shoulder or she might be flirting with you because she is interested in you. If she touches you often, it might be a sign that she is flirting.


The amount of time she touches you for is an aspect of what determines if the touching is flirty or friendly. Was the touch a quick brush or does her hand linger for a few seconds?
Where she touches you could be a sign of what the touch means. Touching your shoulder might be something she does with friends, whereas touching your hand or face could be a sign she is interested in you.
Notice if she reciprocates your touch. If you give her a side hug and she leans into it, she might like you. If she seems uncomfortable and pulls away from the hug, maybe not. ;
, If she gives you space when she talks to you, she might not like you. If she turns her body toward you and points her feet your way, she could be interested. Some women get nervous around guys they like. Touching her hair and neck are signs she is feeling jittery and nervous around you and might be interested in you. , Some women look at the guy they like often. If she likes you she won’t be able to help but look at you. If you notice a lot of eye contact from her when you talk to her, she might be interested in you. If you know she is the kind of girl to get shy and nervous, she might be doing the opposite and not looking at you at all. This could also mean she likes you. , If every time she is with her boyfriend she has a huge smile on her face, it might be a sign you should back off. If she always looks miserable with him, then maybe there is room in her heart to develop feelings for someone else. Paying attention to how she acts around her boyfriend might help you figure out how she feels about you, but it also might not mean anything. If she her look sad with her boyfriend, it does not necessarily mean she does not love him or that she wants to be with you.

