 If you're worried about your girlfriend talking to a guy because he gives you bad vibes, it's appropriate to tell her so. However, if you're simply being jealous, it's not always a good idea to request your girlfriend stay away from a guy. This can easily backfire.If you're feeling jealous, look at the situation from a rational perspective. Is your girlfriend really going to be receptive to you asking her to not talk to a guy simply because you're insecure? Probably not.
If jealousy is the main culprit, it's better to have a conversation about why you're feeling jealous and how the two of you can cope as a couple.
 In any difficult conversation, empathy is key to successfully talking things out. Before you talk to your girlfriend, sit down and put yourself in her shoes. Try to imagine where she's coming from.For example, maybe she talks to an ex-boyfriend and the two often seem flirtatious with each other. While this behavior may feel hurtful to you, perhaps your girlfriend sees it differently.
Think about how your girlfriend may see this situation. Is she generally affectionate with other friends, regardless of gender? If so, this may simply be how she acts with everyone. She may not see the relationship as a problem.
 Take a piece of paper and a pen or pencil. Jot down your thoughts and feelings on the situation. Then, read over the words you wrote down and think about how you could verbally express them. As it's often hard to express yourself during a stressful conversation, having some idea of what to say can help.You should not write down what you want to say word for word. It's important to leave some room for flexibility. However, having a rough idea of how you'll phrase things can help.
 If you go into a conversation with specific expectations, you may become frustrated or angry if things unfold differently. You cannot tell the future and you don't know how your girlfriend will react. Releasing expectations can help you go into the situation willing to listen and accept your girlfriend's reactions.