 Maybe you recently learned about a relative you didn't know you had. Or perhaps you are looking for your biological parents, or a child you placed up for adoption. There are organizations you can contact that specialize in helping connect families who have not previously been together.For example, if you are adopted, you might have decided that you would like to find your biological parents. You can try contacting the Independent Adoption Center, which is a non-profit agency that has many resources.
There are many legal issues involved with adoption. It is a good idea to contact a legal expert to help guide you through the process of accessing records and finding your family member., Your DNA is a powerful resource that can be used to help you find out more about yourself and your relatives. Many companies provide DNA tests that you can use to find family members. Your DNA can reveal who you are related to. You might find multiple cousins you never knew you had.Some of these companies can also help connect you to the matches that turn up from your results. You will receive help from experts on lineage.
 Maybe you just found out that you have a family member who you never knew you existed. This can be very exciting news, and it makes sense that you want to take steps to locate this person. Whether it is a long-lost aunt or a third cousin, there are things you can do to help locate your relative.Start by going back one generation. Death certificates are often the most useful paperwork you can have in your search, so locate one from a known relative who passed away. You can use the information from that document to help with your search.
Try using a genealogy site. These sites have multiple resources that can help you find relatives you might not even have known existed., In addition to contacting agencies, you can also use many personal resources to aid your search. When you are trying to locate a missing relative, one of your greatest resources could be your other family members. You can ask your relatives to share memories, stories, and information about the person you are seeking. The more information you have, the better prepared you will be to perform an effective search.Ask your family members to provide basic biographical information about the person you are looking for. Think about details such as birthplace, education, marriages, etc.
Have them share personal stories. For example, maybe your grandmother will remember that your uncle always wanted to live in California. Your next step would be to contact missing person agencies in California and asking if someone meeting your uncle's description is in their database.
Consider recording these interviews. That way, you will be able to access these memories later and use them throughout your search.

