 The holidays can be a hectic time in a household, and it may be the wrong environment to introduce a new cat. Instead, try to wait until after the holidays when both you and the recipient can go visit animal shelters together.If you want to give them the cat as a present, you can give them a card that says, “Happy Holidaysǃ Since you have been wanting a cat for so long, I’m going to pay for the adoption fees.”
You might also give them a printed or handmade “coupon” that says, “Redeemable for one adopted cat from the shelter as paid for by me.”

, Some animal shelters offer gift certificates that the recipient can use to adopt their own cat. This will let the recipient decide if they want to adopt or not. They will also be able to pick out their own cat.If they don’t end up using the certificate, consider it a donation made in their name to the animal shelter. It is still a nice gift.
 Choosing a pet can be a very personal decision. While it is less of a surprise, it is still a nice gesture to go to the shelter with your friend to let them pick the cat that they want. You can offer to pay for the cat’s adoption fees as the gift.Letting the recipient pick out the cat themselves will help make sure that the cat is a good fit for their lifestyle and personality. This will reduce the chance that the cat will be returned to the shelter.
 If the other person or child has decided that they want to be given a cat, you should skip wrapping the cat. Even if you poke holes in a box, it may cause distress to the cat. Furthermore, if the cat eats the box or wrapping paper, they will have to go to the vet. Instead, try keeping the cat secured in another room until it is time to give the gift.


You can have the recipient sit on the couch with their eyes closed while you bring the cat out. You can keep the cat in the carrier or try to place the cat on their lap.
Don’t stick the cat in a closet or unventilated garage. Keep them in a bathroom or bedroom for a short period of time before the unveiling.