 That bears repeating: a sniper is not a lone wolf. He should always have a spotter covering his back ready to call a target, protect the sniper, or even radio information back to the commander.;
, When we watch a movie or play a video game we don’t need to worry about how the bullet travels. This is very unrealistic. BBs which you will be using in your rifle are affected by everything from gravity to wind and you as a spotter needs to be able to gauge how these and other factors will affect a sniper’s shot. This once again show’s us the age old motto, “One shot, one kill.” The only way for you as a spotter to predict how conditions will affect a sniper’s shot is through practice. #A sniper team must be constantly working to maintain their abilities. And this includes the spotter observing the shots even when they are only practicing. Some spotters view the time when their partner is practicing as free time to spend just hanging out but this couldn’t be anymore false. A spotter and sniper need to always work together to assure the best shots.
 One of the most important pieces of equipment a spotter has is either binoculars or some type of spotting scope. The spotting scope he chooses should be of similar magnification to the optics on the sniper’s rifle. He should also be armed with some sort of carbine rifle. The spotter’s secondary job is to provide close quarter protection for the sniper and he can’t do that with a bolt-action rifle. What the spotter needs to realize is that unless they are engaged, the spotter will rarely fire a round. Let’s face it, it is not his job to be the one who triggers.
 He needs to be able to pull off a shot that normal infantry cannot. That’s what it means to be a sniper. He needs to have a good rifle that is maintained and has an fps (feet per second) of at least 450. He needs optics (scope) that has similar magnification to that of his spotter’s binoculars or spotting scope. Aside from the normal rifle a sniper needs to have a sidearm that can protect him in most situations. I don’t recommend any automatics just a simple, reliable, pistol. If on the off chance you are discovered you can’t just sit there while your spotter attempts to hold the enemy off with his rifle, and you definitely can’t do it with your sniper rifle so you need to be a great shot with that pistol and have plenty of ammo for it.
 And that comes from tedious unending hours of practice. So the way to be the best is to waste a whole lot of time firing your guns. Both sidearm and primary weapon. So to help you become the sniper of your dreams I included a few tips on how to become great.

