 Plans are for tourists, change of plans are for travelers. While the basics like flight times and hotel bookings can be planned in advance for some parts of the journey, don't box yourself in. Make sure you have wriggle room to cancel those bookings and go where fancy takes you.;
, Don't try to squeeze in all the highlights in a short space of time. Does it really matter if you don't see all the sights and miss the tourist gift gimmicks? Even a small country has much more to offer than the tourist stalls and gimmicky local tours.
 Suppose, for example, you want to visit the more than 1000 big or small museums in the rest of the Netherlands outside the capital Amsterdam. Indeed, you'd see a great deal more and soak in much more of the real culture than simply seeing the great museums in the main city.
 Instead of listening a tour guide, interact with locals and have a chat in a park, in a pub or even on a bus. Especially the elders are fantastic sources for helping you to better understand the culture of the city/country you visited. If you are lucky, you can make a good friendship in a very short time.
 Cycling and walking around, visiting forests, watching people on the streets, and resting in parks. These cost nothing but are great ways to immerse yourself in everyday life, to get a real taste of the culture.
 Do not be afraid to use public transport. You will meet people, see amazing sights, go to places that you might not otherwise and you'll save money.
 One hour is usually enough to learn how to say "Hello", "Thanks", etc. Greeting and asking someone "Do you speak English?" in his or her own language, before switching to English, will make the person appreciate you more than trying to speak directly in English., Discover something worthwhile somewhere else for a change.
 You don't need expensive hotels with air-con, fridge and room service all the time. You can be happy with the personal touch from 'bed and breakfast' places and small hotels in the countryside. Staying in people's homes is another great option.
 Your friends can see all that online; go and find the unique, the truly unusual, and connect with real people. In the end, you're going on holiday for yourself, not to impress other people.

