 How many friends have you had to listen drone on and on about their husband/wives disgusting and inconsiderate habits? For those who have been married or together for numerous years, it’s bound to happen--you have to compromise on and put up with nearly everything. As a single person living alone you never have to deal with another person’s propensity to PMS, the inability to replace the toilet paper roll after using the bathroom or loud, off key singing in the shower. And for those who are newly married, give them time. They’ll grow to be fully annoyed with each other in a matter of only a few years. Embrace the fact that:


You will never have to clean up another person’s mess or hear about how much of a mess you made.






You can eat whatever you want, whenever you want, no matter how gross it is.






You don’t have someone asking you where you are going, whom you will be with and what time you will be home.






You can decorate and maintain your home as you please--no way will you have to find room for his or her collection of porcelain frogs.





;
, It’s your life and you should be able to live it as you choose. Anyone who lives with another person is often bogged down by silly rules and regulations to accommodate their way of life. If you want to leave the house wearing ripped plaid shorts and a flaming gold top at 6am, you have full license do to so--how many of your couple friends can say that they’ve been able to get away with that maneuver?

, Another way to reinforce the true benefits of living alone is to hang out with thrilling, adventure seeking people. People who are connected at the hip don’t have the advantage of hanging out with crazy people, but you do. A good idea would be to befriend someone like George Clooney (or actually George Clooney), often a role model to many single dwellers. Clooney is always jetting off to exotic, awesome locations either donating his time to save Africa or dating the super model du jour. And it’s not just because he’s Clooney…it’s also because he can. He lives alone and he’s darn happy about it. In addition to Clooney, other types of people to befriend include:


Rich heir or heiresses with money to burn. These folks will fly you and your posse to Saint-Tropez for the weekend or will meet you in New Zealand for a good bungee jump. They may also buy you some fine home furnishings and really expensive jeans if you play your cards right.






Fun time free bird friend. Typically the fun time free bird friend is one who leaves you holding your gut from laughing so much. This type of friend often knows all the best jokes and gets the room rolling in a matter of minutes.






Thrill seeker pal. You may want to skip this friend if you aren’t much of a thrill seeker. However, if you long to swim with sharks and BASE jump off of a ridiculous high bridge, you should definitely work this friend into your repertoire.
 This is a huge deal because sharing the remote means that you typically only get to see 20% of your shows live. The other 80% will have to go to the DVR, while you sit through yet another episode of “Ice Road Truckers” with your betrothed. Treasure the remote, even bedazzle it--it’s yours all yours.
 If you want to name the dog Johnny Big Butt, go for it. No one is going to stop you. You won’t have to worry that your significant other wants to name it Cuddles because when she was little her dog was named Cuddles and Cuddles was adorable. Plus, if you want to get a great big Pitbull you don't have to compromise with her about purchasing a lapdog--or vice versa. The selection of the pet is a very big deal, which often communicates the personality of its owner. As a single pet owner, you will never be stuck with a new best friend that simply doesn’t get you.

