 Rather than scold your dog for not doing what you want, reward your dog for doing what you do want. By rewarding good behavior, you’re teaching your dog that they will receive a reward for doing something, and they will begin to positively associate good behavior with going for walks. On the other hand, if you yell at or hit your dog, they will only associate walks with something bad and become even more resistant.Yelling at your dog or physically disciplining them is never going to yield desired results. It will only make them fearful and anxious.;
, Dogs, like people, form associations between behaviors and positive experiences. When you reward your dog for desired behaviors, consider using small training treats and a click trainer. Wait until your dog has performed the behavior you want, such as walking forward, and then quickly, almost in unison, click the trainer and then offer the dog a small training treat. Your dog will associate walking forward with the click sound and treat, and ultimately you will be able to reward with a click sound rather than treat.Use training treats, or break a large, soft treat up into small pieces. Training treats are small and soft by design so that they can be a reward, not be a distraction, and not fill your dog up.
Click trainers are inexpensive and can be found at all pet stores.
 Taking charge simply means establishing that you are the dominant figure in the relationship between you and your dog. You will not take charge by hitting, kicking, yelling, or physically intimidating your dog. By being the person with the treats, the leash, the click trainer, the commands, and the person responsible for feeding and housing the dog, you’re already in the dominant position. When you’re on a walk with your stubborn dog, maintain that power dynamic by calmly giving commands and leading your dog where you’d like it to go.You might get frustrated with your stubborn dog, but that’s no reason to lose your cool. Keep calm and focused, showing your dog that you’re in charge.
 The leash is, for all intents and purposes, an extension of your arm and an invaluable tool. The leash is an effective way for you to communicate what you want your dog to do, while making sure that they don’t leave your side when excited.Put your hand through the leash and also wrap it once around your right hand.
Hold the slack in the leash with your left hand.
Gently pull on the leash if you need to so that you can remind your dog to behave.
Never yank or pull hard on the leash and never hit your dog with the leash.
 Pairing a verbal command with a non-verbal command is the most effective way to tell your dog what you want them to do. When you teach your dog the commands, pair the verbal command with a hand signal and a training treat. Ultimately you will remove the treats and just use the hand signals and verbal commands.You can teach your stubborn dog the “let’s go” command, which indicates that you’re both going to walk forward.
You can also teach the “stop” command, which alerts your dog that they are to stop walking.

