 Do you notice how most fantasy worlds have a wide variety of colour and light? Take Avatar for example, they use a variety of purples, blues, greens and silver to create one of the most beautiful fantasy scenes on camera. Fantasy never seems to be bland, so brighten up your garden with a wide variety of colours, be creative and don’t restrict yourself! Take full advantage of the wide variety of flowers Mother Nature has to offer. Choose your favorite colours and mix them together, have fun with it, the possibilities are endless!;
, And no, by this, you don't have to set up a surround sound system around the garden and blast your favorite tunes, use nature's music! Fill your garden with nature’s music to give it an unworldly feel. You can do this by purchasing a wind chime; it will look beautiful in your garden and will fill it with a sweet, unique symphony; you will find yourself waiting for the next gust of wind! If wind chimes aren’t your thing, you could also try to attract birds to your garden, who doesn’t love the sweet sound of happily chirping birds?

, Try to attract wildlife to your garden with sweet flowers which may attract butterflies. To attract birds offer a bird bath and bird seeds. The chirping of the birds will bring music to your garden and the butterflies will give it an unworldly feel. Consider other animals, such as dogs and cats. Perhaps you could set up a special place in the garden just for your pet to rest, I’m sure he/she will appreciate it having their own spot in the garden and wouldn’t it be brilliant to see your happy pet snoozing in the garden? Be cautious with mixing cats and birds in the same garden, remember… cats are hunters.
 There are so many plants to choose from, the possibilities are endless. To get that fantasy feel, fill your garden with colorful, unique plants. A good flower to use would be the sunflower, it is very diverse and it towers above most plants. Add some sweet, dainty flowers like snow drops and lilacs to add dimension. Be creative with it, flower arranging can be so fun, so take your time and enjoy it!

, Fill it with sweet, unique fragrances by the use of flowers and of course no artificial fragrances are needed (nature offers us everything we need). Try using Lavender or roses, or maybe some honeysuckle. Get the aromas flowing throughout your garden by using plants that have a strong, sweet scent. You can create a unique scent by mixing a variety of flowers together; your garden will have a brilliant smell like no other.
 Try not to include lights shaped as fairies, butterflies or other creatures, as this can make your garden seem childish. Stick with simple garden lights that will illuminate your garden during the nighttime. If you have a pond or water feature in your garden, putting lights near it or above it will cause the lights to reflect, this will look stunning.
 Your garden can be used as a personal get away; you worked incredibly hard on it so you may-as-well be a part of it. Good luck!

