 Both should be able to lie flat, so that if you fill it with water, that water would be the same depth at any spot.;
,, This light plugs into the wall and should not get wet, and should not be placed anywhere above the water, only beside the pan (A drop-light is a powerful lamp used by handymen/women and such, someone surely has among their belongings, try folks who can fix things. if not they cost about $15-$25 at Home Depot, Kmart, Big Lots etc.)

, Turn on the drop-light to its highest setting. Wait a minute; at this point you can see wisps of water vapor start rising from the 'ocean' surface, as the 'sunlight' hits it. Teaching point number one there: water comes up off of the ocean, and moves around with the wind, so it can't help but find itself going all over land as well. When the water in the air (clouds) drops over land, it falls as snow, rain, sleet, hail, what have you.
 cut one corner from each, sized just so that you can fit them, opened, into a glass.
 use some wooden spoon help to gently make it fit.
 The clear plastic lining represents the atmosphere from long ago, with a 'regular' amount of CO2 and other greenhouse gases, before humanity started putting a lot of extra stuff into it. The tinted plastic represents an atmosphere with a lot of extra pollution, CO2, and other greenhouse gases in it (more like it is today) with a lot of stuff put in by humans (cars, cattle farts, factories, gases set free from polar ice melting, etc.)

, as the experiment goes on, watch carefully to see if there's a difference in these two from just the color and possibly the thickness of our added 'greenhouse gas layer'. Ready? Have your helpers place the glasses upside down in the water; they should be in position equally in front of the lamp, about two to three inches away from the lamp, in the water, upside down.
 The air inside the glass was just like the air you are breathing- same temperature, pressure, humidity, etc., but now it's in a closed space, with light and heat shooting into it. What happens?

, You want to be careful to place the glasses down straight, without any side movement; side movement creates a dry spot underneath, and that changes how fast the the dry spot will appear under one or both glasses. You want the things to be as equal as possible, with the only difference being the cut baggie corner materials.
 Does one seem to bubble more than the other?


As an alternate, you might want to try this with the light turned off and see how the glasses do with just ordinary room light coming in. The drop-light just lets you do this much more efficiently.
 Why is that happening? If this is the ocean being influenced by the sun, Where does the water vapor go? if it got hotter, would it happen faster? What would the water vapor (clouds) do then? Would it snow and rain more over land then?

, Let it sit for 5-6 minutes, during which you can have teams take up positions on whether one glass was more this or more that, letting them set their own parameters for measurement. it starts with, "what did you see?", and who agrees or disagrees based upon evidence.
 Was there a dry spot there before? now are the water levels the same? What made one cooling glass pull up more water than the other glass? Was that the only difference?

, The dozens of other factors at work can be brought in later, but the mechanism of the greenhouse effect on the ocean and how it spurs evaporation and puts more moisture into the air, which then comes to land in the form of precipitation, should be a little bit clearer.

