 The only approved methods of testing allergies are the skin prick test, the blood test, and the oral food challenge. Other methods of testing can lead to false results and might even be dangerous. Some unapproved methods include:


Applied Kinesiology, Cytotoxicity testing vega testing, NAET, IG64 Testing, Hair Analysis, and Pulse Testing., This is perhaps the most common food allergy test. A grid is drawn on your skin and tiny amounts of potential food allergens are inserted under the surface of the skin. Squares on the grid that develop a red bump or swelling may indicate a food allergy.


This test does not necessarily confirm food allergies on its own. A negative reaction is usually 90% accurate, while a positive reaction is less than 50% accurate. More testing might be necessary., This requires sending a sample of your blood to a laboratory to get it tested against an extensive list of potential food allergens. The test measures the level of antibodies against specific foods.


This test will often be used to confirm the results of a skin prick test; however, these tests can also be subject to some error and thus it might be necessary to undergo additional testing to confirm the results., When particular foods are suspected to cause an allergy or intolerance, some physicians or health professionals may have you introduce incrementally larger portions of the food into your mouth to test your reaction. The portions will be measured, beginning with very small amounts that are unlikely to cause a response.If you have a reaction to one of the foods, the test will be stopped.
Because the amounts of food are small and carefully administered, reactions will generally be mild, such as flushing or hives. Severe reactions are uncommon.
This can be used to determine if the blood test gave you a false positive.
If you have no reaction to the suspected allergens, then you can work with your doctor to figure out what is causing your symptoms. If you do have a reaction, you will need to discuss the next steps with your doctor.
Because there is the chance this test may cause a serious reaction, it must be done by an experienced professional in a medical setting. This way, the necessary medications and equipment will be available if you have a severe reaction., If a food allergy is confirmed, it is essential that you work with your doctor to create a management plan. It will be necessary to eliminate the food from your diet and take precautions to educate the people in your life about your allergy and train them what to do if you have a reaction.Educate your family, friends, and workplace or school about your allergy. This may include teaching them to read food labels properly, as well as any alternate names for the allergen.For instance, if you have a peanut allergy, you will need to check labels for ingredients that contain peanut protein, such as arachis oil, goober peas, nutmeat, mandelonas, hypogaeic acid, and more.You may need to avoid situations in which there is a high risk of accidental cross-contamination or ingestion of the allergen, such as buffets and picnics.
Wear medical identification jewelry that indicates your food allergy.
Carry an emergency epinephrine pen with you at all times in case you come into accidental contact with the allergen (for instance, at a restaurant in which cross-contamination occurs). Make sure your family, friends, co-workers, and teachers know how to use it.
Consider creating a written emergency management plan to carry with you at all times and distribute to work, school, friends, and family. This will inform others of the recomended treatment should you have a reaction and includes emergency contact information. You can download a form here: http://www.foodallergy.org/faap.

