 You can’t sue for every dispute. For example, if you want to paint your walls red, you can’t sue since you don’t have a right to paint your walls. You can only sue if the law allows you. Identify what law your landlord broke:



Your lease. Your landlord must abide by the terms of the lease. For example, if the lease says you can sublease your unit, the landlord cannot deny you the right to sublease.

Your local law. Most city and county governments set health and safety standards. If your landlord hasn’t complied, you can sue.

State law. You can find a summary of your state’s tenant rights by visiting the Housing and Urban Development website here: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/rental_assistance/tenantrights. Click on your state.

Federal law. Most antidiscrimination law is federal. You can sue if discriminated against on the basis of religion, gender, race, color, familial status, or handicap., You will benefit from a lawyer’s assistance. You can hire the lawyer to represent you, or you can only meet for a consultation where a lawyer will answer your questions. Money might be tight, but you can look for low-cost legal help:


Contact your state or local bar association. Ask for a referral to a lawyer.
Find legal aid if you are low income. Legal aid provides free or reduced-fee legal services to people with low incomes. Visit http://www.lsc.gov and enter your address. Legal aid is typically available for people with incomes less than 125% of the federal poverty level.Contact your nearest HUD office. Ask if they have information about any tenants’ association in your area.
 You can sue in different courts, depending on the substance of your dispute with the landlord. For example, consider the following:



Housing court. Some cities have special courts for landlord-tenant disputes. These courts are set up so you don’t need a lawyer—though you can have one if it is helpful.

Small claims court. If you are suing for a small dollar amount, you can typically sue in small claims. These courts are designed for people without lawyers, and procedures are simplified. However, you might not be able to get everything you want from a small claims court. For example, you typically can sue only for money. You can’t sue to force your landlord to do something.Regular civil court. You can bring lawsuits in the regular civil court for the county where you live. In most states, each county has a court. Check your phone book. You can sue for money or for an “injunction,” which is a court order to do something (or to stop doing something).

Federal court. If you’re suing for a violation of federal antidiscrimination laws, then you should sue in federal court. You can find the correct federal court by using the federal court locator here: http://www.uscourts.gov/court-locator. Enter your zip code.
 You begin a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” with the court. In this document, you describe the dispute with your landlord. You also explain the legal violation and what compensation you want from the judge.


Your court may have a printed, fill-in-the-blank complaint form.Often, housing courts and small claims courts have these forms posted on their websites. If not, you can stop into the court clerk’s office to check.
Not every court will have these forms, so you may need to consult with a lawyer or hire the lawyer to represent you. The lawyer can draft the complaint.
 Make a copy of the complaint for your records. Also make several other copies. You’ll need to send your landlord a copy and possibly provide the court with a few extras as well. Take all copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file.


You’ll probably have to pay a filing fee.Ask the court clerk for a fee waiver form if you can’t afford it.
Remember to serve a copy of the complaint on your landlord. Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods. Generally, you can have an adult who is not a party to the lawsuit hand deliver a copy. You might also be able to mail it using first-class mail.
 Your landlord has a right to respond to your complaint. They can provide their own background information on the dispute. They can also raise defenses. You will receive a copy of the response. Alternately, your landlord might simply show up on your hearing date and give an oral response.


Often, your landlord will argue they didn’t break the lease or the law. This is why you need evidence.
Sometimes they might claim you created the problem. For example, if you have mold, then they may blame you for not ventilating the apartment.
 Gather your supporting documentation—letters, emails, photos, safety inspection reports.Put them in order. If you hired a lawyer, talk about what will happen in court. Sometimes, you might have a full-blown trial. This is generally true of discrimination lawsuits.


In other situations, you might only have a hearing.
If you need to testify, you should prepare with your attorney. They can ask you sample questions to get you comfortable with the process.
 Show up at court with enough time to find parking and go through any security. Try not to be nervous. Remember the following tips so that you can have a successful hearing:



Dress professionally. People are judging you based on how you appear. Wear clean, neat clothes. Remember that conservative, dark colors are best.
Testify confidently. Sit up straight and testify in a loud, clear voice. Answer questions affirmatively, without saying, “I think…” or “I’m guessing…” In fact, you should never guess. If you don’t know the answer to something, say “I don’t know.”
Act respectful to everyone. Call the judge, “Your Honor.” Never interrupt your landlord when they are speaking.Discuss with a lawyer your next steps if you win or lose. You might be able to bring an appeal if you lose. Should you win, you’ll need to talk about collecting on your court judgment.

