 This is le premier step to starting a new language. Whenever you run into un problème, you'll be able to get back on the right path within seconds.


The Collins Robert French Unabridged Dictionary or the LaRousse Concise French-English Dictionary are both good standards. Of course, if you're not thinking to get too heavily involved, a pocket dictionary will suffice.
There are tons of websites out there that act as dictionaries. Be careful! They're not always correct. Wordreference.com is a good place to start. Always exercise caution when translating complete sentences.;
, With all les options out there, this is easier than ever. Of course, your local library is a sturdy option, but you can find resources in the comfort of your own home.


iTunes offers free 24/7 radio stations and podcasts that are in French (some for beginners!) and most cable packages will have at least occasional French programming.
There are many mobile apps that can help you memorize words - the most popular one is LingLing based on spaced repetition - you can spend 20 minutes per day to memorize 750 words monthly.
YouTube has dozens upon dozens of resources for French beginners.
Amélie isn't the only French movie out there. Go to your local video store or do some research on the net--sometimes more obscure ones (or documentaries) can be found for free.

View your favorite English movies with French voiceovers or subtitles. Even if you don't know French at all, picking a movie you're familiar with will help establish context for the language.


Watch the "French in Action" program on your local public broadcasting station.
 Sure, you sat down to memorize words like "chair," "window," and "bed," but a week later they escaped you. Labeling the objects in your home creates long-term memories that can't be easily forgotten. Either create your own or buy an off-the-shelf product - FlashSticks. They produce colored flashcards (blue - masculine; pink - feminine). Recently, they have launched FlashAcademy, an app that brings effective language learning and fun together., French has two: masculine and feminine. This will be handy when you want to refer to it by the pronoun later.

It's "la chaise," "la fenetre," and "le lit," by the way. Go grab your pen now!


Include the pronuncation on the side, if you need help remembering.

l'ordinateur - lor-dee-nah-tur - Computer

la chaîne hi fi - shen-hi-fi - Stereo

la télévision - tay-lay-vee-zee-ohn - Television

le réfrigérateur - ray-free-zhay-rah-tir - Refrigerator

le congélateur - kon-zhay-lah-tur - Freezer

la cuisinière - kwee-zeen-yehr - Stove




