 Sharing requires a certain degree of empathy, which infants and very young toddlers are not capable of. You can teach a toddler in the right age range to share, but it will come through conditioning, not a desire to share. You will have a very difficult time if you try to force your toddler to share at too young an age.Most toddlers cannot be taught to share until around two or two-and-a-half years of age.
Toddlers younger than two years of age will play alongside other children but usually will not play with them. This type of play will not be conducive to teaching how to share.
Don't force toddlers to share if they're highly resistant. If your toddler gets temperamental, distract them with another toy.;
, Sharing does not come naturally to toddlers. They tend to want things for themselves, and your efforts at teaching them to share will initially be met with resistance. Be patient and keep showing your toddler how to share.You may want to start by having your toddler playfully share something with you. Say, "Can mommy/daddy play with that toy?"
Ask to play with a toy your toddler isn't currently using so it will be easier for them to give it up.
Gradually move towards asking your toddler to share with others, such as siblings or other family members.
 One reason toddlers are reluctant to share is that they often mistakenly think losing possession of a toy means they've lost permanent ownership of it. You can help teach your toddler that sharing is safe by returning the toy you "borrowed" back to your toddler.


Point out that you're returning the toy. Say something like, "See? Mommy/daddy promised you'd get your toy back, and here it is."

, If your toddler isn't ready to share with other people yet, they might be willing to share with a favorite doll, stuffed animal, or action figure. For example, if your toddler is playing with a car and you notice their favorite stuffed animal isn't being used, take a car that isn't being used and put it by the stuffed animal, saying, "Can teddy bear play with this car until you need it?"You can encourage your toddler to directly share with dolls during nap time. Tell your toddler that there is only one blanket and one pillow, so your toddler and their favorite doll (or stuffed animal) must share it and nap together.
 If your toddler is having a hard time learning to share at home, you can try making a game out of it. Set up a situation in which your toddler will be given multiple objects that must then be given away to other members of the family. Be sure your toddler gets one of whatever is being passed around so that they don't feel excluded from the sharing.Hand your toddler something that can be distributed, like a bundle of fresh flowers.
Instruct your toddler to share the objects (in this case flowers) with everyone in the room. Say, "Make sure mommy, daddy, and your big sister all get flowers."
Praise your toddler for distributing the flowers instead of trying to keep them all.
 When you set up a playdate for your toddler, it's important to let them know in advance that you'll expect them to share. They may not be expecting it if they're new to sharing, so reinforce your sharing expectations the first few times you institute sharing, and be sure to give your toddler at least a full day (or a few) to prepare.If you arrange a playdate or take your toddler to daycare, reinforce that sharing is expected. You can start conveying these expectations a few days in advance to prepare your child.
If giving multiple days' notice, remind your toddler each day. Say something like, "When your friend comes over, you're going to have to share your toys."

, If you try to teach sharing by making your toddler part with their favorite toy, it will not end well. Toddlers may begrudgingly share some toys if you force them to, but they will not willingly give up a special toy that is one of their favorites.Ask your toddler for input as you decide which toys are too special to share. This will make your toddler feel like they have a say in the matter., Give the toddlers two of each toy. Make sure they're all of the same type of theme so that both toddlers are playing the same types of games and will want the same types of toys. This may not prevent conflicts, but it can certainly reduce the likelihood of them happening.Encourage your toddler and their playmate to exchange toys of the same type and share for a while. Do this in small doses, especially if they're reluctant or resistant.
Only provide two of each toy type if there are two toddlers. If there are three sets of toys among two toddlers, for example, one toddler may want to have two and will only give the other toddler one.
Be sure the toys are similar to prevent squabbles. For example, you might provide two balls of Playdough and two boxes of dolls or cars (or whatever your toddlers play with), or if they'll be playing in a sandbox, leave two buckets and shovels out., Your toddler may have a hard time jumping right into sharing desirable toys, especially if they're new to the concept of sharing. One way to ease your toddler into sharing is to create situations where your toddler won't realize that they're sharing.Have your toddler and their playmate share a couch, chair, beanbag, or floor space.
Encourage sharing by giving both toddlers bubble wands and making them share the bottle or cup full of bubble soap. This is best done outdoors to prevent spills and stains.
If using bubbles, you can gradually work towards sharing the same wand and bottle. Hold the wand, dip it in the bottle, and have the two toddlers take turns blowing bubbles while you continue to hold everything.
Point out that your toddler and their playmate are sharing the bubbles, the wands, and the couch or chair.
 If your toddler is reluctant to share a toy, frame it as an issue of waiting their turn rather than giving something up. Say something like, "I promise you will get your doll back. Right now your friend is playing with it, but you will have a turn after her."Try setting a timer for two to five minutes.Tell your toddler, "When the timer goes off, you have to give the toy up. But when it goes off after that, you'll get it back."Take away any toy your toddler refuses to share. Leave it on a shelf out of reach and tell your toddler, "The toy will stay there until you can share it."

, Real, altruistic sharing will take several years and a lot of practice; however, any time your toddler successfully shares something, even for short periods of time, you should offer praise.Tell your toddler, "You did a great job sharing your toy today!"
Consider using gold stars on a chart that leads up to a reward if your toddler successfully shares a certain number of times. For example, you might say that after the tenth gold star sticker, your toddler some extra special play time, such as a movie or a trip to the park.
 Even if things are off to a good start, there's a chance one toddler may refuse to share or snatch a toy away from the other toddler. If this happens, you'll need to step in to defuse the situation.If one toddler refuses to share a toy, try distracting them with a different toy. If this doesn't work, you can try distracting the toddler with a game, or try moving the entire playdate to another room to disrupt their social dynamic.
If the toddlers are snatching a particular toy or fighting over it, you can either take the toy away and hide it, offer a duplicate (or something similar to it) to one of the toddlers, or end the playdate early.
 Your child may be young, but they will still recognize when you're saying one thing and doing another. You obviously share countless things each day, but it's important that you point these things out to your toddler so that they understand what you're doing.Every time you lend something to someone else, even for a few minutes' use, explain to your toddler that you're sharing.
Say something like, "Did you see that? Mommy/daddy is sharing the newspaper because it's nice to share."

, Your toddler may be afraid of sharing because they think that they won't get a turn, or that they'll never see that toy again. You can help calm some of these fears by talking to your toddler about their feelings and identifying the roots of them.Ask your toddler, "Why don't you want to share? Are you afraid you won't get to play with it?"
Remind your toddler that they and their playmates can both use the same toy. Then ask your toddler if they can think of any ways to make that easier., Some books are designed for toddlers ages one to three years old. These books cover a number of subjects, including sharing. These types of books can help reinforce what you teach your toddler by covering a variety of sharing scenarios.Get your toddler involved in reading the book by having them turn the pages and ask or answer questions about what's happening on each page.
Read the book for several days in a row, especially in a lead-up to a playdate with another toddler.
If your toddler refuses to share while playing with another child, remind your toddler of the lessons from the book. Say something like, "What happened in your book when the bear wouldn't share with anyone?"

, Sharing, even at home with a parent, will take time and work on your part. It will likely take much longer to teach your toddler to share with others outside the family. Your toddler may share begrudgingly if you instill these lessons, but don't expect your child to share out of generosity until at least three to five years of age.