 Whether you live in a small town or a major metropolitan area, there is probably an animal shelter near you. Directories of animal shelters are available online. Find a shelter close to you, whose values you agree with, and look into volunteering.


Most shelters have some form of training or certification program you must undergo before beginning to volunteer. Make sure you know what you need to do before you can start, and work time for training into your schedule.
Not all shelters share the same values. For example, some shelters are no-kill while some euthanize animals if they're not adopted within specific time frames. Make sure you agree with the values of the shelter you choose.
A lot of shelters have restrictions, often regarding age, for volunteers. Look into such restrictions when looking for volunteer programs.
 When you give money to a local shelter, the money goes to getting animals veterinary care, toys, blankets, beds, food, treats, and a variety of new supplies.


You do not necessarily have to donate to a shelter in your area. If, for example, your local shelter does not have a no-kill policy and you disagree with this, you can send your money elsewhere. Many shelters take donations online.
A monetary donation is not the only way to give back to a shelter. You can donate any amount of pet supplies. Just ask about any restrictions beforehand. Some shelters have bans on particular brands of food, litter, and toys.
If you're getting married or throwing a big party, you can donate part of your gift registry. You can request that guests donate to a particular shelter rather than buying you a present., If you're unable adopt an animal of your own, many shelters have programs where you can foster an animal until they find a permanent home.


There are a variety of reasons animal shelters seek fosters. The shelter is sometimes not big enough to house all the animals. An animal may be recovering from surgery or sickness and cannot be around other animals. Some animals do not do well in shelters and show signs of stress and need extra socialization.Many people worry about getting attached to their foster pet. This is a risk. Most shelters allow foster homes to adopt their pets if they meet all the requirements. However, if you cannot adopt your foster pet the experience is still rewarding. Fostering frees up space for other animals and allows the shelter to learn more about the foster pet's personality, upping that pet's chances at finding a permanent home. Reminding yourself of these benefits can help with some of the emotional difficulty., If you have the time and space, consider adopting a pet from the shelter. This is a direct way to improve the life of animal that's suffering.


Adopting can save a life, as 2.7 million shelter pets are euthanized each year. Because of limited space, pets are sometimes euthanized if they cannot find homes.Adoption takes business away from puppy mills. Puppy mills are factory style breeding facilities where house dogs in poor conditions, keeping them in very small cages and breeding them over and over again. When dogs are no longer able to breed, they are often abandon or killed.