 Many of the activities that you and your dog can enjoy together require little to no equipment, and you can do them in your own neighborhood. For instance, you can take your dog for a walk or jog, play fetch in the nearest park, or bring them to the nearest watering hole for a swim. The most important factor, especially from your dog’s perspective, is keeping a regular schedule.Physical activity is extremely important to your dog’s health and happiness, not to mention your own. At the very least, take them for a ten to twenty minute jog or brisk walk twice a day.;
, On days where you have more freedom, take the dog somewhere new. Opt for large parks and nature preserves with trails away from any roads. While large, popular parks sometimes do not allow dogs, many parks do.


There are even websites that can help you plan hiking trips ahead of time, with information regarding where dogs are or are not allowed., Of the many sorts of public outdoor areas that allow dogs, there are some parks that are specifically designed to welcome canine visitors. While the phrase “dog park” is used to describe many different areas, it is generally safe to assume that you and your dog will both be welcome, and will likely meet other four-legged friends as well.One of the specific benefits of many dog parks is that it will likely be okay to allow your dog to run off of their leash. This can offer a safe area to train your dog to “come,” among other learning opportunities.
Similarly, many large parks, especially those in urban areas where outdoor space is more limited, allow dogs in certain parts of the park. Always obey posted signage.
 For many dogs - not to mention many people - it really is the simple things that are the most enjoyable. Experiment with all the classic dog activities, even if you're not sure they'll appeal to your dog. For instance, it's a rare dog that can help itself from fetching a thrown ball.


If your arm isn't what it used to be, there are simple, cheap plastic tennis ball launchers available online or in pet supplies stores.
Try throwing a frisbee. This may be more fun for you and your dog, as frisbees can be enjoyable to throw, and your dog may enjoy jumping into the air to catch them.
Make sure to work a bit of activity into rainy days indoors as well. Order a laser pointer online or grab one from your local pet store. Chances are, both you and Voldemutt will wind up entertained for hours with a marathon session of catch-the-mysterious-red-dot.