 If someone asks you to be a cosigner, request that they give you all pertinent documents. Because you are agreeing to adhere to the other person’s agreement, it is important for you to know what you are getting into. Ask them to send any contracts, legal documents, or financial statements related to the agreement.If you are cosigning for a loan, request a copy of the loan agreement.
If you are cosigning for an apartment, ask for a copy of the lease. Many landlords choose to have a cosign agreement on the lease instead of a separate guarantor form.
 Evaluate your finances and consider if you could cover the other person’s obligations if they defaulted. Figure out if you could make their monthly payments or cover any charges or late fees they accrued. If you cannot to meet these financial obligations, you should strongly consider not cosigning., In order to get a better idea of what you may be getting into, ask the person requesting you to be a cosigner to send you their financial records. In order to avoid getting stuck with the bill, you will want some kind of evidence that the other person is capable of adhering to their agreement.


You should ask them to send you a tax return, a pay stub, or their credit score. These things will help you get a better understanding of their finances.
Never cosign for someone you do not know.
 Because many agreements, particularly apartment leases, are time sensitive, you will need to know all pertinent deadlines. Inquire about when you need to have the guarantor form signed and submitted. If you do sign the form, getting it in on time will impact whether or not the agreement is accepted.You may also want to contact the entity the person is making the agreement with.
 Before you sign any documents, you should contact the entity with which the other person is making an agreement. If you are cosigning on a loan, contact the creditor to see if you can negotiate specific terms of the agreement. If you are cosigning a lease, get in touch with the landlord or rental company.Ask the person you are cosigning with to forward any relevant contact information.
 As a cosigner, you may be able to negotiate the terms of the agreement you are signing. For instance, with a creditor, you might try to limit your liability for the loan and negotiate for the exclusion of court costs, attorney fees and late charges. With a landlord, you might try limiting your obligations in terms of late fees and back rent.