 Do not listen to those who try to bring you down by saying that you won't get a diploma, or it will kill you to get one. Just avoid them or ask them to keep their mind shut and mind their own business. It is your life and it is you who has to take all the decisions on your own with a little advice from anyone who you are the closest to. That person could be you parent, sibling, cousin, friend or just an acquaintance. But make sure you know that person really well and is able to help you when you need it.;
, Your goal should be clear in your mind and nothing, nothing should come in between you and your goal that it not even your parents or anyone. If you want a diploma then you get it without any doubts. Do not think of anything that might come in the way between you and your goal, and do not think it will stop you from getting a diploma. Many have received their diploma and you can get one too without any doubt. All you have to do is believe in it.
 Make a task board where you can jot down all the assignments, tests, IOPs, IOCs, projects and essay drafts that you need to submit and when you need to submit it. And read them before and after bedtime so that you know what you main task is you need to get it done during the day.
 Just writing down the task and sitting idle is not enough. You have to get each of these task you have written down completed/submitted before the deadlines. Make sure when you start with one, get it completed before you move on to another to keep your focus in one rather than doing all together and messing it up. Presentation is what mainly matters in ib so please be organised.
 Make sure you do not take it too lightly and at the end you are tied with all incomplete world.
 you need 50 hours for each so don not sit idle you always have something to do when you are doing diploma.
 There will be many opportunities for you to take stress and bring you down but don't give importance to it. Just complete you task and give time for your entertainment too. After all the teachers give you enough time to complete your assignments, it all depends on you how well you divide your work and fun time.
 At start you will think its useless but as time moves on and you complete each task you will notice that you are not taking any stress and the all the assignments and essays are being submitted on time. University is not going to be no different than this but more strict and they would not care if you submit your assignment or not, but your teachers do right now so respect this.
 Just think of it as your day to day task and get the job done without any further questions.
 Whatever doubts you have regarding your essays and assignments clear it right away. This is the reason the school has assigned coordinators. Talk to them and i am sure they will help you.

