 The Colander Knight costume, though still finding most of its components in the home, requires a few craft supplies to give it that finished look. Make sure you have a hot glue gun, glue sticks, measuring tape, and scissors in addition to:

1 yard elastic
1/2 yard patterned fabric
12-inch pieces red and black felt
2 yards silver ribbon
4 white or metallic scouring pads
Black boots
Black gloves
Black hoodie
Cardboard wrapping-paper roll
Disposable pie tin
Gray long johns
Gray nonskid drawer liner or rug pad
Large red and black feathers
Small metal colander
Small roll canvas-backed foil insulation (available at hardware stores), You'll need to take your measuring tape to find the distance from your shoulders to mid-thigh. You should also take your chest measurement. Cut a neck hole by folding your insulation in half and cutting a slit, then cut your insulation so that it falls to mid-thigh, stopping at the outside of your shoulders.

Dress up the edges of your tunic with silver ribbon, or take drawer liner to give your tunic the appearance of being chain mail.
 What kind of coat of arms will grace the front of your shield? Cut a piece of felt as you desire, and glue these to the front of your pie tin shield. Now you can finish the shield by giving yourself a handle; glue a piece of elastic across the inside of the pie tin to do this., Your scouring pads will be perfect imitations of the joint armor knights wore. Simply glue loops of elastic to each scouring pad. Now you can slip these on over your knees and elbows., Red and black feathers are striking, but any colors you choose will work for your plume. Glue these to one side of your metal colander, and your helmet is ready for action.

If you have a sensitive scalp or the colander is uncomfortable, it may help to attach an elastic chinstrap or wearing a hat underneath the colander for padding.
 The fabric of your black gloves don't exactly look knightly, so glue your drawer liner to each to give your gloves the appearance of gauntlets. The liner doesn't have to completely cover each glove; enough liner for effect is fine., Put on your gray and black boots, gloves, hoodie, and your knightly gear.