 You can make cookies and crunchy snacks for your horse without turning on the oven. One good recipe is for peppermint cookies. For five of these you will need a cup of rolled oats, a quarter cup of water, 1-2 tbsp. of molasses, and five peppermints. Start by mixing up the oats and the water. Stir it up together until the oats are all damp.


Next, you should add the molasses gradually, stirring as you go, until the mixture is nice and sticky.
Roll the mixture up into balls, and then press one peppermint onto each cookie.
Put the cookies in the fridge and wait for them to harden before treating your horse., For this treat, you just need an apple, a banana, and a handful of ice cubes. Start by peeling and then slicing up the banana. Put the banana pieces into a blender with some ice cubes and blend it until the mixture becomes creamy. Next, cut off the top of the apple and carefully scoop out the middle.


Spoon the creamy banana mixture into the hollowed-out apple.
Then pour out any remaining banana mixture onto the sides of the apples., Another fruity treat just requires a few carrots and bunch of grapes. Start by slicing the carrots into slim sticks. Then push one carrot stick into each grape so the grape stays on the end of the carrot stick, a bit like a popsicle. Then put the grapes in ice cube trays, so the carrots are sticking up, and put them in your freezer.Leave them in the freezer for a couple of hours so they go cold, but do not completely freeze.
Then you have a nice cool fruity treat to give your horse on a hot day.
Make sure the grapes are seedless, or you have removed all the seeds.
 You can mix up a nice salad as a healthy and delicious treat for your horse. For this variety you will need to start by gathering five chopped dandy lion plants (when they are in bloom, and excluding any roots). Combine this with two handfuls of chopped young bunch grass, or thick blade grass, and two handfuls of young wheat grass.


Add four cups of young pink clover (when in bloom), and a handful of chopped parsley.
The final ingredient is two washed and chopped up spinach plants.
Mix everything together well, and you will have a very healthy and delicious salad for your horse., For a slightly sweeter treat, you can mix up a delicious fruit salad. For this salad you will need two pears, an apple, four carrots, a quarter of a watermelon, and a plum. Cut all these ingredients up into small pieces and mix them together. Add a spoonful of cod liver oil, and mix it in well.


This will make a big salad that you can share with more than one horse.
You can add extra vitamins and minerals to the salad if necessary.