 Place ½ pound (about 10 slices or 226 g) of bacon into a large skillet and turn the heat to medium. Fry the bacon and turn it every once in a while. It should become crispy after about 10 minutes. Use tongs to place the bacon on a cutting board. Pour 1 tablespoon of the bacon drippings into a prep bowl and set it aside.If your bacon is very greasy, consider setting the fried bacon on a few paper towels before you chop it. The paper towels will absorb the excess grease.;
, Chop the bacon into 1/2-inch (12 mm) pieces. Set the bacon pieces aside and get out sharp cheddar cheese. Grate 1½ to 2 cups (150 to 200 g) of cheese. Measure out 1/3 cup (35 g) of the cheese and set it aside to sprinkle over the dough before it bakes., Measure all of the bacon cheddar bread dough ingredients into a mixing bowl. You'll also want to add two-thirds of the chopped bacon and the shredded cheddar to the bowl. For the dough, you'll need:3 cups(360 g) white bread flour
1 tablespoon bacon drippings
1¼ cups (300 ml) warm water
1½ teaspoons salt
2¼ teaspoons instant yeast
1 tablespoon sugar

, Use a stand mixer to beat the dough on low speed until the flour is moistened. Put the dough hook attachment on the mixer and beat the dough for 10 to 15 minutes on medium speed. The dough should become smooth and elastic.Although you could make this recipe by hand (using a wooden spoon), you should avoid making this recipe with an electric hand mixer. The motor on an electric mixer will not be strong enough to handle the stiff dough., Spread a little olive oil in a large bowl. Use your hands to shape the dough into a ball and set it in the oiled bowl. Turn the dough a few times, so it's lightly coated in oil., Cover the bowl with greased plastic wrap or a damp cloth. Set the bowl in a warm place and let the dough rest for about one hour. The dough should double in volume. The dough should spring back when you gently press it with your finger.Avoid proving the dough for too long or your dough will deflate as it bakes.
 Sprinkle some flour on your work surface and scoop the dough onto it. Use a knife or bench scraper to cut the dough in half. Take one half of the dough and shape it into an oblong loaf. Do this with the other dough half and set both of them on a baking sheet.Ensure that the loaves are several inches apart, so they don't bake into each other.
 Place the baking sheet inside a large plastic bag and put it the sheet in a warm place. Let the loaves prove for one hour. They should double in volume once they're ready to bake. While the dough proves, turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C).If you wait until your dough has proved to turn on the oven, your loaves may rise too much. This could cause them to shrink when they bake.
 Dip a pastry brush in 2 teaspoons of milk and spread the milk over the tops of the loaves. Sprinkle each loaf with some of the reserved chopped bacon and shredded cheddar cheese., Put the baking sheet in the oven and bake the bread for 25 to 30 minutes. The bread should become golden brown and the cheese will melt and bubble a little. Remove the bread from the oven and let them cool before you serve them.These are best served the day you bake them, but you can store them in an airtight container for a few days.

