 Use a smaller plate and pile on the nutrition.;
, Chew carefully so your body can utilize the nutrition with greater ease

, Whole-grain breads, cereals, pasta and rice are good options. Try yellow and orange root vegetables like carrots, winter squash and sweet potatoes

, Fish, poultry, eggs, soft cheese and lean meat are good sources of protein. Soy, beans, peas, nuts and legumes are also protein sources

, Then eat non-starchy vegetables, then carbohydrates. Proteins take longer to digest and slow the absorption of sugars from carbohydrate-rich foods, eat proteins first and complex carbs last.
 Concentrate of the taste of the food, while eating. Water and other liquids dilute digestive enzymes, so your body cannot break down the food as easily and utilize its nutrition. Don’t drink ice water as it chills the stomach and reduces its efficiency

, Water should be your beverage of choice throughout the day, however coffee, tea, and juices all count toward your total fluid intake. A good rule of thumb is to drink in number of ounces half of your body weight in pounds.
 The pigments that color fruits and vegetables come from antioxidants and other phytonutrients that boost your defenses against genetic damage and enhance genetic expression

, Examples: Carrots, Lettuce, Spinach, Tomatoes, Avocados, Kiwi, Lemons, Cayenne, Cinnamon, Turmeric.
Green/White – sulfur compounds, isothiocyanates, indols. Examples: Asparagus, Broccoli, Cauliflower, Arugula, Radishes, Sprouts, Onion, Leeks, Garlic
Purple, Blue, Black, <agenta – phenolics, flavonoids. Examples: Blueberries, Cherries, Raspberries, Strawberries, Eggplant, Beets, Green and black tea, red and white wine, cinnamon, ginger, peppermint.
Tan – phytosterols, phytoestrongens, fiber, saponins. Examples: Brown rice, Millet, Whole Wheat Breads, Amaranth, Couscous, Wild Rice, All Beans, Soy Nuts, Tofu, Brown Mushrooms, Green Peas, Almonds, Peanuts, Walnuts, Nut-butters

Yellow, orange, red and green foods protect your genes while purple, blue, black and magenta foods help to repair our genes. White, pale yellow and reddish brown foods help to build DNA. Therefore, food choices are an extremely important part of your body’s health.


White/Pale Yellow, Reddish Brown – protein, omega–3 fatty acids

, Examples: Chicken, Cottage Cheese, Eggs, Tofu, Turkey, Low-fat Milk, Soy Milk, Almond Milk, Rick Milk, Canola Oil, Macadamia Nut Oil, Olive Oil.
 Fat free foods are less recommended by nutritionists because the fat has often been replaced by various kinds of sugars.


Use healthy oils to anchor your cellular receptors and maintain youthful skin. Try olive, macadamia nut, walnut, sesame and canola are excellent choices and can take high heat without adverse effects. They are also rich in omega-3 fatty acids.

Flaxseed oil is the richest source of omega-3 fatty acids and can be used in dressings, but don’t cook with it because it breaks down in high heat.
,