 To start, you'll want to manage your expectations. If you're anxious to get out of a stifling career, you may think retirement will be glorious. However, it's very normal for the transition into retirement to be stressful. Try to keep your expectations realistic, and expect some sadness in the early days of retirement.A lot of identity is tied to career. It's normal to feel lost and confused initially during retirement. These feelings are normal, and will pass with time. Expecting to feel some sadness early on can lessen its blow. If you go into retirement certain you'll automatically feel happy and fulfilled, you may be more upset or frustrated by the difficulty of the transition.
You should also expect that you will not do all you want to do right away. Do not expect to jump into retirement and immediately begin reading all the books you want to read, traveling everywhere you wanted to go, and getting into a ton of hobbies. It's okay to plan for some downtime, initially, as you adjust to the transition.;
, Even with a good pension, you will be taking in significantly less money in retirement. Look into your savings, personal assets, and monthly pension to get a sense of how much money you can reasonably spend each month. Knowing your budget ahead of time can help you feel relaxed about money, allowing you to enjoy your retirement more.If you're on a strict budget, you can plan for low cost activities. Try to take advantage of senior discounts at low-priced local restaurants, for example. You can also look into downsizing. If you'd be okay with a smaller home or less belongings, selling some of your old things can give you extra money for retirement.
You can also consider finding a way to earn small amounts of money each month. You could try a part time job. Many retirees enjoy small, low pressure part time work. Things like tutoring, substitute teaching, dog-walking, and pet sitting will keep you busy and feeling fulfilled. They will also give you a bit of extra income to spend.
 A lot of one's identity is tied up in work. You may feel very defined by your job. You may see yourself as a lawyer, or a teacher, or an engineer. Retirement can be jarring, as this role is suddenly absent. It can help to think about your new role prior to retirement. This can give you a sense of purpose and fulfillment, allowing you to better enjoy yourself.You perhaps once thought of yourself as an achiever, a breadwinner, and independent. Even if you've retired with relative security, you may feel a loss of independence and purpose in retirement. Try to think about new roles you can fill.
In retirement, you're now a valued community member. As you've lived a long, fulfilling life people may come to you for advice and guidance. If you're married, you can see yourself as a valued partner for your spouse. If you have children, you can provide them with guidance and support.
 You should have some goals going into retirement. This can allow you to better enjoy yourself. You will suddenly have an onslaught of free time, so you want to plan ways to fill that time. Have a sense of what you want to do going into retirement.You may want to have some very specific goals based off of your general interests. For example, a general goal may be something like, "I want to get more involved in my community." How can you make this more specific? What are some concrete ways you can get involved?
From a vague goal, hammer out specifics. For example, "I want to volunteer at the children's hospital 3 times a week" or "I want to start regularly attending town hall meetings."

