 It is important to make decisions while you are in the right mindset. A simple fix for a drained supply of willpower is to hit the pause button. Rather than pushing yourself to make tough decisions or complete challenging tasks when you’re short on willpower, take a moment of respite to replenish your stores.Go for a walk around the block. Close your eyes and turn on some soft music. Listen to a meditation video or guided imagery exercise on YouTube.
If you are upset or flustered, don’t make a decision in this state. Wait until you are calm and rational to make the decision.
 Rest up, literally, and you’ll experience a boost in self-control and fend off decision fatigue. That’s why so many people say they’ll “sleep on it” when making a difficult decision. When you have less willpower, you become easily fatigued by decisions and have a harder time resisting desires. When you get a good night’s sleep of at least 8 hours each day, you’ll feel more equipped to make decisions., Avoiding temptations uses up cognitive resources just as decision-making does. Reduce the temptations and you’ll have more willpower left over to make important decisions.For instance, if you’re trying to eat clean, don’t bring junk food into your home. Place the unhealthy snacks in bottom cabinets and shelves and stock healthy options at eye-level in clear containers.
Similarly, if you’re itching to skip work and play a video game or binge-watch Netflix, it may not be the best idea to work from home that day. Go to a local library or coffee shop that doesn’t feature such irresistible temptations.
Try to avoid multi-tasking as much as possible. It can increase your stress levels and cause you to feel distracted, which is not a good mindset for making decisions.Turn off your phone, TV, or computer when you have to make decision.
 If you are a team member at work who isn't required to make executive decisions, it may help to ask coworkers to weigh in on important choices. The same goes for at home--ask your spouse or partner to share in the decision-making. By doing this you combine the cognitive resources of two or more people, and hold on to more of your own willpower in the end.For example, if you're planning a family vacation, schedule a time to sit down with your spouse and go over your options. Don't allow them to shove the responsibility off on you. Besides, you'll both enjoy the vacation more because you know it came about through mutual effort.

