 If you frequently cook meals that heavily rely on meat (like chili, sloppy joes, or hamburgers), consider replacing some of the meat with mushrooms. Chop the mushrooms very fine and add them to the recipe along with the meat.For extra flavor, try sauteeing the chopped mushrooms over medium heat until they release their liquid.
 Puree black beans, navy beans or chickpeas (garbanzo beans) along with a little olive oil until you get a spreadable consistency. You can dip crackers, tortillas, or other vegetables (like carrot or celery sticks) into the bean dip.Try seasoning the bean dip with cumin, paprika, lemon juice, chili powder, or harissa for extra flavor.
 Instead of making an all-fruit smoothie which can be high in sugar, include veggies for added nutrients. Try using a ratio of 60% fruit and 40% vegetables. The flavor of the fruit will also help hide the taste of mild vegetables. Great vegetables to blend include:Spinach
Kale
Avocado
Parsley
Cucumber

, Russet or baking potatoes are commonly used to make baked fries and mashed potatoes. However, they're high in calories and don't offer as many nutrients as sweet potatoes do. Simply replace sweet potatoes when roasting or baking potatoes or fries. They'll have a slightly sweet flavor that works well with rich meat.You may want to make mashed sweet potatoes instead of traditional mashed potatoes. They'll have more flavor and color.
 Whether you're making macaroni and cheese or fettuccine alfredo, you can sneak vegetables by using them instead of pasta. For example, cook and scoop out spaghetti squash. Or use a spiralizer or mandolin to finely slice or cut the vegetables into noodle shapes or ribbons. You can use:Zucchini
Kohlrabi
Beets
Broccoli
Carrots
Sweet potato

, Making homemade pizza is a great way to hide vegetables. Keep the vegetable pieces small and cover them with the layer of cheese to completely hide them. You can also swap out some of the pizza sauce with a little pumpkin puree to get additional health benefits.For even more vegetables in your pizza, grate up some fresh cauliflower and blend it into the flour for your crust. No one will even realize they're eating another vegetable.
 If you're tired of the classic celery stick and peanut butter dip, dress it up to make it more interesting. Try dipping carrot, celery, or jicama sticks into almond or cashew butter. Then drizzle the snack with a little honey or agave.For a sweet and spicy vegetable snack, sprinkle a little chili powder or squirt a little hot sauce over the nut butter.

