 Most liquid medications should be shaken before dispensing; check the instructions to be certain., Many infant medication bottles have an opening designed to receive the tip of the included syringe. If so: depress the plunger of the syringe; push the syringe tip snugly into the opening of the bottle; turn the bottle upside down; and draw the instructed amount of medication into the syringe.If the bottle has an open top: depress the plunger; dip the tip of the syringe into the medication; pull on the plunger to draw up the correct amount of medication.
Draw the medication right up to (but not beyond) the instructed line.
 Make sure they are secure in your arm. Position them comfortably upright, so that their head is higher than their body.If the baby is fussing and flailing around, try swaddling them gently but securely in a blanket or towel.
Alternatively, have someone else hold the child securely while you give them the medicine.
 Aim for the space between the inside of one of their cheeks and their lower gumline. This will make swallowing easier and reduce the likelihood of gagging., Press a small amount of the liquid into the baby’s mouth, and wait for them to swallow it. Then repeat the process until the syringe is empty.Start small, and only increase the amount of medicine provided per push if the baby is swallowing it easily.
 This will help “wash down” the medicine, and remove any unpleasant taste. Of course, first be sure to check if the medicine should be taken with food, on an empty stomach, or between feedings. Ask your doctor beforehand about what to do if your baby spits out or spits up some of the medicine. Typically, you won’t be advised to draw up more medicine and try to give it to the baby.
 Talk to your pharmacist if you have trouble giving your baby oral medication, or if the infant seems to dislike the taste, won’t take it, or spits it out. See if he or she can custom flavor the medicine in order to mask the taste – some prescribers and compounding pharmacists can do this.