 Having a friend in the water with you is comforting. They can remind you what you need to be doing. They can hold you in specific positions while you get a feel for them.;
, Whether you are a child or an adult, there is a swim class out there for you. Being around people who are there to teach you will ease any tension or apprehension you might feel. Having a weekly “date” at the pool will help you be accountable to the learning process.
 Learning how your body moves and feels in the water is very important. It’s something we’re not used to, but once you get comfortable, water can be very comfortable and soothing.


Start off in the shallow end and begin to move your hands and arms around.
Push your hands against the water to feel the resistance. Cup your hands and pull them through the water (sculling). That pressure you feel is what is going to eventually help propel you through the water effortlessly.
Bend your legs and let the water come up to your chin. Continue to move your hands and arms. Even when you are beginning to learn strokes, start each session like this.
 The most important (and scariest) part of swimming is learning how to breathe. But once you learn how to exhale into the water, you will be on your way to more efficient and graceful swimming.


Reach forward and hold onto the edge of the pool in the shallow end.
Put your face in the water and blow out. When you are done, turn your head to the side and take a breath.
Push your face back into the water and exhale. Try to create a long, steady stream of bubbles.
Repeat until you are comfortable. Exhaling into the water and timing your breathing might be frightening at first, but with practice you’ll soon be ready to learn some basic strokes.
 It sounds obvious, but floating is a tough skill to learn, and harder to master. In an emergency, knowing how to float can save precious energy and possibly your life. Spend time working on your body position. Learn to float on your stomach and your back.


Relax. You have to relax.While learning how to float on your back, look at the sky or the ceiling and breathe deeply. Fill your lungs with air with each breath. Hold your breath for a moment and let the experience of being weightless atop the water calm you.
Reach up with your arms if your legs sink. This will act as a counterbalance, bringing your legs up.
Have a friend help. Having someone next to you to place a reassuring hand at the small of your back can ease your tension immeasurably.
Tighten your abdominal muscles. Engaging your abdominal muscles will help you keep your appendages afloat easier.
Float on your stomach. Let your arms go limp and free. Raise your head or tilt it to the side when you need a breath.
 Treading water can help you catch your breath and keep your head up without actually swimming.Practice this in the deep end with a friend.


Move your legs in an “eggbeater” fashion. Start with your knees bend and your legs slightly wider than hip-width apart. Then pedal your legs in opposite directions. Let your kicks be relaxed and easy.
Cup your hands and circle them in medium-sized (about two feet total) infinity signs. If you need to come up further, kick harder with your legs and arms to propel yourself above the rip of the water.
 This is a great way to separate the parts of the strokes before you put them all together.


Hold on to the side of the pool. Put your face down and extend your body straight out.
Turn your feet in slightly. Begin small kicks. Try to keep them small and efficient, rarely breaking the surface of the water. Your legs should bend, but only slightly.This is a flutter kick.
Practice a front stroke. This is also known as freestyle. Bring one arm out of the water so that it is reaching forward. Place it back into the water with a slightly cupped hand, then pull your arm through the water. As your pull the water down, your stroke will naturally end at your hip. Alternate arms.
 As your skills grow, watch other people and emulate what they do. Most of all, have fun in the water and let its resistance turn you into a stronger, more graceful swimmer.

