 To begin with, keep things very simple, so that you can make the most of existing skills and don't have to outlay money on expensive gear. At the most basic, have at least one singer, a drummer, a guitarist and a bassist. If someone can play music using an electronic keyboard, you can narrow down the instrument range and rely mostly on that as a backing source.


Do you want more than one singer? This can be a sensible thing if you have more than one person wanting to sing––give everyone a chance.
Do you have enough talent among your friends? If not, source the missing element from friends of friends.
Be sure to know what you want to do and reserve it for yourself, but do discuss this with your friends in case you're clashing with someone else also wanting the same role. Keep your friendships intact by being willing to compromise and share.;
, Hopefully everyone already comes with their instruments and a fair amount of learning. If not, source cheap versions from auctions, secondhand stores or borrow from people you trust and who are willing to trust you to take good care of the instruments.


Learn quickly and practice a lot if you are new to the instrument. Lessons can help, or check out online lessons through sites like YouTube.
 Do you want to play classic rock, punk rock, heavy metal, the blues, pop? You'll need a good group discussion on this. If everyone has different tastes, you might need to compromise and try all styles until you find the one that fits you all as a group playing together.
 You'll need a regular time and a regular place. This means choosing somewhere that the noise level won't bother others, so be thoughtful about this. Always ask permission if parents/guardians/teachers are involved.


Get everyone's contact details. Have both phone and email details, so that you can send messages as well as have quick confirmation chats.
 This is the drudge part but you can make it fun because you're with friends, you're all being creative together and some really good stuff can metamorphose from those hours and hours of practice. So be prepared to put in the time and effort, have plenty of breaks and some good snack food.


Keep things fun. Otherwise, you'll find band members stop turning up. All hard work makes this a boring endeavor and everyone's a volunteer after all.
 Do you want to just cover existing songs or do you want to write your own songs? It's probably simpler to start with covering existing songs, especially for the sake of practice sessions and getting to know each other's styles and limitations. But as time goes on, you may find that some band members want to try original songs, and will start penning a few down. Be open minded about the possibilities.


Once you start making your own music, write it down and record it. Nothing worse than having great ideas disappear because nobody thought to capture them adequately.
Use computer mixing software to add interesting elements to original music.
 When all of you decide it's time to stick together and try out the wider scene of live play and even seeking a recording opportunity, develop a brand identity together. Again, keep this a democratic decision and choose logos, themes and colors that everyone can live with.

