 Ouija boards can be bought online or from specialized novelty shops. Occasionally, rare and ornate Ouija boards can be found at estate sales or antique shops. To make your own Ouija board, write the alphabet, the numbers 1-9, “yes,” “no,” and “goodbye” on a large sheet of paper. Next, purchase a planchette or make your own.


The term planchette refers to the small wooden arrow used to navigate the Ouija board.
Planchettes can be purchased online or from specialized novelty shops.
 Never use a Ouija board alone. Instead, gather one or two friends to use the board with you.The presence of others will repel any cowardly malevolent spirits and bolster your courage.


Make sure your friends will take the process seriously. If they show a lack of respect, it could have bad consequences.
 Lay the board on a table or other flat surface. Next, place the planchette on top of the board. Ask your friends to sit around the table and lightly place their index and middle fingers on the planchette.


Relax your arms and fingers while touching the planchette. Otherwise, you may unconsciously move the planchette around on your own.
 Choose one person to be the medium, or the person who communicates with the spirit. Next, the medium should politely ask a spirit to visit. Wait patiently for the planchette to move. Once it starts moving independently, a spirit has appeared.This process can take several minutes.
 Once the spirit appears, the medium can begin asking questions. If you ask yes or no questions, the planchette will hover over the “yes” or “no” words on the board. If you ask more complex questions, the spirit may spell out words or even sentences. Consider asking questions such as:


”What’s your name?”
”Are you a ghost?”
”Do you have a message for us?”

, If the planchette moves randomly across the board without giving any clear answers, the spirit is not interested in helping you. If the planchette moves in a figure eight, the spirit is attempting to take control of the board. End the session immediately.If you begin to feel a lot of fear, end the session. Fear can invite negative spirits into the Ouija board.
 Guide the planchette over the word “goodbye” on the board. This will close the Ouija board’s connection to the spirit world. Once the session has ended, wrap the planchette in a piece of cloth and store it separately from the board.If you store the planchette and the board together, you risk unintentionally inviting spirits into your home.

