 To enforce your patent, you must have as much information as possible about the infringer, what he or she is doing that constitutes infringement, and how that infringement affects your business and the market for your product.In addition to finding a name and contact information for the infringer, you want to know what he or she is doing with your patented product.
Analyze the infringer's use of your product so you can determine how that use is damaging your business or the market for your product.
For example, suppose you've invented and patented a widget that makes it quicker and easier to ice cupcakes. With your widget, you can ice 20 cupcakes in the time it normally would take you to ice five cupcakes. Although you haven't commercialized your widget, you use it in your bakery.
Suppose one of your employees defects and opens her own bakery across town. Based on her familiarity with your widget, she is able to make a crude replica for use in her own bakery, potentially stealing customers from you in addition to having made and used your tool without your permission.
If you estimate her infringement is costing you approximately $400 a month, that means it's costing you about $5,000 a year. If you only have five years left on your patent, your total losses are worth at most $25,000 over the next five years.
In that example, given that litigating a patent infringement suit can cost on average $25,000 a month, suing your errant former employee for patent infringement is untenable.;
, Your first written contact with the infringer should be professional but friendly. You have to be careful not to scare the infringer into suing you first.You might want to consider hiring a patent attorney to send your initial letter, because attorney letters typically are taken more seriously than a letter from you personally.
Keep your letter open-ended, and avoid threatening a lawsuit. If the infringer is put on notice that you may file an infringement action, he or she may beat you to court by filing a request for a declaratory judgment.
Let the infringer know that you've received information that indicates he or she may be infringing your patent. Attach a copy of your patent for reference.
Ask the infringer to cease infringing your patent, if this is indeed occurring, or work with you to license the use.
Put the onus on the infringer to respond by stating that if you hear nothing from him or her by a certain date, you will assume that the infringement has ceased.
 If the infringement isn't causing a disastrous impact to your business's bottom line, you may be able to negotiate with the infringer so he or she can legitimately use your patent.Entering a license agreement with your infringer can protect you from future damages as a result of the infringement, but may do little to cover any losses you've already realized for the past infringement.
After assessing the losses caused by the infringement, you may be able to negotiate those amounts into the price of the license over the period of the license.
If the infringer got your patented product or technology from another vendor, you may be able to work with him or her to find another vendor that isn't infringing your patent.
 If you are unable to reach an agreement with the infringer on your own, and the infringement continues, it is imperative that you hire an attorney if you want to sue.Unless you already have an experienced patent litigation attorney with whom you've worked in the past, you should interview several attorneys before you pick one.
Due to the complexities of patent law, it is essential that your attorney be someone who has specific education and experience in patents and patent litigation – not just someone who practices in intellectual property law generally.
Given the expense of patent litigation, ask each attorney you interview for a detailed breakdown of costs and the average amount of fees per month that he or she estimates.
You also should ask each attorney's preliminary opinion of the strength of your case and the strategies he or she would employ in litigation to control costs and resolve the dispute as quickly and efficiently as possible.
You may be able to find an attorney who is willing to take your case on a contingent fee, or partial contingent fee basis. However, even though this may save you out-of-pocket expenses, you should recognize the fact that the fees and costs may end up taking most of the money you ultimately get out of the infringer – either as an award or in settlement of your claim.
 Your complaint will identify you, your patent, and the person you allege is infringing your patent, then explain how your patent is being infringed.In addition to information about the infringer, your attorney will need information about your patent including a copy of the patent itself. Your attorney will analyze the infringement against your patent to determine which claims are implicated.
Your complaint sets forth allegations in numbered paragraphs that together constitute patent infringement. It also provides an estimate of the amount of monetary damages to which you believe you are entitled as a result of the infringement.
The allegations typically will include dates, specifically the date the infringement began and the date you learned of the infringement. If you're going to sue for patent infringement, you must do so within six years of the date the infringement began or your lawsuit will be barred under federal law.
 To begin the litigation process, you and your attorney must file your complaint and any other required paperwork to the clerk of the federal district court with jurisdiction over your case.To file your lawsuit, you must pay a $400 federal court filing fee. Unless your attorney is working under a contingency fee arrangement, you will be responsible for paying this cost up front.
Once you've paid the fees, the clerk will assign your lawsuit to a judge and issue a unique case number which will be used to identify your case on all subsequent documents filed with the court.
Federal courts provide for electronic filing of complaints, and your attorney probably will file your lawsuit this way rather than making a trip to the district court to file it in person.
 Once you've filed your complaint, you have 120 days under federal court rules to complete service of the lawsuit to the person you're suing for patent infringement.To legally deliver a federal complaint so that the person you're suing has proper notice, you must have a U.S. Marshal take the paperwork to the infringer in person. Once this is completed, the Marshal will complete and file a proof of service document with the court.
If you are suing a business, you will have to work with your attorney to ensure that the proper person listed as the registered agent for that business receives the lawsuit. If you don't have the complaint served to the right person, your lawsuit may be dismissed.
 After the person you're suing receives your complaint, he or she has 21 days to file an answer or other responsive motion in federal court.Typically the infringer will deny most of your allegations, and assert various defenses – primary among them the argument that your invention is not sufficiently non-obvious or novel to be patentable under the law.
Keep in mind that although you are responsible for proving infringement by a preponderance of the evidence – meaning it is more likely than not that the person you've sued is infringing your exclusive patent rights – the infringer can defeat your lawsuit by showing that your invention does not meet the minimum requirements for a valid patent.
 Typically the first defense to a patent infringement lawsuit will be that the patent itself isn't valid, so you will need documentation to support your patent's validity.You will need to work with your attorney to create detailed claim charts and thoroughly examine the infringer's product and use. If the infringer is selling a product that uses your patented technology, you will need to investigate the infringer's sales history.
Much of this work will begin before you file your lawsuit, but will be ongoing after you've filed your complaint.
 Once you've calculated your losses, you have a better idea not only of what your claim is worth but how much you could afford to charge for a license so the infringer could use your product legitimately.Keep in mind no settlement figure will cover all of these expected losses, because the infringement will not continue for the lifetime of your patent – therefore several years of potential losses will never be realized if you come to an agreement with the infringer.
You also must factor in the costs of pursuing your lawsuit. Depending on the value of your claim, you can expect to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in the first few months of litigation.
 Work with your attorney to send a formal demand letter urging the infringer to stop infringing your patent and consider coming to an agreement with you.Consider your demand letter the start of negotiations, rather than throwing out your bottom line. Patent litigation is expensive and time-consuming for both parties, so it is in everyone's best interest to come to a mutually agreeable solution as quickly as possible.
Offer to work with the infringer to evaluate the possibilities of a license or other assignment so the needs and interests of both parties can be accommodated.
For example, if you have not yet commercialized your invention, you may be able to work out a production or distribution licensing arrangement with the infringer.
 If the infringer has disputed the validity of one or more of your patent claims, your attorney must do research to support the validity of those claims.Sharing information relating to the patent's validity or estimated damages may motivate the infringer to re-assess his or her case and come to an agreement with you.
You will have to provide this information through discovery anyway, but openly sharing documents and information relevant to your patent early on in litigation and before the infringer asks for it evens the playing field and paves the way toward settlement.
 Through negotiation with a neutral, third party mediator, you and the infringer may be able to come to an agreement that doesn't involve substantial patent litigation.Many federal courts require intellectual property litigants to at least attempt mediation before moving forward with their case.
Mediation provides you with the ability to control the outcome of your dispute by tailoring a compromise that best suits the needs of both parties – something that would be practically impossible in the adversarial courtroom.
Mediation also benefits both parties in being confidential. Unlike a very public infringement trial, the discussions in mediation and the settlement itself can be kept private.
While you may have to pay a fee for mediation services, that fee typically is significantly less than the amounts you would pay to continue to litigate your infringement claim.
 If you reach an agreement, either through mediation or through private negotiation, make sure its terms are spelled out in a contract you both sign.In addition, if you agree to license your patented product, you must record that license with the USPTO.

