 Find out how serious and committed to suicide the person is. Get all the information you can. This way you can take appropriate action to prevent their suicide.


Ask the person, “Are you considering suicide right now? In the next few hours, days, or weeks?
Find out if they have a plan and the means to do it by asking, “Do you have a plan for how to do it? Do you already have the weapon?”
Keep in mind that they may not be honest about their intent. Consider their warning signs and risk factors, as well as what they tell you.
 This acronym stands for Connect, Listen, Understand, Express concern, and Seek help.Using the steps of ‘CLUES’ will help you remember what to do to prevent a suicide or help someone else in trouble.
 One of the worst things for a person contemplating suicide is feeling that no one understands or cares. The key is to help this person stop feeling invisible. Talking to them builds a connection and lets them know that you care.Actively show that you hear what is being said and understand that their pain is real.
Telling them things like, “It’s not that bad” or “Things will get better” doesn’t help and may make the person feel like you don’t understand or aren’t listening to them.
Instead, say things like, “You aren’t alone. I’m here to listen and help” or “I may not understand exactly how you feel , but I know I want to help you in any way I can.”

, If the person is upset, admits they are considering suicide, and/or shows a lot of the warning signs for suicide, don’t leave them alone.Stay with them, talk with them, and listen to what they have to say.


You don’t have to say a lot, or even anything. Just being present with them and listening to them talk about how they feel can prevent a suicide.
If you can’t stay, then contact someone else that you and the person trust to come stay. Don’t leave until the other person arrives.
Remove any distractions (cut off the TV, log-off the computer) so that you can focus on the person, but keep your phone nearby so you can call for help.
 Although you may have never considered suicide, try to sympathize with how the person is feeling.Don't tell them how they should feel or what they should do. Just express your desire to support them and understand what they are feeling.
Reflect what is said back to the person to show that you understand how they feel.
For example, if they say "I've tried everything, but don't know what else to do." You can reply, "I understand. It's frustrating when you've tried so many things but there's no relief.”

, Let the person know that you are worried and want to help. Just knowing that you care about them, how they are feeling, what they are going through, and their life may help prevent a suicide.Be yourself and be honest when you talk to them and express your concern.
Say something like, “I don’t know how to solve your problems, but I do know that I am worried about the effect they are having on. I don’t want you to die.”

, The person's safety is the number one priority, and you might not be able to handle it on your own. Talking to a professional about the person that is contemplating suicide can get them the help that they need.This is especially true when the person won’t seek help on their own.


Call a crisis hotline like 1-800-273-8255 or your national emergency number if you think the person is seriously ready to attempt suicide.
Contact a crisis counselor, religious leader, therapist, doctor, psychologist or other professional that has the training needed to prevent a suicide. Tell them, “I am with someone that is suicidal”.
The person may get upset when you call for help, but you are doing the right thing to prevent a suicide.
Explain to the person that you are only trying to help them and that is why you are contacting a professional.
You might say, “I’m not trying to upset you. I just want to help and this is the best way for me to do that.”

