


Windows software problems often lead to system slowness. Fortunately, software issues are generally easy to diagnose and fix in any version of Windows.;
,, If you’re the only user on the system, your account is an Administrator account. Wait about 5 minutes for the operating system to load before continuing.
 This program is designed to help you figure out what’s hogging your resources.
 Windows 10 shows fewer details by default, so if you see this message, click it before continuing.
 At any given time, your computer is running a lot of processes—some of these are launched automatically by Windows. Some programs even launch several processes (this is normal). Notice the category columns containing percentages. The percentages show how much of each resource is being used right now. The process names are listed in the left column.
 You will want the highest numbers to appear at the top. Each column represents a different resource:


CPU: This column shows the percentage of processor (the “brain” of your computer) resources utilized by each process.
Memory: Shows the percentage of RAM used each process.
Disk: Newer versions of Windows use this column to report how much hard each process makes the hard drive work.
 Using the “End Task” feature will kill the process, which should improve system speed. Keep in mind that some programs will automatically relaunch processes. If you don’t know what the process is, try searching the net for “what is .”

, This will launch the System Configuration panel. If you’re using Windows 8 or later, move to the next step.
 Having too many programs start at boot time slows down your computer. Programs that are set to start at boot time are marked with a checkmark (Windows 7 and earlier) or listed as “Enabled” (Windows 8 or later).
 If you’re using Windows 8 or newer, select a program, and then click “Disable.” Users of Windows 7 and Vista should remove the checkmark next to any apps you don’t want to launch when the computer starts.


Note that certain applications require certain startup programs to run properly. Look at the “Publisher” or “Manufacturer” for hints on what programs this startup program might effect.
You can always re-enable startup programs later.
,, Confirm that your system meets (and hopefully exceeds) the minimum requirements to run your software by comparing the computer specs found here to the software manufacturer’s manual.


RAM: Scroll to “Installed Physical Memory” to find the amount of RAM installed on the system. These days, a PC with 4GB of RAM or less is going to perform rather slowly compared to one with at least 6GB.
Processor: Some programs require a certain speed or type of processor. Compare what’s listed here to what’s required by programs you need to use.
 Use this guide to help you scan for and remove rogue applications that may be hogging your resources.
 After you’ve completed the steps in this method, try using your computer as you normally would. If you don’t notice an improvement in speed (and have already verified that your hardware specs meet or exceed the needs of your software), try optimizing your hard drive and checking the hardware.

