 Most krav maga gyms and schools have multiple fitness classes that are designed to fulfill certain needs or help students achieve particular goals. You can't choose the right class until you understand your own long-term goals.For example, if your overall goal is to lose weight, you're going to choose a different class than you might if your overall goal is simply to add variety to your workout regimen with a different type of exercise.
You may want to take classes that focus more on stance and form, such as heavy bag classes, if you want to learn real-life self-defense skills.
 Many krav maga gyms have a number of different fitness classes that are specifically tailored to achieve particular fitness goals. Read through the offerings to find the class that's best suited for you.For example, there may be a cardio krav maga conditioning class. These types of classes are primarily focused on strength-training and weight loss.
You might also find programs with heavy bags that combine punching, striking, and other fighting moves in a fitness and workout context. You're not fighting against another person, so these classes are non-combative in that respect, but you'll still get an intense workout.
There also may be classes that focus more on mobility, flexibility, and improved range of motion. These classes typically will be more low-impact than the other options.
 Krav maga is an intense workout. Even if you have an athletic background, you still should consult your physician to confirm that you're physically able to handle the intensity.It's particularly important to consult your physician if you have a chronic health condition, or if you're still recovering from a recent injury.
Don't assume that your doctor is familiar with krav maga. You may want to bring along information or videos so they can get a better idea of what you're going to be doing.
You also can speak to the instructors at the gym you've chosen. They may be willing to speak with your doctor if necessary and answer any questions they may have.
 Treat your krav maga workout like any other new workout or exercise experience. Although krav maga is reality-based and the moves are designed to be intuitive, proper form and technique is still very important.Take your time and be patient. Ask the instructor questions if you feel that you're not doing a move with proper form, or if you're experiencing pain in doing a certain movement.
Be ready to practice until you get the moves down. The instructor will break down a new movement for you if you're having trouble understanding the correct stance or body placement.
 Because any krav maga workout is going to be intense, you need to be prepared for it. This means making sure you've eaten properly and had a good night's sleep the night before your class.Wear comfortable, moisture-wicking clothing to your krav maga class, and bring water and a towel to wipe away sweat. You also need to make sure you're well hydrated before the class. Drink plenty of water during the day, and have a protein snack or shake about a half-hour before your class is scheduled to start.
Expect to be sore for a few days after your krav maga workouts, especially in the beginning. Plan your workouts accordingly, giving yourself several days to recover between intense workouts.

