 Labradors can be very high energy dogs and are fairly large animals when full grown. There are books on the market that offer guidelines to help you make a choice of breed or temperament. For instance, The Perfect Puppy: How to Choose Your Dog by Its Behavior, by Doctors Benjamin and Lynette Hart may be helpful or The Right Dog for You by Daniel Tortora is another resource to help you with your decision.


Another way to learn about Labs is to read about the breed's history and standard.
Educate yourself about temperament testing a dog or puppy as a method to help you choose a dog that fits your family and lifestyle.There are many resources out there on the subject.
A puppy that is really high energy may be the right fit for an active family able to exercise this kind of pet, but may be too much energy for another family. Puppies who are extremely shy may prove overly fearful later and require extra attention toward socialization to prevent serious behavior issues.;
, Are you going to have the time to housebreak the puppy and socialize it properly? Are you on vacation when you first get the puppy and then have to go back to work leaving the puppy alone all day? Prepare and educate yourself so that your puppy’s start in your home is successful.
 Contact dog rescue groups in your area. You may be able to get contact information from your local humane society, dog officer, veterinarian's office or other pet-related businesses about local rescue organizations.You can visit the American Kennel Club (AKC) website for contact information for breed-specific rescue groups in your state.
 Many rescue groups have an extensive placement process.They will require an application, an interview and a home visit to ensure a successful adoption. Some may even ask to consult your current veterinarian for information about you and previous pets.


If you don’t own your home, also be prepared to have a letter from your landlord stating that you are allowed to have a dog. While this may seem excessive to some people, the rescue group is attempting to place the dog with a family in a home that is prepared and willing to deal with the new responsibility of adding a family member. The rescue group does not want to add to the dog’s unrest with unsuccessful placements.
If you have an existing dog, that dog will need to be evaluated as well to make sure that the dogs will get along.
 Any puppy coming from a rescue should be fully checked by a veterinarian for basic health, parasites and vaccinations before they are adopted. Generally, they will be spayed or neutered before they go to their new homes or you will sign a contract to do so in the near future. Beware of any rescue group who skips these steps.
 Be sure that you understand the amount of work a puppy entails, as well as the extra work that a puppy with a rough past might require in order to train or socialize. Also be prepared for the extra love they will provide you!

