 You can spiralize nearly any vegetable or fruit that will fit in the food attachment of your spiralizer. Pick the food you wish to spiralize, clean it thoroughly under cool running water, and pat dry the food with a paper towel or a clean dishrag. Some food you might consider spiralizing:


Vegetables: zucchini, sweet potatoes, cucumbers, squash, onions, cabbage, and more.
Fruits: apple, pear, plantain, and more.;
, Most spiralizers come with three different blades, each of which spiralize your food differently. More advanced spiralizers may have more blades, and less advanced ones may only have a single blade. Generally, you can expect to find:


A noodle blade. This will cut the food in your spiralizer to the thickness of a normal sized spaghetti noodle.
A spiral blade. This attachment is excellent for curly fires and will cut your food at about the thickness of bucatini noodles.
A ribbon blade. This blade creates a delicate ribbon spiral out of your food. If you're planning on using veggies in a salad, this attachment works well., To correctly and safely insert your blade into your spiralizer, you should follow its usage instructions. However, for most models, this involves sliding your chosen blade attachment into a slot until it locks into place.Some models may click when the blade is locked in place. Even if you don't feel a click, be sure the blade is firmly in place.
Use care whenever handling your blades or whenever a blade is in your spiralizer. These are very sharp, and can cut you easily.
 Depending on the model of spiralizer you own, the food attachment may be oriented up and down or side to side.In most cases, the food attachment will consist of a plastic arm, with the blade side of the arm having spikes to hold your food in place and the opposite side of the arm having a crank.At this point, your food should be held between the blade side of the arm and the blades. You may need to cut the ends off your food to make it fit better in the attachment., As you turn the crank and wind your food, the blades of your spiralizer will shave ribbons or noodles of the food free. Some models may emit the noodles into a storage container, but if yours lacks this feature, you may want to set out a bowl or container to catch and store your spiralized food.