 Locate the app icon on your home screen or app drawer. The icon is of a red umbrella in a rainy blue background. Tap to open.;
, Upon launching the app, the changelog will appear; it contains the developer’s notes on which features they added or removed, as well as bug fixes and performance improving changes. You can read the updates if you wish, and then dismiss the app by tapping on “OK.”


The developer also asks you to rate the app. If you want to do this, tap the “Rate It” link in the changelog. This will open the app description page where you can rate the app.
Dismissing the changelog without reading it is fine, but it is recommended for when you wish to know the changes in how the app has been developed.
 BeWeather uses optional weather animations in its forecasts, such as the radiating rays of the sun on a particularly cloudless, sunny day, or falling raindrops when you should expect to bring an umbrella to work. Download this data by tapping the “Start Download” button in the bottom right corner of the pop-up window that appears after dismissing the changelog.


You can skip the download by tapping “Skip” opposite the “Start Download” button. Don’t worry, as the app will function normally without the animation data.
 You will be taken to the main screen, which should be bare since you’re just setting up. Tap the “Start Adding Locations” button in the middle of the screen to select a location.


Search your location by entering it in the search bar at the top. Alternatively, you can turn on the GPS by swiping down from the status bar and tapping the GPS toggle button.
You can add multiple locations to get forecasts for each one by tapping on the three-dot menu icon in the upper right corner of the forecast screen and then hitting “Add Location.” Afterwards, simply key in the name of the location you wish to add.
 After successfully adding a location, you will see a weather icon or animation (if you downloaded the additional animations) in the middle of the screen. The icon or animation represents the current weather in the location you have selected.


To see the forecast of another location, simply swipe from right to left.
 In the bottom of the main screen, you will see smaller forecast icons with labels at the bottom for each succeeding day of that week. This is the Daily forecast. Tap on each of the icons to see the level of humidity in the upper right corner of the bottom bar. You will also see temperature predictions for those days of the week.
 Tap the Hourly tab at the bottom of the main screen, and you will see a graph detailing the rise and fall of temperatures on an hourly basis for the next 12 hours. You can drag the slider to see predicted temperature readings for the hour you dragged to, as well as the humidity level. Below the date and timestamp, you will also see a forecast in text format to help you prepare.
 Tap the SUN/MOON tab at the bottom rightmost corner of the screen. The bottom panel will change, detailing the status of the moon.
 BeWeather taps into Google Maps for satellite imagery. Tap the map icon in the upper right corner of the main screen, and this will bring you to the Map, which you can pan and scroll by using one finger to drag around the map. Zoom in and out by pinching, and home into an area by double-tapping.
 Tap the “SELECT MAP” button at the upper right corner of the map screen. Here, you can choose between Satellite Visible and Satellite IR maps. The former will show you the regular map while the latter will show you the map with an overlay of IR readings to show temperature and weather changes across the globe. Now you can be your own weatherman.
 Things may get wonky from time to time, so consider refreshing the map when the forecasts don’t seem right. Tap the three-dot icon in the upper right corner of the map screen to expand it. Tap “Refresh” to reload the map.
 Tap or press the home button on your device to get back to the home screen. Swipe to a home screen with enough space for a widget.
 Tap and hold on an empty area in the home screen to bring up the customization menu. Tap “Widgets” to open the widgets selection menu, and then tap “BeWeather.” You will be able to choose between 5 widgets of different sizes, so tap on the one you want to add.
 After selecting a widget size, the settings menu for the widget will come up. Here, you can set a number of configurations such as the Location, Widget Type, Font, and Clock settings. Settings are discussed from top to bottom order.


Change the location that the widget will forecast by tapping the “Location” button. A pop-up list will appear where you can tap a location you have added in the main app.
Change the widget type by tapping “Widget Type,” and select between Current Weather with Forecast, Current Weather with Clock, and then Current Weather with Clock and Forecast.
Change the text appearance by tapping the particular settings under the TEXT APPEARANCE header. You can select a font style from the list that pops up after tapping the Font Style option. Change the size by tapping the Font Size menu, select a size from the list, change the color by tapping “Text Color” and using the sliders and palette. Lastly, you can toggle Text Drop Shadow by tapping the checkbox opposite to that option.
 Tap on the different options under the CLOCK header. Changing the clock configurations are similar to changing the options in the TEXT APPEARANCE header, where you select from the list that comes up after tapping on each option. The last option under the CLOCK header is the Clock Application option, which will let you choose the app to use as the clock for the widget.


Change WIDGET ITEMS under its header by tapping on the checkboxes. You can hide the location name and settings button with a tap of their checkboxes, then change the Icon Application by tapping it and selecting from the list.
 Tap on “Background Type” and choose the background styles in the list that appears soon after. Tap the Solid color option to set a color for the entire background of the widget. Use the palette to select a shade, the slider on the right to select a base color, and the bottom slider to set transparency. Tap the color block on the lower right corner to set the color.
