 You may have the option of getting your MDF board cut to size when you purchase it at a hardware store or home center. If so, you’ll need to know the length and width of your poster. Take these measurements with your tape measure.The guided example provided in the following steps assumes you’re working with a rectangular poster. If your poster is irregularly shaped, you’ll need to find the length of each individual side.;
, There will likely be many different sizes and thicknesses of MDF to choose from. Select a piece big enough to fit your entire poster and a thickness that best exhibits your poster.

Thick MDF will be much heavier. Keep this in mind when hanging your plaque mounted poster, and consider doing so from a wall stud so it doesn’t damage the wall.
You may need to look in the “Particle Board” section of your store to find MDF, as it is often considered to be a kind of particle board., If your MDF is larger than your poster, you’ll need to cut it down to size. To ensure your lines are straight and even, use your tape measure and a pencil to mark the dimensions of the poster on the MDF.Use a straight edge, like a square or level, to draw a solid line around the perimeter where you’ve marked. This will make it easier for you to cut the MDF.
Check the corners of your markings with a carpenter’s square. Each corner of a rectangular poster will form a perfect right angle, like an L-shape.
 Use a circular saw or a table saw to cut the MDF board along the new perimeter you’ve drawn. Work slowly and carefully; uneven edges are usually fairly obvious.While cutting, protect your eyes with safety glasses and your lungs with a breathing mask.
Always operate power saws with caution. These can cause serious harm or property damage if used improperly.
Though it might take longer, if you don’t have a power saw available you can always use a hand saw to get the job done.
 Run your fingers along the edge you’ve just cut. Does it feel jagged or rough? This can create bumpiness around the edges of your mounted poster. Use a medium grit sandpaper in the 60- to 100-grit range to sand the edges until they are smooth and regular.There will likely be sawdust from the sanding. This can also create bumpiness in the mounted poster. Use a vacuum with a brush attachment and a dry, lint-free rag to remove all sawdust.
Since you’re going to be covering up the MDF mounting with your poster, you don’t have to spend too much time trying to sand the edges to perfection.