 An interesting way to spark a riveting conversation is to debate. Simply choose a topic and have one person argue for it and another to argue against it.


Remind yourself and your companions that the debate is just a game. A fun debate can quickly turn into a heated argument that might create discomfort between everyone in the car.
Choose funny and light-hearted topics. Avoid heavy or complex topics to keep everyone in good spirits. Instead of arguing about morals or religious beliefs, debate about whether strawberries are the best kind of berry or whether squirrels are cute or just plain annoying.
 There are many word games that can be competitively fun and entertaining, in situations where you're driving alone or with others:


Have a spelling bee.
Name all the countries of the world.
Name all the states or provinces or a country.
Think of words that rhyme with each other as fast as you can. Whoever stops the pace, loses.
Say one word at a time. Have each person say one word to create a sentence or story. You might come up with some hilarious examples.
 Read aloud a book or play and have everyone in the car act out a role or multiple roles.


The driver should not participate in this game.
 If you're driving with others, get to know one another. Ask each other questions or play a variety of games:


Play two truths and a lie. Have one person tell two truths and a lie. The others must guess which statements are truths and which one is a lie.
Play Never Have I Ever. Each person will keep track of their own points, or hold up 10 fingers, or even be prepared to drink or eat something every time someone says something they have never done, but has actually done the activity. For example, Sally will say, "Never have I ever danced on stage." If Bob has danced on stage before, he will lose a point or have to eat or drink something to show that he has indeed done that activity.
Play truth or dare. However, be careful when designing the dares, ensuring that they can be safely done inside or outside the car.
 See how many things you can see during your car ride. You can try counting:Certain colours of cars.
People walking on the road.
Birds.
Animals.
Certain chain stores or buildings.
License plates of cars from your area or your destination.

