 Traditional language packs translate the majority of the UI elements, and are only available to Ultimate and Enterprise users (see the above section). For everyone else, there are LIPs. These are smaller packs that translate the most-used parts of the interface. They require a base-language installed, since not everything is translated., You can browse through all of the available LIPs here.
 The third column of the table will let you know what base language the LIP requires, as well as what versions of Windows it works with.


If the LIP requires Ultimate or Enterprise, you'll need to upgrade your copy of Windows to change the language.
 This will open the page for the language you've selected. The page will be displayed in that language.
 This will open a new window displaying the language files.
 You will have the option to choose between a 32-bit or a 64-bit file. You can find the version that you have by opening the Start menu, right-clicking "Computer", and selecting "Properties". Look for the "System type" entry.
 The LIP file will be downloaded to your Downloads folder.
 This will open the language installer with your new language automatically selected. Click Next to start the installation.


You'll be asked to read and accept the Microsoft terms before the language is installed.
 The ReadMe file for the language you select will be displayed before it is installed. You usually don't need to review this, but it may contain information about known issues or compatibility problems.
 This may take a few moments.
 After the installation is complete, you'll see a list of all of your installed languages. Select your newly-installed language and click Change display language.


If you want the Welcome screen to change, as well as any system accounts, check the box beneath the list of languages.
 You will be prompted to log out in order for your new language to be applied. When you log back in, Windows will be using the new language. Anything that isn't translated with the LIP will be displayed in the base language.
 Some programs designed for certain languages will only display the language if the system is set to that region.


Click the Start menu and open the Control Panel.
Open the "Region and Language" option.
Click the Administrative tab and then click Change system locale.
Select the language that you just installed, and reboot your computer when prompted.

