 One way to find a reputable firm is to use "transport" as a key word search in the online forums of collectible car owner websites. You're likely to find reputable movers but not cheap ones with this approach. (Do not put your information in a multi-quote website. You will receive unfavorable email and phones calls by 20 different companies.) Another source of rated companies is Angie's List. You must enter all information correctly to receive the most accurate rate. Most automatic quotes that you will receive are for operable, standard passenger vehicles. Cars with modifications (i.e. lift kits, lowered suspensions, bigger tires) and cars that do not run cost additional money for the size, weight and conditions for the carrier.;
, Many companies lure unsuspecting customers with the lowest bid. They then need to locate a carrier to physically move your vehicle. If the carrier does not accept the low price (and generally they don't), then your vehicle will not be moved. A lot of companies low-ball customers into using their company.
 Learn from others experiences using the wealth of information available on the Internet. You can start with simply doing a search on your favorite search engine for the company's name in quotes. You can also repeat the same search along with the word "complaints". Avoid using a review website as the most popular ones are not always accurate. Call multiple companies, ask friends if they have ever used a transport company. Review quotes, terms & conditions, reviews posted on the Internet, and finally, make sure they have been in business at least a few years. This is a highly unregulated industry, and many less than desirable companies pop-up with new names every few years to strike unsuspecting customers again and again. Make sure the brokers are bonded and that the carriers they assign are licensed and insured. Whichever company you decide to go with, familiarize yourself with their dispute resolution procedures, such a delays or even damage as well.
 Make sure to have a confirmation via fax or email. Read everything a company sends you before signing it. Be aware that if you place a reservation via Internet, your e-signature is binding once you click send or submit.
 Don't fuel up. Auto carriers prefer you have less than a quarter tank of fuel because it greatly decreases the weight they carry and the less weight they haul the better the fuel economy while driving from point to point. The less it costs them the less it will continue to cost you!! It is a good idea to wash vehicles before the inspection report at pick up. This ensures the car’s condition and any damage can be easily identified before and after transit. It's also a good idea to disable any alarm system before transport.
 At pick-up, the driver should inspect the car for any existing damage with a form called "The Bill of Lading". They will footnote the damage on a vehicle condition report. They will ask you to sign it and will hand you a copy of the report for your records. If they do not give it to you insist on asking for a copy. Keep this with you until the car is delivered.
 This is your only opportunity to claim damage, so please take your time. If any damage is claimed, note it right on the condition report (Bill of Lading) and make sure the carrier signs the condition report and again retain a copy for your records.

