 If you have the freedom to choose your own topic, make sure you choose a compelling and interesting subject to talk about. The topic should be important to you but not so important that you can’t keep your composure while speaking. If you’re having trouble choosing something to talk about, consider a controversial topic. A controversial topic, such as abortion or the gender wage gap, will generate a lot of interest and conversation.


For example, if your school recently adopted school uniforms, you could write a compelling persuasive speech in favor of the new policy.;
, Before you start writing you need to completely understand your topic. Do some research and find out why people might agree with your argument and why people might disagree. Keep track of your research in a notebook so that you can easily refer to your notes when writing the speech.For example, adopting a school uniform can reduce the distractions that students face at school. However, it can be a financial burden for parents who can’t afford to buy lots of new clothes for their children.
 Think about the point of view of the audience you’ll be speaking to. Will the majority of the audience agree or disagree with your position? Identify the obstacles that your audience may have with your argument and research ways to address them. It’s better to mention negative aspects of your topic and explain them than to ignore them completely.For example, if a parent is worried that providing school uniforms for their children would become a financial burden, you could point out that uniforms are more cost effective in the long run.
 Most people are more likely to empathize with other people that are in similar situations. Real-life hardships of someone in their community will be more meaningful to them than a hypothetical person’s hardships. This is especially important if you’re arguing an unpopular point.


If you were trying to convince a room full of angry parents that school uniforms are in the best interest of their child, you could mention the ways in which the uniforms have benefitted a particular member of the community.
 This is an important step that many amateur writers skip. It’s much easier to write cohesively if you have a plan. The outline doesn’t have to be detailed; it can be as simple as a list. For example, you could have a list of arguments for your topic followed by a list of disproved arguments against your topic.


The more time you spend on research and outlining, the less time you’ll have to spend writing the speech. Writing is much easier if you’ve prepared yourself properly.
 This can also be called a “thesis.” Before you begin writing, figure out what your goal is. Write it out in big letters on a page of scrap paper so that you’ll see it often. Whenever you’re writing, you should be writing to achieve that goal. This will help cut down on wordiness and stop you from going off-topic.For example, your goal might be to convince elementary school parents that a school uniform would benefit their children. Everything you would write would need to be relevant to this goal.
 Don’t write so formally that you sound strange. Inversely, don’t write so informally that you sound insincere. Write as if you were having a serious conversation with someone you respect such as a teacher or a parent. You wouldn’t use overly wordy, flowery speech, but you also wouldn’t use bad grammar or slang.


Read out loud as you write.This technique will help show you how your speech sounds to an audience. Any awkward phrases will be easy to spot.
 This is especially important if the majority of your audience disagrees with your point of view. Begin by emphasizing your common ground with your audience to create empathy. Next, slowly work towards more divisive claims, making sure to relate these claims to the common ground you share. This will help convince your audience that your argument is correct.If you were arguing in favor of school uniforms, you might say, “Buying new clothes is expensive. I certainly can’t afford to buy as much as I’d like. However, when you have less types of clothing to buy, you save money in the long run.
 Evidence is a powerful motivator. If you can prove your point of view through carefully researched statistics, you’re more likely to sway your audience in your favor. However, empathy is even more powerful when persuading others. If you can make a person feel empathy through real-life examples, you can usually sway them to your point of view.For example, to prove that school uniforms are beneficial for students, you might write about the personal experiences of a student who has benefitted from the new uniform policy.
 Think of your speech as a story that will illustrate your argument.Include phrases that paint a compelling picture of your topic. For example, instead of saying “School uniforms reduce distractions for students,” say “Many students at L.B.J. Elementary are finding it easier to focus in class without the distracting fashion choices of their peers.”


Tell the audience why they should care. While you’re helping them visualize your point of view, it’s important to remind them of the reasons they should agree with you.
 Your introduction should clearly state your position and explain your logical process. Therefore, it’s best to write this section last so that you can adequately introduce your entire argument. Your conclusion should be very similar to your introduction. Don’t present any new information in your conclusion; if it’s important enough to mention, it should be included in the body of your speech.As a reminder, the “body” of a speech or paper refers to the writing between the introduction and the conclusion.
Try to include a “hook” in your introduction, or a sentence that is compelling and strongly worded. For example, you might write, “Many parents are against the new uniform policy. They wouldn’t be against it if they knew how beneficial it was to our students.”

, You don’t have to recite it word-for-word. However, if you know your speech well it will be easier to deliver, especially if you get nervous on stage. Additionally, reciting a speech from memory looks more professional than reading it from a piece of paper. If you are worried about forgetting your speech you can carry notecards with key phrases written on them to help jog your memory.


Rehearse your speech. You can do this in front of a mirror or in front of a small audience of family and friends. The more you practice the better your speech will be.
If you’re really worried about forgetting your speech, copy your speech word-for-word onto your notecards. Use one sentence per notecard and write in large letters.
 You should speak slowly enough that everyone in the audience can understand what you’re saying. Many people speak more quickly when they get nervous. If you find yourself doing this, take a deep breath and pace yourself. You don’t want to rush through your speech.


Don’t worry if you fumble over a few words. Your audience will be forgiving if you make a mistake. The important thing to do is to finish giving the speech.
 You want your audience to see you this way as well. If you are confident when you speak, they are far more likely to take your arguments seriously. If you’re reading off of notecards or an outline, make sure to look up frequently.


If you’re really nervous, stare over the audience. Find a spot on the wall over everyone’s heads to look at. Your audience will think that you’re making eye contact.
 It’s better to have a short, to-the-point speech than one that’s long and rambling. Most people have relatively short attention spans; if you speak longer than thirty minutes, you may lose their interest. Try to be concise with your writing to keep your speech short and manageable.


The Gettysburg Address is a good example of a short concise speech with less than three hundred words.