 You can buy scissors meant for hair cutting at a beauty supply store. Don't just use paper or nail scissors - they're too dull for your hair and will make awkward cuts.
 Make a conservative estimate of where you want your bangs to fall. Remember, you can always trim more, but growing back the hair that you didn't mean to cut takes a lot longer.
 Secure non-fringe hair so that it's away from your face and out of the danger zone. If necessary, use a comb to part your bangs away from the rest of your hair.
 Splash a bit of water on the hair, or use a spray bottle. They'll cut more easily wet, and you can do a touch-up once they dry.
 Grab a section of hair between the index and middle fingers of your non-dominant hand. Drag your fingers down so that they're resting just above where you want to make a cut.
 Put your scissors close to your fingers (so that they're almost parallel) and cut slowly. Your fingers (and the hair they're holding) should remain stable as the trimmed hair falls away.
 If you want your bangs to be the same length all the way across, make sure they match up.


On each side, grab a strand between the thumb and forefinger of each hand. Pull your fingers down slowly and at the same pace.
If one hand runs out of hair before the other, you need to trim a bit to match up the sides.
Do this until you're satisfied that the lengths are even.
 If you want your bangs to sweep to the side, comb them in the direction that you want them to go.


Tip your head forward slightly, so that your bangs fall away from your face. Put your scissors in the direction you want your bangs to run.
Starting near the part, position the scissors where you want the shortest part of your bangs. For side swept bangs, they'll get a bit longer as you go on. Because of this, angle your scissors slightly downward.
Make short, small cuts across your bangs. The lengths should be a bit choppy, but not overly so. Aim to cut sections that are about 0.5 inch (12 mm) wide.
When your bangs dry, touch them up. Ruffle the hair a bit, and see if you're happy with where it falls. Make more trims if necessary.

