 Determine the behavior or situation you want to address. Try to be as specific as you can about the issue, in order to have a better chance of the book resonating with your child.


For example, say your child is having problems in school. Think about the kinds of problems your child is having: Academic problems? Problems with a particular subject? Does your child struggle to pay attention in class? Does your child have a hard time making friends in school? Narrow your focus as much as possible.;
, How old is the child? Can the child read on their own? The book you choose needs to be well-matched to the child’s age, mental and emotional development, and reading level in order for the child to follow and engage with the storyline.For example, a book geared toward a preschool child’s school day would not connect with a fourth grade child’s school day, and vice versa.
Even if a child is able to read independently, you still may wish to find a read-aloud book that you can share with them.
 They can point you in the direction of age-appropriate books pertaining to your topic.If they do not have a certain book available, many libraries will help you locate the book at another local library, or may even order it for their collection.


For example, you could ask your librarian, “My four-year-old is afraid of going to the doctor. Do you have any books that could help understand going to the doctor and help her feel better about it?”
Some libraries have kits or bags that can be checked out that pertain to a particular subject matter, like death, divorce, or moving. These kits often have books, movies, and other resources that could be helpful to your child.
 You may try searching for lists of books that pertain to your topic, like “Books on the loss of a pet for a five-year-old.” You may also try searching for book lists put together by bibliotherapists, librarians, or mental health professionals. Here are some sample lists:


Teen mental health issues: http://www.slj.com/2014/11/teens-ya/bibliotherapy-for-teens-helpful-tips-and-recommended-fiction/#_

Elementary school social concerns: http://www.gcisd-k12.org/Page/17923

Dealing with emotions for babies and toddlers: https://www.zerotothree.org/resources/7-books-about-feelings-for-babies-and-toddlers


, While you are deciding upon an appropriate book for the child, you may want to skim the book and get a sense of what happens in the book. Things you may want to consider:


The child needs to be able to identify with a character dealing with the same problems and connect with them emotionally.Therefore, if you have a choice, you may wish to choose a book with a protagonist the same gender or age as your child.
Determine if the book reflects the outcome you wish to see with the child. Look for a book with positive behavior changes, and/or evidence of the character’s growth and understanding.For example, if you are looking for a book about moving, you may want a book in which the character is sad to leave their ol home, but makes new friends at their new school.
Look for a book that appropriately expresses the emotional reality of the child. For example, while some children may be excited about moving (and some books reflect this), your child is anxious and sad. Look for a book which has a character struggling with the same emotions.
If the child is younger, examine the book’s illustrations to determine if they appropriately represent the text and the character’s emotions.
Ensure that the problem your child and the protagonist are facing is successfully resolved. For example, if you are looking for a book that addresses school performance, make sure that the character shows how their studying and paying attention in class helped them earn a good grade.