 Most likely, you earned your role in a leadership position. It wasn’t just given to you because it was your right. Think of being a team leader as a privilege.


Though you are in charge of your team, and therefore above the other members, your position as the leader needs to be respected by the members of your team.Earn respect by being a confident, competent member of the team. Carry a positive attitude towards your team as a whole, and towards each member individually. Listen to your team and get everyone’s input.
You will sometimes have to be creative and make an intuitive decision on the fly. This decision may not always be what everyone in your team wants. Explain clearly why you made the decision you did, and ask for input or feedback from your team.
Listen to what your team has to say, and value the ideas that come your way. People will be more willing to accept your leadership role when everyone knows each opinion is valued and considered.
Keep to schedules. If your team feels like both work and personal schedules can’t be met, or aren’t respected, this could affect morale and your team’s opinion of you as a leader. Give everyone time to have a personal life. Talk regularly about weekly schedules, and hold a meeting on Mondays to sort out the week. Additionally, give your team enough time for a project. If you disrupt one task because another has arisen, this can cause conflict. The minute you know a task will have to be accomplished, inform your team.
If an emergency task or project comes up from another department or your boss, your job as a leader is to sometimes push back. You should be the first line of defence for your team against other departments.
 Even though you are the team leader and you make the decisions, you should get your team’s opinions and ideas whenever possible. Try to incorporate these inputs whenever it's feasible. Encourage suggestions on how to solve a particular issue or complete a task.


Take in others' suggestions. When someone gives you an idea, work on it. Think of how you can improve on it. A good leader is one that listens and not just talks. Show the team you are flexible.
If someone proposes a solution or idea, don’t discount it by saying that you’ve already tried that particular approach. “Yeah, but” statements should be avoided as well. Instead of discounting an idea, think it over again, maybe it could work now whereas before it didn’t.
Talk things out with your team. Ask questions to get further information on an idea. Your job as a leader isn’t to discount an idea that may not work, it’s to help your team discover a solution.
 If some people are a little behind on a project or task, help them. Keep a positive attitude and spend some time with the individual to assess why there is an issue. Find a task for everyone no matter what their skill or level.If you’re helping someone who is having a hard time with a task, don’t just demonstrate how to do the task. Not only will quickly demonstrating not help your team member to learn how to accomplish this task themselves, but it may lower morale. No one wants to feel incapable or inadequate.
Stay positive and welcome the opportunity to help. Be excited that your team member wants to learn and improve. Walk a team member through the steps for a task. Schedule a time to help if you’re busy.
 Sometimes people are scared to try something, and this is where the leader comes in. You have to encourage your team members. Show your team that the task is possible, even if difficult, and try to make it fun. Celebrate the positive results of someone’s work.Enthusiasm is contagious. If you get excited, then your team is more likely to be excited about the project. If your team respects you and looks up to as a leader, your excitement and encouragement will foster creativity and a desire to perform well.
Acknowledge your team for a job well done, even if it’s small. Small compliments and acknowledgements can be more effective than big ones. Even if you can’t reward good work with a pay raise, verbal appreciation holds a lot of weight. If your team is doing a great job, consider taking everyone out to lunch one day to celebrate hard work. During lunch, spend the time connecting with everyone on a personal level. Leave the work talk for the office. Get to know who your team members are outside of the office.
A simple “thank you” goes a long way. Taking a second or two to stop and thank team members shows you are a leader who cares and relies on your team.

