 Every bakery will need a name so it's important to have one. Examples: Sweet Treats, Fresh Bread, (Doll's name) Bakery, and Best Cakes.;
, Every bakery needs a logo! You can use a picture of a cake bitten, some fresh bread, or the letter B that stands for bakery. Draw one online or draw one on paper. If you are drawing one online remember to print it out.
 For example: A small box can be a cash register.
 Use your imagination and be creative.
 The stand should be a good height for your doll. Duct tape it with a color you would like. Add a sticky note and write your bakery name and logo. Then stick it to a part of the table. It should be somewhere you can see.
 Then get a piece of cardboard and glue two toilet paper rolls. Paint it or duct tape it. You know have a table and chair. Make a many as you like.
 This step is optional.
 Don't forget the logo! Then use a puncher to make two holes on the side. Use string or lace and tape it to a wall.
 Put all your cakes, cookies, or anything you would like to add on the floor. Put the container on top.


You may add some lace on the sides for an extra look.
Feel free to put a jingle bell or a vase of flowers on top. Any decoration would look great!

,, These are napkins if your doll makes a mess or gets dirty.
 Use a black marker to write the numbers on the stickers. Get a small piece of cardboard for the face of cash register. Use a glue gun to glue it. Then stick some clear stickers and write how much a cost of something is.
 Then dip them in brown paint and have them dry for fifteen minutes or more.
 Glue them on top of each other.


You can glue a red bead on top for a cherry.
If you have puffed paint, put some on top of the cake for frosting. Add sparkles for sprinkles.
 Then cut tiny circles that are dark brown. Glue the tiny circles on the big circles. Have them dry for ten minutes. Make as many as you like.
 Add some orange food coloring (or yellow) on top for the baked color.


You may use some black paint to make your bread look burnt.
 Make sure it looks puffy so it could look like a doughnut.


Add white sparkles to make the powered sugar.

