 Boys normally go through puberty between the ages of 11 and 16. It is during these years that they experience most of their physical changes (including growing taller and developing muscle). During and after these years they’ll normally start to develop their sexuality. They’ll start to look at themselves, and others, differently.If you’re a girl who is a friend of a teenage boy, he might start to treat you differently. On one hand because he’s experiencing changes in his emotions (and hormones). And on the other hand because your physical appearance is changing. This change doesn’t mean you’ve done anything wrong, it is an unfortunate part of growing up.
Teen boys can also become confused or unsure about their sexual orientation. He may need your help and support to figure out who he is.;
, Body language is the movements or positions of someone’s body that can show us how they’re feeling.Being able to read your friend's body language can help you determine the best method by which to deal with him.


The ability to read body language starts with the ability to observe. Practice reading body language by observing people in everyday settings like the mall, the bus or the coffee shop.Some examples of body language to watch out for in your friend:

If you see your friend walking the hallways at school with his hands in his pockets and his shoulders hunched over, he’s probably feeling dejected.
If your friend often plays with his hair or adjusts his clothes in some way, he’s probably nervous about something.
If your friend is tapping or drumming his fingers against the table, or fidgeting a lot, he’s probably impatient about something.
If your friend is talking to someone either with his arms crossed in front of him, or holding something in front of him, he’s being defensive.
 Empathy is the ability to understand and appreciate someone else’s feelings.In other words, it’s understanding what it is like to be in their shoes. Empathy allows you to understand what someone else is going through, and sympathize with them. Being empathetic also helps build better relationships.Being empathetic includes being able to listen. It is difficult to understand how someone is feeling, if you don’t allow them to talk.
When listening to your friend talk, think about how you would feel in the situation he's describing. Chances are, if you would feel a certain way, so would he.
Some examples of how to be empathetic to your friend:

If your friend is telling you a story where he’s expressing a lot of different feelings, listen carefully and repeat back some of the things he’s telling you. It shows you’re listening and actually care about what he’s saying.
If your friend is giving his opinion about something, listen without judgement. Then ask yourself why he might feel that way. Put yourself in his shoes before jumping in with your own opinion.
If your friend had a particularly embarrassing experience that he doesn’t want to talk about, open up to him by telling him a story where you embarrassed yourself. Your friend will be more likely to share his own experiences if you’ve shared yours.
 The next step after empathy is compassion. Compassion is wanting to help someone who needs help.Once you have gained an understanding for how your friend is feeling, you can determine what you need to do for him. Being compassionate is another way in which to build healthy relationships.Reach out to your friend and ask him if he needs anything. If he doesn't know what he needs, think about what you’d like in his situation and offer that.
Show an interest in your friend and use your curiosity to ask questions and get to know him better.
Be kind to your friend when you know he's being teased or treated badly by others. Don’t become part of the gossip or teasing yourself.
 One major part of friendship is loyalty. Sticking with a friend through thick and thin, through good and bad. Not allowing rumours and gossip from other people to sway how you feel about your friends. It also means making sacrifices for your friends when they need something.Loyalty and friendship might be more than keeping their secrets, it may mean breaking their confidence in order to help them.Loyalty may also mean telling your friend something he doesn't want to hear, by being honest. The truth may hurt, but it may be what he needs.
 Your peers are those around the same age as you who have the same interests as you. Most of the time your peers and your friends are the same group, but not always. Because you hang out with your friends everyday, you will end up influencing each other in both good and bad ways.However, when your peers (friends and otherwise) start to pressure you to do something you either do not want to do, or you know you should not do, it is considered a negative influence.The teenage boy you’re friends with may start to feel and act awkward. Other may attempt to pressure him into doing things he doesn’t want to do. As his friend, stand by him and support him through times like this.
 The body and the brain of a teenage boy is going through a lot turmoil and change. The brains of teenage boys are physically changing and it makes them more likely to act irresponsibly.In fact, these physical changes in the brain impact the teen's ability to respond emotionally with rage, fear, panic and anxiety. Add a large amount of testosterone to the mix, and you have the possibility of aggression and other negative behaviour.If your friend is arguing with you and appears to be becoming aggressive, stay calm.If an argument becomes too heated, and it doesn’t appear that your friend is going to calm down, walk away. Tell him you’ll continue the conversation in 30 minutes. Give him the opportunity to calm down before resuming the conversation.
If your friend ever becomes violent, your safety comes first. Remove yourself from the situation if possible. If that’s not possible, and you fear for your safety, call 911.

