 If you notice any of the symptoms of actinomycosis, be sure to visit your doctor immediately. Your doctor will likely need to diagnose the infection by analyzing some infected discharge or taking an x-ray. Visiting your doctor in the infection’s early stages will prevent the illness from worsening and help you get on the road to recovery., After consulting with your doctor, they will likely recommend a long-term course of antibiotics, which is usually needed to fully treat actinomycosis. The common antibiotics used to treat the infection are penicillins (benzylpenicillin injections and phenoxymethylpenicillin tablets). You will take an initial course of antibiotic injections that last 2 to 6 weeks, followed by a course of oral antibiotics that take 6 to 12 months. After taking your course of antibiotics, your body should be free of actinomycosis.Diarrhea, nausea, rash and a vulnerability to fungal infections are all side effects of taking penicillins.
If you are allergic to penicillin, your doctor may also suggest alternative antibiotics, such as tetracycline or erythromycin
You will likely be instructed by your doctor or a nurse on how to give yourself the antibiotic injections.
 If the infection severely damaged any tissues, you may need to have surgery to repair it. For example, you may need to have damaged sections of your intestines removed and surgically closed. You may also need to have the pus removed from the abscesses that developed in your body. This will prevent them from rupturing and spread the infection further.If you develop you develop pelvic lumps, be sure to see your doctor immediately. The infection can become severe and possibly result in a hysterectomy., If the infection is the result of an IUD, your doctor will remove the device. This will eliminate the source of the infection and make it easier for the antibiotic regimen to clear up the infection.Because of the likelihood of a future infection, you may want to consider alternative contraceptive devices if you experienced an actinomycosis a result of your IUD.Keep in mind that there is no evidence for the efficacy of antibiotics in colonized women with IUDs if they are asymptomatic.

