 For most sedatives, you'll need a prescription from a veterinarian anyway. Even if you're buying an over-the-counter medication, run it by your vet to make sure he or she approves of it — a poor quality product could be dangerous to your pet's health. All animals that are going to be medically sedated should be examined by a vet before use to make sure they're healthy enough for sedation.


Tell your veterinarian if you plan on flying with a sedated cat. The combination of air pressure, elevation, and excessive stress can cause adverse reactions that can prove potentially fatal.;
, Different medications take different amounts of time to kick in, so you want to know how your particular medication works. Ask your veterinarian how far ahead of time you should administer the medication before the event that will stress out your cat. Some medications may kick in almost immediately, while others may take up to an hour to be effective.


With medications that take time to kick in, the cat's anxiety may override the sedative if you don't allow it to go into effect in a relaxed environment.
 All of the medications discussed here require a vet exam and prescription. Discuss your options with your vet to figure out which one is best for your pet. The vet will use his education, training and experience to recommend the medication with the least side effects and risk for your pet.


Benzodiazepines are a popular sedative that can reduce anxiety almost immediately. Side effects include disorientation, sleeplessness, and increased appetite. They should be used with extreme caution in cats with liver or kidney problems.
SARIs also relieve anxiety rapidly, but can cause slight dizziness and disorientation. They should be used with caution in animals with heart conditions.
Clonidine and gabapentin were developed to treat blood pressure and nerve pain in humans, but have sedative and anti-anxiety effects in animals.
Chlorpheniramine is an allergy and cold medication, while phenobarbital is a narcotic and sedative used to treat epilepsy.
 There are a wide variety of medications available to sedate a cat, most of which must be prescribed by a vet. However, just like with humans, individual cats can have different responses to different medications.What works well on one cat might not work well on another. Plan for medicated sedation as far ahead of time as possible so you can adjust the medication as necessary. Don't expect a "magic pill" that will work instantly.

