


A car marketed on performance will generally have a somewhat harsh ride due to a stiff suspension for more "road feel" and best cornering on smooth roads.This may mean more fun for you, but more distraction and discomfort for your passengers, especially if any of them are prone to car sickness.
A vehicle that rides high, such as a truck or SUV, will sway and due to a high floor often not have as much legroom as a minivan or midsize or large car.
Bumpy-treaded tires give an unpleasant, buzzing ride. Thin tires on big wheels may be stylish, but they lose the cushioning of a big bubble of air all around to gently compress and absorb the little bumps you roll over. Roll like NASCAR and Formula One on tires with the usual proportions.Longer is better. A longer wheelbase, which tends to go with a longer car, decreases pitching from bumps and increases directional stability at speed. Some long cars have enough rear-seat legroom for the front passenger seat to recline almost flat in front of the bench for sleeping rather than leaning up onto it. Some luxury cars, minivans, and even the new hybrid car "Prius V" have rear seats that recline, too, but check for adequate legroom in the front and back simultaneously. A long vehicle can be hard to park at first, but surprisingly easy to pull into or parallel park in tight-looking spaces once you learn how.
Most mid-size or full-size sedans, minivans (Including low-riding "SUVs") or vans with nice seats are good choices. For a given amount of money a nicer model of car, with bigger, stronger parts and more sealing, will generally feel more polished overall than a cheaper one with a lot of "options" only noticed occasionally. And watch out for very fancy cars--long-term reliability and maintenance may have been sacrificed for a target market that doesn't care.

In the United States, a Crown Vic (Including the extra-long "Commercial" type), Grand Marquis, Town Car (Including the extra-long "L" type) is a choice of many professionals due to its great size, nice though not best possible comfort, and extreme durability and ease of maintenance. Minivans are popular too.Look for a gas engine, with at least six cylinders. It's noticeably smoother than four. But a small four-cylinder or diesel engine will save quite a bit of fuel, and the four-cylinder may be cheaper up front, too. See how you like each kind in a quiet car at idle, accelerating, and cruising before you decide.


Hybrid cars are often optimized for fuel efficiency over comfort and even cost-efficiency, but can save a lot of gas by regenerative braking and provide plenty of comfort at low speed in stop-and-go commuting.


For almost all drivers, an automatic transmission will shift more smoothly. If you prefer a manual, practice driving it smoothly by gently matching engine and transmission speed as you shift.
Mild window tint can keep the car cooler and make sunlight and nighttime lights less distracting. Sunglasses are a good alternative or supplement. Try inexpensive wraparound polarized "fishing glasses", which can fit loosely over prescription glasses.
Good headlights let you see further and so drive more smoothly and safely at night. Separate high and low beams are generally more effective than a single bulb with two filaments. HIDs are even better, and their cooler color may promote wakefulness, but they are more expensive to buy and maintain.

Check the "shock absorbers" on a car that's been well-used. Their job is to gradually absorb or "damp" the energy of the car's blows against bumps in the road which the springs turn into gentle bounces so that the car gently lifts or dips but does not continue to sway. They eventually wear out, and replacing them can affordably renew the ride.
Leather seats are easier to keep clean and so more compatible with eating in the car (Avoid perforated ones), but cloth seats resist sun damage, grip to provide better support, and are considered more luxurious in Japan.Either can can be fitted with covers, including tough cloth-backed vinyl from a taxi supply shop.
Ride quality isn't everything. Convertibles can be noisy, creaky, and tiring, but the view into a towering city and the breeze on a nice day beat any car roof. Rent one for a special occasion.;
, For instance, bottles of water (No big deal if they spill it), non-messy heat-resistant snacks such as Clif bars in case they get hungry,tissues, a plastic bag or bin for trash (Keep it emptied regularly; bring many bags if you fear a carsick passenger), an umbrella, bug repellent or sunscreen depending on the destination, and some free trunk space. On a long drive add blankets, neck pillows, and sunglasses so the passengers and/or spare driver can doze off without the driver being overly warm. Stocking up on some medicine for headaches, stomach aches, and car sickness and any other illnesses your passengers might have isn't a bad idea either!


You can keep warm drinks in a vacuum flask with a spill-proof lid through which to drink, or even have someone warm food in a low-power car microwave called a "WaveBox". But it would be best to stop for a picnic with anything that could be messy.
 The passengers, unlike the driver, will not instinctively stiffen themselves to resist and not much notice sudden movements. Fast acceleration and hard braking also exacerbates car sickness. When starting out, ease onto the gas, and when slowing, ease onto the brake. Slow down gradually before turns. Proceed slowly through winding or hilly areas (But not too slowly if other drivers are present): tossing from side to side and "floating" past crests can be unsettling. At the same time, don't be afraid to make sudden movements to avoid danger.

Familiarize yourself with the car's handling in all kinds of conditions. This will help you drive it more confidently and smoothly. For instance, try a long twisty road when you don't have any passengers.






Adjust your seat and mirrors; make sure the headlights are working well. If you can see something early, you will not need to swerve to avoid it. Consider adding blind-spot mirrors.






If you have a button to turn off "overdrive" (Lock out the highest gear), you can tap it for gentle steady engine braking such as from highways and on hills. Be sure to turn it off when it's time to speed up again.
 Try to maintain a comfortable momentum without stop-starts and weaving.



Freeways or motorways are best. Even if a little slower than usual (but still somewhat fast because there aren't any stops). However, don't use if jammed.
Find a lane in which you can maintain a steady speed without being a nuisance (Not the left one, and sometimes not the right one) and maintain plenty of distance from the car ahead to avoid fiddling with your speed.
Use the cruise control, including for small adjustments to speed, except in very heavy traffic.
So long as you can turn it easily and freely (This is best with power steering), hold the steering wheel around the 8- and 4-o-clock positions, especially when headed in a more or less straight line. The weight of both arms resting on the top of the wheel tends to make it automatically swing a little to the side in which it is unintentionally deflected, until a force is consciously applied. But deflecting the wheel with both arms' weight resting toward the bottom tends to make it automatically recenter. So long as your movement is not obstructed, rest your arms in comfortable places and arrange them and your grip so the wheel stays centered (And certainly doesn't tend to drift you toward oncoming traffic) except when consciously shifted.
 The rightmost lanes in right-hand traffic countries are sometimes more pitted from trucks.
 This increases noise and the need for sudden movements significantly. Also, passengers create distractions that make high speeds particularly unsafe, and there are more people at risk from any accident.
 This enables passengers to refresh regularly without having to feel that they're inconveniencing you by asking you to stop somewhere and it gives everyone the chance to stretch. You might even consider changing drivers at such a break.

