 First impressions are everything. First day of school is extremely important, especially in single-sex schools. You're going to be spending a lot of time with these girls, and everyone knows how catty some females can be. Unlike middle school or kindergarten, it won't be as easy to find friends. Before, you might have been used to people going up to you and asking you if you want to be friends. Not anymore. If you wait for people to come, the results are not a lot of people will feel gravitated to you. People want to know other people who aren't afraid to say "Hi," or introduce themselves. While it's important not to be mean or antisocial, don't be fake. If you aren't the girl who wants to be everyones friend, or you aren't very excited, don't pretend you are because it will attract people who aren't like you and don't get you.;
, Cute school supplies always help (and having the right ones). Since you're most likely going to go to a private school if it's single sex, and since there's most likely going to be uniform, you probably won't have the opportunity to express yourself. School supplies say a lot about you. If yours are colorful and fun that sends a subtle message to other people that you are colorful and fun. They also make a good ice-breaker since odds are, people will ask you where you got them. Printed folders, colorful binders and erasers are easy to find. Specially-shaped pencils with different patterns can also be purchased anywhere. Make sure you are organized. There's no point in having a stapler shaped like a Scottie dog if you can't find it to staple your homework with.
 Uniform. Make sure you are always neat-looking. That is also important. Shower or bathe every day and keep a comb or brush in your bag at all times. If there is lint on your sweatshirt or sweater, and you don't have a lint-roller, use duct tape. Keep your uniform in a separate drawer so you always know where it is. If your uniform requires you to wear a skirt, I suggest you wear gym shorts underneath. It's no fun going up stairs and seeing someone else's undies. If your school dress code isn't as strict, subtly add an accessory to your everyday outfit. Retro bangles, mod watches, and printed scarves are good ones.
 This will also give you an opportunity to share and be the "generous" one (not too generous though, people will get used to free-loading off of you).
 Popularity. Yes. Everyone is familiar with the cliques and so on. Everyone probably has wanted to be in one, or already is in one. Don't let that distract you. Although this is extremely cliche-sounding, if you have a sense of humor and you're not the back-stabbing type, you'll do fine. People want to be with the trendy girl as much as they want to be with the funny reliable one.
 Grades. Although it might be your freshman year, You cannot slack off. Grades are just as important in your freshman year as they are in your senior year. If you get used to laying-back, once things start to get rough, you'll end up being left behind. Keep all of your homework for each subject in separate folders or dividers. Label them clearly with the subject, your name, and your homeroom. Study before each test. Some of you may learn better visually or orally, that's fine. However it never hurts to review. Keep index cards handy at all times (they also make good cheat sheets although cheating is not encouraged).
 You all have hormones and feelings. You will get to see boys. Most single sex schools have partner schools and monthly dances. Here, you have all the time you need to socialize. However, on the dance floor, don't "freak". That will simply cause teachers to ban you from dances and for people to brand you as very provocative. As for dating, if your parents do not approve, don't sneak behind their backs, it will give them more reason to doubt you. Meet up with him during dances (those should be pretty frequent) and co-ed clubs (if there are any).
 If you put a bunch of girls together, there will be drama. Yes, it may be fun sometimes to be the middleman but it's not fun for either opposing side, so stay out of it. If the two start to really get at each other, you will probably be held responsible along with them. Don't let it get bad bad either. If it goes too far, for example, if one person is cutting themselves, or if you hear rumors that one person is going to do something really bad to another, report them, or turn them in. Don't tell any of your classmates or your friends what the teacher or counselor says. Don't tell anyone you told either. It will get around that you snitched on someone else. The counselor or teacher should keep you anonymous and hopefully they can help.

