 This case tracker website allows you to check the status of your immigration visa.You should use this website if you have applied for a visa, not if you are in removal/deportation proceedings.
 There are two options: “immigrant visa” and “nonimmigrant visa.” Select from the drop-down box the one that applies to you. For example, if you applied for a tourist visa, then select “nonimmigrant visa.”, If you applied for a nonimmigrant visa, then you will need to select the location where you applied. You can select your city from the drop-down box. Locations are listed alphabetically, in a “Country, City” manner—e.g., “Austria, Vienna.”If you applied for an immigrant visa, then you don’t have to enter a location.
 There is also a box for you to type in your Case Number (if applying for an immigrant visa) or your Application ID/Case Number (if you are applying for a nonimmigrant visa).The embassy or consulate might have given you a case number. Go through your papers.
The “application ID” is your “confirmation number,” which should appear on the confirmation page you printed off after submitting your visa request.
 The system also wants to know that you are not a spam bot, so you will need to enter a CAPTCHA code. The code might read something like “Y6PP4.” Type the code into the box labeled “Enter the code as shown.”If you can’t read the code, then you can hear it by pressing the speaker icon.
You can also refresh the code and get a different one by hitting the “Change the CAPTCHA code” icon.
When you are finished entering the code, click “Submit.”

, After submitting your information, the system will return with your status. You may receive one of the following:No status. If you applied for a nonimmigrant visa, then your search might return a “No Status” because the application has not been processed into the system.

Ready. You will get this status when the embassy or consulate is ready for your interview.

Administrative Processing. Your visa is currently undergoing administrative processing, which could take several weeks. You might need to provide additional information. If so, the consulate should reach out to you.

Issued. This status means that your visa is in final processing. You should receive it in 10 days.

Refused. Your case has been refused.
 After entering your information into the CEAC website, you will also receive a status notification for any nonimmigrant visa. You should understand what the status means:Ready. You are ready for your interview with the U.S. Consulate or Embassy. You should begin preparing your documents for the interview.

Administrative Processing. Your case is going through administrative processing.

Issued. Your visa has been printed and is either available for pick up or will be mailed to you. You may be contacted if the embassy or consulate has further questions.

Expired. Your application was cancelled because you took too long to complete it. You may be able to reinstate your application within a year under certain circumstances.

Expiring soon. You have one year to apply for your immigrant visa after being advised to do so.

Return to NVC. Your case has been returned to the National Visa Center for some reason. You should contact them at 1-603-334-0700 to find out why.

Transfer. Your case is being transferred to a different consulate or embassy. Check back at a later date to find out the status of your case.

Refused. Your case is closed. Refer to the letter you received explaining why.
 You can also get an update on your visa application by calling the National Visa Center at 1-603-334-0700 to ask about immigrant visas.You may also reach the National Visa Center at 1-603-334-0888 to ask about your nonimmigrant visa application.

