 Kids who are encouraged to share their emotions tend to have better social skills than those who are not encouraged to share their emotions.It is important to be sympathetic and to be willing to listen when your child has a bad experience trying to fit in with other kids. If your child says she had a bad day at school, ask what happened. Let your child tell you about everything that happened and offer your support.


For example, after your child has finished telling you the story, you can say something like, “I’m sorry you had such a bad experience today. It can be really hard to make new friends.”
After your child finishes telling you what happened, it might be a good idea to find something fun for your child to do to help her feel better. For example, you might ask your child if she would like to go to the park for a while or color in a coloring book.
 Kids sometimes invite school acquaintances over to play and this can help to form a new friendship. To ensure that your kids have the best chance of making a new friend, you may want to spend a little time coaching your child about polite ways to play with someone who is visiting.For example, you might remind your child to be a good host by asking what the guest wants to do first. You might also encourage your child to pay attention to clues that the guest is having fun, such as smiling and laughing.
You can also help your child prepare for a guest by putting out some games or toys that the guest might enjoy. Ask your child to think about what her guest likes to play and choose games and toys based on this knowledge.
 When your child has a successful interaction with another child, make sure that you acknowledge the success and the positive behavior that led to that success. This will help your child to make a connection between the behavior and the social success.


For example, you might say something like, “Your friend has such a good time playing with you today and you did such a good job of sharing your toys!”
You can also acknowledge good behavior to help your child see what might lead to socials success.For example, you might say something like, “You are so good at listening to your sister when she tells you her stories. Do you listen to kids at school with that much patience too?”

, Authoritative parenting is a style of parenting where parents set firm rules and boundaries for their kids and offer explanations why those rules are in place. This is different from authoritarian parenting, which is a style of parenting where parents set harsh rules and expect perfect obedience but do not offer any explanation for the rules or punishments. Kids who are raised by authoritative parents tend to have fewer behavioral issues and better relationships with their peers.Consider your parenting style to determine if there are opportunities to become more authoritative rather than authoritarian. For example, you could make sure that your kids know the reasons behind the rules by sitting down and explaining them. If your kids ask questions, be willing to answer their questions and explain your rules more fully.

