 When you go through puberty, you will probably notice that you start to sweat more (especially on your armpits) and have more body odor. This is completely normal, but it does mean that you need to be more conscientious about your personal hygiene. Remember to shower every day and wear clean clothes. Applying deodorant every morning will also help you smell fresh and clean.Some deodorants contain antiperspirants, which also prevent sweating. A regular deodorant without an antiperspirant will not prevent sweating, but will prevent odor.
Your hair may become more oily as well, so you may have to wash it more often than you used to.;
, During puberty, you skin will start changing due to hormonal changes, and this may cause you to get acne. You may also notice that your skin is becoming dry or oily. To combat these issues, be sure to wash your face twice a day with a gentle cleanser. Applying an over-the-counter acne cream can help you deal with breakouts, and moisturizing can help you deal with dry skin.Acne medications that contain benzoyl peroxide, sulfur, resorcinol, or salicylic acid as active ingredients tend to be very effective. Everyone's skin is different, so try a few different products until you find one that works for you.
Be aware that acne medications may dry your skin out, so you may need to apply a moisturizer as well.
Always use an oil-free moisturizer on your face, especially if you have acne. Oily moisturizers can cause more breakouts. Moisturizers that contain sunscreen will help protect you from sun damage as well.
Popping pimples and picking at your skin can make your acne problem worse, so avoid doing this.
Try to avoid touching your face or letting your hair come in contact with your face, as this can transfer oil to your skin and cause breakouts.
If you have serious acne that does not get better with over-the-counter treatments, consider seeing a dermatologist.
 Most people have at least one growth spurt during puberty. You will probably grow several inches during this time, and you will probably gain some weight too as the shape of your body changes. If you feel a little awkward in your body during this time, know that you will grow out of this phase. Some people gain weight before they begin growing, and some start growing taller before they gain weight, but both are perfectly normal.It may help you feel more confident about your body if you wear clothes that fit you. Ask your parents if you can buy some new clothes (even if it's just a few things) if you notice that your old clothes don't fit that great anymore. Keep in mind that you may continue growing and changing for a while.
You may also feel like your feet are awkwardly large at this stage in your life because feet often grow before the rest of the body. Know that you will not feel so clumsy for long and the rest of your body will catch up to your feet., Puberty is caused by an influx of the hormones estrogen and testosterone. These hormones affect not only the way your body looks, but also the way you feel. As a result, you may be more angry or emotional than you used to be. There's not much you can do about this, but try to recognize your emotional changes and avoid lashing out at others.You may also feel uncomfortable in your body during this time. Try to remember that all of these changes are normal›.
You may also feel unusually tired at times, so let yourself get some rest. If this becomes severe, be sure to mention it to your doctor.It usually helps to talk to someone about your emotions, whether it is a trusted friend or an adult. You may need a little support during this time in your life, so don't be afraid to seek it out.One way to improve your self-esteem during this difficult stage in life is to commit yourself to doing something you love. Whether you are talented at singing, painting, or playing baseball, these activities will give you a great boost of confidence.If these emotions are interfering with your everyday life or causing you to feel very distressed, seek professional counseling. Talking to a professional can help you learn how to deal with these emotions in a healthier way.
Exercising can help you cope with anxiety that you may experience as a result of all of the changes that are happening during puberty. Exercising releases chemicals in your brain that are known to improve your mood, so find some kind of physical activity that you enjoy, whether it's swimming, dancing, or playing a team sport., Puberty happens to everyone, but not necessarily at the exact same time. If you start experiencing puberty before all of your friends, or if you feel like you are behind all of your friends, this is nothing to worry about! In a few years, everyone will have caught up to each other.Puberty usually starts between the ages of eight and 13 for girls.
Puberty usually starts between the ages of nine and 15 for boys.
 At some point during puberty, you will probably begin to feel sexual desire. Just because you feel desire does not mean that you are emotionally ready for sex. It is always a good idea to talk to a trusted adult about how to know when you are ready for sex and about practicing safe sex.If you do decide to have sex, understand how important it is to protect yourself from pregnancy and from sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). The best way to protect yourself is by always using a condom, although this is not 100% effective either.
Oral sex can cause the transmission of STDs as well, so it is still important to practice safe sex. Use a dental dam, plastic wrap, or a condom that is cut open into a square when performing oral sex on the vulva (area outside the vagina) or anus.Use a condom when performing oral sex on a penis.You can find condoms and items like plastic wrap at grocery stores or pharmacies; you may need to go to a clinic like Planned Parenthood or try a dental supply store to find a dental dam.Never let anyone pressure you into having sex if you are not ready. This is a personal decision that no one can make for you.
 If you are feeling uncomfortable about the changes that are happening to your body, it may help to talk to someone who has gone through these changes before. Find a trusted same-sex adult to talk to, whether it is a parent, an older sibling, or your doctor.You can talk to your friends about these issues as well, but remember that they are just as confused as you are, so don't rely on them for advice.
If you have been seeing a pediatrician who is not the same sex as you and you do not feel comfortable talking with them about puberty, ask your parents if you can see a new doctor.

