 There are a number of user-friendly sites that are free, such as Wordpress and Blogger, where you can start your own blog.


Remember to link your other social networking accounts, and your website if you have one, to your blog to encourage people to visit it.
When choosing a title for your blog, make sure it's both catchy and expresses what your blog is about.;
, Blog posts are short articles, typically between 200 and 500 words, and can be on any topic you choose. To attract readers, it's best to choose subjects that are useful, entertaining or informative and that you possess adequate expertise to write about authoritatively. Your goal is to generate interest and attract as many readers as possible.
 Affiliate programs are advertising programs organized by companies, in which an affiliate receives a payment for every view of or click on an advertisement for the company. Choose affiliate programs that advertise products related to the topics you wish to write about.


Choosing advertisements related to your topic increases the chances that readers will be interested enough to view and click the ads.
 Choose which you want to add to your blog page and add them by following the blog site's instructions. Link the advertisements to the appropriate websites by typing the link into the field provided to add a hyperlink. Click on the "Publish" button on your blog to see if all advertisements are displayed correctly, then test the links by clicking on each advertisement to see if it takes you to the desired page.
 Blogcarnival is a site that allows you to post teasers, and you can also post teasers on other bloggers' websites and on social networking sites. Look for sites that offer other blog teasers and excerpts, or sites that allow you to post comments for free.


Make sure the sites don't require content to be unique, meaning it's only published on 1 website. This way, you can use 1 teaser blog for as many sites as you like to generate maximum traffic.
 Follow the site's instructions on how to post if you need help. The teaser should be 1 or 2 lines from your blog that indicate what the blog is about and intrigue a reader so that he clicks on the link to read the full article.

