 Before you start the battle, Elizabeth will ask you to send your party members back. This means you will have to fight her alone.
 This only applies to currently summoned personas. Example: She summons Surt (fire based attack) and you have Loki (null fire skill) equipped., The same goes for Weapons, Armor, and Acce. The Element includes physical attacks like Slash, Pierce, etc., At least wait until it can kill her in one hit. A good time is when her HP is 9,998 and below. If you do otherwise, she will retaliate with her Megidolaon and spam it., Elizabeth is similar to the main character because she is also a multi-persona user/wild card. Her team consists of the following:

Surt – fire based attacks
Jack Frost – ice based attacks
Thor – electricity based attacks
Cu Chulainn – wind based attacks
Metatron – light based attacks
Alice – dark based attacks
Nebiros – debuffs/ailments based attacks
Masakado – almighty (Megidolaon does 9,999 damage)

, For this battle you will be relying on fusion spells, specifically Infinity (Vishnu and Ananta), and Armageddon (Satan and Lucifer). For the rest of your team, any persona of your choice will do. However, there are 4 must-have personas because of their fusion spells.

Lucifer - required
Satan - required
Vishnu - required
Ananta - required
Orpheus Telos and any other persona - optional

, Missing Elizabeth during a physical attack can be costly. Spears and bows are recommended.
 Physical resistance can lower physical damage. This can be obtained from Messiah., –+Evasion can be obtained from Messiah. It is not very useful because of divine pillar's effects. However, it still gives a decent amount of defense., This halves physical damage, so you will not be able to evade. It can be obtained from Alilat., This is needed for healing., It can randomly reflect physical attacks. This is an exemption to rules 2 and 3 mentioned above., This is an item that sacrifices itself, so you don’t die against Mahamaon and Mamudoon., Level 99 is recommended because it gets 999 HP and SP., You’ll need it to calculate Elizabeth's HP every time you do damage., It will be a long and tough battle, so get ready., Elizabeth will use Surt and attack you with either Maragidyne or a physical attack. You can attack at this turn.

How you attack is based on which persona you brought to battle. Using Mind Charge is recommended because physical attacks do little damage against Elizabeth.
 Elizabeth will summon Jack Frost. She will attack you with either Mabufudyne or a physical attack. Heal on this turn.

On average, Elizabeth will hit you with at least 400 damage. Use Diarahan or Soma on this turn.
 Elizabeth will summon Thor. Since you used Mind Charge, attack with either Garudyne or Bufudyne on this turn., Elizabeth will summon Cu Chulainn. Heal yourself with either Diarahan or Soma on this turn., Elizabeth will summon Metatron and cast Mahamaon. Since you’ve brought some homunculus with you, there is nothing to worry about. Cast Mind Charge on this turn., Elizabeth will summon Alice and cast Mamudoon. Like the previous persona, a Humunculus will save you in case Mamudoon doesn’t miss. Attack her with any -dyne spell (Agidyne, Bufudyne, etc.)., Elizabeth will summon Nebiros and attempt to inflict ailments on you. Do a physical attack on this turn., Elizabeth will summon Masakado and attack you with Megidolaon.

It’s important that you cast infinity. Megidolaon will kill you instantly if you don’t use it.
 She will summon pixie and fully heal herself. The first time her HP falls below 10,000, she will heal herself back to 20,000 HP., This time she won’t heal. But be careful because if her HP falls below 9,000, she will heal endlessly., She will not be able to retaliate with Megidolaon. This will kill her instantly and end the battle in your victory.