 Quite often a person in a bad mood will leave their mark on those around them. This is often in the form of putting them in a bad mood, as well. People who are close to each other often mimic each other’s behaviors, which can leave you feeling cranky. Instead, do your best to stop them from affecting your mood.


One of the easiest ways to avoid allowing someone to control your mood is to simply stay away. You may need to leave the room in order to do this, but it is likely your best method.It can be hard to get space if the person lives with you like a parent or a spouse. In such a case, you might identify a "safe zone" in your house or a nearby park where you can get space.
You may also want to develop an activity to help you release any negativity, such as going for a long walk in nature or taking a yoga class.;
, There’s a good chance you are not the cause of the person’s bad mood. There’s an even higher chance, however, that the situation will become worse if you take how the person is acting personally. Don’t assume that the mood is because of you. You can find out, however, if you ask in a non-accusatory way.


Ask the person if they want to talk about why they are in a bad mood. Listen to them if they agree and try not to get upset if they do say it has to do with you. Let it go if they decline your invitation to discuss the matter.For example, your boss might snap at you because he's feeling pressure from his own superior. You might ask, "Is there anything I can do to help?" If not, just give him a wide berth until he calms down.
 Sometimes you just need to get some space from a situation. If you are constantly around a person, then it is easy to get sucked into their mental energy. You don’t have to let someone take their bad mood out on you. Even if they are your partner, you don’t have to take it. Remove yourself from the situation if the person’s behavior is getting out of line or you can’t handle it anymore.


You can tell the person, “I see that you are really upset about something, and I’m sorry for that. However, I need to walk away for a minute.”Keep in mind that you can choose your level of involvement and sometimes it is best to just ignore the person.
 Not only is your physical safety a concern, but you should protect your mental health, as well. Being around someone who is constantly in a bad mood can affect your emotional well-being. Consider changing your situation if you find the person’s moods are taking a toll on you.If their bad mood is affecting you, then this can have an impact on your physical health. It may be best for you to remove yourself from the situation if this is the case.
 Don’t allow yourself to be the scapegoat for the person’s bad moods. Being a good friend, partner, or employee doesn’t mean you always have to take the brunt of their bad moods. Feeling their wrath can affect your over time. Protect yourself by deciding not to put up with it anymore.


You could say, “I care about you and don’t like that you’re in a bad mood. I want to help, but I’m not going to be your punching bag anymore.” If they don’t understand, perhaps you shouldn’t spend so much time around them.