 If the tool is part of a larger machine, such as a table saw, disassemble your unit. Wash all of the tools or parts to be treated for rust in a mixture of grease-cutting dish detergent and warm water to remove the oils and dirt., You can use a plastic container, pot, or tub, as long as it’s large enough to submerge the tools. Choose a container that you can set aside for one to three days., White vinegar is acidic, so it will cut through the rust, making it easier to remove. While the amount of white vinegar will vary depending on how many tools you are cleaning and how big they are, track how much you add to the container so that you can properly measure your salt., You should add roughly ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of salt for each quart (1 liter) of vinegar. The salt will increase the acidity of the vinegar so that the solution dissolves the rust quicker. Spread the salt evenly over the vinegar soak., The vinegar and salt need time to break down the rust so that it can be scrubbed from the tools. The longer you allow your tools to remain in the vinegar, the easier it will be to remove the rust.Place the container in a secure location so that children and animals won’t get into it. For example, you could lock it in your garage or shed.
 After you remove the tools from the vinegar solution, vigorously rub your tools to buff away the rust. Continue to scrub the tools until they are completely free of rust.


If the rust is thick, use a metal bristle brush., Pour out the vinegar solution and wash out the tub. Fill the tub with enough clean water to match the amount of vinegar solution that you’d used., The baking soda will neutralize the acid from the vinegar so that it doesn’t remain on your tools. Use about ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of baking soda for each quart (1 liter) of water. Mix the baking soda into the water to create a solution., Make sure that your tools are submerged in the baking soda solution. Allow the tools to soak for ten minutes before removing them. Dry them well with a clean towel., Use 0000 steel wool to buff the tools and remove any remaining spots. Your tools should be free of rust., Apply denatured alcohol to a clean cloth and rub it onto the tools. The alcohol will help you make sure that no water remains on your tools. Water could cause more rust.Polish the tool with camellia oil to prevent more rust.