 Get your body moving by doing at least two to three wake up exercises. Go for a short run, walk, jog, or do basic stretching moves. Exercising will raise your core body temperature and release hormones and endorphins in your body, which will boost your energy.Do an upper-body fan stretch. Lie on your back with your arms outstretched at your sides and your palms facing up. Bring your knees up to your chest and roll to the your right side. Your knees should be stacked on top of each other and your hips should be stacked.
Turn your head to the left. Try to keep both shoulders touching the floor. Sweep your left palm in a 180-degree arc over your chest to touch your right palm. Let your head follow your arm. Then slowly reverse the movement.
Repeat this stretch 10 times, then switch sides and repeat it on the other side.
Do gentle crunches. Lie face up and bend your knees. Keep your feet planted on the floor. Press your palms on the floor, near your hips. Squeeze your abs and lift both of your shoulder blades off the floor.
Hold the crunch for a full breath and then lower. Repeat this movement 10 to 15 times. Be sure to take a full breath as you hold each crunch.
Do basic squats. Stand with your feet hip-width apart and your toes facing forward. Extend your arms in front of you, with your palms facing each other. Keep your weight in your heels as you sit back and down, as if sitting in a chair.
Make sure your knees do not extend beyond your toes. Hold the squat for a full breath and then return to standing. Repeat this movement for 5 to 10 breaths.;
, At the end of your normal shower, do a quick wake up trick. Switch the tap to very cold water for 30 seconds, then very hot water for 30 seconds, and then very cold water for 30 seconds. This 90 second change to your shower can help you feel refreshed and energized for the day., Stay away from heavy carbohydrates like pasta or bread, as these take time for your body to digest and can trigger sleepiness. You should also avoid foods high in artificial sugar, like candy, cakes, or soft drinks, as these can lead to a spike in your blood sugar, followed by a sugar crash and a dip in your energy. Instead, go for foods that will raise your blood sugar and give you energy to get through your day.A handful of raw almonds are a good pick-me-up snack, full of Vitamin E and Magnesium. They also contain lots of protein to give you energy throughout the day.
A bowl of Greek yogurt is packed with protein, but has less lactose and carbohydrates than regular yogurt. It will keep you full, without slowing you down or making you more tired.
Popcorn is a good snack in the office that is a good source of carbohydrates and is low in calories, especially when it is not smothered in butter.
Go for a salad full of leafy greens, like spinach or kale, to boost your iron levels. This will make you more alert and improve your concentration levels.
 Drinking a cup of coffee can help to combat fatigue and make you feel more alert.Try drinking a cup of coffee once every four hours to help you stay awake.


You can also have other sources of caffeine, like dark chocolate. The darker the chocolate, the less sugar it contains and the most energy boosting potential it has.Have small pieces of dark chocolate, with no added sugar, throughout the day to stay awake and alert.
 Find a quiet space and take a power nap, no longer than 30 minutes. This will prevent you from developing sleep inertia, which is when you feel groggy and disoriented after a nap that goes on for longer than 30 minutes.Naps under 30 minutes will also not interfere with your sleep schedule, allowing you to get a good sleep at night.


Set an alarm for 30 minutes so your nap doesn’t turn into a 1 hour snooze.

