 A Great Dane’s most notable and outstanding feature is its size. This breed can grow to stand around 36 inches (91 cm) and weigh up to 200 lbs (90 kg). These dogs grow quickly during puppyhood and reach maturity around age two or three., Great Danes have massive heads that are long and rectangular. The line of its muzzle and the line of the top of its skull are almost parallel, which gives the dog a regal, distinguished appearance.
 Great Danes have powerful, sleek bodies that are typical in giant working breeds. To identify a Great Dane, look to see that its neck is high set, long, and narrow. Notice that is has a square frame with a broad chest and strong legs. , A Great Dane has a short, glossy coat that comes in a variety of colors and patterns. The American Kennel Club recognizes nine colors and three patterns. Great Danes have black or white markings throughout their coat, or you may observe that they may have a black mask across their face.Some Great Danes are black, black and white, or white. Dogs with a mantle coat have black coats with a white base coat.Great Danes can have fawn coats, which are a lighter brown or tan.
Some have speckled or striped coats. These coats include harlequin, merle, and brindle coats.
A Great Dane can also have a silver-toned coat, which is categorized as a blue coat., Great Danes have large paws with well-arched toes that can be the size of an average man’s hand when fully splayed.Its front legs are straight and long, while its hind legs are muscular and broad.Notice its tail, too. A Great Dane has a thick, medium-length tail that tapers downward toward its hind legs.
 A Great Dane puppy weighs between 5 to 8 lbs (2.2 to 3.6 kg), but it does not stay small for long. This breed quickly grows within the first year, and you may notice that a rapid growth spurt can occur overnight.Expect to see a puppy grow to 100 lbs (45 kg) during the first six months.


You will be able to recognize a Great Dane puppy by looking at its over-sized paws. A younger Great Dane will not have grown into its paw size, so they may appear too big for its smaller frame.

