 You must first rip your DVD video file to make it a fit for YouTube, and you do this using a good DVD Ripper software. You can use HandBrake or VidCoder for this task.


Download HandBrake using this link: https://handbrake.fr/downloads.php

Download Vid Coder using this link: https://vidcoder.codeplex.com

Vid Coder comes highly recommended as it is very simple to use.
 Insert the DVD you want to upload into your computer's DVD drive to copy the files into your computer.


Right-click on your DVD drive, and select “Explore” to open the files in your DVD.
Find and select the “VIDEO_TS” files. You can select more than one file at a time by pressing the Ctrl button, and clicking on the selected files.
Copy all files from your DVD, and paste them into your computer. However, you can also select files directly from your DVD drive without having to copy.
 You should now run your DVD ripper software on your computer from the Program menu.


Click on the “Source” button to open and to browse your DVD.
Choose the VIDEO_TS folder from your DVD. If you want to add multiple files or select files from your hard disk, click on the File tab of HandBrake and select “Enqueue Multiple Titles.”
Add all the video files to the queue for ripping.
 You have to choose an output format for your ripped DVD files. In this case, you must remember the video formats supported by YouTube. You can upload AVI, FLV, MPEG4, MPEGPS, 3GPP, WMV, WebM and MOV files.


HandBrake makes it easy as you need not modify the encoding part. The default setting for encoding is fit for YouTube videos.
 Hit the Encode button at the bottom to start the ripping process. The ripping duration depends upon your computer configuration and the size of the files.
 Go to www.youtube.com, and sign into your account using your Gmail address and password. The login option is at the top right corner of your YouTube home page.
 The default maximum video length on YouTube is 15 minutes only. However, now you can top up this duration for uploading your DVD files by verifying your account.


Go to this page to increase your video limit: https://www.youtube.com/verify. Select your country from the drop-down menu below the country title. Afterwards choose the radio button “Text me the verification code.” Enter your mobile number in the required field, and click on the “Send” button.
 Type the code carefully in the required field, and press the “Verify” button. You should see a successful verification message soon after.
 If you had signed out, log in again so you can start uploading your DVD video.
 Alternatively, you can go to the uploading page directly at https://www.youtube.com/upload

, It’s right below the upper arrow sign in the middle of the page. Browse through the files on your computer, and click on the selected file. Click on the Open tab.


You can select the file directly by double-clicking on it. Moreover, you can specify the privacy settings for your video from the drop-down menu showing below the “Select files to upload” button.
 On the uploading page, you will see the progress of your DVD video file. Here you can edit both “Basic info” and “Advanced settings” by clicking on them at the top.


Click on the Basic Info tab, and type a title into the required box. Add a description for your video, and supply tags for it in the required fields.
Click on the Advanced Settings tab, and choose settings for Comment, License and Rights Ownership, Caption Certification, Distribution Options, Age Restrictions, Category, Video location, Video language, Recording Date, and 3D video from the drop-down menu.
 Do so only after finishing the uploading process to make live your video. You should click on “Done” if it is your private video.


If you want, you can click on the “Share” button to share your video with people you’ve selected. You are allowed to change this setting later from the Video manager settings.

