 If he doesn't just tell you he likes you, it could be because he's afraid to admit to his crush. He probably fears rejection or doesn't think you'll like him back. In addition, there's a lot of pressure on teenage guys to appear confident, untouchable, and "manly", so it's possible that he's worried about his reputation with his friends and other guys. Understanding the reasons he might be afraid to make a move can help you figure out if he's hiding a crush and what you could do about it.;
, If he's constantly looking at you, watching you, or paying attention to where you are and what you're doing, it might be because he likes you. If you often glance over at him just in time to see him turn away from you, he's likely trying to hide his crush. If he is never the first to look away or break eye contact with you, that might be another sign.
 Does he act overly friendly or flirt with other girls when you're around? He could be trying to get you to notice him or to make you jealous. Does he simply ignore other girls? Maybe he only has eyes for you. Does he tease you more than he does other girls? Perhaps he's trying to hide his crush. Notice the differences between how he interacts with others and with you, and ask your friends what he's like when you're not around.
 Does he ask you for the homework when he could very easily ask his friends? Does he ask you questions to which he clearly already knows the answer? Does he go out of his way to run into you so that he can say hello? He might be looking for excuses to talk to you. If you sit next to one of his friends in class, does he spend more time than usual talking to that friend? He could be trying to indirectly get closer to you.
 Try to catch him alone, and see if he acts differently now that there's no one to impress. If he jokes around and acts macho or cool in front of his friends, it's possible that he'll settle down and be more sincere and serious without them around. Try to spend as much time with him one-on-one as possible, and see if there are any changes in the way he acts without his friends around.
 When you hang out with another guy, whether it's a good friend, a casual acquaintance, or someone you're interested in, take note of how he interacts with that guy. If he ignores, avoids, or openly antagonizes your friend, it could be because he's jealous and wants to get closer to you.
 When he knows you're around, does he go out of his way to look good or act cool? Does he try to seem smarter or more athletic in your presence? He could be trying to impress you without being too obvious. Does he tell more jokes than usual? Maybe he's trying to make you smile or laugh. These could all be signs that he secretly likes you.

