 Because of how sleek they are about the ankles, these jeans will fit into most pairs of booties. You don't need roll the cuffs up, but you can if you wish. If you do decide to roll the cuffs up, roll them inward, until they touch the top of the bootie.Tucking your skinny jeans into the bootie, however, will make your legs appear longer.To make your legs look even longer, try black skinny jeans with black booties.Try some colored or patterned skinny jeans. If you are tired of the same denim, you can wear the bright colors with neutral booties for a classic look.
 Don't shove the cuff inside the bootie. This will cause the pant leg to bunch up over the top of the bootie, creating a look that many find to be unappealing. Instead, fold the cuff inward twice by 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) until the cuff rests ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) above the top of the bootie.To complete the look, throw on a slimmer shirt, blazer or sweater.
 Don't tuck them in, or the pant leg will bunch up over the top of the bootie. Also, make sure that the bootie is slim enough to fit inside the pant leg; you should not see any bumps created by the boot cuff.


This look goes best with heeled booties.
 These jeans are typically shorter than your standard jean, and stop just short of the boot cuff. If the ankle jeans are too long, tuck them into the bootie. If the boyfriend jeans are too long, let them drape over the top of the bootie. You can also roll the hem onward on both styles of jeans until they just brush the top of the bootie.
 If the booties are too tight up top, they will make your legs look short and stumpy.You can go with any length of shorts you'd like. This look is ideal for warmer weather, and will help your legs look longer.
 For a chic look, choose booties with a heel. For something more casual, choose booties with no heel. This look is not just limited to the summer however; you can easily make a summer dress more suitable for the fall by adding a jacket over it. In the wintertime, you could wear some thick tights under a warmer dress, and a jacket over the dress. Be sure to match the tights' color to the booties; this will help make your legs look longer.
 When choosing a maxi dress, don't be shy about showing some leg. This can be through a slit in the dress, or a hem ending just above the boot.If the dress is too loose around the waist for your liking, cinch it in with a wide belt.


Boho-style, maxi skirts also work great with booties., If the skirt is knee length, try a pair of heeled booties.


If your legs look too short in a skirt and booties, wear a pair of tights that match the boots' color under the skirt. This will make your legs look longer.Add a jacket or cardigan to complete the fall look.