 This will be the bottom of your glove, so it needs to be wide enough to wrap around your palm or forearm. Make sure that you leave a tail at the start of your work.
 You want to make this rib stitch a little wider than usual, so alternate between doing 2 knits and 2 purls for the entire row. This will make the bottom, wider cuff of your glove.
 Remember to alternate the stitches on each row. If you started with 2 knits on one row, then you should start with 2 purls on the next row. Keep doing this until you have 15 rows total of rib stitching.
 The stockinette stitch is where you alternate knit and purl rows. Knit one row, then purl the next one. This will make the body of your glove.
 You will still have four more rows to knit, so keep this in mind. You want to end on a purl row, regardless.
 As before, alternate between 2 knits and 2 purls. This will make the narrower, top cuff of your glove.
 Cut the yarn, and pull the tail through the loop. Gently tug on the tail to tighten the loop. Do not trim the tail.
 Place your arm down on the piece, so that the top of your palm/knuckles are aligned with the top edge of your work. Note where your thumb is on the side edge.


Make sure that the knit stitch is on the outside.
 Thread a yarn needle, then, keeping the piece folded, sew down the top side edge using a whipstitch. Keep doing until you reach the base of you thumb area—about 2 inches (5 centimeters).


Remember to start sewing from the narrower rib stitch.
 Tie the yarn to itself, then weave it back up the side seam all the way to the top. Snip off any excess yarn.
 Thread your yarn needle with the other tail end of your work. Use a Whipstitch|whipstitch to sew up the bottom side edge. Stop when you reach the base of your thumb/wrist. You will be left with a gap in your glove. This is the thumb hole.
 Once you are happy with the size of the thumb hole, tie the yarn to itself. Weave it back down the side seam a few inches/centimeters, then snip off any excess.
 Both gloves are identical, so you do not need to flip or reverse the pattern.

