 The diet should be comprised of rodent chow, vegetables, fruit, nuts, and seeds. Clean water and rodent chow should be available all the time. Make sure the water bottle is attached to a drinking tube.Recommended fruits and vegetables include spinach, lettuce, carrots and apples. Provide a fresh supply every 2 or 3 days. Remove uneaten food daily.
Do not give your hamster chocolate, candy, uncooked beans, onions, or any kind of junk food.
Clean and refill the water bottle every day.
Take your hamster to the veterinarian for a yearly check up.;
, Your hamster can live in a wire cage or an aquarium (10 gallon minimum) with a mesh top. Line the cage with at least 2 inches of Timothy hay, aspen shavings, or processed corn cob. The cage should also have an exercise wheel, cardboard tubes, and a piece of natural wood.Clean the cage with warm soapy water once a week and add new bedding.
Remove any soiled bedding and droppings every day.
 Going to a new a home is stressful. All of the new sights, sounds, and smells can be overwhelming. Let your hamster settle in for a few days before you begin the taming process.Talk to your hamster in a calm voice when you feed him. This will help him get used to the sound of your voice.
Talking when you provide treats (sugarless cereal,whole wheat bread,plain popcorn, cooked pasta, scrambled egg) helps your hamster associate your voice with something that is good.
 Hamsters are nocturnal animals. They sleep during the day and are active at night. If you notice that your hamster is playing, stretching, eating, or grooming, this is the best time to schedule your taming sessions.If you wake your hamster up during the day, he will be stressed and is more likely to bite you.Your taming sessions will be much more successful if you work around your hamster’s sleeping schedule.
 Take a clean piece of tissue or toilet paper and leave it in your shirt for a few hours. Then place the paper in your hamster’s cage. You can also wear a sock in your shirt or waistband and then place the sock in the cage.Hamsters have a sensitive nose and a strong sense of smell. They rely on their nose to tell them about their environment.Be consistent with the scent of the items that you place in the cage. Do not try out any new laundry detergent or perfumes during this process.
 When your hamster is awake, sit next to the cage and talk to him. If your hamster eats, drinks, and plays in front of you, he is comfortable with you. You can read a book or sing softly to your hamster during this time.
 Devote at least 10 minutes a day to taming your hamster. If you cannot tame him every day, shoot for every other day.The more time you spend with him the better.


If you take a long break or go on vacation while you are trying to tame him, he will regress.You may have to go back to some of the earlier steps instead of picking up where you left off.
Work to handle your hamster around the same time each day. This will create a routine for the two of you., Because your hamster is older, he may have never been tamed or has forgotten. It takes time to build trust and to unlearn any bad behaviors. It will take longer to tame him than it takes to tame a young hamster.The time it takes to tame your hamster will vary. It depends on the personality of the hamster and how much time you spend with him. It could take weeks or months to tame him.Most hamsters will come around if you are patient and consistent.
 You should never physically punish your hamster. Do not flick him or tap his nose. If he bites or nibbles, lightly blow in his face. You can also tell him “No!” using a serious tone .


Physical punishment only creates fear. If your hamster is afraid of you, you may never be able to tame him.
 Hamsters do not have a good sense of sight. If your hand smells like food, your hamster will think that your hand is food and will bite you. If your hand smells like another animal, your hamster may think he is in danger.Unscented soap is best. However, if you use a scented soap, use the same soap each time.
 Place a treat in the cage and leave your hand inside the cage. Your hamster may come and investigate your hand when he comes to get the treats. Do not try to pet him at this time.


Pay attention to how your hamster responds. His behavior will let you know when you can move on to the next stage.
If your hamster runs away, urinates, defecates, or flattens himself close to the floor, he is still afraid.If he is frightened, place the treat in the cage and try again when your hamster is no longer stressed.
Trying to work with your hamster when he is stressed can make him sick and will make taming him more difficult.
 Once your hamster is comfortable with your hand, leave the treat in your hand and wait for the hamster to come to your hand. Do not wiggle your fingers around or try.The hamster should not have to climb all the way onto your hand to get the treat. He should be able to reach the treat with his paw.
 When your hamster is ready, he will begin to eat out of the palm of your hand. When he does this, use your other hand to pet his body. Only use one of your fingers when petting.Do not pet him on his head. This will aggravate him.
Always allow your hamster to control the level interaction. Do not force him to come to you or eat out of your hands. He will move at his own pace.
 Place your hand in the cage and allow the hamster to walk into your hand. Once he is in the palm of your hand, place your other hand on top of the hamster to create a little cave. Make sure his head is sticking out. Hold the hamster a few inches above the ground while he is still in his cage.Avoid picking him up with your hand. Always allow him to walk into your hands when he is ready.Never approach your hamster from behind. He cannot see you, and this will scare him.
Your hamster may try to jump out of your hands at first.
Your hamster may urinate because he is nervous. Do not drop him or get upset with him. Talk to him in a calm tone and say, “It’s ok. I know you are a little nervous.” Gently place him back in his cage and try again later.
 Once you have held your hamster in his cage a few times and he seems comfortable, try to hold him outside of the cage. Pick him up using the cave method and bring the hamster to your chest. Your hamster will feel more secure next to your chest.Hold him over your lap or close to the floor in case he falls. Hamsters have delicate bonesand can suffer serious injuries due to falling.Try this in a room that does not have a lot of hiding places in case he gets away. Make sure the room is quiet with no other pets around.Remember to watch how your hamster responds. If he squeals, growls, or grinds his teeth, put him back in his cage and leave him alone., Sit with your hamster and allow him to get used to you.To set up a bathtub, plug the drain and place a blanket or towel in the tub. Put your hamster in the playpen or bathtub with you. Bring some treats and allow your hamster to explore you and the new space.


To create a playpen, sit across from another person and make a barrier with your legs. Place the hamster in the middle and allow him to move around. You can also use a kiddie pool as a playpen.

