


Butterbur-based supplements are among the most helpful and are thought the prevent migraines and reduce their severity. It lessens inflammation and stabilizes blood flow while serving as a beta-blocker. As a result, it prevents blood vessel spasms. Take a dose of 50 mg and make sure that the supplement you use is labeled "PA Free."
Vitamin B2, also called riboflavin, has also been known to reduce the frequency and severity of migraines. Taking 400 mg of the vitamin daily can cut the frequency of your symptoms in half, and taking it while a migraine is already in progress may also temporarily soothe the pain.
Feverfew, melatonin, and Co-Q10 (coenzyme Q10) may or may not help to reduce the severity of your migraine after it begins. The good news though is that steady doses of any of these can help to decrease the overall frequency of migraine attacks.
Magnesium has mixed results. A 500 mg supplement can help reduce the severity of a migraine if that migraine is associated with a menstrual cycle; otherwise, its usefulness is debatable. Try taking this with riboflavin and butter bur in practice as a daily preventative regimen.
 Herbal teas can soothe your body and reduce the tension responsible for part or all of your migraine. As a result, you may find your migraine fading faster. Lavender, ginger, peppermint, and cayenne pepper are all thought to help.


Lavender reduces blood vessel inflammation and is generally the most effective herbal remedy for anxiety, stress, and migraines triggered by stress. In addition to sipping on lavender herbal tea, you could also place sachets or hot packs of dried lavender over your eyes to relieve a migraine as it starts.
Ginger, peppermint, and cayenne all have natural pain-relieving properties. Ginger and peppermint are good at reducing any nausea associated with your migraine. Note that ginger can thin blood, though, so it should be avoided if you are on a blood-thinner.
Make an herbal tea capable of chasing away your migraine by steeping a pinch of cayenne pepper, 1 inch (2.5 cm) of fresh ginger, and 1 tsp (5 ml) of dried peppermint in 2 cups (500 ml) boiling water for 15 minutes.
 Caffeine is a paradox when it comes to migraines. Too much can bring a migraine on, but taking a little caffeine after a migraine comes upon you can actually help the pain to go away.


Only take a small dose of caffeine: one soda, one cup of coffee, one cup of tea, or one chocolate bar is sufficient. Avoid energy drinks high in caffeine.
Note that this generally only works if your migraine was not originally triggered by caffeine.
 Migraines are closely linked to tension. Sometimes, giving yourself a quick, simple massage can relax your muscles and blood vessels enough to ease your symptoms.Use your index and middle fingers on both hands to gently massage your temples, the sides of your neck, and the back of your neck. Apply firm but gentle pressure in small, circular strokes.
To increase the effectiveness of this technique, dip your fingers in ice cold water before you begin. The cold water can cause your blood vessels to constrict, slowing the rush of blood to your head as a result.



Aerobic exercise worth trying during a migraine may include brisk walking or jogging, cycling, or swimming.
As your heart pumps, your blood circulation will improve and stabilize throughout your body, causing the blood to stop rushing to your head.
Additionally, exercise is a good way to relax and get your mind off any stresses that may have triggered the migraine.

