 Being a member of a gym may have its own rewards, but if you don't like the gym atmosphere or the people there, you may find that you can make your workout more enjoyable by finding somewhere else to exercise.For example, you might get more benefit out of exercising outside in a park, or simply taking a walk around your neighborhood.
You also might consider joining a community sports league to get exercise outside of the gym while having more fun participating in a sport that you enjoy.
If you live near parks or wooded areas, you also might consider hiking or other outdoor activities to get exercise while also communing with nature.;
, If you find exercise boring, you may need something that will stimulate you mentally while your body works. Bring along headphones while you exercise and listen to your favorite music, an audiobook, or podcast.If you're exercising at home, consider moving your bike or treadmill in front of the television. You can work out while you catch up on your favorite program. The timing of television shows and commercials also makes it easy to mark your pace or set up intervals.
An audio book can be a good way to motivate yourself and make you want to workout, even if you're doing something relatively boring like walking and running on a treadmill. Only listen to the book while you're exercising, and once you get into it you'll find yourself anxious to exercise if only so you can listen to the next chapter.
 Children often build activity into their everyday routines without even thinking about it. Just because you're an adult, that doesn't mean you can't still have fun with some of the activities you enjoyed as a kid.Think about what you enjoyed as a child, and figure out how to replicate that activity in your adult life. It may not be possible for you to do the exact same things you did, but you may be able to find a close substitute.
For example, if you enjoyed roller skating as a child, you might buy yourself a pair of rollerblades and go skating in a nearby park or find a skating rink near you that has open skating sessions that fit into your schedule.
Keep in mind that adults on public playgrounds may be forbidden or frowned upon. If you want to hit the monkey bars, go at a time when there aren't a lot of children present.
 Don't think you have to spend hours in a gym lifting weights or running on a treadmill to get exercise. There are plenty of ways to stay active throughout the day, even if you have a relatively sedentary desk job.For example, you might take the stairs instead of the elevator when going to and from your office.
Another way to sneak in some exercise is to choose a parking space near the back of the lot when you park somewhere so you have to walk through the parking lot. If you take public transportation, get off at an earlier stop than you normally would and walk that distance to your destination.
 Volunteering at a local charity or nonprofit organization can be a way to get some activity into your routine and help others at the same time. There are many nonprofits that require active volunteers on a regular basis, so you can work it into your regular schedule.For example, if you enjoy animals, you might volunteer at the local animal shelter to walk dogs. Both you and the dogs get your exercise each day, and you're improving the animals' quality of life.
You also can volunteer (alone or with a group) to build houses for the poor or homeless. This can be a physically intense activity, but it gets you moving. While this isn't necessarily a daily activity, you may find that you want to train in between house-building sessions to build your strength and endurance so you can contribute more.
Charity walks are another way to make your workout more enjoyable by helping a good cause.

