 While most snipers use scopes, some choose to not use them. Sniper rifles with scopes have the advantage of not only doing more damage than an un-scoped weapon, but also have the liberty of seeing something far away with a scope. However, un-scoped weapons are more easily used in close range combat and do not have to be steadied when you aim them.
 In general, all of these weapons are as good as the other and work the same. They reload 5 bullets at once if not scoped, and 1 bullet at a time if scoped (the latter of which can be quite useful in heated combat). After firing 1 shot, they have to "re-chamber", or load a new bullet (which can disrupt aiming after firing). Also, the Arisaka, Mosin-Nagant, and Kar98k all have to have their respective scopes unlocked by killing with the weapon 25 times unscoped. NOTE: Using an un-scoped Springfield is not recommended due to the fact that the sights and the respective area of the bullet are misaligned; this makes the un-scoped Springfield somewhat difficult to aim.
 The PTRS is unlocked at a high level, but has many advantages over the previously mentioned sniper rifles. First off, it does not have to "re-chamber"; all the bullets in one clip can be fired at a certain rate (faster than the previously mentioned sniper rifles) one after the other and the lack of a "re-chamber" means that it is somewhat easier to kill more than 1 person without going un-scoped. However, it also has two disadvantages: when reloading, you have to wait quite a bit to reload due to the fact that the PTRS reloads whole clips at a time, and you also cannot have the weapon un-scoped.
 The M1 is not a sniper under normal circumstances; however, if you manage to get the insanely high amount of kills needed to unlock a scope for it, you can use it as a sniper rifle. The M1 is semi-automatic, meaning that you can fire rounds from it rather quickly and use it quite effectively as a no scope sniper rifle. While scoped, it has less recoil than the previously mentioned weapons after it is fired, making it easy to shoot more than 1 person or shooting one person twice. It also has a total clip size of 8 instead of the usual 5 and has a larger ammo count. While overall a great choice, it does have the weakness of punishing you in terms of reload time for reloading with bullets already loaded into the gun.

