 In order to take advantage of the new face swapping features, you'll need to be running the latest version of Snapchat. Face swapping was introduced in version 9.25.0.0, released in February 2016. You can update Snapchat using your device's app store.


On Android, open the Play Store, tap ☰, and then tap "My apps." Look for Snapchat in the "Updates" section.
On iOS, open the App Store, tap the "Updates" tab, and look for Snapchat.;
, Make sure you're in a well-lit area and your entire face is on the screen. You can be using either the front or rear camera.
 This will open the Lenses feature, which allows you to select from various effects to morph your face.


Lenses are only available on Android devices running 4.3+ and iPhones running iOS 7.0+. If you can't get Lenses to start, your device may be too old to use it.
 Swipe through the available Lenses until you reach the end of the selection. You'll see the yellow Face Swap option towards the end of the selection. It has a picture of two smiley faces with arrows between them.


The purple Face Swap option will allow you to swap with a picture stored on your device. See the next section for details.
 Hold your phone so that you and the other person are lined up in the smiley faces on the screen. They'll both turn yellow when you're in the right spot, and then your faces will be swapped automatically.


Any movements you make will be with the simulated face. So when you open your mouth, your friend's simulated face on your head will open its mouth. You can use this to make your friend make a face they normally wouldn't!
Users have reported getting this to work with near-to-life faces as well, such as detailed statues. Give it a try with a statue or painting nearby and see what happens!

, Once your faces have been swapped, you can take a Snap like you normally would. Tap the circle button to take a photo Snap, or press and hold to record a video.
 Now that you've taken your Snap, you can make edits, save it, and send it off to your friends.


Tap the Sticker, Text, and Pencil buttons to add stickers, text, and drawings to the Snap.
Tap the Send button to select people you want to send the Snap to. After selecting recipients, the Snap will be sent.
Tap the "Add to My Story" button to add the Snap to your Story. This will make it visible to all of your friends for 24 hours.
If you want to save your new picture or video before sending it off, tap the Download button to save it to your device's gallery or camera roll. Saving is optional.

