 Your assigned readings are there for a reason. Read your textbook and any assigned articles, and take notes as you go through if any concept confuses you. Set a reminder for yourself to ask questions about your reading during or after class.Look for supplemental readings that may engage you, such as medical novels or historical accounts of early dissections. Make notes of what you find interesting and what you think might be inaccurate so that you can ask your peers or teacher.
 Use online modules or tutorials to help reinforce the information you learn. You may even opt to use online models to help you recognize parts of the body, or create digital flashcards to help you study.Use online materials as a supplement to your studies. Do not expect to get all of the information you need to know strictly from online materials. Lab and class time are equally important in studying anatomy.
 If anatomy is an interest or hobby rather than part of your formal education, look at learning through an open platform such as Coursera or the Open Learning Initiative.These allow you to connect with courses from universities all over the world for free.


If a general anatomy course is not being offered, look for a specialized one to get you started in your studies.
These courses include a lot of material, but are largely self-directed. Do all of the readings, assignments, quizzes, and discussion posts to get the most out of them.
 Take large or complicated concepts and rewrite them in your own words. Instead of trying to memorize your book, break down concepts in your own terms so that you better understand them when you review them.


Try using flash cards with the concept on the front, and your description on the back. Use these to review as you study.
You may also find it useful to use mnemonic devices to help you remember key concepts or phrases. For example, the word "SCALP" can help you remember the anatomical layers of the scalp (skin, connective tissue, aponeurosis, loose connective tissue, periosteum)., Medical terminology is full of Greek and Latin roots and words. For example, the cardiovascular system comes from the Greek root καρδιά (kardia), which means heart. Look for books or online lessons in basic Greek or Latin to help you more easily understand medical terminology.


There are many publications that focus on Greek and Latin roots for medical students. Check online or with your local book store to find specialized text for anatomy students.
Use online learning modules and focus on lessons about body parts or medical terms.

