 Visit https://ello.co/ from any web browser.;
, Once you’ve received an invitation code, you can join the Ello community. Create your account and set up your profile.


Refer to this article for more details on signing up for Ello.
 From Ello’s main page, click the “Login” link on the upper right corner.


You will be brought to the Login page. Type in your email address and password in the fields provided.
Click the “Enter Ello” button to proceed.
 You will be brought to https://ello.co/friends, which is Ello’s landing page. This is your wall or timeline where all your posts will appear and where all your friends’ activities will be displayed.
 Click on the gear icon from the header menu (the left panel) to access Settings. You will be brought to your Profile and Settings page.
 This is much like Facebook's cover photo, and will appear on top of your Ello page. Scroll to the top of the page, and drag and drop a photo from your computer to the photo box for the header image.


The recommended image size is 1800 x 1013 pixels, so keep that in mind when choosing and cropping your photo!
The uploaded header image will immediately be displayed on the top of your page.
 This will be your profile picture and will be attached to all your posts within Ello. To upload, find the photo circle on the left side of your header image. Then, drag and drop a photo from your computer into the circle.


The recommended size is 340 x 340 pixels, so keep that in mind when you are choosing your avatar photo!
The uploaded image will immediately fill the photo circle. You now have an Ello avatar!

, Under the Profile section, you will see a form with several fields. Fill up as much data you you’d like to share. Note that your profile can be seen by anyone on Ello, with the exception of your email address, so keep that in mind when you are sharing your info.


Input your username, email address, name, a brief bio, and some personal links or URLs.
 Scroll a little down until you see the Settings section. There are three options you can toggle: Public Profile, Comments, and Analytics. Each of these options has Yes/No buttons beside them.


Click the “Yes” button for Public Profile if you want your profile viewable to users outside of Ello.
Click the “Yes” button for Comments if you would like to allow others to comment on your posts.
Click the “Yes” button for Analytics if you would like to allow Ello to gather anonymous information about your visits.
 Further down the page, you’ll see the Notifications section. These settings control what type of notifications you will receive from Ello. There are three options you can toggle: Comments, Mentions, and New Followers. Each of these options has Yes/No buttons beside them.


Click the “Yes” button for Comments if you want to receive email notifications when there’s a comment on your posts.
Click the “Yes” button for Mentions if you want to receive email notifications when you’re mentioned in another user’s post.
Click the “Yes” button if you want to receive email notifications when others follow you.
 To start building your social network on Ello, you have to find your friends. On the header menu of the left panel, click on the people icon for “Discover.” Discover is Ello’s function for searching for people on the network.


On top of the right panel is a big text “Search.” Enter a part of the name or username of a friend to search.
All matching results will be listed below.
 Ello will allow you to organize your friends into two groups: Friends and Noise. People you’d like to hear from and whose posts you want to see on your wall should be put under Friends. All others will be "noise."


After finding your friend on Ello, click the “Friend” button beside his name to add him to your Friends List.
 If you have a contact that you don’t necessarily like to follow or whose posts you don’t want to see, but who you do want to be "friends" with, you can put him under Noise.


After finding a friend, click the “Noise” button beside his name to add him to your Noise list.
 You can see all the people under your Friends List by clicking on the “Friends” button on the left panel. You can see all your friends listed with their respective avatars.


Hover of an avatar to see a friend’s Ello username. Usernames start with “@”.
 You can also see all the people you’ve tagged under the Noise List by clicking on the “Noise” button on the left panel.


Similar to the Friends List, all people here will be listed with their respective avatars.
 Click on either your Friends or Noise List, and select a friend to view from there.


Click on the person’s avatar to go to his page.
 You can also view other people’s pages, even if they’re not on your lists. You can search for them using Discover from the left panel’s header menu, or you can find them under a friend’s lists or page.


Again, click on a person’s avatar or username to go to his page.
 Once you’ve landed on another user’s page, you can scroll up or down to view all his posts.


A time stamp is placed under every post. You will know how new a post is by looking at the timestamp.
Identify a post’s number of hits. Every view on a post is being tracked. You can determine how many times a post has been seen by the number of hits. This number is displayed right beside the time stamp, with an eye icon.
 By default, all comments are hidden. However, if the user has comments enabled, all of the comments on a given post will be seen by clicking on the three black dots beside the number of hits. All the comments will be shown.


The comments are identified by the username and avatar of the person who commented.
 If you have something to add or comment on a post, click the black dialog box beside your avatar at the top of the list of comments. A gray text field will appear where you can type your comment.


Click the arrow pointing right to submit your comment. It will immediately appear at the top of the list of comments.
 On the top of a user’s page, you will find your own avatar with a black dialog box. Click on this black box to expand it to become a yellow text field. Type your message or post inside this text field.


Once done, click the arrow pointing right to post it. Your message will immediately appear on the user’s page.
 Click the black circle with a smile icon on the left panel. This will bring you to your own page.
 At the top of your page is your own avatar with a black dialog box beside it. Click the black box to expand it to become a gray text field. Type your message here and click the arrow pointing right to post it.


Your message will immediately appear on your page.
 You can also post a photo with your message. Click the black dialog box to expand it. Right below it, click the square icon for “Upload.” Look for the photo from your computer and double-click on it.


The selected photo will be uploaded on your post. You can see the picture inside the dotted box.
Click the arrow pointing right to post it. Your photo will immediately appear on your page.
 You can tag other Ello users with any of your posts and comments by adding their Ello usernames with a “@” in front, just like “@Ello.”


When you tag people in a post, it will also appear on their page.
 If you’d like to edit a post you’ve made on your wall, go to the exact post and click on the pencil icon beneath it. Your post will appear inside a gray text field and you can edit it from there.


Once done, click the arrow pointing right to update your post. You can immediately see the updated post on your page.
 If you’d like to remove a post you’ve made on your wall, go to the exact post and click on the small box with an “x.” Your post will immediately be deleted from your page.
 Ello is still by invitation only (as of October 8, 2014). However, each existing account has five invite codes that they can use to share Ello with friends. On the header menu of the left panel, click on the plus icon for Invite. You will be brought to the invitation page.
 For your friends to be able to join Ello, they'll need an invite code. This invite code can come from Ello or from any Ello user. Click the “Generate Invite Code” button to generate your invite code.
 An invite code will appear where the button used to be. Highlight the whole text and copy it.
 You can now paste this invite code in your email, Facebook, Twitter, IM client, or any other communication medium to send it to your friends.


You can also put in an email address on the box provided and click the “Invite” button to automatically send a friend an email with the invite code.
 Once they create their own profile, you'll show up in their friends list and vice versa!

