 Stud poker is played with different numbers of cards in a player's hand. More cards give each player a greater chance of coming up with a better hand. In theory, this benefits each player equally, though players with a greater knowledge of card hierarchy will often be able to benefit more from a greater number of cards.


The most common numbers of cards called are 5-card and 7-card stud poker, but some tables might play with 3 cards or other numbers of cards.;
, Another complexity that is part of many stud poker games is wild cards. A wild card is a card that can be used to represent any number and any suit. Most often, the dealer of the hand is given the right to call wild cards before dealing. Any cards can be wild, though it's not normal to call more than 4 wild cards in a hand, since it can make the game much more chaotic.
 You need between two and eight players to play Stud Poker. Any number in between two and eight will work, but you definitely can’t play alone. Grab some friends and get started.
 There are ten potential hands, or combinations of cards, in Stud Poker. The best hand is the royal flush, then the straight flush, then four of a kind, then the full house, then a flush, then a three of a kind, then two pair, then one pair, then high card.A flush is any five cards of the same suit. They don’t need to be consecutive.
A straight is five consecutive cards. They don’t need to be the same suit. For example, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 would be a straight
A straight flush is a straight where all five cards have the same suit.
A royal flush is 9, 10, Jack, Queen, King with each card sharing the same suit.
A straight flush is a straight where all five cards have the same suit.
A four of a kind is any four of the same number.
A three of a kind is three of the same number.
A one pair is any two of the same number.
A two pair is any two one pairs.
A full house is a three of a kind and a one pair.
A high card is if you have none of the other combinations. Then your highest card is automatically your hand. Ace is the highest card, two is the lowest card.
 Everyone at your table needs some chips. Each player will use their chips to bet during the course of the game. Once everyone has chips, everyone needs to ‘ante up’. This means that everyone puts one chip into the pot before the hand begins. You can decide how many or how few chips you want the ante to be. Any bets you make will be in addition to the ante., The dealer starts with the person immediately to their left and then moves clockwise around the table or circle.


In 5 card stud the dealer deals the first card to each player face down. The rest of the cards are dealt face-up so that all players at the table can see them. Unlike Texas hold-em poker there are no community cards. Each person is dealt their own set of cards.In 7 card stud the dealer deals two cards face down to every player and then one card face up before the first betting round. After that betting round the dealer lays down three more cards face up and then the last card for each person is given face down. There is a betting round after each card.
The face down cards are referred to as the hole cards and the face up card is called the door card.
 In 7-card stud it is typical to bet after the first 3 cards are dealt, and then again after each subsequent card is dealt for a total of 5 bets. Although some games leave betting until the end, for a higher stakes stud poker game, players bet after receiving each card.In 5-card stud games the person who bets first is the person who has the best card showing. In 7-card stud the person with the lowest card showing bets first.You could also choose to play a limit game. As opposed to no limit games where you can bet as much as you want during each round of betting, bets in a limit game are set at fixed amounts. Generally a limit game features a big bet and a small bet. For example, the bets for a limit game might be $ 5 small bet and $ 10 big bet.
Some variations of limit games designate when each bet is placed. For the first two rounds of betting you can only bet using the small bet. In the last three rounds you can only bet using the big bet.The ante is set at 10 % of the big bet in a limit game. In our example, that would mean a $ 1 ante., After the first three cards have been dealt, players engage in another round of betting, bidding up the price of staying in the game. For example, if you like the cards that you have gotten you can bet additional chips on that hand. The other players have to choose to match your bet or fold their hand.In no-limit games you can bet as much as you want, whereas in limit games you're only able to bet in set increments.
Establish limits for bidding or betting. Bidding on a card hand is one of the most confusing and complex elements of stud poker. It's important for each player to know their options in the process. As the bidding goes around in a circular fashion, players always have the right to fold. This means they lose any further stake in the game. Without folding, they must either match the current total bid, or raise it by putting in even more money.
When the table has gone around with no raises, the players are said to have "called" the hand. It can be helpful to double check at the end of a round to make sure it has been effectively called and thus closed for further bidding., Once one round of betting has finished the dealer lays down another face up card for everyone. Based on how you feel about you card you can decide to raise, check, or fold.


If you don’t want to leave the game yet but you don’t want to bet more money you can check. However, you’re only allowed to check if everyone else checks too.If even one person raises and puts in another chip, you have to decide between matching their bet or folding. Folding takes you out of the game but you lose all the chips you have bet already.
 The dealer will deal another card face up card to every person and everyone will bet. Then the dealer will deal another card face up and everyone will bet. After this final bet it is time to evaluate your hands., This is where the players look at everyone's cards who is still in the game and determine who has the winning hand.
 Refer to the hand rankings to see who has the best combination of cards. Whoever has the best combination wins that particular hand.
 The winner of the hand gets all the chips that you have put in the pot. All the chips from the ante and any subsequent bets go to the winner. You can no longer win the chips once you fold.
 Once the winner has all their chips, you can ante up again and continue playing the game.

