 Lots of animals can get in a house and make noise--birds, racoons, even cats. Rats will be accompanied by high-pitched squeaks. These will intensify when the rats fight. You may also hear various clawing, scratching and chewing sounds. These can be surprisingly loud, and seem like a much larger animal is making them.You may also smell a distinctive, musky scent if rats are present. If you smell an especially foul odor, a rat may have died within the walls, roof, or flooring of your home.
Dark, coffee-bean sized droppings are also a tell-tale sign of rats.
 If you live in an apartment, your building manager may be required to contact a professional exterminator to deal with a rat problem. Get in touch with your management if you think you hear rats. If you are a homeowner, you can take matters into your own hands, but a professional will be more likely to deal with the problem satisfactorily., This classic method for controlling rat problems can be effective as long as they are used properly. Snap traps have a spring-loaded mechanism that pins rats down when they step on it. Glue traps work by trapping rats that walk on their sticky surface.Place several traps in places where rats are (look for their droppings). Set them in narrow places (such as behind boxes or furniture) so that rats are forced to walk on them.
Bait the traps with food rats are likely to enjoy, such as peanut butter, raisin bread, bacon, or candy.
If you find a rat has been trapped and killed, wrap it in newspaper or a plastic bag and throw it away. Wash your hands afterwards.
 If you are taking on the extermination job yourself, make sure to use only approved rat poison or rodent bait, available from home supply stores. Carefully follow the usage directions and precautions advised by the manufacturer.Many forms of bait will come installed in pre-made, secure containers. Place these near the suspected rats. The rodents will enter the container, eat the bait, and die.
Poisons are often not recommended for use in buildings. Rats may eat the bait, then die and decompose in a hard-to-reach space like the interior of a wall.
 Though rats are undesirable and potentially dangerous, you might not want to kill them. There are a number of humane options to drive rats away. For instance:Play loud music or other audio during the day and night.
Shine strobe lights in areas you suspect rats to live.
Soak cotton balls, wads of cloth, or other items in ammonia. Set them in places where you suspect rats are coming in and out (such as a hole in a wall).

