 A lot of liquid is lost through vomiting. You should strive to keep your child hydrated for the duration of his sickness. Water is the best liquid, but varying drinks will help encourage fluid intake.


Encourage your child to take small, slow sips of liquids frequently, every five to 10 minutes if possible. Try to have a beverage by him at all times.Stick to clear liquids for the most part.Some sour, carbonated drinks like ginger ale and lemonade could also help. Ice pops, Popsicles, Italian ices, and other ice-based treats can take the place of liquids. These should be water-based frozen treats, not ice cream (the milk solids will often irritate sore stomachs). While these should not be the sole intake of liquids, many children will happily enjoy these treats. Also, because they cannot slurp or gulp down these items, they tend to go at a pace more friendly for the stomach.
Soups can help hydrate, too. Choose clear, broth-based soups and avoid tomato, potato, and cream based soups. Soups like the classic chicken noodle soup is an excellent choice.
Be careful with sports drinks. While they contain water, electrolytes, and taste good, they are highly concentrated. This can actually make things worse. A pediatric re-hydration fluid or water is usually better.;
, For the first 24 hours of an illness that causes vomiting, your child should not eat solid foods. Use electrolyte solutions for children, asking your pediatrician for a recommendation. Other than that, give your child things like gelatin, sugar water, and popsicles instead of solid food. Most children who are actively vomiting will not want to eat anyway.
A few children will really want to eat while nauseous; they usually confuse stomach cramps with hunger pains. If your child has a habit of this, be aware and wary.
 Some children (and people in general) find odors a nausea trigger. The smells of food and cooking, perfume, smoke, heat, humidity, and flickering lights can all worsen symptoms of nausea. However, this varies from person to person. But if she does complain, keep her in a comfortable, well-lit room where strong smells do not reach., Usually a child who is nauseous will be fairly lethargic anyway. But sometimes children will ignore symptoms if he is excited or absorbed in an activity. Some children will become a bit hyperactive when feeling sick. But too much physical activity can make your child's symptoms worse. , Over-the-counter anti-nausea medications may help with nausea. However, many options are not safe for children. Ask your doctor or a pharmacist for a recommendation for an over-the-counter medication that might help a child with an upset stomach. Make sure to follow all instructions on the package when giving your child the medication., After 24 hours, you can start giving your child solid foods if the vomiting has resolved. Foods with little taste or texture might be easier for a child to keep down.


Many pediatricians used to recommend what is the BRAT diet. This stands for bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. These foods were believed to be easier to digest, allowing the gut a chance to rest and recover. Modern pediatricians feel the diet lacks enough nutrients to promote healing. However, for the first few days a child is sick the BRAT diet may help. Such foods may be easier to keep down due to nausea. Try feeding your child these foods and after a day or two resume a normal healthy diet filled with healthy carbohydrates, fruits, and vegetables.Gelatins (such as Jello) and crackers may also be easier for a child to keep down. If he or she is able to eat such foods, try cereal, fruit, and salty or high protein foods.High fat and spicy foods should be avoided as they can worsen symptoms. You should not try to feed your child solid foods until at least six hours after vomiting.