 Too often we just pick a face wash based off of a commercial or the recommendation of a friend with “better” skin than ours. The problem is that everyone’s skin is different, so a soap made for naturally oily skin will strip too many valuable oils from someone’s non-oily skin. Or a face wash engineered for dry skin won’t adequately remove oils accumulated over the course of a day on someone’s naturally oily face. So ask yourself this question: Is my face naturally oily or naturally dry?, Face soaps come is a variety of different types. Bars, foams, non-foaming, soap-free, cleansing balms, micellar, oil-based, and medicated. Most only require water to be activated and used effectively. Micellar face washes are already watery and only need a cotton swab or pad to be applied and removed.
 Often times, hints of lavender, coconut, or some other substance is added to face washes to make them seem more luxurious or simply to smell good. Perhaps, this doesn’t make your face dry up or break out, but it might. If you’ve recently tried a new face soap and your complexion gets worse, consider picking another soap without a scent., These two ingredients tend to be too extreme for most people. Sodium laureth sulfate is a little milder than its more extreme counterpart — sodium lauryl sulfate — but both will still irritate skin susceptible to strong soaps.If your favorite soap has these “bad” ingredients listed on the side of the package, you may want to consider switching to a different cleanser. While there is some controversy around the use of sodium lauryl sulfate, prolonged use may be linked to cancer, neurotoxicity, organ toxicity, skin irritation and endocrine disruption.T

, A great test for face soaps is to wipe your face with an alcohol-soaked cotton ball after you’ve washed your face. If you still find grease or leftover makeup, your soap probably isn’t strong enough. Keep in mind, leftover grease or whatnot may also simply signal insufficient face washing. Try washing your face again before you abandon the soap., Some consumers assume that higher price points equate to a better product, but as we’ve already established, everyone’s skin is different, so some might love an expensive product, while others won’t find them equally satisfying.Read a broad spectrum of reviews written by people who’ve used the product before you try it. See if they complain about dryness afterwards, lingering scents, breakouts, or any other dermatological issue that might send up a red flare or make your skin red and itchy., Everyone’s skin fluctuates between greasy and dry, oily and non-oily. Things like stress, climate, daily activities, contact with pollutants, and other factors can dramatically change your skin. Visit a dermatologist and ask what the best face wash is for you based on your skin type. They may even prescribe a couple of different face washes to accommodate your fluctuating skin.

