 Lay the bread cubes on a baking sheet and set them aside to dry out overnight. When you're short for time, lay the cubes on a baking sheet and bake them in an oven preheated to 300 F (149 C) for 15 to 20 minutes.You want the bread toasted on the outside but still soft on the inside. Flip the bread cubes twice during the baking process.

The best bread for panzanella is a loaf that has a thick and crunchy crust, such as French, Italian, baguette, or an artisan sourdough loaf. Otherwise, the bread will become soggy in the salad.
Panzanella is a dish that was created to use up stale and dried up bread ends, which is why the bread has to be dried before you can use it in the dish.;
, Peel the onion and cut it into thin slices. Transfer the slices to a medium bowl of ice water, and let them soak for about 15 minutes. This will help take some of the pungency out of the raw onions.After 15 minutes, transfer the onion slices to a colander and let them drain until you're ready to toss the salad.
 In a small bowl, combine the red wine vinegar, salt, and pepper. Whisk the ingredients together, and slowly pour in the olive oil. Continue whisking vigorously until everything is fully incorporated.Instead of red wine vinegar, you can also use Champagne vinegar., In a large mixing bowl, combine the bread cubes, onion slices, and chopped tomatoes, cucumber, and bell pepper. Drizzle the vinaigrette over the salad and toss everything together with two large spoons to coat the salad with the dressing.Red, yellow, and orange bell peppers are all suitable for this salad.
You can use heirloom tomatoes of any variety or color in this recipe. You can also substitute some or all of the heirloom tomatoes with Roma, cherry, grape, or other small tomato varieties.
 Once the salad has been tossed, set it aside on the counter and let it rest at room temperature for at least half an hour. This will give the bread time to absorb some of the dressing and the vinaigrette, and give all the flavors time to develop and marry.Don’t let the salad rest for longer than four hours before serving, otherwise the bread will become soggy.
 When you're ready to serve the salad, sprinkle in the fresh basil and toss the salad to incorporate the herbs into the salad.Serve as a main dish, or as a side dish with your favorite lunch or dinner meals., Bread salad is a delicious dish, but it’s often served as a side because it’s lacking a few things that make it a full meal. But you can turn the salad into a filling and tasty meal by adding more protein and calories. Popular choices include tossing the salad with:

6 ounces (170 g) of chicken, cooked and cubed8 anchovy fillets, sliced6 ounces (170 g) tofu, crumbled, The basic vinaigrette that’s often served with panzanella is yummy, but you can add more spice and more depth to the flavor by whisking in a teaspoon (5 g) of Dijon mustard into the dressing as well. Other types of mustard you can try include:Honey mustard
Horseradish mustard
Spicy mustard

, Typical salads tend to have more vegetables than a bread salad, but you can add any vegetables you like to the panzanella. Some popular veggies to add to this dish include:

Lettuce, chopped into bite-sized pieces
Green beans
Corn
Capers
Fennel, sliced
Olives, sliced
Spinach
Nuts
Cranberries, The dressing that’s often served with bread salad is fairly basic, but there are other herbs and spices you can add to change the flavor, make it spicier, or add more elements. Here are some aromatics you might want to add to the salad or the dressing:One to two cloves of garlic, minced
Fresh oregano
Fresh thyme
Fresh parsley
Red pepper flakes

, Cheese, bread, and salad is a classic Italian combination, and there's no reason you can't add some of your favorite cheese to a panzanella dish. Some of the most popular cheeses to pair with salad include fresh mozzarella, cut into small pieces, or shaved Parmigiano-Reggiano., Panzanella is often served as a side dish or a starter, and especially in summertime. If you want to make a full meal with the panzanella, try pairing it with another side, such as corn on the cob, and a tasty main dish, such as:

Roasted chicken
Barbecued tofu
Grilled fish
Steak

, Every meal goes great with a refreshing beverage, and panzanella is no different. Excellent refreshing beverages to drink with bread salad include lemonade, iced tea, ice water, cucumber water, and water with a slice of lemon or lime., As a fresh tomato-based dish, panzanella goes great with dry whites, dry roses, high-acid wines, and sparkling wines.You can try a sauvignon blanc, Sancerre, Vouvray, or Albariño., Because bread salad is often served in summer, it’s ideal for eating outside. Outdoor events and gatherings where you might want to enjoy bread salad include:

Picnics
Barbecues
Pool parties
Block parties

