 Thankfully, there are many charity organizations that are directing their efforts to helping children. However, you will have to do some searching to narrow your list down. Take some time and try searching online for children's charities that you might be interested in. Take a look at some of the following examples of children's charity organizations to help get you started:http://www.guidestar.org/Home.aspx can be a good resource.

http://www.worldvision.org/ is a well regarded charity group.

https://www.unbound.org/ can help you find a charity.

http://childfindofamerica.org/ is another resource for finding charities.;
, Not all charities function in the same way. Some charities will direct your donation in different ways from others. Try doing some research to make sure that the charity has a good reputation and is an effective one.Not all charities are as reputable as others. It's important you research a charity organization to make sure your donation is doing the most good.
Visit https://www.charitywatch.org/top-rated-charities to learn which charities are more highly rated.
The better business bureau can give you more information about a specific charity.
Some charities have higher operating costs and may not be able to distribute the majority of your donation directly to helping children.
Other charities focus your donation more directly into improving the lives of children.
 Once you've found a charity that you feel comfortable working with, it's time to donate. Some charities will have set levels of donations that you can make and others will allow for customized amounts. Take note of the method of payment or type of donation, as some charities prefer some over others. Once you're ready, make your donation to help that charity meet its goals.


Some charities will need items like food or clothing. These charities should provide a list of their most needed items.Other charities are in need of funding. These might be one time donations or recurring monthly donations.Charities may sell items to generate funding.
Speak with your chosen charity to learn more about what they might need.
 While most every charity can benefit from financial donations, many others can make use of donated items. Giving items or goods can be a great way to directly support a charity and help children in need. Think about some of the following places and items to get a good idea of how you can start donating:


Some charities allow you to buy items they need from an on-line wish list.
You might be able to donate food, clothing, or toys.
Charities may also be in need of things like diapers or other care items.
Try asking any local hospitals, church groups, emergency childcare departments, or other groups that directly help children in need.
 A great aspect of donating to a charity is that you can likely use it as a tax deduction. While helping children in need is a good idea by itself, getting a tax break can be a nice reward for your generosity. Keep some of these things in mind when making sure your donation counts as a tax deduction:Many organizations will provide documentation for you to use when filing taxes.
To claim a deduction, you will need to file an itemized list of your donations to the IRS.
Charity organizations should be classified as non-profit.
Learn if a charity qualifies by using the IRS search tool found at https://apps.irs.gov/app/eos/mainSearch.do;jsessionid=YYec5Usq7-t7I35p+ojhtA__?mainSearchChoice=pub78&dispatchMethod=selectSearch


