 If you are being bullied by other teenagers, you should try to ignore their taunts. Instead of getting defensive, try to explain your illness. If you refuse to become upset, they may become bored and stop their taunting.


If you can joke about your condition, you may be able to deflect bullying.For example, if someone says that you walk like an old person, tell them “Well, duh. That’s because I’ve got old joints.”
If bullying is severe, note when and where it happened. Let both your teacher and your parents know. Schools are required to handle cases of bullying when the student is being harassed due to a medical condition., Try to go to conventions or ask your doctors about ways to meet other teens with arthritis. This will help prevent you feeling misunderstood.You may also find a local support group, such as your local chapter of the Arthritis Foundation.These groups will provide you venues to discuss your social and physical struggles of having juvenile arthritis.


Some organizations have camps for kids and teens with arthritis, which can be a great way to meet new friends who can relate to your challenges.
 Don't bundle up pain and emotions inside. You should remember your arthritis is not your fault, and it is alright to feel angry, sad, or frustrated with your disease.There are many ways that you can express and manage your emotions in a healthy way.


Write in a journal.Vent to close friends .
Talk to your school psychologist or a therapist.
 Don't let your arthritis control your life. Make sure people know you as more than just "the kid with arthritis." You can still be a girly-girl, rocker, punk, or jock. Arthritis is a medical condition, and you can still express your personality in whatever way that you want.
 If you have to use braces or other devices during the day, you may feel as though your style is defined by your illness. It is easy to find clothing that is both easy for you to put on while still looking good.


Instead of dealing with buttons, try putting on a pullover sweater. These will be easy for you to take on and off. Plus they come in a range of styles. You can choose one with your favorite band, a funny saying, or a bright print.You can still buy cute shoes, as long as they are flat and provide good support.You might want to put inserts in them to help with arthritis in lower extremities. You should, however, avoid wearing heels.If you find it difficult to button or zip up pants, try to find pants that have an elastic waistband. These come in many styles — you can even find jeans with elastic waistbands. If you are a girl, you may also try wearing leggings or tights. These can be worn under tunics or dresses, and they add some depth to your outfit.Guys should look into joggers made of different materials, like twill.
 Positivity not only improves your outlook on life, but it will help you get through painful flares.Try writing down a list of ten things you love about your life. When you are feeling depressed or frustrated by your condition, try reading over this list. You might even want to add to it. Some things you may want to ask yourself include:


Do you have supportive parents?
Do you have good friends?
Do you have a beloved pet?
What hobbies do you get to do?
What are your dreams and aspirations?

