 Exotic plants offer some really great architectural elements to the garden. When planning your garden, think about using some tall, striking plants such as Gunnera, Dicksonia Antarctica (which grows up to 3m in height) or Cordyline, that add both height and texture to the garden.;
, A mix of colors and textures is often particularly successful in an exotic garden. For example, try mixing green spiky plants such as Agave together with softer textured silver or blue grasses, and the striking red flowers of Bromeliad or Hibiscus.
 Add some mid-height plants such as Colocasia and Strelitzia (Bird of Paradise), as well as smaller lower-growing ones such as small Aloes. A few climbers such as Passionflower, Kiwi or Hedera will soften the look of the garden over time.
 Exotic plants will be complemented by plants that aren’t strictly exotic, but look as if they could be. Examples include Japanese Painted Ferns or Sweet Potato Vine.
 Remember to include evergreens for year-round interest, or your garden will look very bare over the winter months. Fatsia japonica or bamboo will provide year-round color and interest.
 Exotic plants will generally do better in a sunny, sheltered spot with rich well-drained soil. However, no matter how sheltered or sunny your garden is, it’s important to keep in mind that many varieties of exotic plants will need protection over the winter months.
 When you design your garden, it’s important to think about how you are going to overwinter your plants, or if you plan on overwintering them at all.


If you are growing Begonias, either treat them as annual plants (which live for one year only) or be prepared to bring them inside over the winter.
Plants such as Hibiscus or Bougainvillea will want to go into a greenhouse or conservatory for the coldest months of the year.
If you have limited space indoors, either be prepared to replace these plants every year or grow fewer of them.
 Mature banana plants and some species of palm can survive the winter outdoors in a sheltered position if wrapped up with something like rush screening or special plant wrapping fleece.


Design your garden so you can easily access these plants to wrap them when required. This means you should avoid planting underfoot so you don’t have to tread on other plants to access the plants that need wrapping.
You’ll also need access to all sides of the plant in order to wrap it up, so don’t plant it tight into a corner.
Once wrapped, the plant won’t be very attractive. Putting fairy lights inside the wrap can help raise the temperature inside on cold nights and also make it look more attractive.
 Young versions of palm and banana plants should be moved inside a greenhouse over the winter. If they are large and heavy, consider planting in large planters with trolley wheels attached. This makes it much easier to move them.
 Some exotic plants such as Bougainvilla and Passionflower will survive a mild winter outside from zones 8B and up. Consider making these hardier exotics the backbone of your garden.


This will minimize the work you need to do in the fall to prepare the garden for winter and help to keep your garden from looking completely desolate over the winter months.
The term "zones" refers the USDA plant hardiness scale, which divides the USA into 11 planting zones, according to their average annual minimum winter temperature. Find out which zone you live in by going to the National Gardening Association website and entering your zip code.
 Plants such as Caladium or Canna that grow from tubers or bulbs will benefit from being lifted and overwintered indoors. The bulbs or tubers can then be replanted outdoors again in spring.


Make sure you can easily access these plants to dig them up at the right time, or plant them in containers so you can locate them quickly and move them inside before winter.
 It’s important to remember that many tropical plants are poisonous and some, such as Caladium, can irritate the skin.


If you are concerned about children or animals eating or touching the plants, consider adding fencing to restrict their access, or choose plant varieties you know to be non-toxic.
 Avoid planting spiky plants close to seating areas or walkways, as these may catch in your clothing and cause a tear.


Additionally, children may cut or prick their fingers by grabbing onto sharp or prickly leaves.
 Plants that drop their leaves, flowers or fruit may be annoying if planted over decking or walkways as they can make the surface slippery and require regular cleaning up.

