 Depending on how much clove you like, you can do a clove:tobacco ratio of anywhere from 1:3 to 2:3. Any more than that and it will not burn properly. Use Ceylon cloves if you can find them, one source is www.penzeys.com. There is a taste and smell difference.;
, A clove is actually a dried flower. Cut between the sepals (four little points) and petals, which are just the little ball at the end (see diagram). This will usually make a surprisingly clean cut if done with patience and a good sharp paring knife. If you like the exploding end do this, otherwise don't bother

, The characteristic crackling sound of kreteks is actually the petal-ball burning, which is why we try to leave it either intact or in large pieces. It is also where the onomatopoetic Indonesian word "kretek" comes from! Coarse grinding the whole clove does a good job, and it still crackles nicely

, Whatever you're using to grind them. As opposed to the petals, we want this part to be ground up finely so that it will burn properly. Djarum Blacks were predominantly ground cloves, a very course grind. An electric coffee grinder ran for about 20 seconds is about perfect

, Here is what the proportions should look like for a 1:3 clove:tobacco ratio.If you are using a table top injector, do not bother pre-mixing, load 1/3 tobacco, a layer of ground clove, then another third tobacco

, However, if you want to flavor the entire mix, which is what most kretek companies do, you will want to proceed to the next few steps.
 So pick your liquid and add it at the ratio of approx. 1:8 liquid:dry ingredients in a bowl. I think I probably usually use about 1:7, but it depends on how strong you want it, how long you want to wait, and what you're using to dry it.
 The dry ingredients will absorb the flavors during this time.
 Mix it up time to time so that it dries evenly. Time to dry varies, but it can be just a little crispy when you take it out.


Another option is to put the mix in a Pyrex/heat-safe bowl in a fondue set. Make sure you stir the mixture more often, as it is hotter and thus dries more quickly. Sounds crazy but it works!
Yet another option is to just let it sit out in the air, but this takes a while.
 Don't be surprised if your mixture darkens after adding a darker liquid. (Not every part in the image is individually labeled. i.e. The petal-balls are labeled, but not all of them. The ground clove is labeled, but not all of it, etc.) Time to roll it up or pack a pipe! Mmm, Enjoy!

, Also on choice of tubes, use a Vera Cruz Nocturne (brown color, almost like a Djarum Special), or a Vera Cruz Midnight (Black almost just like the Djarum Blacks). A sprinkle of ground nutmeg also works to get it closer to the Djarum Blacks. If you really like the sweetness those had dip the filter end in a solution of saccharine water. Saccharine is available at most grocers, in tablet form, just grind up and dissolve, let the cigarette dry overnight before smoking.
 The Filter dip mixture is actually sugar, maple and licorice. Real kreteks do not use any artificial ingredients, and have prided themselves in that aspect.

