 If you have never stepped on a board before, you might want to research on the web what you want. For beginners,consider bigger softer wheels and a wider deck for more stability and less getting stuck on cracks. If you are more experienced, you might want smaller harder wheels and thinner deck (for easier flipping)and more concave if you starting tricks and are comfortable with riding.;
, If it was your friend who convinced you to get a skateboard ask him/her where he/she got his/hers (There is a lot of his/her stuff available). If you are just beginning skateboarding you probably want a lower priced medium-quality board. The best places to look for these kind boards are probably places like Target, sporting shops, and maybe Toys r us and Walmart. If more experienced consider local skate shops.
 Try going on a skateboard looking day one day and have your parents drive you to different stores in a day or two. Compare prices, quality, designs, and how awesome they are to you with other stores. Remember, don't be in a rush to buy a board. Take your time. You don't have to buy a board on that day. Be patient. Better wait a week and get an awesome board then hurry and get a terrible board.
 Try spinning the wheel. If won't even budge maybe try a different one. But remember the wheels can still roll when you stand on it. Make sure the board has concave ( the curves on top of a board )unless you like it flat so much enough to sacrifice tricks (almost impossible to do tricks when flat).Make sure the wheels are even with the board so when you put the skateboard on its side the top is even with the wheels. Check how grippy the griptape is (black thing on top). Also you are good with the design, right? Don't feel obliged to buy the best wheel spinner board if you don't like the design. If you like a design on a different board its still probably okay if its over the $10 mark ( complete boards should cost from $35 to $85 US dollars. custom around $120). make sure you DO NOT buy the 'extra safe' boards or the 'safety first' boards etc etc etc you get my point. They are absolutely the worst. They are flat, terrible grip, bad wheels, horrible turning. The only way it is safe is because you probably won't even make it out your garage with that kind of board. They are inviting though because they usually have the best graphics.
 For experienced the best would probably be Element,Plan B, Flip, Darkstar, Zoo York, Zero and many more.

