 If you have a puppy, it's fairly easy to determine its age by examining its teeth. Teeth start developing during a puppy's first year. The stage of teeth development is tied to a puppy's approximate age.At one month old, teeth will have just started pushing through the gums.
At five months, a puppy will have a full set of teeth near the front of the mouth.
By seven months, a puppy will have developed molars in the back of the mouth.
When a puppy reaches a year old, you should notice ridges or bumps on both the lower and upper top front teeth.;
, As a dog ages, their teeth change. Changes in teeth can help you assess a dog's approximate age.Ridges on the top four incisors change as a dog ages. Between three and four, your dog will still have some ridges but they will have worn away considerably. A small amount of ridges on the front four teeth indicate your dog is between three and four.
By seven, a dog's teeth are completely smooth.
 Older dogs tend to be less energetic than younger dogs. Senior dogs often have small benign lumps on the body. They will also be less interested in playing than younger dogs. They are generally less muscular than younger dogs., Cloudy eyes are a sign of cataracts. If your dog shows other signs of aging, such as smooth teeth and low energy, cataracts can help you confirm your dog is older than seven. However, some dogs develop cataracts young due to genetic reasons., Fur color often changes as a dog ages. However, fur color is not the best means of determining age. However, when taken into account with other factors like teeth, fur may help determine a dog's age. Most dogs have some graying fur past the age of five. Graying hair is typically found around the muzzle.Some dogs gray as early as two, depending on their environment and genetic makeup. Fur color can help confirm a dog is older when taken into consideration alongside other factors, like teeth and activity level. It should not be used as the sole means to determine a dog's age.
 Larger breeds tend to have shorter lifespans. They may show signs of aging younger than smaller dogs. Great Danes, for example, typically live around seven years while Chihuahuas live around 13 years. A bigger dog may show signs of aging early. In general, you can assume a big dog showing significant signs of aging is around six or seven while a small dog can be assumed to be ages 10 or up.