 One way to work smart is to work your way through big projects by tackling smaller, manageable parts. This helps you beat excess stress and fend off procrastination. Plus, as you complete each part, you gain a greater sense of self-efficacy and confidence in your abilities.


Look at the project as a whole and decide how it can be divided into several steps. What should be done first? Second? Third?
Create an action plan that allows you to complete each section in a logical order. Once every section is complete, review the project in its entirety before submitting.
 An effective strategist knows that continual growth requires taking a step back and reassessing one's methods. It also means seeking feedback from others. Getting input from others brings awareness to what's working or not working. It also reinforces the idea that success is a team effort.


Be specific in your request. Ask, "How do you suggest I handle this task?" or "How do you think I can improve my client relationships?"Whether you agree or disagree with the response, paraphrase the feedback so that the person knows you received it (e.g. "So, you're saying I need to..."). Then, thank the person for his input. It can be very effective to seek input from a range of sources--superiors and subordinates alike.
 Good strategists are highly impactful leaders. One technique that helps you to maximize that effectiveness is delegation. When you are tackling a difficult project in which a team member has the skills to assist, reach out for help. This strategy can greatly improve your performance and productivity.


Delegation is an effective strategy because it enables those who are properly suited for specific tasks to handle them accordingly. That way you are not wasting time trying to retrain or learn new skills that someone on your team already has.
Another reason to delegate is to give other team members a chance to learn tasks that you do repeatedly, and, therefore, have already mastered.
Let's say you have a big project that needs marketing, statistics, and writing work in order to be completed. You might reach out to your best people in those categories. Doing so will ensure that the project receives the most capable hands on deck.
 A good strategist does not try to be the smartest man in the room. He does, however, know the smartest man in the room. Successful, effective people resonate an energy that is contagious. If you surround yourself with people who are empowering, resourceful, and motivated, you will be, too.


If you are not convinced that those you spend time with influence you, consider this. There is a popular personal development concept that describes any person as being the average of the 5 people you spend the most time with.Even if the metrics are not accurate, you have to know that others' good--and bad--habits can rub off on you. So, spend time with people who embody the qualities you, too, would like to possess.

