 You want to ensure that the bottles will be away from appliances that can cause changes in temperature and vibration. You should also note whether people or pets often bump into a kitchen cabinet, before you choose that space.


If you don't have any kitchen cabinets that meet these specifications, consider installing an island in your kitchen. Half of the island can be used for food prep or cook book storage, while the other half can be dedicated to a wine rack.;
, People who drink chilled white wines regularly may want to choose a chilled wine rack. You must choose a model that is specified for under-counter use, because it will vent in the front, rather than in the back.
 These 2 shelf wine racks are metal. They can be ordered on several sites on the Internet and then installed easily under a wall cabinet or at the top inside a large floor cabinet.
 Measure the area so you can start to shop for wine racks.
 Websites like idealwinecoolers.com have many styles of wine coolers that match specific cabinetry. Compare your measurements to the appliances to find a good fit.
 If you want a wooden wine rack that matches your cabinets or counter, then hiring a professional to create a rack to your specifications is the best option. Call several woodworkers with information about the wood you would like, the measurements and the number of wine bottles you would like it to hold, and then compare quotes.


Cabinet makers are trained in doing semi-custom cabinetry. If you have purchased a rack or cooler and you want to incorporate it into the look of your kitchen, they may be able to make and install panels that match your kitchen counter or shelving.
 Look for models that can be mounted, so that you can fill in the entire cabinet space with racks. These racks are often made of wood or particle board, and you can buy as many racks as you need to fill the space.
 You can find wire wine racks that rest on the floor of your cabinet or are mounted from the top. Search for "wine storage" online, and take into account the weight of the bottles and sturdiness of your counter before installing a rack.
 If you are redoing your kitchen, you can choose stock or semi-custom kitchen cabinets from home improvement stores or cabinet makers that feature pre-made wine racks, vertical shelving and more. You can customize your kitchen with very little added cost by installing it as part of a new kitchen cabinet set.

