 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has pictures of different football players. Tap on it.
 Tap the cards icon on the rightmost part of the bottom toolbar. You will be brought to the screen with your current inventory of cards.
 You can view your cards sorted differently. There are several sorting options available. Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner to bring down the list of sorting options.



Sort by Club—Tap “Club” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted by their clubs or teams, e.g., Manchester United, Newcastle United, Hull City.

Sort by Position—Tap “Position” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted by their football positions, e.g., Defender, Forward, Goalkeeper.

Sort by Rarity—Tap “Parallel” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted by their rarity in the game app, e.g., Super Rare, Rare, Common.

Sort by Heat Index—Tap “Heat Index” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted by the heat indexes of the players, e.g., Hot, Warm, Cold.

Sort by Season PTS—Tap “Season PTS” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted by the season points scored by the players.

Sort by Matches—Tap “Games” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted by the scheduled real-world football games the players play.

Sort by Duplicates—Tap “Duplicates” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted with the most number of duplicates at the top.

Sort by Date Acquired—Tap “Date Acquired” from the drop-down list under Sort. Your cards will be grouped and sorted based on when you’ve acquired them, with the most recent ones at the top.
 You can further filter the view of your cards by identifying the players’ statuses. There are several filters available. Tap the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner, and you’ll find the list of filter options below the sorting options. You can filter your cards by tapping on the years they were made or years your players are active in the game.


For instance, tapping “Playing Now” will display all the cards of players currently active, while tapping on “2013-2014 Cards” will display all the cards from 2013-2014 season.

