 Encourage your child to pick a sport he or she enjoys for the fun of the game instead of what you think will bring community recognition or your own sense of pride.When investigating local sports programs, compare leagues and community teams. Often leagues have try outs that may be stressful for kids, while community teams through the local Parks and Rec offer more inclusive teams.
Most communities have sports teams for children with disabilities as well, so explore all the options to find a program that offers the best possible experience for your child.
Be open to your teen trying a new sport and not being forced to play the same sport each year if it is no longer fun for him or her.;
, Focus on strong role models that are also humble and active in the community. It is easy to focus on the athletes who are in the headlines, but there are also many local fan favorites in lower leagues that are more accessible. Find athletes that are focused on professional and fair sportsmanship instead of showboating.Give an older teen the opportunity to also be a role model for younger players. A high school baseball team would gain great perspective on the game by volunteering with the local pre-school-aged special needs t-ball league. You will find the little players idolize the older players and the older players gain from the volunteer time.
 Pushing your son or daughter too hard may drive him or her to give up and quit. Always model a positive attitude about the outcome of the game, regardless if it is a win or loss. Find positive plays to talk about and the game as a whole –both good and bad plays—and discuss lessons to be learned. The team should not be punished or belittled for a loss. While you can point out parts of the game that need to practice to improve, physical or verbal punishments are not OK.
 You cannot expect your son or daughter to respect the coaches if you are not treating them like they are deserving of respect. At the end of each game make it a point to shake hands with the coaches and thank them for their efforts. Just as the players shake hands with the other team after the game, you, too, should be modeling good sportsmanship., Don’t sulk or become passive aggressive. Even if you are not aware of it, your children are watching how you react to your own mistakes as well as the mistakes of other people.


It may not seem like that big of a deal to get really upset about a poor round of golf, but this just shows your kids the game is all about winning., Some of the biggest competition for your young player can come from his or her own team if the focus is on being the best individual player. Your player needs to understand what it means to be on a team and encourage others on the team. This can be as simple as cheering others on or taking extra time to help another teammate practice.


Encourage your teen to help other players with skills he or she has mastered. Also, use the same approach for areas he or she may need practice in, encourage team members to help one another.
Focus on the process over results. Recognize growth and progress instead of just wins., While it may not always be possible to cheer for both teams, there are going to be plays that are pretty amazing for the other team you can cheer on. Make a special point of making positive comments in the moment to members of the other team to model good sportsmanship.


Attend a game for a local team of younger kids with your teen just to cheer them on. This will help remind you both about the fun parts of the game and how great being part of a team feels. Make it a point to teach strategy and focus on the good you can learn from other teams., Remind your teen that the other team and families are just like you—they are there to enjoy the game. In the event that you run across a parent who is aggressive or angry about something game related, do not get dragged into a confrontation. The best thing you can do is ignore the negative behavior and not give it an audience., Encourage networking with other families and build a positive community. Involve the whole family in cheering the team on, celebrate each game and start meaningful traditions. An example would be going out for pizza to celebrate each game, not just each win.Cheering on your teen can be fun if you focus on making it about the enjoyment of the game and not always about winning. Encourage your family and your teen to do nice things for the team and cheer on teammates.
 There may be times that you do not model the best behavior. But recognize that each one of those times is a chance to learn and grow for both you and your teen. Don’t be afraid to use your mistakes as a learning opportunity for your son or daughter by apologizing for the misstep and talking through how you can do better.


Encourage your teen to also talk through his or her mistakes. Learn together., Your job as a parent is very different than a job as a coach. As a parent, you are there to guide all of your child’s experiences and not focus on demanding performance. If you see a coach demanding too much, speak up. You are also an advocate for your son or daughter if needed.If you are the coach, don’t be harder on your kid than others. A coach should be fair and this means for all the players even your own.
Even if you are the coach, you are also always the parent first. Your child should not be treated tougher nor should he or she get a “free pass” on negative behavior.
 You cannot expect your teen to develop good sportsmanship if you are angry when things don’t play out the way you want them to. Regardless of how important any game appears, this is still just a game. Putting stress and pressure on your player to be perfect or fight harder can end the fun for him or her.
 A good sport does not need to hurt others to build himself or herself up. Congratulate the other team on a win. Find meaningful strategies used by the other team and teach them to your athlete.Do not tolerate poor sportsmanship from your teen or yourself. Remember, you can learn something from every other player.

