 If your son is old enough to understand that you need to take a urine sample, it is possible he may be uncomfortable or resistant to providing a sample. Such resistance can cause stress to the child and the parent who is trying to collect the sample, so preparing the child ahead of time can help make the test go smoothly., Tell your son that the test will not hurt or cause him any physical discomfort, and reassure him that you will be there to guide him through the test., For boys, the urine test can be turned into a game, which will make your son more comfortable and perhaps even eager to complete the test correctly.


Tell him to think of the test as target practice. Learning to urinate in the toilet is part of toilet training, so tell him that urinating into the test cup is the same thing. Come up with a fun reward for your son for when he "hits the target" during the urine collection.When the test is for protein in the urine, tell your son that the nurse or doctor will have to dip a special paper strip into the urine for a color test. Ask the doctor or nurse if your son can watch the strip being dipped and have your son guess what color the strip will turn., You can minimize stress for your son and for yourself if you do the following:


Come prepared. Ask when you make your son's doctor's appointment whether a urine sample will be required. This way you can try to avoid having your child urinate right before the appointment. You should also ask if the urine sample must be a "clean catch" (a sterile specimen) so that you can practice having your son wipe with sterile towelettes before the appointment.Explain the test to your son. Telling your son that he will have to provide a urine sample prior to the doctor's appointment and then explaining the test to him in a reassuring, calm manner will also help prepare your son. Explain that even grown-ups collect a sample of urine this way when their doctors ask them to. Assure them this is a normal test and that it is not difficult.Give your son water prior to the test. Encouraging your son to drink plenty of water before your visit to the doctor's office can help him to urinate when it is time to collect the sample.Having an empty bladder and being unable to urinate may cause your son to feel pressured or stressed during the test, so make things easier for him by getting him to drink liquids beforehand.
Simplify the test procedure. Ask the doctor's office which supplies they offer to make the collection as easy as possible. A receptacle placed in the toilet, such as a bedpan, can be simpler and more familiar for a child than catching urine in a cup.Follow your doctor's recommendations for how to simplify the test.

