






The center leg has adjustable heights and pin holes for the heights of 1.5 M (5 ft), 1.8 M (6 ft), and 2.0 M (6.5 ft). The maximum height for this setting is 2.0 M (6.5 ft).
 Once pin is inserted, lock the center leg by tightening the black knob.
 Adjust the three legs of the tripod to get it level, using the level on the control rod. The leg of the SECO tripod that has a brass screw must be tightened with the pinky finger and the thumb to avoid stripping the brass threads.


It may be easier to attach cables to the base receiver (base receiver is marked with a “tx” with permanent tape or permanent marker) BEFORE placing the base receiver on top of the SECO tripod. As the tripod can get quite tall if set to the maximum height of 2.0m.
, Make sure you wiggle the brass piece on top of the tripod to secure it in place and tighten with brass screw underneath the base plate. (Optional base extension may also be used. If using the port 2 cable, it will need to be used. It’s 0.25m (9 in) in length and may be noted in the data collector for height of instrument.)

, Tripod may have to be moved while base receiver was attached.


There will be only two legs with loosening grips and one leg with a brass screw. Place one hand on the leg itself, and the other hand on the loosening grip.
,,


The third leg will have a brass screw and a black knob. Loosen both screw and black knob, level.
 Use the pinky finger and the thumb to tighten brass screw to avoid stripping the brass threads.


Put black carbon fiber rod together, by screwing the two pieces together.






Attach the small black antenna to the bottom of the rover receiver. (Rover receiver will be the last receiver in the case, and will be labeled with a "t" or a permanent marker)






Attach rover receiver to black carbon fiber rod.






Place black fiberglass rover rod into trimble bi-pod to sturdy it, and place it somewhere out of the way, or on a Bench Mark- (If placed on a bench mark-rover rod will need to be leveled as a shot will be taken on the point.


Attach the silver tip to the black rubber antenna.






Attach black rubber antenna to the black antenna base. This will have a long antenna cable attached to it.






Attach it to the long yellow antenna mount. Fully extend the yellow antenna mount until a black button snaps into the hole on the bottom of the yellow antenna mount.






Attach yellow antenna mount to a standard tripod using the black washer provided to prevent the antenna from falling through the tripod.
Place the external radio on the standard tripod and attach antenna cable to the back of the radio. The antenna cable must be the first cable you hook up to the external radio, and the last cable to be removed. This is to release the energy through the antenna, and avoid electrocution of the radio.

Behind the external radio are two settings: Low (2 watts) and High (35 watts).
The setting should be at Low (2 watts) for smaller surveys and High (35 watts) for extended range for larger surveys. Place the setting at Low for now.



Connect one of the ends of the black lemo cable to the lithium “cow bell” battery.

Remove the cables from the large battery pouch. Because Trimble provided two different types of cables to gain a connection from the base receiver to the external radio, it’s important to know both ways. The two ways to connect the base receiver to the external radio are labeled option 1 and option 2.



