 There are a number of different herbal approaches to treat ulcer pain. Talk to your physician first before trying these remedies. In general, these are all very safe, but it is best to be certain they are safe for you.Combining these herbal approaches with the lifestyle modifications listed should significantly improve how you feel.
If your symptoms worsen or if new symptoms develop, stop using herbal remedies immediately and talk to your doctor.
If you are pregnant, speak to your physician about using any of the herbs listed.
 Aloe juice decreases inflammation and acts to neutralize the stomach acid, reducing pain. You can drink ½ cup (100 ml) of organic aloe vera juice twice a day if you are experiencing pain.Aloe vera also comes in tablet or gel form. Use as directed on the package.
Since aloe vera can act as a laxative, limit it to a total of one to two cups a day. Do not use aloe vera if you have chronic intestinal problems, such as Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, or irritable bowel syndrome., This method uses your own body’s acid sensors to tell it to shut down acid production. To do this, add one tablespoon of organic apple cider vinegar to six ounces of water. Drink the mixture once a day.You only need to do this once a day, but daily use may lead to more relief over time.
The vinegar doesn’t have to be organic, but it does have to be apple cider vinegar. Other vinegars just don’t work as well as ACV.
 Make you own lemonade, limeade, or lemon-limeade. Mix a few teaspoons of pure lemon and/or lime juice into as much water as you would like. If you want, you can add a bit of honey to the drink. Drink this before, during, and after meals.Citrus is acidic, and too much of it may make your ulcers worse. Small, doses diluted with water may help, however. For example, one tablespoon of lemon juice with eight ounces of water may prevent pain when drunk twenty minutes before a meal.The extra acid in the lemon and lime juice tells your body to shut down acid production by a process called “feedback inhibition.”

, When you are feeling ulcer pain, snack on an apple. The pectin in the apple skin acts as a natural antacid., Herbal teas can help soothe your stomach and reduce ulcer pain. Teas made from ginger, fennel, and chamomile are good choices.Ginger acts an an anti-inflammatory and soothing agent for the stomach. It can also help with nausea and vomiting. You can buy ginger tea bags or make your own from fresh ginger. To make fresh ginger tea, cut up about one teaspoon of fresh ginger. Add the ginger to boiling water. Steep for about five minutes. Pour into a mug and drink. Do this anytime during the day, but especially about 20 to 30 minutes before meals.
Fennel helps settle the stomach and decreases the acid levels. To make a fennel tea, crush about a teaspoon of fennel seeds. Add the seeds to a cup of boiled water. Add honey to taste. Drink two to three cups a day about 20 minutes before meals.
Chamomile tea can calm the stomach and reduce stomach pain by acting as an anti-inflammatory agent. You can buy bags of chamomile tea from any store that sells tea.
Ginger tea is considered safe for pregnant women.
 Cranberry may be able to prevent the growth of H. pylori in your stomach. To get the benefits of cranberries, you can eat cranberry foods, drink cranberry juice, or take extracts.


Cranberry contains Salicylic Acid. If you are allergic to aspirin, do not eat cranberry.
Cranberry may interfere with some medications, such as Coumadin (warfarin). Talk to your doctor before taking cranberry extracts., Deglycyrrhizinated licorice root (DGL) works very well to heal the stomach and control hyperacidity and ulcer pain. It is available as chewable tablets, and the taste might take some getting used to.Follow manufacturer’s instructions — this usually means two to three tablets every four to six hours.
 Slippery elm coats and soothes irritated tissues. Try it either as a three to four ounce drink or as a tablet. Make sure to follow the manufacturer’s directions for the tablets.Slippery elm can have serious side effects and should not be taken if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.

