 Comb out your hair so that it is smooth and frizz free. Begin from the ends and work your way up to the roots. If your hair is frizzy, try applying a bit of hair oil or smoothing cream.
 Start gathering your hair at just above eyebrow level or so. You will start braiding this hair chunk first.
 Smooth each section that you divide so that it will be neat in your braid. Hold the right section with your right hand and the left strand section in your left hand.









You can also use mini claw-clips to hold each section separate.
 Cross the right section over the middle section so that it becomes the middle section. Next, cross the left section over the new middle section. You do not need to standard-braid any further.









If you want to do a Dutch or reverse French braid, cross the right/left sections under the middle sections instead of over. This will created a "lifted" look for your braid.
 Gather a ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) wide strand of hair from your hairline. Add it to the right section. It is now part of the right section.
 The right section is now in the middle. What used to be the middle section is now on the outside.









If you are doing a Dutch or reverse French braid, cross the right section under the middle section instead of over.
 Gather a ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) wide strand of hair from your hairline. Add it to the left section. It is now part of the left section.
 The left section is now in the middle. What used to be the middle section is now on the outside.









If you are doing a Dutch or reverse French braid, cross the left section under the middle section instead of over.
 Keep adding thin strands of hair to the right and left sections before you cross them over/under to the middle.









Try to smooth down each section just after you cross it over. This will give you a neater braid.
Try to keep the braid as tight as possible at this point.
 When you reach the nape of your hair, you can tie your French/Dutch braid off with a hair elastic, or continue braiding standard fashion.









If you decide to continue braiding, keep the braid as tight as you can. You can muss it up later, after you have tied it off, to make it look looser.
 Whether you decide to end your braid at the nape of your neck, or at the last few inches/centimeters of your hair, you will need to tie it off. Choose a hair tie that closely matches your hair color, and wrap it around the end of your braid enough times so that it does not slide off.
 This will help hide the hair tie. You can also add a hairclip or silk flower instead. Here are some more ideas to get you started:


Let the season inspire you. Tuck a silk hibiscus flower into your braid during the summer. Wear a hairclip made from leather in the fall.
Let the holiday inspire you. If it is around Halloween, clip an orange and black bow to the end of your braid. If you want, you can even glue a plastic spider to the center of the bow.
Match the decoration to your outfit. If you are wearing an elegant dark blue evening gown with silver embellishments, a delicate silver hairclip with clear/white crystals might look lovely.
Match the decoration to the event. If you are attending a school rally or sports event, consider wearing a ribbon in your braid that matches your school or favorite team's colors.

