 Essential oils can soothe the skin, treat inflammation, and even reduce the size of the bite. Be aware of which essential oils work well with your skin (and skin type), as lavender oil, for example, may work wonders in treating mosquito bites but might also attract bees.


Tea tree oil is a great dermatological medicine. Not only does it help treat dandruff, athlete's foot, and acne, it also acts as an anti-inflammatory, itch-reliever, and contains antiviral properties that help ward off infection.Like tea tree oil, lavender oil can help treat swelling, reduce inflammation, and relieve the itching sensation associated with mosquito bites.Lavender oil, also like tea tree oil, may ward off other mosquitoes. Unlike tea tree oil, it may also attract bees.
 Peel a banana and save the banana for later. (You could eat it to keep your mind off of the bite!) Treat the area first with hand sanitizer, and then hold the inside (meat side) of the banana peel on the bite for 5-10 minutes, rubbing the peel onto the skin occasionally. The banana peel should relieve the itch and dry the skin out quickly., Mix one tablespoon of water with one tablespoon of dry meat tenderizer powder to make a paste. Apply the paste to affected areas.


Meat tenderizer powder, which contains papain or bromelain, helps draw out the venom of insect bites, or in this case, draw out the saliva from the mosquito bite, reducing the itching sensation.The enzymes that tenderize meat, papain or bromelain, can also be found in several natural ingredients: bromelain can be found in the juice and stem of pineapples,while papain can be found in papaya and mountain papaya.If you don't have meat tenderizer handy, but you are equipped with papaya or pineapple, cut out a piece of the meat of either fruit and apply to skin in a pinch.
 Place some clear nail polish on the mosquito bite and let dry for five minutes. Peel the nail polish off, reapplying if needed.
 Apple cider vinegar is a great itch-reliever of mosquito bites because of its acidity. The pH of cider vinegar is slightly less acidic, helping it "balance out" the pH of itchy red skin.There are two ways to apply the cider vinegar to the bite to relieve the itch:


In a liquid solution:

Mix equal parts warm water and apple cider vinegar.
Soak a cotton ball in the solution and apply to bites.
Hold for a minute or two and let dry. Reapply as necessary.


In a paste:

Mix equal parts apple cider vinegar and cornflour.
Apply paste to bites and allow to dry.
Wash off with warm water.



