 The Chrome menu icon is located next to your address bar and is positioned to the far right.


The icon itself looks like three horizontal lines stacked on one another.
From this icon, you can access a variety of tools, settings, bookmarks, and nearly any other information pertaining to Google Chrome.;
, This option is listed in the middle of the Chrome menu that pops up from the menu button.


"Tools" is located eleventh from the top, at the bottom of the fourth section. It has a right-pointing arrow next to the word.



"Clear browsing data..." is located at the bottom of the second divided section of the "Tools" sub-menu. It is the fourth option overall.
Once you select this option, the “Clear browsing data” dialogue box should pop up.
 The "Clear browsing data" dialogue box has a number of checkboxes for you to check, and each will clear a certain type of Internet data when selected. If you only want to clear the cache, only select the tickbox next to "Empty the cache."


This checkbox should be third from the top.
You can also select other options if you want to clear more than your cache.
"Clear browsing history" will erase any record of the websites you have visited and "clear download history" will erase any record of the downloads you have made.
"Delete cookies and other site and plug-in data" will wipe out all data sent to your browser from a website. Likewise, "Clear data from hosted apps" will wipe out any information saved to your computer from various third-party applications, and "Deauthorize content licenses" will revoke any permissions granted to third-party sources.
"Clear saved passwords" will erase any passwords saved to your personalized Chrome settings and "Clear saved Autofill form data" will erase any information, such as contact information, that you saved to your personalized account for the purpose of quickly filling out Internet forms.
 Above the tickboxes is a sentence beginning, "Obliterate the following items from." In order to erase your entire cache, you should select "the beginning of time" from the drop-down menu next to this sentence.


Other options include "the past hour," "the past day," "the past week," and "the last 4 weeks." Selecting any of these other options will only erase your cache from within that window of time. Anything prior to that time period will still be retained.
 A button stating "Clear browsing data" should be located in the lower right corner of the dialogue box. Click on this button to finish clearing your cache.


Note that this step is final. There is no “undo” feature to return your cache to how it was prior to clearing it.

