 There are two international airports in Kerala. You can also fly into a larger city and take a train into Kerala depending on flight rates.Thiruvananthapuram International Airport and Kochi International Airport are both located in Kerala. If you can find affordable tickets, you should try to fly directly into Kerala. This will minimize travel time and allow you to begin experiencing the state right away.
If flights directly to Kerala are not in your price range, you can fly into another larger city like Deli, Mumbai, or Calcutta. Flight rates tend to fluctuate throughout the year, and sometimes a flight to a nearby city may be cheaper than one into Kerala. From here, you can take a train into Kerala. This may save you some money, depending on flight rates, but you'll have to weigh the inconvenience of extra travel time. It may take a day or more to actually get into Kerala. If you're going on a short trip, paying extra to get directly into Kerala may be worth the money.
 If you don't have family or friends in Kerala, you have two options for lodging: home stays or hotels. You can stay in a traditional hotel, or you can a home-stay. These are accommodations provided by locals, sort of similar to Couch Surfing in the United States. Much like Couch Surfing, websites provide information and ratings of locals providing home-stays.Home stays are great on a budget. They are generally cheaper than hotels, and food is often provided in addition to lodging. You also get a lot of insights into local culture, as you'll be staying with a local family.
If money is not an issue, or if you value privacy, you may want to opt for a hotel instead. Hotel prices vary by region, but with some dedication you can usually find reasonably priced hotels. Make sure to read reviews online, however, to make sure any hotel you choose has a solid reputation.
 It's fairly easy to travel from one region to the next making use of options like trains and busses. However, you'll want to plan your route before leaving. This will help you make sure you you can travel between regions.It's a good idea to plan on staying near a railroad while you're in Kerala. This way, you can take a train from one region to the next.
You should aim to take the train when possible, as bus routes are generally longer.
If you're only staying for a short time, book things like train tickets ahead of time whenever possible. Make a rough itinerary for yourself where you list which trains you'll be taking which days, and at what time. This will help you figure your entertainment options for each region. If you get into one region late one day, for example, certain attractions may be closed.

