 Damaged and narrowed arteries can simply be a result of age. Those 55 and older are at an increased risk. Of course, bad health choices—such as poor diet or not getting enough exercise—coupled with old age, can increase your chances of developing the disease as well., Generally speaking, men are more likely to develop CHD than women. However, even women are at an increased risk once they finish menopause.Women also typically have less severe, atypical symptoms of CHD. They tend to have sharper, burning chest pain, and are more likely to experience pain in their neck, jaw, throat, abdomen, or back. If you are a woman who experiences any abnormal sensations or pains in your chest or shoulders, or if you have trouble breathing, talk with your doctor as these could be early warning signs of CHD., If any close relatives had a history of heart disease, then you are at a higher risk for CAD. If a father or brother was diagnosed earlier than age 55 or if a mother or sister was diagnosed before age 65, then you are at the highest risk., Smoking is one of the primary culprits for most CHD cases. Cigarettes contain nicotine and carbon monoxide, both of which force the heart and lungs to work harder. Other chemicals in cigarettes can damage the integrity of your heart’s arterial lining. According to studies, when you smoke, you increase your chance of having CHD by 25%.Even using e-cigarettes ("vaping") can have a similar effect on your heart. For your health, avoid all forms of nicotine., Consistently high blood pressure can cause hardening and thickening in your arteries. This narrows the channel for blood flow and makes the heart work harder to circulate blood through the body, resulting in a greater risk for CHD.A range for normal blood pressure is 90/60 mm Hg to 120/80 mm Hg. Blood pressure isn't always the same and can vary in a short period of time., People with diabetes have blood that is thicker and more viscous, which is harder to pump through the body, meaning your heart has to work overtime. People with diabetes also have thicker atrial walls in the heart, which means that the heart’s passageways can block more easily., High cholesterol results in the buildup of plaque on the atrial walls of your heart.High cholesterol also means that there will be more fat deposits placed in your blood vessels,making your heart sluggish and more prone to disease.


Both high levels of LDL (so-called “bad” cholesterol) and low levels of HDL (“good” cholesterol) can also result in atherosclerosis., Obesity (a BMI of 30 or greater) typically worsens other risk factors since obesity is tied to high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and developing diabetes., Stress can cause your heart to work harder because your nervousness and stressed excitement makes your heart beat faster and heavier. People who are always stressed out are much more likely to develop heart-related diseases. Stress increases your risk of blood clots and causes your body to release hormones that raise your blood pressure, too.Turn to healthy sources of stress relief, such as yoga, Tai Chi, and meditation.
Daily aerobic exercise not only strengthens your heart, it can relieve stress.Avoid turning to unhealthy substances such as alcohol, caffeine, nicotine, or junk food to deal with stress.Massage therapy may help you battle stress.