 This trick works for the mobile version of the game, not the browser version. If you start the level and you don't see any good moves, stop. Before you make any moves, hit the "back" button on your phone, and, if prompted about whether you truly want to exit, tap "yes." You should be back on the map screen. Re-enter the level and you'll have a different random assortment of blocks, but you'll still have the same number of lives! Use this to your advantage by resetting until you get a favorable selection of blocks at the start of the level (like, for instance, an easy setup for a vertical striped candy on the right side of the board.)


To be clear: you can reset the board by backing out of the level without making any moves and entering it again. This costs no lives. However, once you make a move, it will cost you a life to reset the level.
 If you've been using the Daily Booster Wheel, you will probably have at least a few boosters saved up. On level 77, you can use three: striped and wrapped candies, jellyfish, and color bomb. Each will give you an advantage — see below for more information.


Striped and wrapped candies: if you get a vertical striped candy, you'll be able to use it to hit the middle section. If your striped and wrapped candies drop near to each other, you can even combine them to get a valuable wrapped/striped combo.
jellyfish: arguably the best choice for this level. jellyfish automatically clear three jelly squares at random. Since some of the jelly squares in this level can be hard to hit, this can be very valuable. A smart strategy is to save your fish until the end of the level so that they'll have a better chance of hitting the squares you want them to.Color bomb: See the information on color bombs above. These can be valuable if there are lots of candies in the middle that are the same color.
 It's one thing to read about ways to beat level 77 — seeing these tips and tricks in action can make them much easier to grasp. Luckily, there are dozens of helpful videos out there full of tips for beating level 77 (and virtually every other difficult Candy Crush Saga level.)


One such video is provided below — others are easy to find on YouTube and other streaming sites.

