 Choose broccoli at the peak of broccoli season, in June or July. Look for broccoli with green, tight florets that have not begun to separate or turn yellow. Avoid broccoli with brown spots or bruises.;
, Make sure you remove any dirt, bugs or traces of pesticides.


If you live in an area where pests or broccoli worms are a problem, prepare a saltwater bath and soak the broccoli for half an hour. This will kill the bugs and cause them to rise to the surface. Discard the saltwater, rinse the broccoli, and proceed.






Remove all leaves from the broccoli.
 Slice the lower stem into chunks about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) thick - about the thickness of a water chestnut. Discard the woody end of the stem.
 Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, stir and let sit for about 5 minutes. Pour the lemon-water into the cooking pot.
 Using a steamer basket to measure, add enough water so that the steamer basket will sit about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the water. Remove the steamer basket after checking the water level.


If you don't have a steamer basket, just add enough water to cover the amount of broccoli you are processing.
 Covering the pot with a lid makes the water boil faster and conserves energy.
 Cover the pot and bring it back to full boil. Once boiling has resumed, steam the broccoli for 5 minutes.


If you aren't using a steamer basket, place the broccoli directly into the boiling water. Blanch it for two minutes, then remove it using a slotted spoon.
 Either place it under cold running water or plunge it into ice water.


If you aren't using a steamer basket, transfer the broccoli directly from the pot to a colander, then cool it.
 Use the steamer basket or pour the broccoli into a colander. Shake to remove excess water.
 Lay flat to freeze.

Put enough broccoli in each bag to make a meal for your family. This way you'll be able to defrost exactly as many as you need instead of the entire batch of broccoli. A rough measurement is one handful of florets per serving.






If you aren't using a vacuum sealer, close the zippered bag almost all the way. Insert a straw into the opening. Draw out the remaining air through the straw. Withdraw the straw as you finish sealing the bag.






Label the bags with the date you froze them. Use within 9 months for best taste and nutritional value.







