


Apply weather strip to the attic entrance door.






Fit fiberglass insulation around electrical wires.






Caulk around plumbing fixtures and vents where there is a gap. Water might be leaking from these pipes; make sure to check.






Seal the attic floor from the rest of the house. If you have an older home, this might involve packing insulation over the majority of the floor. There is no need to heat your attic during the winter, and the attic is one of the biggest offenders of air leakage.





;
,


Seal around heating ducts with caulking and cover it with insulation.






Place insulation around plumbing to prevent freezing pipes.






Focus on sealing basement windows with weather-stripping and caulk. The window frames in basements usually aren't as well kept as windows in other parts of the house.






Use a foam sealant to fill in holes in the foundation wall.



Inspect each door for cracks between the door and the wall. If you see light coming from the other side, the door needs to be weather-stripped.






Install window film over windows that seem to be allowing cold air inside. Window film can be purchased at hardware and home improvement stores for little money. It is clear plastic that is sealed around the window using a hair dryer to shrink the plastic.






Choose from a variety of weather stripping materials. Tension seals can be used on the tops and sides of doors as well as sliding windows. Felt can be fit into a doorjamb. Reinforced foam attaches easily to wooden windows. Tape can seal oddly shaped cracks. Rolled vinyl works on the bottom of doors.






Make sure all windows and doors are in proper working order. Broken windows are much harder to seal.






Weather-strip doors that lead to the outside, such as doors to the garage or patio.



Close the damper when the fireplace is not in use. If the damper does not close tightly, you should have it professionally repaired.






Stop the flue with a commercial fireplace plug if you do not plan on using the fireplace during the winter.



Uninstall window air conditioners and plug the holes. Air tends to leak between the cracks of window air conditioning units.






Confirm that your dryer vent is properly covered with a self-closing flap.






Apply caulk from the outside on windows you already caulked inside.
 This might include inadequate duct-work or improperly installed insulation.

