 Stress response syndrome is a short-term illness. This means that is it important for your loved one to set short-term goals as they deal with the disorder and receive treatment. Your loved one may come up with goals in therapy, but if not, help them set goals on their own.Goals may be about reaching out to friends and family, using coping skills learned in therapy, or implementing stress relieving techniques.
For example, you may help your loved one make a goal to call or text a family member or friend at least once a day. Another goal may be to do yoga four times each week.
Try asking your loved one, "What goals do you have? How about you make a goal to reach out to one family member at least once a day?"

, You may not understand what your loved one is going through. You may not understand how they cannot cope with what happened, especially if you have experienced a similar situation; however, your loved one is coping with the major life event in a very different way than you. This is okay — people respond to things in different ways. You should be understanding of how your loved one is reacting.Don’t judge your loved one for their inability to “get over it.” Your loved one won’t just suddenly move on. It will take them awhile to process and move on. Remind your loved one that you love them and support them.
For example, you may say, "I know you went through a major life change. I understand you are having difficulty dealing with this. I am here for you."

, One thing your loved one might need is a listening ear. Since stress response syndrome occurs after a major life change or stressor, your loved one may need to talk to someone about what has happened. Offer to let your loved one talk to you if they need to.Your loved one may need to talk about the event multiple times as they work through the feelings and process the change or what has happened.
Tell your loved one, “I am here if you need to talk. I will listen without judgment.”

, Though most cases of stress response syndrome are overcome within six months, this may not be everyone’s experience. Your loved one may have a harder time getting over the stress than someone else. Be patient with your loved one as they go through the recovery process. Don’t try to speed them up or tell them they aren’t trying hard enough. Let them recover at their own pace.If your loved one already has depression or an anxiety disorder or a substance abuse problem, they may take longer to recover or develop related mental disorders.
Tell your loved one, "Take your time to recover. Don't compare yourself to other people. You are recovering at your own pace."
If their symptoms persist for longer than six months, they may have generalized anxiety or some other diagnosis like a panic disorder that will need to be evaluated by their therapist and psychiatrist.
 People suffering from stress response syndrome may feel hopeless, depressed, and like nothing will ever get better. This may lead them to talk negatively about themselves and life. Try to discourage this kind of talk by reminding your loved one that they will get past this and be fine.For example, you may say, “I understand you feel this way because of what you went through; however, remember that this is only temporary and you will be fine.”

, Stress response syndrome may cause your loved one to want to spend a lot of time alone and do nothing. Encourage your loved one to see their friends and family and to stay active. You may want to ask your loved one to do things with you to get them out of their house or to help them do something active.Help your loved one get back into their favorite hobby, or help them find a new hobby to get involved in.
You may suggest that you and your loved one go to dinner, go to a movie, take a class together, or go for a walk. If the person is your partner, suggest a romantic outing or date night.
Try saying, "Let's go have dinner at your favorite place," or, "Why don't we meet a few friends for a movie?"

, Another way to help your loved one recovery from the major life event is through healthy routines. This includes regular exercise, healthy eating, and getting enough sleep. This can help your loved one deal with the stress and negative physical symptoms.Healthy eating means that you incorporate all food groups into your daily meal. Eat a lot of fruits and vegetables, healthy fats, lean protein, and complex carbohydrates. Refrain from eating processed food, refined sugar, and simple carbohydrates.
According to the President Council on Fitness Sports and Nutrition, you should try to get at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise five days a week. This can include brisk walking, jogging, bicycling, gardening, lifting weights, or dancing.
Your loved one should try to get seven to nine hours of sleep every night.

