 The tiniest bit of dust can cause irritation if lodged in your eye. If your eyes feel scratchy, do not rub them, as this might scratch your cornea.Instead, it is best to wash your eye. You can do this by placing eye drops or saline in your eye and blinking rapidly. For an even more effective wash:Use clean hands to hold your eye open under a gentle stream of lukewarm running water.
In the shower by allowing the water to hit your forehead and holding your eye open as the water runs down your face. Or, you can wash your eye with an eyewash station or an eyecup.
If you have an object in your eye, you may have trouble opening and closing your eyelid.
 Not getting enough sleep is a common cause of red eyes. If you're also feeling tired and groggy throughout the day, your red eyes might be the result of insufficient sleep.Adults require between seven to nine hours of sleep per night, but some people may require more or less sleep to be at their best., Even if you're getting enough sleep, you can still tire your eyes out by spending too much time in front of the computer or watching TV. This is because people blink less when staring at a screen, and because their eyes are forced to focus at the same distance for hours at a time, producing eye strain. Give your eyes a 15 minute break every two hours and take short 30 second breaks every 15 minutes.For long breaks, take a short walk and focus on things in the distance, or take a short 15 minute nap to give your eyes a chance to catch up with your busy schedule.
For short breaks, look up and away from your computer for thirty seconds and focus on something in the distance, such as a tree out your window or a picture on the other side of your room.
 Some studies show that excessive exposure to sunlight or wind can cause redness in the eyes. If you wear protective sunglasses when you're outside, you can protect your eyes from the wind and UV rays that can irritate them. Choose wraparound sunglasses that offer 99–100% protection from UVA and UVB rays.Wearing sunglasses is essential for good eye health later in life. Too much exposure to the sun can lead to problems like macular degeneration and cataracts later in life.
 Contacts can sometimes cause eye redness, which may be related to an infection, lack of oxygen to your eyes, or contact irritation.Before putting in your contacts, place a few drops of saline solution or eye lubricant in your eyes and blink several times. This will clean the surface of your eye, so that irritants don't get trapped underneath your contacts.
Dirty, torn, or misshapen contacts can irritate your eyes and cause infection. Follow your eye doctor’s instructions for keeping your contact lenses clean. If you use disposable contact lenses, never wear them more than once.
Do not sleep with your contact lenses.
Avoid wearing your contact lenses when swimming or showering.
 Smoke is a common cause of eye redness. If you smoke, try your best to quit smoking and keep your distance when others are smoking around you.In addition to reducing your eye redness, quitting smoking has lots of other health benefits., While drops that moisturize your eye are an effective way to treat redness, eye drops specifically designed to whiten your eyes can actually make the problem worse. These drops contain vasoconstrictors — chemicals that shrink the blood vessels on the surface of your eye. If you use them too much, your body builds up a resistance to them, making your eyes become even redder as soon as the effect of the chemical wears off.Common drops containing vasoconstrictors are Clear Eyes, Visine, and All Clear. Chemicals to avoid include:Ephedrine hydrochloride
Naphazoline hydrochloride
Phenylephrine hydrochloride
Tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride

