 During regular school hours, everybody is busy. Hence, it is a good idea to plan ahead of time, if you want to design a photo card for your teacher. Time goes fast, and things can take longer than expected, so be generous when you budget your time.


Depending on whether you want to use a photo printing service,or whether you need to ask people for photos, start at least two weeks in advance.
Compare prices of photo printing services- often you can get good deals if you look around carefully.
Look at photo cards online and compare designs- this will make picking one easier for you later.
 Most people have phone cameras or small digital cameras and take a lot of pictures. Still finding the right ones can be a bit tricky.


Look for pictures showing you and your teacher, for example on a field trip, or a school festivity.
Check the school website for pictures of you and your teacher.
Ask other teachers, your friends and parents if you have trouble finding photos.
 Even if you end up having a lot of different pictures from different occasions, you have to check them for quality.


Check whether you and your teacher are clearly visible and the photo is not blurry.
Compare the formats of the digital files and see if they are supported by your program. Print the pictures out- sometimes you cannot tell on a computer screen how they come out printed.
 Now that you have come up with a selection of high-quality pictures, you need to decide which ones should actually go into the card's design.


Use pictures with as many smiles possible-memories of happy times will put your teacher in a good mood and make them smile!
Decide on a number of pictures- too few can make the card look empty, too many will look crowded.
Put the printed pictures together for a hand-made collage- this will help you visualize the final product.
 This can take a bit of time and effort. Remember though to have fun with it and use the creative potential these programs harbor.


Use a photo software for your collage, such as Photoshop, Picasaor iPhoto for example. These are the most common ones, but there are plenty of others, so look around!
Consider using an online photo service. Common photo printing services include Snapfish or Shutterflyfor example. The downside is that they are not free and it takes time until the printed cards arrive.
 There are pros and cons to using templates- if you are not very experienced, or running out of time, a template is a good solution.


Both photo software and photo printing services often have pretty templates that will frame your pictures nicely.
 Now that you have discarded the bad quality ones, and picked the pictures you like best, it's time to move towards the final product- re-arranging the pictures.


Play around with the different features the software or photo service has.
Put a picture of your teacher in the center. The card is for them after all!

Make sure the picture shows your teacher in their best angle.


Save your card- you might need to print it again later.
 This is a quick step, but needs to be prepared properly.


Ensure that your printer has enough ink cartridges (if you are using an ink printer) or that the toner is full (if you are printing with a laser printer).
Use photo paper to print the card. This will make the pictures come out beautifully.
Print different sizes of your card to see which looks the best.
 Depending on the size and material you've printed, it can take a little longer. While you wait you can prepare the next steps.


Prepare your text for the inside of the card in the meantime.
Be creative in your text- try out writing a short poem,, or a list of good adjectives spelling out their first and last name.
 This is a simple step, but pay attention to detail!


Print out the card several times, in case you fold the wrong way or misspell something.
Use a ruler when folding, to be exact- teachers love neatness!
Choose the card that looks the best. This is obviously in the eye of the beholder, but pay attention to the overall design. Which card is the most clean looking, and accurate?

, This is the heart of the card- you message should support the pictures, and make your teacher smile.


Write a draft first- you don't want to have to cross out words in the card for your teacher!
Reference the event(s) shown on the picture when you write the card- this will make your card one-of-a-kind!

, A good delivery rounds off the entire card making operation.


Give the card to your teacher either before or after class (after is usually better).
Put on a smile and give your teacher the card. This will tell them that something good is coming and put them at ease.
Consider asking the school administrative assistant/secretary to put the card in your teacher's mailbox. After a long day, this will make them smile!

