 With the yarn attached to your crochet hook in a slipknot, work 11 chain stitches to create your foundation.


Check the "Tips" section if you need help making a slipknot or chain stitch.
 Work one single crochet into the second chain stitch from your hook, sliding it into the back loop only. After that, single stitch into the back loop of the remaining stitches of your foundation chain. Turn when you reach the end of the row.


You should have a total of 10 stitches in this row.
If you need help making a single crochet, check the "Tips" section of this article.
Working in the back loops will create a ribbing effect and give your finished cuff more texture and visual interest.
 For rows 2 through 41, chain one, then single crochet in the back loops of each stitch until you reach the end of the row. Turn the work after completing each row.


This only creates the base of the boot cuff.
 Fold the cuff in half, bringing the short ends together. Line up the stitches, then slip stitch into the back loops only, joining stitches from each end together with each slip stitch you make.


The right sides should be out when you fold the cuff.
Check the "Tips" section of this article for more information about the slip stitch.
 Chain two, then single crochet 40 stitches along the edge of the cuff. Slip stitch the first and last single crochets together once you reach the end of the round.


Turn the work over when you finish the round.
Your set of chain stitches counts as the first single crochet, giving this round a total of 41 stitches.
 Work two chain stitches, then single crochet into the third stitch from the hook. Chain two again, and single crochet once more into the same stitch.
 Skip one stitch, then single crochet into the next stitch. Chain two, and single crochet once into the next stitch after that. Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the round.


There will be one stitch left before the two chain stitches you made at the beginning of this round. Finish off the round by slip stitching into the top loop of the two chain stitches, then turn the work.
 Chain two to advance to the next round. Then, single crochet once into the next chain-two space. Chain two, then single crochet once into the same space.


Repeat this pattern, advancing to the next stitch chain-two space in the previous round with each repeat.
Slip stitch into the top of the chain-two stitches from the beginning of this round to complete it, then turn the work.
 Repeat the previous step until you have worked a total of 11 rounds, not including the foundation round.
 Cut off the yarn, leaving a 2 inch (5 cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to tie it off, then weave the excess into the underside of the cuff.


This step completes one cuff.
If desired, you could also sew a decorative button onto the cuff using embroidery thread and a sewing needle, but doing so is not necessary.
 Repeat the exact same steps indicated above to make a matching second cuff. Doing so will complete the project.

