 This can be especially helpful if you do not have the necessary lump sum of money on hand to purchase a specific piece of equipment; in particular, leasing is appropriate when cash might be tight.Expect to make one or two payments upfront as a deposit.When you lease a piece of equipment, you will likely be asked to make a payment upfront (this may or may not be negotiable). This can be thought of as similar to a deposit placed on a rental apartment. Discuss the terms of this payment with the leasing company (lessor).
Consider leasing if you are a start-up company without steady cash flow.;
,, In essence, this means that you likely could have purchased the item by the time the lease ends.


Calculate the cost of leasing versus buying. There are some online calculators that can help you make the most financially responsible decision.
 Tax incentives (such as the bailout package passed by Congress) make purchasing equipment more attractive to many businesses. This bailout packages allows companies to deduct in full up to $250,000 in expenses during the year of purchase.You would not see this same tax benefit if you chose to lease equipment.
 The first thing that should be determined is what type of equipment you or your business are going to need for its successful operation – and in what volume these items will be required. Making these determinations prior to shopping for leasing agreements will facilitate the generation of an accurate cost estimate. Additionally, it will give you and your business a precise picture of what the costs are going to look like for your equipment leasing agreement so you can start to budget for your lease.


Consider leasing technological equipment like computers and copiers.These items are often beneficial to lease because they depreciate in value so fast and are upgraded and improved frequently.
 When you talk to a leasing agent, ask questions about your prospective equipment lease - include the duration of the leasing agreement and what kind of buyout clauses you may have. Determining the necessary duration of your individual leasing terms will not only give you a good idea about continuity issues, but it will also give you a rough estimate for how much your lease will cost in the long term.


Discuss the option of including an agreement to cover certain repairs, upgrades, and maintenance in your lease.This can help relieve some of the hassle associated with ownership.
Negotiate the terms of your lease with your leasing agent. If there is something that you don’t agree with or want changed, discuss it well in advance of signing the lease.
 Financing your equipment lease is a part of the process that offers significant flexibility. While a business owner may look to pay off his monthly lease with incoming cash flow, another potential way to finance your lease is by taking out loans. Before you begin investigating leases, you should understand your business credit and have all financial information organized.If you are going to use a financing provider, check them out thoroughly.Do a Google search and access social media sites to ensure that you are working with an established financial solution provider.
Look into the possibility of a small business equipment loan, which is usually made at a fixed interest rate and offer a fixed term length so monthly payments are always the same., There are many different avenues through which you can investigate the potential of an equipment lease. To start, do a Google search for leasing options available near you, or call a lessor to discuss the needs of your company and receive approximate price quotes. Next, you will definitely want to read reviews from previous customers so you gain a more in-depth understanding of how the lessor functions and the overall satisfactory of their customers. Some options for securing an equipment lease include:Bank and bank-affiliated firms
Equipment dealers and distributors
Independent leasing companies
Captive leasing companies
Broker/packages (these people will charge a fee to act as the “middle-man” between lessors and lessees)

, Do you have the option to purchase the equipment once your lease ends? What are the consequences of ending your lease early? These are important questions that must be outlined explicitly in your leasing contract to avoid any confusion in the future. Make sure you understand the terms of casualty insurance to cover equipment damage and know who is financially responsible for handling repairs.


Do not assume that any expectations or terms are agreed to if they are not explicitly included in the lease., You may want to have a lawyer or someone who is experienced in the terms and conditions of leasing read over your agreement before you sign it.Sometimes very important aspects of the lease can get overlooked due to the use of legal jargon. It is important that you do not sign anything before understanding the ins and outs of everything that is discussed in the contract.
 For example, you may be required to pay for regular maintenance of the equipment that you lease regardless of whether it is damaged or not.Look over the contract carefully for any clauses that might end up costing you money.
 Agree on the terms and conditions of your loan (if you are taking one); specific features of your loan, such as the amount of money you can borrow and the interest rate that you will pay, will depend on the value of the equipment you are looking to lease, your business history, and your credit score.Never take a loan that you may not be able to pay off. This can get you into severe financial trouble.
 Once you have the lease in place and the financing secured, it will be time to examine the fine print and then sign the deal. Make sure that you sign two copies of the lease, one for you and one for the lessor., Know when all payments and/or fees are due.You should always make your payments on time in order to avoid any unnecessary late fees or penalties. Know what is outlined in your lease, and abide by the terms and conditions (for example, your lease may state that you cannot add to or otherwise alter the equipment you are leasing).

