 Have a name that can be easily recognized and defines you as a person.


Your username doesn’t have to be your first name, but some well-known DeviantArt members remember their art style through their DA names.
Avoid using names of famous celebrities or character from movies, video games, or animes.
To change your username, you have to purchase premium membership.
Feel free to create a new account and transfer your previous creations.;
, If you think that other’s work is better than yours, don’t feel annoyed or intimidated. Treat it as your inspiration, but do not imitate their style, especially their drawings.


Buy art books or magazines.
Practice every day and avoid distractions until you find a style that defines you.
Do not steal other’s work - ever.
 Avoid uploading a drawing that is shot using your cellphone with low-quality cameras. If you are using digital camera, make sure that you know how to edit in Photoshop to enhance the quality of the photo.


Remember that nice pictures attract more views. If you are into traditional illustration, invest for a scanner.
 You have to select a category for your artwork, which is required to add upon your submission.
 Tags will help people find your work faster and easier.
 If you think that you have submitted low-quality pictures, then it’s time to let them go or just put it in Scrap folder. It is more attractive to look a clean and neat gallery.
 You will see a lot of advantages if you purchase a premium membership because it will unlock other features that will make your DeviantArt page more appealing.


For example, free membership will not allow customization to your Journal theme, unlike when you have a premium account. You can also add different widgets and windows for every artwork individually.
 Join artists’ guild on Facebook and make friends with the members.


Share your art with its link to your DeviantArt.
Request for a watch, and watch them back too because having many watchers also means gaining favorites without a hassle.
 If you draw someone or anything famous, your idol, or fictional characters, some members might search for it, and your creation might be included in the results.
 This is the best way to gain favorites to your art. You will give your masterpiece a free exposure even though you only have few watchers.


Go with a group with a lot of members.
Read rules before submitting your work because most of them has it.
Join as many groups as you can!

