 You can practice in any gear that you'd like, but first is generally the easiest for beginners. If you ever graduate to learning clutch wheelies, you'll have to know how to shift gears within the wheelie. Because power wheelies are simply about using your acceleration to pull the bike's front upward, you won't have to worry about shifting.


Your back brake, much like the handbrake on a bicycle, will help you if you ever begin to tip too far backward. While riders often don't use the rear brake regularly, it's very helpful in your first steps of learning the wheelie.If you feel yourself moving dangerously far back, you can put some power on the rear brake, stopping your back wheel. This will quickly bring your front wheel down. Be careful when it's coming down, however, as you'll get some pressure in your direction upon impact.
 It's recommended that you start learning wheelies at a speed somewhere between 10-20 KPH. If you're moving too quickly, you may lose some control, causing you to crank the gas in an unsafe way. When practicing too slowly, however, you won't be able to pull the front wheel up with enough force.
 You don't want to slow down too much, but it's useful to lower your speed right before you accelerate into your wheelie. This will give you more of a kick when you hit the gas, and this extra power will bring your front wheel up more smoothly.
 Once you've dropped your speed a little, hit the throttle hard. As you're doing this, you'll pull the front of your bike up, like you're doing a wheelie on a bicycle.At first, these elevations will feel very slight, almost like bunny hops. As you become more comfortable lifting the front up, however, they will gradually become longer and longer.


When you lift the bike off the ground and come back down too suddenly, your front tire is going to shake on impact. If you don't land straight, you'll flip off the bike over the front, otherwise known as a highside. This may happen when you're first getting started, so just make sure that you're bringing your wheelies as straight down as possible to avoid it.
 When finding your balance point, lean back on the rear side of the bike, making sure that the center of gravity of your system (you and the bike) sits in the center. This will help you ride the wheelie for a longer period of time. Any tipping forward or backward will mess with the center of your system, causing you to tip.


When getting started, beginners might try to hug the tank with their knees, helping them hold on when the front wheel of the bike sticks up. This will actually prevent you from sliding backward against the seat. If you're stuck hugging the tank while your bike is going backward, then the gravity of the system won't be in balance.
 When you feel yourself easing into the balance of your wheelie, you can reduce the throttle, just slightly, so you don't lose control when holding its motion. Reducing it too much, however, will cause your bike to lose all its momentum.
 When you want to come out of your wheelie, you'll use the rear brake to bring the front end of the bike back onto the street. If you crank this too harshly, however, the front end is likely to crash down too quickly, and you may wobble or fall. To remedy this, you can increase the throttle as the front is coming down, balancing out your movement.

