 It's very easy for children and adults alike to get distracted by and absorbed in a smartphone. However, your vacation time together will ultimately be more memorable and enjoyable if you limit or prohibit phone use, at least while you're out sightseeing.Have your kids keep their cell phones turned off during the day when you're doing things together. You may have to negotiate with them, like letting them have some phone time after dinner.
Keep your phone(s) silenced. Your kids will be upset if you make them turn their phones off and they see you texting or checking your email.
Check your phone periodically, just to make sure everything is okay at home. If you don't have a message from your housesitter, babysitter, or petsitter, don't respond to any missed calls or texts until the evening.
 All vacations create memories, but you can improve the chances of making lasting memories by doing out of the ordinary activities. These don't have to be lavish or thrilling. Simply changing up your routine could be enough for some families.Do something exciting that you can't do at home. Engaging in some activity unique to your vacation will help you build and cement fond memories of your trip together.
Having positive memories of unique experiences together will help your family bond. Months later, you'll still be able to reminisce about your trip together.
Recalling your vacation together weeks or months after the vacation can help you build stronger, lasting memories and improve your family's satisfaction with one another., If your work can wait while you're on vacation, it's best to leave it for when you return home. If you must catch up on some work, though, that's fine - you'll just need to set boundaries for how much you work and when.If work is unavoidable, try to schedule it for the evening when your kids are watching TV or sleeping.
Limit how much work you're willing to do each day. If at all possible, don't let work cut into your time together as a family.
 If you're busy rushing between theme parks or beach destinations, you may feel rushed and exhausted at the end of the day. It's always a good idea to make the most of your vacation time, but you also need some time to relax and recharge. That includes taking breaks during the day and getting enough restful sleep each night.Most adults need seven to nine hours of sleep each night. Teenagers need more sleep, averaging around 8 to 10 hours each night.Young children (under three years old) need anywhere from 10 to 17 hours of sleep each night, while school-aged children (under 13 years old) need between 9 and 13 hours of sleep each night.

