 The most distressing symptom of endometriosis is the pain and cramping that can occur in the abdomen and pelvic area. Fortunately, you may find that your endometriosis pain can be relieved by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) like ibuprofen, naproxen sodium, and aspirin. These drugs are good for any type of period cramps.If your pain increases during your menstrual period, consider starting to take NSAIDs about 24 hours before your period is due.Talk to your doctor about the best regimen of NSAIDs for you. In general, though, you can take 400 to 600 milligrams of ibuprofen orally every four to six hours.For naproxen sodium, you can usually take 275 milligrams every six to eight hours, not to exceed 1375 milligrams in any single day.Alternatively, you can try 325-650 milligrams of aspirin orally three or four times a day. Don't go over 4 grams. Always talk to your doctor before taking any medication.;
, NSAIDs are not for everyone, as they may cause you to feel nauseated. They may even cause you to vomit or have diarrhea. If that's the cause, you can take acetaminophen (known as paracetamol in the UK) instead.The typical dosage of acetaminophen is 650 to 1000 milligrams every four to six hours. Do not exceed 4000 milligrams in any single day. Do not take more than your doctor recommends, as acetaminophen can cause liver damage if used incorrectly. Drinking alcoholic beverages increases this risk., Chasteberry is an herb that some women use to help regulate their hormones. Since the main way to control endometriosis is through taking hormones, chasteberry hormonal regulation may also help.Talk to your doctor first, as this herb should be used for at least a year to make a difference. It can interfere with other drugs, including your hormonal therapy, as well as Parkinson's medications and antipsychotic medications.The standard dosage is 400 milligrams every morning., This medication is used to help with pain. However, it can also interact with other medications, too, so always talk to your doctor first.Try taking 40 milligrams morning, noon, and night.It can also make any blood thinners you're taking more effective, which can cause issues., If you've been bleeding heavily for a long time, you could be at risk for anemia. Ask your doctor if you need to take an iron supplement at home to help replenish the supply of iron in your blood.