 If you're going to smoke indoors and you're worried about others smelling your smoke, the best thing you can do to reduce smoke odors is ventilate the room. It won't solve the problem completely, but it will drastically improve the situation over smoking in an unventilated room.Close the door to your room and open a window. You want to restrict smoke odors from traveling to other parts of the building while directing as much of the actual smoke as possible outside.Put a fan in the window. Have it facing outside rather than towards you. This will help pull smoke out of the room and funnel it outdoors.If you're still actively smoking, blow all of your smoke through the back of the fan so that it gets sucked outside.;
, Some air fresheners and scented candles are specifically designed to mask the smell of smoke. These products are usually available at smoke shops or online. Even if you don't have one of these specialized air fresheners or scented candles, any kind of odor-masking product may help cover up the smell of smoke.However, it's best to stick with just one odor-masking element. Otherwise the room might just smell like a lot of different things and cigarette smoke.


Air sanitizers like Ozium are believed to help neutralize odors like cigarette smoke.Febreze can hide bad smells, possibly including cigarette smoke, because it contains hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin (HPβCD), an active agent that traps, binds, and retains malodorous molecules.Citrus is typically considered a good masking odor. If you have fresh oranges, even better: peel a few oranges in your room and leave the peels in strategic locations around your room while you wait for the odor to dissipate.Incense, such as cedar wood, may help cover the smell of smoke.However, burning incense may not be allowed in buildings with strict no-smoking policies.
Leave out a bowl of white vinegar or ammonia. These powerful odors will help mask most odors, including smoke.However, these products do not smell very good, and in the case of ammonia the fumes may be hazardous if left out for prolonged periods of time. You may also have some explaining to do if your roommate or building manager finds bowls of vinegar or ammonia lying around.
Douse a rag with vanilla extract and hide it under a bed or chair. It should emit a strong vanilla odor which may help mask the smell of smoke., Cigarette smoke particles are very small, and therefore most air purifiers do not effectively remove cigarette particles from the room. However, high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters and electronic air ionizers are designed to target small particles in the air.Even these types of air purifiers will not completely solve the problem, but they may help reduce lingering odors caused by smoke when used in conjunction with other preventative measures.
 Plants help neutralize odors by absorbing particles from smoke and removing carbon monoxide and other chemicals from the air.Having plants placed around your room can help freshen the air, and make the room look cheerier as well.


Some of the best plants for improved air quality include philodendron, spider plants, English ivy, peace lily, daisies, and chrysanthemums.