 Traditionally, jerk marinades combine many spices such as pepper, nutmeg, cinnamon, and allspice with hot peppers, onions and garlic. This marinade is an excellent flavorful addition to grilled chicken and other meats.
Keep in mind that jerk seasoning is meant to be spicy.
The scotch bonnet pepper is traditionally used in authentic Jamaican cuisine. These can have quite a bit of heat.;
, You will need a collection of spices for this marinade. Keep in mind this is a highly flavorful and spicy sauce.You will need 2 teaspoons salt, 1/2 teaspoon black pepper, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 teaspoons ground allspice, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, and 1 teaspoon cinnamon. For the fresh spices and seasonings you will need 5 sprigs of fresh thyme and 1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger.
Combine all the spices in a small bowl.
Set these aside while you prepare the other ingredients.
It is a good idea to measure out spices and mix them before preparing other ingredients.
All ingredients will need to be blended thoroughly. Having spices mixed ahead of time will make this process go faster.
 Chop these finely. Set these aside in a small bowl.
You will eventually add these to a blender to make a thick marinade.
You can always chop garlic and onions ahead of time and store these in the refrigerator until you need to use them.
 Take care while working with these, as they are very spicy.A good rule of thumb when working with hot peppers is to wear gloves.
If you get the hot pepper juice on your skin and then touch your eye, you could end up with a burning sensation.
Slice the peppers open and remove the seeds.
Finely dice the peppers and put them aside in a bowl.
If you get hot pepper juice on your skin, wash your hands thoroughly with dish soap. Alternatively, you can rub your hands with rubbing alcohol or olive oil. These products will help to break up the capsaicin that makes peppers spicy. , You will need to use an electric blender to get a thick, smooth marinade.Blend the ingredients well, using a higher setting.
If you find that your blender isn't mixing all of the ingredients, you may need to pause and scrape the sides of the blender.
If you are making a large amount of marinade and don't have a high capacity blender, you can use a food processor for this.

Jerk chicken is one of the most common dishes made with this marinade, but you can also use the sauce on pork, fish, or seafood.
When using jerk sauce as a marinade, make sure you marinade your meat at least 2 hours.
For a more potent flavor, marinade your meat overnight.

