 A piercing heals by building scar tissue around the hole. As such, only very small piercing holes will ever close completely without expensive professional assistance. Even a small earring hole might never completely heal (so that there's no indication it was ever there); larger-gauge holes such as those commonly seen in tongue and belly button piercings will always be visible even if and when they close.


Holes that have been intentionally gauged to a larger size can't be closed without medical procedures involving anesthetic and cutting tools.
Don't check your piercing with an earring to see if it's closed. You might inadvertently reopen it.
 As noted above, never remove the post from a new piercing until the hole has completely healed, typically two months at most. Exposing the tissue to open air before it's healed shut invites infection and can lead to swelling, slower healing times, and even extra scarring in some cases.
 Again, don't do this until the hole has healed. Take out the jewelry from the hole and don't put anything else back into it.
 Use a routine similar to the one you used to help the piercing heal in the first place. Wash it gently with saline solution twice a day. You can also use mild antibacterial soap, but you must be careful not to get it in the piercing. Gently squeeze around the piercing when you've finished, to push water, and other gunk out of the hole. Rinse around the piercing with a clean, damp cloth or cotton swab afterward.
 After several weeks, smaller piercings should begin to close up. You can safely check this by observing whether or not any liquid comes out of the piercing when you squeeze it. Once there's no discharge from the hole, it's probably just about closed.


You should be able to notice results in less than three months, but it can take much longer than that to heal the hole completely. Expect mild redness and a dip where the piercing was for a long while afterward.
 Once the hole seems to have closed completely, it's time to fight the scarring that will happen as the hole knits itself closed again. Ask your dermatologist to recommend an anti-scarring gel or similar product to help reduce scar tissue and make your old piercing less obvious. Apply it according to their directions, or once per day for 4-6 weeks.

