 To build your business credit, you will need a card in your business’s name. If the business has been established for a long time and has enough equity, you may be able to get a business card with higher spending limits than a personal card. If not, the spending limit may depend on the credit and qualifications of whoever will be personally liable for the debt. You should shop around for the best card. Consider the following: interest rate
annual fee
starting bonus
rewards program or other benefits;
, Business credit cards often come with accompanying features which you might find helpful. For example, Chase offers Chase Checkout, which allows you to accept credit card payments from customers in person or online.Other banks might offer lines of credit independent of the credit card.
You should ask what benefits each bank offers, and consider them before choosing a card.
 If you or your business has excellent credit, getting a card should be easy. You can typically apply online and be approved within minutes. Generally you will need to provide the credit card company with the following information: business name
years in business
name you want on the card
business contact information (address and phone number)
number of employees
your line of business
annual revenue
your Tax Identification Number (if you have one)
verification documentation, such as a utility bill, business license, or business bank account

, Most small-business owners must personally guarantee their business credit cards. This means that you agree to pay your business’s debts when the business can’t. It is similar to co-signing a loan. Accordingly the credit card company can sue you if you don’t pay for the business’s credit card purchases. Your personal credit history will be impacted if you don’t pay.
Larger businesses often don’t have to sign a personal guarantee. Instead, the credit card company assumes the risk of default.
 You might feel you have to use a credit card because you can’t get a small loan. Generally, larger banks won’t make loans to small businesses but will instead offer credit cards. However, you should consider approaching a local credit union or small bank.Consider other ways to raise money such as crowdfunding. Websites like Indiegogo and Kickstarter allow you to request private donations. , Credit card debt is more expensive than other forms of financing for businesses. Make sure that you pay off the full balance of the card each month to avoid paying high interest rates and penalties.

Do not use a business card to consolidate other debts. Credit debt often has higher interest rates and is more expensive to pay off in the long term.
 If you have employees, they need to know when to use the card and when not to. Clarify what kinds of purchases can be made with the card and which should be paid for with cash. Write out guidelines the employees can follow. Alternately, you could simply keep possession of the credit card. That way no one will use it without your permission.
You should also look for a credit card that allows you to get individual cards for your employees. These cards come with pre-set spending limits, so you can control how much employees spend., You might be tempted to put personal purchases on a business card and business purchases on your personal card. You should avoid doing that, however, especially if you're set up as a corporation or a limited-liability company (LLC). LLCs and corporations shield their owners from personal liability for business debts. If you begin commingling personal and business funds, however, a court might find that your LLC or corporation is a sham.
If you are sued, a judge will disregard a sham corporation or LLC and hold you personally responsible for all business debts. For this reason you should use your business credit card only for business purchases.
Since the business owner has typically personally guaranteed the credit card debt, a corporation or LLC will not protect them from personal liability for the debt.
 You can grow your business in different ways. You should review your business plan and consider what purchases would help take you to the next level. Make sure that these are tangible assets that you are investing in, not business expenses., One component of your credit score is “card utilization.” This is the amount of available credit that you are currently using. Try to keep your utilization at 30% or less. Higher utilization may hurt your credit score. Be sure to use the card at least occasionally. If you don’t, the card company might threaten to close your account.
 Many business credit cards come with reward points. You should always pay close attention to when the reward points expire, and cash them in before that date. Use these points to purchase items useful to your office, such as:


a voucher for office equipment
discounted airfare for business travel
cash back

, Using credit card debt has some downsides, which you should seriously consider before reaching for the plastic. For example, one study has shown that a business’s long-term survival declines by two percent for every $1,000 it accumulates in credit card debt.If you rack up $10,000 in credit card debt, your business’s chance of survival declines by about 20%.
Remember to pay your bill on time. If you’re late with payments, you’ll take a credit hit. Make sure to pay your balance in full before the due date. , It’s one thing to use the card to buy inventory and pay business bills. It’s another to take out a cash advance in order to pay your employees. Cash advances come with high interest rates. If you’re using a credit card to make payroll, that may indicate that your business is floundering. , The IRS allows you to deduct any interest you have paid on the card as a business expense. You can also deduct late fees and annual charges, as long as they accrued in the pertinent tax year. , You should monitor your credit regularly to make sure that you have authorized all listed purchases. If someone steals your business identity, you want to catch them early. Look at your statement as soon as it arrives.


Also remember to review your employees’ purchases if they use the card or have individual cards. Address any inappropriate purchases immediately.
Make sure that use of the credit card is consistent with company policy.
 You can speed up your bookkeeping by linking your credit card to online bookkeeping software such as Mint or Quickbooks. This allows you to track expenses in real time.
 To help you organize your receipts, you should use an app on your mobile phone. You can capture a receipt and then file it away. Many credit card issuers offer their customers apps to use, as do third parties:Chase’s Jot
American Express OPEN
third party apps such as OneReceipt and Shoeboxed

