 These instructions show you how to make a mask resembling the "comedy" and "tragedy" masks that are often used to symbolize the concept of drama. Though the expression on each of these masks is different, the overall shape of both masks is the same - roughly the shape of a rounded shield or crest. Cut this shape from your piece of construction paper. You'll want to use most of your paper so that your mask is big enough to cover your face.;
, Both the comedy and tragedy masks use the same basic shape for the eyes - a rounded comma or half-crescent shape with one thick end and one tapering end. However, based on whether you're making the comedy or tragedy mask, the placement of these shapes changes. For the comedy mask, cut the comma shapes into the mask so that the thick ends face outward. This imitates the merry, rising cheeks of a laughing face.For the tragedy mask, cut the comma shapes so that the thick ends face inward to imitate the furrowed brow of a sad or dismayed face.


In either case, cut out the eyes by gently folding the mask so that you're able to cut spaces in the center of the mask without cutting in from the side.
 As with the eyes, the basic shape of the mouth in both the comedy and tragedy masks is the same, but the orientation of the shape changes. For the comedy mask, draw a smile by cutting an upward-curving jellybean shape. For the tragedy mask, flip this jellybean shape upside down to create a frown.


Again, in either case, fold the paper and make a small cut in the middle of your shape to allow yourself to cut out the mouth without having to cut in from the side of the mask.
 Often, tragedy and comedy masks are represented as being attached to sticks that a performer can use to hold them in front of his or her face. You can recreate this with a popsicle stick - simply glue a popsicle stick to the bottom or the side of your mask to give yourself a handle with which to hold your mask.


If you don't have any popsicles in your freezer, you can buy some for cheap at a crafts store or simply use a wooden dowel or a piece of disposable silverware in a pinch.

