 You’ll want an NDA to protect confidential information that has value. Many types of confidential information is valuable, including the following:client lists
past purchasing records
secret manufacturing processes
secret manufacturing formula;
, By using a non-disclosure agreement, you are creating a confidential relationship with someone.You should identify this person. Not everyone needs an NDA, and not everyone who receives confidential information will sign one.


A job candidate. You might need to share confidential information with someone who is applying for a job. If so, you should have them sign an NDA, even if you don’t ultimately hire them.
An employee. This is the most common category of people who sign NDAs. However, make sure the employee actually has access to the confidential information. If they don’t, there’s no need for the NDA.
Another business. If you are looking to buy a business—or if another business wants to buy you—then you might sign mutual non-disclosure agreements. You will agree not to disclose any confidential information obtained during negotiations, and the other side will agree as well.An investor. Start-ups might need to share confidential information in order to get investors interested in their business. However, venture capitalists in particular are resistant to signing NDAs.You can ask, but expect “No” for an answer.
 It might not be clear whether you need to use an NDA. Accordingly, you should check with a lawyer and get their expert opinion. To find an experienced business lawyer, contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.


You can find your nearest bar association here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx. Enter your zip code or address.
Call up the lawyer and schedule a consultation. Ask how much they charge.
 An NDA might be part of another agreement, such as an employment contract. Or it can be a stand-alone document. If it is a stand-alone, then identify the parties in the first paragraph. You can call yourself “Disclosing Party,” “Company,” or another term that makes sense. Be consistent throughout the document. The person you disclose your information to should be called “Receiving Party,” “Employee,” or another label.


You can use this sample language: “This Agreement is made between Adriana Smith (‘Receiving Party’) and Company ABC (‘Company’), on June 12, 2016. Receiving Party will perform services for Company. Company may be required to disclose confidential information (‘Confidential Information’) to Receiving Party. Accordingly, to protect Company’s Confidential Information, the Receiving Party agrees as follows…”, Your non-disclosure agreement will only protect you if the information is properly included in the agreement. Accordingly, you need to define confidential information carefully. It’s acceptable to define the term broadly.


For example, you can write: “‘Confidential Information’ includes any material or information that could have commercial value or utility for the business of Company. Company will label all Confidential Information in written form as ‘Confidential’ using a label or similar warning. When Company shares Confidential Information orally, then Company will provide written notice that the communication is Confidential Information.”Remember to label your confidential information as confidential, otherwise the receiving party won’t know. Buy an ink stamp with the word “Confidential.”

, Some information might be valuable but not confidential. You should identify this information and exclude it from the agreement. For example, you could write the following: “Receiving Party has no obligation under this agreement to protect” and then identify categories of information, such as the following:


information that is publicly known, either at the time of disclosure or becomes known subsequently through no fault of Receiving Party
information created or discovered by Receiving Party before disclosure by Company
information obtained by Receiving Party through independent, legitimate means
information discovered by Receiving Party with Company’s written approval

, Lay out the receiving party’s duties and other responsibilities. Generally, you will want them to keep the information in confidence and not divulge it to anyone else. However, there are different standards of confidentiality—strict confidentiality, prevailing industry standards, best efforts, etc. You should talk about which standard is best with a lawyer.


For example, you might write: “Receiving Party will hold all Confidential Information in strict confidence and shall prevent disclosures to others by exercising reasonable care. Receiving Party will not divulge, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information unless Company first authorizes it. Upon termination of employment, Receiving Party will deliver to Company any notes, documents, drawings, materials, and/or equipment received from Company.”You may also want to include a non-use agreement. This will keep the other side from using the confidential information. A standard provision will read: “Receiving Party shall not use any Confidential Information for its own benefit or for the benefit of a third party during the duration of this Agreement.”, In the United States, a common length of time is five years. In the EU, ten years is more common.However, the obligation should last as long as necessary.


For example, you could have the NDA last until the confidential information no longer qualifies as a trade secret: “Receiving Party’s duty to maintain Confidential Information under this Agreement remains in effect until the Confidential Information no longer qualifies as a trade secret or until the Company provides a written notice releasing Receiving Party from the provisions of this Agreement.”The above provision provides the greatest protection. However, some states might not allow an NDA to last for that length of time.Check with your attorney.
 You should state what actions you can take if the other side violates the agreement. For example, you can include the following:


Termination. If an employee is signing the agreement, you’ll want to reserve the right to discipline them, up to and including termination for breaking the NDA.
Money compensation. You will want to be reimbursed for any damage caused by the confidential information being made public. This compensation is called “money damages.”
Injunction. An injunction is an order from a court directing someone to stop doing something. For example, a court can issue an injunction against the receiving party to stop publicizing or using confidential information. You might want to seek an injunction where money compensation is inadequate., Boilerplate provisions exist in most NDAs, and the language is often the same. However, they are very important. Make sure you include the following:Severability clause. A court might strike down some provision of the agreement. If so, the entire NDA could fall. To prevent that, include the following: “If a court declares any provision of this Agreement illegal, unenforceable, or invalid, the remainder shall remain in effect.”
Integration clause. You don’t want the other side to claim there are side agreements. Include a provision stating: “This Agreement contains the complete understanding of Company and Receiving Party with respect to this subject matter. It supersedes all prior agreement, understanding, representations, and proposals.”
Amendment provision. State that the agreement may only be amended with a writing signed by both parties.
Choice of law provision. If there’s a lawsuit, the judge will have to use some law to interpret the agreement and provide remedies. You can identify what state’s law you want to use. For example, you can write, “This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Iowa.”, Your lawyer will analyze whether your NDA is missing anything important. Also, if the other side wants to negotiate, then your lawyer can negotiate on your behalf. Call up and schedule a meeting to talk about your draft NDA.
 Send a copy to the other side and ask them to review. They may respond, wanting to negotiate some provisions (such as the duration of the agreement). When everyone agrees to the NDA, both sides should sign, even if it isn’t a mutual NDA.


Remember to keep the original and send a copy to the other side.
 You’ll need proof that someone violated the NDA before you take action. Document how you know the information has been disclosed.


For example, you might hear confidential information discussed on the news or written about in trade journals or newspapers. Hold onto this information. It is proof that the information is public.
Alternately, a competitor might suddenly start using your secret process or formula. In this situation, it is highly likely someone divulged it to them.
When you talk to the other side, keep detailed notes of what they say.
You may need to hire a private investigator. This person can perform surveillance of current or former employees. You should talk with a lawyer about the legality of this surveillance., If an employee shares confidential information, then you should discipline them. Check your NDA. There should be a provision stating how you can discipline them.


For example, your NDA might allow you to fire an employee who divulges confidential information.Talk with your lawyer about whether firing someone is a good legal strategy.
Whatever disciplinary action you take should be well-documented. For example, provide all communication in writing and keep detailed notes about how you are complying with your internal guidelines for discipline.
 You can avoid trial by sending a demand letter to the other side. Explain that they broke the NDA and injured you. You will also make a request for money to compensate you for your injuries.


The other side might not immediately agree to your demand. However, they might be willing to negotiate. For this reason, you should ask for a high amount of money in your initial letter. As you negotiate, you can slowly lower the amount of money you will accept.
You can negotiate by meeting in a lawyer’s office. Negotiation involves back and forth. Typically, the dispute will hinge on money and whether the other side must admit they were at fault.
Also think about mediation. In mediation, all sides meet with a mediator, who is trained to listen to each side explain the dispute and come up with solutions everyone can agree with. You can find mediators at your local courthouse, town office, or online.
 You should hire a lawyer to bring the lawsuit for you. They will start the suit by filing a “complaint” in court. This document will explain the non-disclosure agreement and who the other party shared the information with. You’ll also ask the judge to give you money compensation or an injunction.Lawsuits have many stages. The defendant will respond to your complaint, and then you will exchange documents during “discovery.” It can take over a year for a lawsuit to make its way to trial.
Lawsuits can settle at any time. The defendant might even agree to settle the morning before trial.

