 Consider having an exam to rule out any physical problems that may be causing your sexual urges. Sometimes, illness or disorders can disrupt hormones and can make you feel hypersexual.Your doctor may ask you to see a psychologist or psychiatrist to get you evaluated for any mood disorders. For example, a high desire for sex is a symptom of bipolar disorder.Be honest with your doctor about your sexual urges and express your concerns. Estimate how many times a day you think about sex or act on a sexual urge. For example, you might say, “I watch porn and masturbate four times a day.” Your doctor can help you determine if your behavior is problematic or within the range of normal.
 If you are currently in a relationship, talk to your partner about your sexual urges. If you are feeling sexually unsatisfied in your relationship, be honest and discuss how the two of you could make an effort to prioritize sex.


You could say, “I am wondering if I am having so many urges because we haven’t really been having sex lately. What do you think? Are you happy with our sex life?”
Understand that you and your partner may have different levels of sex drive. You may want to have sex more frequently than your partner. This doesn’t make either of you wrong or right, it is just how you were made. Be honest with yourself and each other about if this can be managed or if this is a deal-breaker for the relationship.
Talk to your partner if you feel compelled to cheat on them. Be honest, even though it may be a difficult conversation. You could say, “I know this is painful to hear, but I am having sexual urges toward other people. I am telling you this because I want to be honest, and I am struggling.”Consider seeing a couples counselor with training in sexual addiction or sexual problems to help you navigate your relationship.Talking to a trusted friend may also be a good option. They can help to hold you accountable for your goals, listen to your when you need to vent, and provide objective feedback.
 If you are concerned about controlling your sexual urges because of the faith you practice, consider seeking guidance from a spiritual leader in your faith community. Consider talking to clergy, a pastoral care leader, or a youth leader in your congregation.Try not to be embarrassed. Most likely, leaders in your faith community have heard it all before and know how to address concerns. You could indicate your embarrassment when you ask to speak to them; for example, “I’ve been struggling with something kind of personal and embarrassing. Would there be a time I could talk to you in private about it?”
Ask your religious leader for resources that may be able to help you understand your struggle from a spiritual point of view.

