 Open your Internet browser, type www.Yahoo.com on the address bar, and hit "Enter.";
, This will direct you to the sign-in screen.
 Once the log-in screen has loaded, you will be asked for your username and password. You can enter this information by clicking on the corresponding box on the right side of the screen.


When you’re done typing in your information, click on "Sign In" to load your inbox.
 Click on the gear icon on the top-right side of the screen. This will cause a drop-down menu to appear. Click on the second option down, which is "Settings."


This will open a white box on your screen. The left side of the box has a list of submenus.
 This is the very last submenu on the list. Click on this to open up your messenger settings.
 The first option reads “Sign Out.” You can pick from a drop-down menu how you sign out of your messenger if you sign in from another computer. The drop down options are as follows:


Ask every time
Always sign out here
Always sign out everywhere
To change your selection, click on the menu, then click again on the option you want to use.
For security reasons, you should always try to sign out every time you finish using Yahoo Messenger.
 Below "Sign Out" is the "Sound Alerts" option. This is a clickable option that can enable or disable sounds when you receive a new message. You can pick the option you want by clicking on the box.


If it is checked, you will get sound alerts; if not, then there will be no sound alerts.
 This will set it up so that your messenger will only show your Yahoo Messenger contacts. This is also a clickable box. You can pick how you want your contacts to be showed if you click on the box.
 The next option pertains to blocked users on your Yahoo Messenger list. You have two options to pick from:


The first bubble you can click will automatically block everyone who is not friends with you from contacting you in any way.
If you choose to select the second bubble, you can type in the contacts you want to block individually.
Once you select the second bubble, click on the dotted Add box to add a new blocked contact. Type in the address and click the purple Okay button.
 The next option is Conversation History, and this will dictate whether your messenger chat logs are saved. You can select or deselect this option by clicking on the box next to the option name.
 The last option you can edit is your SMS Message Home Country. This simply means that you select your country from the drop-down list.


To pick your country, click on the list to populate a drop-down menu with the different countries, then click on your country to proceed.
 Once you have finished editing your settings, go back through them again. You always want to double-check to make sure they are set up the way you want.
 When you are finished click on the purple "Save" button on the bottom left side of the white box.


You have successfully edited your messenger settings!

