 It’s important that your doctor be kept informed of everything you do to treat your scoliosis and back pain. Letting your doctor know about alternative treatments you’re investigating will help all of your care providers work together effectively.Your doctor may also be able to give you referrals to credible licensed professionals in your area.
 Chiropractic treatment may help relieve back pain caused by scoliosis. However, it does not appear to reduce scoliosis itself.A chiropractor can also recommend an exercise program that will help relieve your back pain.Exercise does not prevent scoliosis from getting worse, but it does help relieve pain caused by the condition.You can find a chiropractor in your area by using the “Find a Doc” feature on the American Chiropractic Association’s website.You should be aware that not all health insurance plans cover chiropractic treatments. Contact your health insurance provider first to avoid any nasty surprises., Massage therapy may help relieve back pain, including pain caused by scoliosis.You should have a licensed massage therapist who is trained in medical massage perform your massages. Medical massage is different than simple relaxation massage.


Make sure your massage therapist is licensed to practice in your area. The American Massage Therapy Association has a search feature that will help you find licensed and/or certified massage therapists near you.Be aware that most health insurance plans do not pay for massage treatments. You may have better luck if your doctor provides you a referral for medical massage.
 Acupuncture may help relieve low back pain caused by scoliosis.Acupuncture is not a “magic bullet” treatment and is unlikely to improve spine curvature.


The national certification board for acupuncturists in the United States is the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine.Be aware that most health insurance plans do not cover complementary medicine. Your insurance provider may be more likely to cover treatments by a certified acupuncturist.

