 A reflexologist named William H. Fitzgerald first divided the body into 10 zones, 5 on each side. These zones extend from fingertips to toes, and front to back, so that all areas of the body are included. Each zone has a corresponding area on a person's hands or feet.Reflexology allows specific relationship between the internal organ and the application of pressure on the hand.
A hand reflexology chart reveals the connection between the area of the hand and the inner organs of the body.
There may be a good deal of variation between hand reflexology charts, compared to the more consistent reflexology charts of the foot., The body's division into 12 meridians is an ancient Chinese practice which closely parallel's Fitzgerald's division of the body into zones. In this system of understanding, the body's energy (or chi) runs through these meridians and nourishes the body and spirit. If the pathways become clogged or weakened, health issues will result.Reading a hand reflexology chart can help you understand the relationship between the area on the hand and the affected body area.
Applying pressure to the reflex areas may help relieve stress and tension, help balance the body and allow all organs work together.
 There are two types of reflex arcs in the human body: somatic reflex arcs, which affect the muscles, and automatic reflex arcs, which affect the inner organs. Hand reflexology is based in the automatic reflex arc. The automatic reflex arc allows the body to respond to conditions without utilizing the brain. Instead, it is a function of the central nervous system.One way to understand the automatic reflex arc is to imagine the body's response to touching a hot stove. If your hand touches a hot stove, it moves away more quickly than your brain can process the pain. Your hand reacts via automatic reflex.Hand reflexology functions on this reflex principle, addressing problems of the inner organs.
 Massage addresses physically challenges directly. That is, when the body is injured, massage may be applied to the injured area as a healing method. Reflexology works on the principle that relies on the nervous system to relay the healing touch to the injured area.


For areas that are unable to be touched, such as the inner organs, glands, and organs of digestion and elimination, use reflexology to help treatment.
For muscle pains, spasms, or tension, use massage.

