 Technically, sciatica is a symptom and not a medical diagnosis, per se. People with sciatica experience one or more of the following:Lower back pain. If a person has lower back pain, it is usually not as severe as the leg pain.
Constant pain on one side of the buttock or leg. Rarely, the pain occurs on both sides.
Pain originating at the low back or at the buttock. The pain follows the path of the sciatic nerve. The nerve has several different paths. One path goes through the buttocks, down the back of the thigh and into the lower leg and the foot on the outside part. The other path goes down the side of the thigh, to the front of the lower leg and into the big toe area.
Pain that is typically described as sharp or searing, rather than dull.
The pain usually retreats when lying down or walking. Pain is worse when standing or sitting
There may be a "pins-and-needles" sensation. Numbness, weakness, or a prickling sensation down the leg is also commonly reported.;
, There are three different types of sciatic pain, depending on the specific nerve roots affected and if the pain is from the lumbar or the sacral spine. The sciatic nerve is formed from five different nerve roots, two from the lumbar spine (L4 and L5) and three from the sacral spine (S1, S2 and S3).


L4 nerve root sciatica: The pain usually affects the thigh with weakness in straightening the leg. There may be a diminished knee-jerk reflex (when the doctor uses a reflex hammer and taps right below the knee)
L5 nerve root sciatica: The pain and other symptoms extend to the big toe and ankle and may result in a “foot drop." "Foot drop" is the weakening of the muscles that allow you to flex your ankles and toes while walking, resulting in the dropping of the front of the foot which results in the need to lift the knee higher while walking. There may also be pain pain or numbness on the top of the foot, particularly between the big and second toe.S1 nerve root sciatica: The pain and other symptoms affect only the outer part of the foot. The toes other than the big toe may be involved. Some people may experience weakness when they try to lift the heel or try to stand on on their tiptoes. The ankle-jerk reflex is often reduced.
 The correct diagnosis is critical in getting the correct treatment. Using any of the natural approaches can be combined with medical treatment for general sciatic pain, but the exercise therapy must be specifically designed for your specific needs. Make sure you make an appointment with your physician for any back pain right away. The most common causes of sciatica are:Herniated lumbar disc: A herniated, slipped or bulging disc can irritate the nerve because the inner core of the disc (the nucleus pulposus) bulges through the outer core and directly presses on the nerve root.
Degenerative Disc Disease: This is a disorder associated with aging and is the result of a weakening of the disc bones and surrounding tissues. This has inflammatory components — the inflammation irritates the nerve root.
Isthmic spondylolisthesis: This is often commonly called a “slipped disc” — one disc essentially is sliding over the lower disc.
Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: Stenosis is the narrowing of the spinal canal through which the spinal nerves travel. Lumbar spinal stenosis may also be considered to be associated with aging and may be due to a combination of herniated discs and degenerative disc disease.
Piriformis Syndrome: The piriformis muscle runs through the buttock and can pinch or irritate the sciatic nerve as the nerve runs under the muscle.
Sacroiliac (SI) Joint Dysfunction: The SI joint is located at the bottom of the spine and lies under the L5 nerve.

