 It can be easy for you and your friends to do the same thing over and over again. But even if you have a limited amount of resources, you can mix and match rules to your favorite games, or add to a familiar activity to make it fresh.



Television referee is an excellent game to play when there's nothing to do, and nothing on TV. Choose a common word, or several common words, to serve as signals for actions for you and your friends. Every time you hear a new signal word on TV, change what you're doing!

Add a new sneaky element to this game by keeping it a secret from adults.
Choose high frequency words, like the name of a character, or difficult actions, like having to do 20 push-ups, to make the game harder.



Heckle a movie with your friends. You probably shouldn't do this in a movie theater and upset other guests, but sitting down with good friends at home to see a hilariously bad movie can lead to a boredom-free time.

Make sure you have popcorn, drinks, and other snacks to have the theater experience.



Game and grindstone is a way you and your friends can make studying less of a drag. Set a timer for 20 minutes, and take turns rotating gaming and studying. At the end of every hour, review what you've learned.

This is also a clever solution if you only have a single controller.



Combine two unrelated games together to come up with something exciting that will help you conquer your doldrums. For example, you might combine the games of freeze tag and rock-paper-scissors, so that a player is only unfrozen after winning against another player in rock-paper-scissors.
 If you're thinking of chess or checkers, both of these can be mentally challenging and a great way to pass the time. But recently there has been an explosion of specialty board games, where you and your friends can exorcise ghosts, repair a gnome-made submarine, or even stop a plague.


A general search for "interesting board games" can put you and your friends onto the track of a new and exciting game. Some of these can be expensive, so take advantage of free demonstrations at your local hobby store.
 Or, if you have a different favorite food, try that instead. Baking cookies, banana bread, or brownies can give you the chance to have fun and relax with friends. And you get a treat at the end.


Don't stop having fun when the timer hits zero, make your cupcakes into monsters, using frosting or candy. When you finish your monsters, make heroes, too! Decorate your cookies with patterns, or put several cookies together and frost them in the style of your favorite artist.
 Reflecting on good times can make you feel good in the present, too!By looking back into your past, you and your friends can appreciate how far you've come, and maybe gain a better idea of where you're going.
 With a little effort, you can probably find enough refrigerator boxes to build a more impressive structure than you could when you were younger. Getting your friends involved might upgrade your castle to a palace.


Put on a show involving the new scenery you've just made. Have one of your friends record it with a camera, and then share it with classmates the next day at school.
 A game of cards can be cool and classy or a rowdy good time. Learn new games with your friends and rotate between them so you don't get bored again. Some games to investigate:


Hearts
Spades
Slap Jack
Euchre
Canasta

