 The cleanliness of your car could change your date’s impression of you. Making sure everything is cleared out also prevents your date from finding anything of yours that is embarrassing. Clean out any of your stuff you want to keep, this includes bags, books, and papers. Once the car is empty of your stuff, clean out any trash, wrappers, and food that you can see and throw it away. Clean out any small objects, such as pencils, paper clips, and pens.


Look in every compartment, under the seats, and in the trunk to make sure you have retrieved everything.;
, Remove the floor mats and vacuum the seats and the floor. Make sure to vacuum under the seats and under the pedals too. Use a soft brush attachment and vacuum the center console, the doors, and the dashboard. If you have leather seats use a soft brush attachment for those too. , If you have any obvious stains on your fabric seats or carpet, make sure to remove them before your date. Spray the stain with fabric stain remover or detergent mixed with water and rub quickly with a cloth. , If your car has leather seats instead of fabric, wipe them down before your date. Using a slightly moist cotton towel to clean the leather should be sufficient enough to give your date a good impression. You can use leather cleaner and a cotton towel if your seats are particularly dirty. The last thing you want is your date sitting on a sticky seat. , Put your car somewhere where the ground can get dirty and wet. Make sure a hose can reach your car. Get a hose and rinse your car off to remove any debris. Fill two buckets with water and put soap in one bucket. , Dip a sponge in the soapy water and start washing the car at the top, working your way down. The bottom of the car is the dirtiest and you don’t want to transfer the dirt at the bottom of the car to the top. Make sure to thoroughly clean the tires and wheels too.


Use the bucket of water to rinse your sponge before you put it back in the soapy water. Replenish the sponge often.
 Use a hose to rinse off any leftover soap and to prevent soap residue staining your car. Rinse your car top to bottom the same way you washed it. , Use a squeegee on the windows and use a soft, microfiber towel to dry the body of the car. A regular towel might scratch your car. Dry in a circular motion to avoid leaving marks on your car. , If you don’t want to wash your car yourself, you can take it to a car wash. This will be costlier than washing it yourself, but is easier. Going to a car wash is probably your best choice if you live somewhere cold and don’t want to spend time outside washing your car, if you have a few extra dollars to spend to get it washed, or if you are low on time before the date.
 If your car smells really badly, spray the inside with car freshener. You can also use Febreeze instead to help fix the bad smell. Hang a car air freshener on the mirror to maintain the good smell. Don’t spray anything strong in the car like perfumes or colognes. These can be too strong and could even give your date a headache.
 You want to make sure your date is going to have enough leg room. Push the passenger seat back before the date starts so you don’t have to try to maneuver the seat for them during the date.
 Before the date stick a blanket, sweatshirt, umbrella, and anything else you might need in the trunk of your car. You never know where you might end up and it is good to be prepared. If you decide to go last minute star gazing, you will be glad you brought the blanket. Your date will be very impressed if it starts raining and you have an umbrella on hand or an extra sweatshirt for them if they get cold.
 It would be very awkward if you pick your date up then realize you need to get gas. Make sure to get plenty of gas before the date so you don’t have to do it during the date.
 Don’t let all your hard work go to waste. Offer to pick your date up. Arrive on time. Don’t honk when you get to their house, instead walk up to the front door and ring the doorbell or knock. If it seems appropriate, open the passenger door for them to help them into your car. 