 Using your computer’s web browser, go to Hightail. Click the Log In link on the header of the page to access the login page.


Enter your username and password in the fields that will appear, then click the “Log In” button to continue.
Upon logging in, you will be brought to your dashboard, an overview of all your recent file activities.;
, It has a signature icon with it. You will brought to the Sign a File page.
 You can upload a file from your computer or choose one from your Hightail folders. Hightail supports signing of PDF, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Rich Text files.


Selecting a file from My Desktop—Click on the “My Desktop” button and select the file from your computer. The file will be uploaded to Hightail and then loaded on your screen.
Selecting a file from My Hightail Folders—Click on the “My Hightail Folders” button and select the file from one of your Hightail folders. The file will be loaded on your screen.
 The file will be loaded in a sub-window on Hightail’s web page. Check to see if this is the correct file.
 Click on the document where you want to place your signature.
 A small window will appear where you can draw or type your signature. You have two options on putting your signature on the document.


Drawing with your mouse—Click on the “Draw with mouse” button to draw your signature using your mouse. Your digital signature will look almost like your own writing. Go to the box for the signature and draw your signature. The box will be enlarged so you can draw easily.
Typing your signature—Click on the “Type signature” button to type your signature instead. A small text box will appear where you can type your name. Hightail will transform your typed text into a cursive, signature format.
 Click on the “Add” button and your signature will be pasted on the document. Hover over it and drag it to the exact location where you want it.


You can also drag the signature box to enlarge or minimize it.
 This will affix your signature onto the document and save the changes.
 Once the document has been saved, you will be asked what you want to do with it. Click on the “Send it” button to directly email the signed document.


You can also save the file instead and send it later. Click on the “Save it to My Folders” button and identify where to put the signed file inside your Hightail folders. You can go back to that folder later when you need the signed document.

