 Before working with a CDE, you’ll need to locate one. Usually, your doctor will refer you to a CDE who can help you. But if not, you can always ask your doctor for a referral, or contact the agency or organization that regulates diabetes educator certification in your country.In the U.S., certification is overseen by the National Certification Board for Diabetes Educators.
The American Association of Diabetes Educators offers an online map of all Cd Es  in the U.S. at https://www.diabeteseducator.org/patient-resources/find-a-diabetes-educator.
In the Philippines, certification is governed by the Philippine Association of Diabetes Educators (PADE) and the Association of Diabetes Nurse Educators of the Philippines (ADNEP)
In Canada, you could contact the Canadian Diabetes Educator Certification Board (CDECB).
If you need help finding the diabetes organization in your country, try an online search. Type a word string like “diabetes educator ” into your favorite search engine. Explore several results to find an educator near you.;
, Most insurance programs in the U.S. offer 10 hours of diabetes education in your first year following diagnosis, and may offer coverage after that. If you have universal healthcare coverage, you will probably be eligible to work with your CDE consistently over a longer period. In either case, contact your insurance provider or healthcare program to learn more about what sorts of CDE meetings you can attend based on your coverage and needs., You probably have many questions about your diabetes that your doctor suggested you ask your CDE. Make a list of these questions so that when you meet your CDE, you’ll be able to get some in-depth answers. Common questions you might have include:What’s the best way to treat my diabetes?
How much will my treatment cost?
How can I get my prescription needs met?
When should I make a follow-up visit?

, When you locate and contact your CDE, set up an appointment. Say to the CDE, “I would like to schedule an appointment to meet.” Make a note of the appointment date and time in your daily planner or digital scheduling app and ensure it does not conflict with anything else you had planned. Then, attend the appointment.Arrive at least 10 minutes early so that you will not be late.
You might have to meet your educator as part of a larger group of other diabetes patients, or you might be able to meet your CDE individually.
Bring your list of questions to the appointment and ask your doctor about anything that they don’t answer directly.
You will likely meet with your CDE more than once.

