 Once you've located the cat, sit down on a nearby piece of furniture or on the floor but not too close to the cat. Try to be at the cat's elevation so you're not looming over it. You can look in its direction but don't make eye contact. Call the cat's name. It will either respond by looking at you, turning an ear in your direction, pausing from current activity, or slowly getting up, stretching, and leaving the room, or it will not respond to you at all.


If the cat acknowledges you, begin to pat your knee and call it again in a pleasing, gentle voice. You could even entice it to come to you with a treat., A skittish cat needs to get used to your smell before it can become comfortable with you. If it comes up to you and rubs up against you, it's saying that you are its territory.While a rub against your legs doesn't exactly mean that the cat loves you, it's a good first step toward the cat becoming comfortable with you.


Once the cat has rubbed up against you a few times, put your hand out for it to smell. The cat may rub your hand with its cheek, at which time you can begin to gently find out where it likes to be petted.
 Don't surprise a high strung cat. While you might get closer to a skittish cat by sneaking up on it, you are not building trust with the cat. Instead, make sure that the cat sees you coming. If it agrees to let you pet it, you will know because it won't run away.
 Begin by petting it on the back or under its chin. Also try scratching your cat between the shoulder blades or under its collar. These are spots it can't reach easily, and so cats generally love it.


Gently stroke the cat in the direction of its fur growth, as many cats don't like their fur messed up by petting against the growth.
 For instance, avoid petting a high strung cat's belly.Although some cat's enjoy being petted on the belly, it's more likely that this will make a skittish cat go into defense mode. Some cats even take petting on the stomach as a clear invitation to playfully gnaw and scratch your hand.


Also, many cats don't like being touched on their paws.
Some cats can bite without warning if you pet them too much. It is often safer to only pet the head, neck and under the chin if you are unsure.
 Pet your new best friend gently and find out where and how the cat likes to be stroked or gently scratched. If your cat leaves, act like you are glad to be doing something very important.
 Don't expect a shy cat to put up with petting for a long period of time. Give him or her a few nice pets on the back and then willingly let the cat move away. This will begin the physical bonding process between both you and the cat, but it will also help to build the bond of trust as well.

