 Thoroughly clean your hands with soap and water. Don't dry the fingers that are touching the eye to avoid getting lint in the eye. Your hands should always be clean whenever inserting or removing your contact lenses.Thorough washing is especially important if you are touching your eye for a longer period of time, such as when trying to remove a stuck lens.
 A stuck lens is not an emergency, and anxiety will only make it harder to locate and remove the lens.Your contact lens cannot get stuck behind your eyeball. The conjunctiva, a mucous membrane in front of your eye, and muscles around your eye called the rectus muscles make this impossible.Getting a contact lens stuck in your eye is not a serious health risk, unless you leave it for a long period of time. While it may be irritating, it is unlikely to damage your eye. If the contact lens is broken it may be painful., In most cases, rigid contact lenses get stuck because they have slid out of their proper place over the cornea. If this is the case, you'll need to determine where in your eye the lens has moved before you can remove it.


Close your eyes and relax your eyelids. You should be able to feel the lens in your eye. If you can't feel it under your eyelid, gently touch the lid with your fingers and see if you can locate it.If the lens has moved to the corner of your eye, you may be able locate it just by looking in the mirror.Try looking in the opposite direction of the lens. For example, if the lens feels like it's in the right corner of your eye, look left. Or, if the lens feels like it’s stuck in the bottom part of your eye, look up. The lens may become visible.If you can't see or feel where the lens has gone, it is possible it has fallen out of your eye., If the lens has moved to the white of your eye, you can often dislodge it by breaking the suction between the lens and eyeball. To do this, use your fingertip to gently press your eye just outside the edge of the lens.Do not massage the eyeball as you would with soft lenses. This may cause the edge of the lens to scratch the surface of your eye as it moves., If the lens remains stuck, you can purchase a small suction cup tool in the eye-care section of many drug stores which will allow you to remove the lens.Ideally, your optometrist will have taught you this technique before prescribing the lens.


First, wash the suction cup with contact lens cleaner. Moisten the suction cup with saline solution.Use your thumb and forefinger to separate your eyelids.
Apply the suction cup to the center of the lens and pull it out, being careful not to touch your eye with the suction cup.
The lens can be removed from the suction cup by sliding it gently sideways.Consider seeing a medical professional before choosing this method. Using a suction cup device to remove rigid lenses on your own can cause trauma to your eye., If you cannot remove the lens, go to your local doctor, optometrist, or hospital to have them remove the lens for you. You should also seek medical assistance if your eye becomes very red or irritated.If you believe you have scratched or otherwise damaged your eye in attempting to remove the lens, contact your eye doctor immediately. You should seek medical assistance whether you have successfully removed the lens or not.