 Sectioning your hair will make it easier to work with, and you'll end up with more consistent curls. Sectioning will also make sure you don't miss the back of your hair and will make these roots easier to reach.The number of sections you'll make will depend on how much hair you're comfortable working with. Four sections generally work best.


Hair can be heat curled either dry or wet.;
, Black hair is generally more prone to drying out when compared to other hair types. When hair is too dry, it becomes brittle and more prone to breakage. Using a heat protection spray or cream will prevent damage while you curl., Remember that the width of your wand will determine the width of your curls. If you want big, bouncy curls, select a wand with a width of more than one inch. For smaller ringlets, use a thinner wand.Many curling wands come with multiple attachments with different thicknesses.
 Pick a heat setting between 350 to 370 degrees Fahrenheit (about 177 to 188 degrees Celsius). Remember that you want your wand to be hot enough to curl your hair but not so hot that you damage it. Let your wand heat up for two to four minutes before you begin to style.
 Don't leave the section on the wand for more than 10 seconds.Any longer may damage your hair. Do not wrap your hair around itself; if it isn't in contact with the heating element your hair is unlikely to hold a curl. Instead, make sure you are wrapping your hair strand around the wand itself.
 Wear a heat resistant glove on the hand you use for this step. Hold the curl bunched up in place on your hand for a few seconds to cool. By allowing the curl to set while still in a spiral shape, your curls will have more hold., Place the first strand to the side. Move on to another strand of roughly the same size as the first. Keep working until all of your hair is curled.


If you find your finished strands getting in the way, carefully pin them back. While your curls are likely to hold fine, avoid messing them up too much until you've set them.
 Use some styling gel or spray on some hairspray to make your curls last longer. Avoid alcohol-based hairsprays that can dry out your hair. You may want to look for holding sprays made especially with African hair in mind. These products will reduce frizz by both blocking out humidity and sealing in your hair's own moisture.Experiment with different products to find the one right for you.

