 Search the Yellow Pages or gain access to a computer and look for schools online. Search for reflexology schools in your area - narrow your search using your city or zip code or searching for accredited schools only. Call the schools or visit their websites to gather information and ask them to send you information about their programs.


Decide if you want to focus on one type of reflexology (hand, foot, or ear), or learn it all, then locate the appropriate program.
There are hundreds of websites on the Internet that offer reflexology training. You must be discerning when you choose educational resources that will help you begin a new career as a reflexologist.
 Your reflexology school should provide training in the history, theory, practice and techniques of reflexology. They should cover class work in anatomy and physiology, reflexology maps of the feet, hands, and/or ears, eastern and western modalities, ethics and professional standards, marketing and business, and how to customize sessions to clients’ specific needs.Avoid any program that does not include hands-on training. You can’t learn the art of reflexology without real practice. Your program should have supervised clinical practice.
 Contact schools to request discussions with their instructors and past graduates. This can help you determine if the structure and approach of the program will meet your needs.
 Some reflexology schools build practice hours into their coursework. Others ask that you practice outside the school environment and submit proof of practice hours through a feedback form from your patients. Find out what your school requires so you can plan accordingly.
 If you will need to take a licensing or certifying exam to practice reflexology, look for an outline or “blueprint” of what’s on the exam. You can find this on the website of the organization that gives the exam. Choose a school that adequately prepares you for the examination you will be taking.


For example, an examination may include categories that cover assessment and evaluation, treatment plan development, treatment skills application, and topics related to professional responsibility and ethics.

