 Funds for education can come from a variety of private sources.  A free scholarship search web site can be a good source of information.  Besides your geographic location and your intended major or career field, be sure to search with keywords "returning student" and "non-traditional student" as some organizations look to help fund older students, especially those that had barriers to pursuing their education during their "traditional" college-age years.
 If you are working or in a labor union, ask your employer (human resources dept.) or union if they offer financial assistance to return to school to help upgrade your skills.  If you are a member of a church or any other type of organization, find out if they offer educational scholarships to their members.
 Most states also have their own student aid programs so look up the state agency that deals with higher (post-secondary) educational financial aid in your state of residency.  Some are intended for traditional college age students, but some are not.  Most are tied in to filing the FAFSA but some may require additional applications or documentation and may have early deadlines.
 The college you want to attend may have its own sources of student aid funding.  Most colleges have foundations that have fundraising and endowments specifically earmarked for student aid and scholarships.  Contact the Financial Aid or Scholarship Department and/or Foundation of your college.  If you know your intended academic major, also contact that academic department to see if there are scholarships for that specific major or department.
  In other words, you pay for certain education-related expenses (tuition, fees, books, supplies and required equipment) "up front" and then you recover some or all of these outlays in the form of tax credits and/or deductions the following year when you file your federal tax return.  Remember that credits (which directly reduces income taxes owed) are generally better than deductions (which reduces the amount of your income subject to taxes) and you normally can't do both.

 

The American Opportunity Credit can be used for your first four years of undergraduate (pre-bachelor's degree) education.  The Lifetime Learning Credit can be used for most other higher education or training.  Tuition and fees can be deducted from income, as can interest paid on student loans -- even if you don't itemize your deductions.   See a professional tax preparer or IRS Publication 970 (at www.irs.gov) for more details.

