 The manufacturer who made your sweater knows the most about the fabric and what is best for it. Before anything else, check the tag on your sweater to see if there are any special care instructions. The care tag is often on the inside seam on the side of the sweater, or behind the size tag at the back of the neck., Consider using a stain remover like OxiClean Versatile or Shout Advanced on any stains you see before putting the sweater in the washing machine.Follow the instructions on the label of the cleaner you choose. For example, some stain removers may require that you leave the remover on the stain for 10 minutes before you put the sweater in the washing machine.


Different stain removers are intended for different types of stains, so spend some time deciding what the right stain remover is for your sweater., Wash the sweater with other items that are in the same color group. If your sweater is white, wash it with other white items. If it is dark, wash it with other dark items. If the sweater is a bright color and has not been washed before, wash it by itself the first time to be sure that the color won’t stain your other clothes., Check the back of your laundry detergent container to see how much you should use, given the amount of clothing in your load. For most cotton sweaters, you can use regular all-purpose laundry detergent or a gentle laundry detergent.


Liquid detergents tend to work best for removing greasy or oily stains. Powder detergents work great for removing dirt or clay., On your washing machine, turn the knob or press the button to select the cycle called “wool,” “hand-wash,” or “delicate.” If there is no delicate cycle option, choose the shortest cycle available. This will help prevent damage to your sweater from a rough wash cycle., Select cold water for bright-colored sweaters, and warm water for light-colored sweaters. Cold water can help the sweater maintain its color, so if in doubt, stick with a cold wash for your sweater. Avoid using hot water with sweaters, unless the care tag specifically says to.