 The metal tip is crucial; this is where you will be burning your pipe tobacco. If the tip is plastic, you will ingest toxic fumes from the burning of plastic. The pen must be easily dismantled as well.


The tip of the pen is the small metal cone that surrounds the point when you're writing.
Never light or smoke out of plastic -- it can release toxins that you do not want to inhale.;
, Completely dismantle the pen, throwing out the bottom end, the ink cartridge, and any springs or levers. You should left with an empty pen tube and the metal pen tip.
 This is where you will put your smoking supplies. For the best results, tilt it slightly so that it rests diagonally in the tube, but is still flush. If you're having some trouble making it fit, you can try...Notching the top of the tube, like a set of cross-hairs, so that it spreads when you push the tip in.Use a small amount of glue to create a seal between the pen tip and tube.
 There is a good chance you'll accidentally pull some of the smoking material through as it heats up, getting unpleasantly in your mouth. You can remove the filter from a cigarette and jam it in the pen tube to prevent this, or roll up a small strip of index paper into a spiral and use this to create a little screen at the end of the pen.
 You'll likely need to hold the pen slightly above your head, lighting it and inhaling with the filled-up pen tip on top. This is why, when possible, slightly angling the bowl will make it easier to smoke, as you don't have to bring the pen quite as high.More often than not, you need to make sure the bowl doesn't slip out. You can either hold it, or glue it temporarily in place.
 Pens aren't made to be heated up and inhaled. While you'll be fine using the pen once or twice, repeated usage can cause the pen to leech chemicals, which you end up smoking after too much use. Avoid the issue entirely and make a new pen pipe when needed.


The pen pipe is generally a last-resort for smoking. Whenever possible, use actual equipment made to be smoked out of.