 To change your clothes, go to the room of your house above your car on the far left. When you move your mouse over it, you will see an icon in the upper right corner that shows a pair of scissors and a T-Shirt. Click on this room once you see the icon. From here you can change your top, jacket and belt by clicking on them.
 You can choose between a variety of colors and three different patterns for shirts. You can also choose the color for certain jackets and belts, but some can only be changed to different fabric types. Once all clothing options are unlocked, there is a total of six tops, three belts, and three jackets you can use.
 To add makeup to your avatar, click the room in the top center of your house, which will have an icon with lipstick and eyeshadow. Here you can customize your makeup with several different options such as lipstick, blush, skin, eyeshadow, mascara, and eye color. To apply any makeup option available in your game, simply choose the category it fits into (skin, eyes, or lips) and click its icon at the bottom of the screen to put it on. You can remove it using the makeup remover in the bottom left corner. It has an 'X' on it. Using it will remove all makeup in the category it is found in.
 To change your hair, click on the bottom room in the middle of your house. Its icon is a hairbrush and a comb. Here, you can choose from up to six different hairstyles and seven different hair colors. The different hairstyle options are magazines with the style on them. Click your favorite magazine to make that your current hairstyle. The hair color options are at the bottom on the left. They are seven different colored bottles. Click a bottle to change your hair color. To reset your hairstyle and color, press the pink spray bottle in the bottom right.
 Reach your accessories from the room in the top right corner of your house. Its icon is a jewelry box. All the accessories you have unlocked are displayed here. You can choose from a total of 5 hats, 6 earrings, 5 bracelets, 1 pair of glasses, 1 ring, and 1 perfume bottle. Click any accessory to equip it. After you put on an accessory, a box will pop up which shows a few more options of colors/types for that accessory. For example, there is only one ring displayed on your screen, but after clicking it you can choose from different styles for your ring. Sometimes you can't change the type/style of an accessory, but instead you can change the color of it.


Ignore the confusing lamp. You may also find a lamp in this room. You can click on it to turn it on or off, but it serves no purpose in the game.

