 Cut a piece of extension thread about 48 inches (121.9 cm) long and thread one end through the eye of a curved needle. Pull the thread through until there is an equal amount on both sides. You're going to be working with a double thread. Tie the two loose ends together with a secure knot.
 A single hair extension is also known as a weft. If you want to create extra fullness, simply fold your weft in half. Take your needle and insert it through the unfolded edge of the weft so that it's held together along the unfolded size.









You may need to trim the weft to the correct width. It should match the length of the braid. If you are folding it over, it needs to be double the length of the braid.
 With the weft now attached to your needle and thread, insert your needle underneath the cornrow and bring it up. The curved needle should make this easy, and the point of the needle should now be pointing back at you.
 Take the needle (the point is facing you) and insert it into the front of the extension right below the seam, which is called the track. If you're working with a folded weft, be sure your needle goes under both tracks. Hold the hair extension up and try to cover the cornrow with it. Insert the needle back under the cornrow and pull the thread gently, leaving a loop.









If your cornrow extended beyond your part, simply fold it back onto the head as you attach the extension.
 Once you bring your needle and thread up from behind your cornrow, insert the needle through the loop you left at the end of your last stitch and pull the thread through. Pull firmly to attach the extension in place securely.
 Insert the needle back underneath the track of your extension about a 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) away from your last stitch. Slide the needle under the cornrow, leave a loop and bring the needle and thread through the loop to secure your extension. Continue sewing your extension along the part line keeping your stitches neat and a uniform 1/2-inch distance apart.
 When you're one stitch away from the end of your extension, insert the needle through the front of the extension and tack the two folded ends to one another. Do not go under the cornrow again. Make two or three stitches to fold the folded end onto itself. Then insert your needle through one of the stitches, pull through to create a loop and insert your needle through the loop to make a knot. Knot the end two or three times for extra security. Trim the edges of the leftover thread on both ends of the extension.
 Depending on how you wear your hair, you may need to get a hair cut to create a new style or to help your extensions blend even more seamlessly into your own hair.








