 Stop Making Excuses: Plan. Save. Search. Network. Create.
 But it might be "no down payment" if you find a motivated seller -- and if real estate, then dependable renters in your building can pay the bills and the mortgage, for example; that is how rentals work (be reasonable and maintain property; expect renters to cause ordinary wear and tear; so that as landlord, you usually should do the needed, usual kinds of repairs).
 Search for an opportunity. One usually only can and will find any desired item, if one is looking: Look for opportunity or look for ways to "create your own luck".
 Make sure:


That you are getting a very good deal (paying less than market value) in a stable or improving location.
"Make your profit when you buy your merchandise" means you buy right and sell right -- whether its retail, wholesale, raw materials, real estate, ideas, talent or hiring people as smart or smarter than yourself (who needs unsuitable goods or lazy workers?)!
That you have real potential to increase the value significantly by fixing-up with repairs, and dressing up with some inexpensive, minor improvements.
 You, therefore, would need only a little money to own your business or property. Consider holding your purchase so that the business income or rents pay it off for you over the course of time.
 Is more money coming in than is going out, over a period of time? Do you see that when you own a business or rental property that you need to make a "positive cash flow" (or call it a profit) to have the business pay you and pay for itself -- to avoid going broke.
 Check the contents of your bank account, pockets or purse -- "Where's the money?" If you can not make a positive cash flow, significant profit, you might still stay in business, if the reason that there is "not a good profit" is called a "loss on paper," ie: after all expenses of the business are paid and depreciation is figured on the equipment, and on improvements and fixtures -- then you are still able to exist pretty-well, and hold on and eventually it can get better.
 Many store owners have lived in the attic or the back of the store to get it up and running.
 Several decades after World War II, the great American job creating economy made plenty of jobs: but how many new innovators? Jobs were plentiful including 20 million in the 1990s: "But since December 1999, there has been 'zero net job' creation—'nada, zippo'."Understand that this has positive as well as the obvious negative effects for jobs creators.
 (Realize that one in six Americans -- Spring, 2010 -- was unemployed or under-employed, in essence: can not find full-time work or that pays. Some economists say to expect pre-recession levels in around 2016.)

,