 Every state has a form you can fill out for an unmarried man to establish his paternity. However, states limit who may establish paternity this way. For example, New York doesn’t allow you to claim paternity by completing an affidavit if any of the following applies:The mother was married at any point in the pregnancy or when the child was born.
The mother is unmarried but more than one man could be the father.
The child hasn’t yet been born.
 This form goes by different names, such as an “affidavit” or “acknowledgement of paternity.”You should have an opportunity to sign an acknowledgement of paternity at the hospital, shortly after the baby is born.


If you weren’t at the hospital, then you will need to get the form. You can look for the form by contacting your local child support enforcement unit.
You might also contact the hospital, who can help you complete the form., Some forms can be completed on a computer as a PDF. You can then save your information. If you are handwriting information, then write in neatly in black ink. Each state’s form is different, but you generally will be asked for the following information:child’s Social Security Number
child’s full name
child’s sex
child’s place of birth
birth number
mother’s full name
mother’s Social Security Number
mother’s place and date of birth
father’s full name
father’s Social Security Number
father’s date and place of birth
father’s race
father’s current address and mailing address
mother’s current mailing address

, Read the form to see if you need to sign in front of a notary public or before witnesses. In Florida, for example, both the mother and father must sign the form in front of two witnesses or a notary.You can find notaries in many places: the courthouse, town office, or in large banks. You can also find a nearby notary by visiting the American Society of Notaries website.You must show the notary acceptable forms of personal identification, such as a valid state-issued ID or a passport.
 The form should list the mailing address where you send the form. If you completed the form in the hospital, then the staff may file it for you.You should keep one copy for your records. Make sure you have a copy that has been signed by everybody.


After the state receives the form, it should send you a certified copy of the acknowledgement of paternity.
You may also be able to get a new birth certificate with your name as the father on it.
 Some states might give you the ability to cancel your acknowledgement if you do so within a certain amount of time. For example, Florida gives you 60 days to cancel the acknowledgement unless a court hearing has been held.In some states, such as New York, you may have to file a petition with the court to vacate your acknowledgement of paternity.Your copy of the form should tell you how to go about cancelling your acknowledgement.

