 Valid identification includes a state issued driver's license or personal identification card, a military ID, a U.S. passport, or a U.S. immigration card.Refuse to sale alcoholic beverages to anyone who cannot produce valid photo identification, even if you personally believe they probably are over 21.Check the expiration date on the ID. If the ID is expired, it's not valid, and you can't sell alcohol to that person--even if it's really their ID., Know when people were born who are turning 21 that year, and make sure the birth date of every individual whose ID you check is after that date.,


It also is illegal for adults over 21 to purchase alcoholic beverages and give them to someone who is under 21., Even if you can see the customer's driver's license, have them take it out so you can inspect it.


When you are holding the ID you can feel any bubbles or splits in the card's lamination. You can also tell if the ID has been printed on a different plastic than legitimate government-issued IDs.
Look for markings or information taped or pasted over the real information. For example, an underage customer might try to use a pen or marker to alter the birth year on her license.Check the photo on the ID and make sure the photo matches the person standing in front of you.
Hold the ID up to the light so you can see any possible alterations more clearly., Look for any holograms or other visible markings intended to indicate an ID is legitimate.


Look for colors, fonts, or numbers that don't match up.If you doubt the legitimacy of the ID, quiz the person on the information contained, such as the person's address, as well as other personal information. For example, you might ask the person their astrological sign. Most people know their own astrological sign, but may not have every sign memorized, so if the birth date is different from their own they won't be able to immediately answer your question.
Watch the person's body language. If they seem nervous or act impatient, the ID may be fake. This may also be true if they hesitate to answer your questions, keep trying to get their ID back from you, or try to distract you by flirting, asking questions, or talking about other things., Employees may be familiar with your state's ID, but not know the style or indicators of other states. For this reason, people often try to pass a fake ID from a faraway state assuming the clerk won't know what a real one looks like.


If you're looking at an ID from a state with which you're not familiar, compare it to the pictures in the checking guide and look for the secret details the guide mentions such as holograms or embedded codes.