 This may be hard to get perfect, but if it's close enough it will work just as well. This is necessary as the head is one of the hardest parts to put in right measurements.;
, Join a diagonal line, ending to the right of the center of the circle shape which will form the chin. Now, using the bottom of the circle to guide you, draw a kind of gentle, sloping diagonal towards the left edge (so it looks as if it could meet the circle outline had it carried on).
 Draw another of these just below half-way. Then, right near the bottom of the circle, draw another. This will create space for the eyebrows (top gap) and the eyes (bottom gap). For a guideline for the nose, draw a vertical line through the face, ending just to the right of the chin.
 Make the eye fill the height of the bottom gap. For the second, count one or two eye widths to the right of the vertical line, and draw another oval- slightly thinner this time (again, filling the height of the bottom gap). As for the nose, there will be visible circle coming from where the second eye sits. Draw a small line here, sloping to upwards and right. Then you add the mouth; there are many ways you can draw the mouth. Happy, sad, neutral, you name it. Shown here is a simple, cute and a little surprised looking (open) mouth. The position is based on where the vertical line is, above the chin.
 The positions of the irises, the circles where the light would be shining on them, the darkness around the lashes. You can change shapes too, rather than sticking to this eye design. Also, we draw on the eyebrows in the top gap above our eyes. Again, these can look different- arched, flat, whatever fits the character's emotion. The first eyebrow starts at the vertical line and ends just passed the corner of the eye. The right starts above the inner corner of that eye and ends the same, just on the opposite side.
 First draw a slightly tilted line upwards to create the ear position. Do this from the line coming left from the chin (which you have already drawn) up to join the upper circle. To draw the ear, start just above the top eye line and go down, round to just below the nose line. Now the ear is done, you can put on the neck. Vertical down- but ever so slightly curving- sketch the left neckline just where the ear ends, and where the ear placement line is. The next line goes just before the chin and is vertical. Finally, put the hair on! What hair you give the character is your choice. Fringe, side fringe, middle parting, even standing upright! Shown here is a messy fringe type style. Normally in anime, you draw pointed parts of the hair and raise the hair further up than the top of the head.
 The character's body shape, position, actions and clothes are totally up to you. With the character facing sideways, draw the shoulders so that the left one is coming down into an arm and the right kind of follows the body.
 The hair can be flowing, in plaits, pigtails, ponytail... like with the mouth, clothes etc there are plenty of choices! When this is sketched, tidy up the lines by erasing guide lines, mistakes and simply messy sketched lines.
 If you want a simpler, tidier drawing skip it. Now we add things like lines for the hair, creases in the clothes, darken pupils in the eyes. Fairly obvious, really.
 All that is left is to darken the line, add colour, and any more finishing touches! Well done at your drawing.

