 Once you know you have an interview lined up, spend some time researching the company and the position you applied for online. You'll often be able to learn the answers to basic questions you have, especially concerning work schedule and job responsibilities.You may also encounter information you're curious about, so you can ask the interviewer to expand or clarify.


Try the company website, anything a search engine turns up about the company, and the company's social media pages.
Try to understand the company's goals and mission, and how it ties in to your skills and interests. This makes you appear prepared and suitable for the company, which is a cut above someone who only repeats the website's talking points.
If you know someone who works or used to work at the company, that contact can give you specific tips about your interviewers or what the company values.;
, Write down a list of questions you expect them to ask, and then construct a thoughtful answer to each one in writing. If you get some of your guesses right, you'll appear confident and practiced, and will have less anxiety about improvising your answers.


Be prepared to summarize your previous work experiences, and to explain how they contributed to skills and knowledge that applies to the job you're trying to get.
Certain common resume occurrences are often brought up in interview questions. These include a long gap in your employment, a job you only had for a short time, or unusual work experience people may not be familiar with.
 The interviewer may ask you non-work-related questions, and you should be able to tie them into your interest in the company. Some of these may take verbal gymnastics, but if you focus on your personal character development and your passion for the work the company does, you can usually find a way to connect them with the question.


Prepare a short summary of a few major accomplishments in your life or career, ending with a tie-in about how you are suited for this job. When they ask you to "tell me about yourself," they are looking for more specific information than what you included on your resume.Google your name and be prepared to explain any unflattering information, work experience you left off your resume, or unusual hobbies. The last category can easily become a strength if you describe positive reasons you enjoy them.
Other common questions include What are your greatest strengths and weaknesses?, Why should we hire you?, Where do you see yourself in five years?, and How did you hear about our company? These are all opportunities to describe yourself in a positive light, especially your connection and commitment to the company's mission. If you are having trouble coming up with answers, have a friend who's prepared for interviews before help you construct answers that are positive, but not clichéd.
 Have a friend read out your list of questions, or do it alone in front of a mirror. Answer them without reading from your paper, although glancing down at first is fine. Do this several times, trying to word your answers in different ways each time. The more you practice, the more natural you'll sound when the interviewer asks a similar, but not identical, question.
 Bring along a copy of your resume, as well as a notepad and pen. If you're coming straight from another obligation, bring along a comb, makeup, or whatever else you need to improve your appearance before the interview begins.


Bringing a phone to exchange contact information is a good idea, but be sure it is set to silent during the interview.
Consider printing out the "about the company page" or the job postings section of their website and making notes on it concerning what information you'd like to learn more about.
 Cut your nails, tidy your hair, and wear well kept, formal clothing. See this article for more detailed information if you're not confident about your dress decisions.


There are rare exceptions, but you should only dress more casually if you are specifically told not to dress up. Even then you should pay attention to hygiene and not wear ratty or dirty clothing. This situation comes up most often for jobs that require outdoor manual labor.
 Having a bored friend in the car or kids waiting in the lobby will increase your anxiety.Similarly, keep your schedule clear so you don't keep someone waiting if the interview goes long. If you have to pick your kids up from school or have a meeting with a friend, try to get someone else to cover for you or reschedule before the interview.
 Aim to show up in advance in case of unexpected delays. You only have one chance to make a good first impression, and even a reasonable excuse for being late will make you look worse.

Don't enter the interviewing office until five minutes before your scheduled interview time. Give yourself extra time to find the interview location if it is in a large complex or complicated building.
If you are unavoidably delayed, call in advance and let them know the reason and your estimated arrival time.
 This article contains many methods for reducing anxiety. Pick one or two that you can do before the interview and have calmed you down in the past. If you have trouble relaxing and aren't sure which will work, try to find the time to try some of these out in the week before the interview.


If you have the time beforehand, try having lunch with a calm friend or getting a massage. Many people become nervous if they are waiting for something stressful alone, so try to choose an absorbing, distracting activity with a relaxing friend.
If you only have a few minutes before the interview, take a few deep, slow breaths in and out, holding each one for a brief pause. Do this for 30–60 seconds if you can.
Some relaxation methods are impractical when preceding a job interview. Taking a bubble bath or jogging right before your interview will leave a bad impression when you show up with wet hair or a sweat soaked shirt.

