 One of the most important things that married couples can do to help keep their marriage strong is to schedule date nights. Date nights will allow you both to spend time together, focus on one another and keep your romantic connection alive. Make sure you plan and keep a date night to help maintain your marriage and keep it strong.Take your spouse out on a date that you know they will love.
Make sure you won't feel rushed on your night out.
Keep the focus on each other. Avoid talking too much about stressful subjects.
Make sure you regularly go on dates. Exactly how often you go on a date will be up to both of you, but you should both feel that you're going out frequently enough.
If going out on a date is too costly, try enjoying a nice evening in after you've put the kids to bed.;
, It doesn't take long to catch your breath and reconnect with your spouse. Setting aside as little as twenty minutes a day can make a difference in your relationship. Try using this time to talk with one another, catch up, discuss your feelings or even just enjoy the silence together. Although your free time is likely limited, try using whatever spare moments you have to catch up and reconnect with your spouse.You could try doing something simple, like going on a walk together.
You might want to spend some time together in the evening, chatting about your day or your upcoming plans over a glass of wine.
Dropping the kids off at school together can give you a few free moments to talk before heading off to work.
 Beyond date night, finding an activity that both you and your spouse love can help keep your relationship strong. Talk with your spouse to discover an activity that you would both like to do regularly. Finding something that you both love to do can help you enjoy each other's company and give you a break from your kids.For example, you might both go bowling together on Friday nights.
You and your spouse might want to join a club or spend time together with friends.
It can be fun to try something new together. You both might try learning how to paint or sculpt.
 After you've put your children to bed, you can try spending some quality time together with your spouse. Evenings can be a great time to reconnect and enjoy one another's company. Put away any distractions and focus on your spouse to help keep your bond strong.Put away your cellphones or other distractions and spend time together.
Spend time snuggling, relaxing and connecting at the end of the day to keep your relationship healthy.
 While you are caring for your children, it can be easy to lose focus on your spouse. It can also be tough to make time for big romantic gestures. To help keep your marriage strong, try giving your spouse little romantic gestures throughout the day.Give plenty of compliments throughout the day.
Take care of small things for your spouse. For example, handling some of their usual daily responsibilities can be a nice gesture.
Try leaving your spouse little love notes.
 Although doing daily chores isn't exactly fun, they can be a great way to spend some time together with your spouse. Doing chores together will also help you both feel like you are contributing, preventing any arguments about who does more chores. Try doing household chores together to help get things done and bring you both closer.You could try playing some of your favorite music and cleaning a room together.
Try to work on the same chore at the same time. For example, both of you could pack your children's lunches together.
 It's natural for parents to feel dedicated and devoted to their children, giving them their full attention and time. However, it's important that you take the occasional time out to recharge and reconnect. You'll be able to meet the demands of being a parent much better if you are rested and your relationship to your spouse is kept strong., Things can get tough after having a child. Time, money and energy can all become limited. If you find that you or your spouse are feeling overburdened, try asking your family for some relief.You could ask your family to babysit your children, giving you and your spouse time to go on a date.
You might ask a family member to come over and help watch the kids while your spouse takes a break and does something else they enjoy.
Try not to ask your family to babysit too often. You will want to avoid making them feel like they have to babysit or that you unloading your responsibilities on them.

