 It's recommended adults get at least seven to nine hours sleep each night. When you're behind on sleep, your body produces more ghrelin — your body's hunger hormone. Higher levels of ghrelin make you feel hungrier throughout the day. Studies show that a body that is sleep deprived craves more carbohydrates.


Go to bed earlier or wake up later if possible so that you can get in the recommended amount of sleep.
Also shut off all lights, electronics and any other devices that give off light or make sounds. Even small distractions can prevent you from falling asleep or staying asleep.
 If you’re trying to feel full without eating in order to lose weight, it’s still important to make sure that you’re eating regular, consistent meals. This will not only help your body more effectively lose weight, but also ensure you are getting the proper nutrients to stay healthy.


Studies have shown that skipping meals may increase your hunger levels over the day and could cause you to overeat.Plan to have at least three meals daily. If there is more than four to five hours between meals, you may need a snack in addition to your meals.
 Your food choices also affect how full you feel. By choosing to eat whole foods (like fruits, vegetables or whole grains) that will stabilize your blood sugar and not digest quickly, you will feel fuller longer after meals.High water, high fiber foods such as fruits and vegetables will also help you feel fuller longer because they add bulk to your meal.For example, you could have one cup of raspberries or one cup of cooked whole wheat spaghetti for extra fiber.Hearty soups and stews are a good option because they’re often high in water, protein, and fiber content. Add ingredients such as vegetables, beans, and herbs to help yourself feel fuller for longer. For example, beans such as and lentils are high in fiber, while vegetables including split peas are another high-fiber option. Add lean meats such as chicken or beef to a soup for protein.Try hummus and cut vegetables like water-rich cucumber or fiber-rich broccoli to make yourself feel fuller in between meals.