 To ensure that your oven is hot enough to bake the cake, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully. Next, line a 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) pan with foil and spray it with cooking spray.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the proper temperature. It will probably flash an indicator light or beep to alert you.
If you prefer, you can grease the foil-lined pan with butter.;
, For the cake, you’ll need a 15.25 ounce (434 g) box of chocolate or devil’s food cake. Prepare it according to the package’s instructions in a large bowl, which typically involves mixing in water, oil, and eggs.If you prefer, you can make the chocolate cake from scratch.
 After you’ve finished mixing the cake, pour the batter into the prepared pan. Place it in the preheated oven, and bake it as long as directed on the cake mix packaging.When the cake is finished baking, allow it to cool for 10 minutes before topping it with the caramel mixture.
 Add 1 14-ounce (397 g) can of sweetened condensed milk and 1 12-ounce jar (340 g) of caramel sauce to a medium bowl. Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon until the ingredients are well combined.If you prefer, you can use a homemade caramel sauce.
You can also substitute a 14-ounce (397 can) of caramel flavored sweetened condensed milk for the plain sweetened condensed milk and the caramel sauce. It is usually a seasonal flavor, though, so you may not be able to find it year-round.
 When the cake has cooled slightly, use the handle of a wooden spoon to poke holes across the top of it. Space the holes as evenly as you can and make sure that they cover the entire surface of the cake.You can use the blunt end of any spoon or fork that has a round shape to poke the holes.
 After you’ve poked the holes in the cake, slowly pour the caramel mixture over it. Work slowly to ensure that you distribute the mixture evenly so it sinks into all of the holes.It’s often easier to pour the caramel mixture over the cake if you transfer it to a container with a spout, such as a measuring cup.
 Once you’ve poured the caramel mixture over the cake, place it in the refrigerator. Allow it to chill for approximately 10 minutes so the caramel mixture has time to set.It’s a good idea to tent some foil over the cake before you put in the refrigerator.
 After the cake has chilled briefly, remove it from the refrigerator. Use a spatula to spread a 12-ounce (340 g) can of chocolate frosting over the top of the cake.You can also use approximately 2 ½ cups (340 g) of homemade chocolate frosting.
If you prefer, you can substitute an 8-ounce (226 g) container of whipped topping for the frosting.
 When the cake is covered with the frosting, use clean fingers to sprinkle ½ cup (55 g) of chopped pecans and ½ cup (90 g) of mini semisweet chocolate chips over the cake. Spread them evenly across the entire surface of the cake.You can use full size chocolate chips to top the cake if that’s what you have in your pantry.
 After you’ve topped the cake with the nuts and chocolate chips, tent it with a piece of foil. Place the cake in the refrigerator, and allow it to chill for at least two hours.You can make the cake a day ahead and chill it overnight if you like.
 When you’re ready to serve the cake, pour approximately ⅓ cup (113 g) of salted caramel sauce over it. Use a knife to cut it into slices, and place it on plates to serve.You can use homemade or store-bought salted caramel sauce to top the cake.
Store any leftover cake in an airtight container in the refrigerator. It should stay fresh for up to 5 days.

