 Wear a warm jacket, scarf, mittens, etc. if you're going to wait to see the ball drop. Winter temperatures in New York City can get downright chilly and brisk, especially during New Year's Eve, so make sure to bundle up unless you want to stand outside for many long hours in the freezing air.


Be sure to wear adequate footwear and socks too. Cold feet can make the occasion miserable.;
, Early can mean anytime between 1pm-5pm of the afternoon leading into New Year's Eve. While this sounds very early, it's essential if you want to guarantee yourself a nice view of the ball and the entertainment stages. If you arrive later, you risk receiving a crummy, crowded spot with no view, or, in the worst case, you won't be permitted into Times Square at all.


Take along things to do while you wait, like crossword puzzles, phone games, some reading you'd like to catch up on.
Go with someone. It might be a good idea to bring along an equally stalwart family member or close friend to Times Square. Although you may be able to chat with the revelers around you, you might want to pass the time talking to someone you know well instead.
It is possible to purchase guided tours at steep prices and have people shepherd you through the crowd (some tours also provide a dinner, etc.) This might prove easier for you if you have the cash and less desire to be standing about for hours. Search online for details.
 Unless you want to hold it in for eight hours, try not to drink excessive amounts of liquids before or while you wait in Times Square.
 If you're lucky enough to grab a spot right beside the stage, chances are you'll be able to shake hands or even talk with the entertainers after their performances.


Don't be upset if you have a crummy view of the ball drop or entertainers in Times Square. Huge video screens are set up throughout the area that display live coverage of the event, as well as the sixty-second countdown, for revelers who haven't made it to the center of the action.
 And at midnight, cheer as loud as you can, kiss your spouse or date, and enjoy the post-ball drop music.
 Otherwise you risk facing a very difficult and frustrating time getting out of Times Square in any hurry. Millions of people will be either returning home or to their hotels, and you can expect long lines and wait times.

