 Icing your wrists can help reduce swelling, which can in turn decrease the amount of pain you feel. Try holding an ice pack on your wrists for 15-20 minutes.If you find yourself waking up needing to ice your wrists on a regular basis, you may want to get into the habit of icing before bed every day.
You can also do this throughout the day as needed.
 You may be able to get quick relief from your carpal tunnel symptoms, including pain, numbness, and tingling, by stretching and applying pressure to your hand and wrist. Try using the following technique, which focusing on acupressure points, when you start experiencing symptoms that keep you awake:Extend your forearm out straight, but keep your elbow bent.
Use your other hand to push your four fingers down towards the floor, opening your wrist. Hold this stretch for up to 15 seconds.
Use your other hand to push your thumb and index finger down. Hold this for up to 15 seconds.
Make a fist and observe the inside of your wrist. You should notice a small gap appear between your bones and tendons. Place your opposite thumb in this space and apply pressure for 30 seconds. You will probably notice that your fist automatically releases, which is fine.
Place the base of your opposite index finger on the back of your hand where your wrist creases. Note the location of the tip of your index finger, and then use your opposite thumb to apply pressure to this spot as you lift your arm up. Keep lifting and applying pressure for 30 seconds.
 Over-the-counter NSAIDs can provide significant relief to people suffering from carpal tunnel syndrome. These drugs reduce pain and swelling. You may want to take them regularly before bed to help prevent your symptoms, or as needed whenever you have difficulty sleeping due to carpal tunnel pain.Aspirin, ibuprofen, and naprosyn are all NSAIDs.
Be sure to talk to your doctor about your dosing, and never take more than the recommended dose.
 Sometimes carpal tunnel will cause numbness in your hand due to accidentally laying on your wrist.If you find that your hand is going numb, get up and lightly shake out your hand for a minute. Sometimes this may be all you need to restore feeling to the hand and get back to sleep.
 Anything that irritates the nerves in your wrists can bring on carpal tunnel.Carpal tunnel can sometimes be brought on or aggravated by cold conditions, so it is important to sleep in a room that is not too cold. Sleeping in a cold room can reduce the temperature and blood flow in your hands, causing compression of the nerves.

