 List your strengths, achievements, and things you admire about yourself.Write at least three things in each category. Think back on times you did something you were really proud of. Recall this memory when talking to women so as to maintain your confidence.


For instance, three of your strengths might read “kind, caring, thoughtful.”
A list of three achievements might be “won first place in the local poetry jam, got a great new job, earned the high score at my favorite arcade game.”
A list of three things you admire about yourself might be “I often volunteer at local charities, I donate cash to nonprofits which I believe in, and I compost all my food scraps.”;
, If you encounter a negative thought about yourself such as “I am undesirable to women,” envision it just floating past you in your mind’s eye. Replace it with active affirmations such as “I have many positive qualities and do not need to be afraid of women.” Do not dwell on or obsess over your negative thoughts.


You are in control of your emotions; your emotions are not in control of you. While you can’t decide what you feel, you can decide how to act upon those feelings. Stay conscious of what you’re feeling and thinking in order to keep your confidence high and find the courage to talk to women.
Use self-talk to stay positive. Self-talk is the inner monologue you have with yourself, the running script in your mind. Negative self-talk brings you down with toxic thoughts like “I am no good, and people do not like me.” Positive self-talk, by contrast, helps you focus on the good things in life. By taking control of your self-talk with conscious thoughts like “I am a winner and have a bright future,” you can improve your self-esteem and overall attitude.
 Utilize deodorant. Brush and floss your teeth at least twice daily. Shave as needed and shower daily. Trim your nails and keep your hair clean and trimmed too. Talking to people is easier when you are well-kempt and feeling fresh.


Take a shower each day. You can shower at night or in the morning, whichever works for your schedule. Some people like showering in the morning because it helps them wake up. Others prefer showering in the evening because they can then wash away the day’s sweat and grime.
When brushing, use the roll method. This involves moving the brush not in straight vertical or horizontal lines across your teeth, but in tight, concentric circles from the base of your gums to the ends of your teeth.
If you have dandruff, use a specialized dandruff shampoo and conditioner. Avoid dry places and consider buying a humidifier in order to mitigate the effects of the dry environment on your scalp.
 Don’t listen to people who make you feel you’re too tall, too fat, too thin, or too short to talk to women. Don’t buy into the lie that women will never be attracted to you because of some deficiency that someone at some point insisted you suffer from.If someone makes you feel bad, let them know. Say something along the lines of “What you said earlier really hurt my feelings. I did nothing to deserve your cruel words. Please do not speak unkindly to me." This will bring the negative behavior to the offending party’s attention and they will probably apologize.
 A few simple, healthy habits will give you a more positive energy when dealing with others and when thinking about your own abilities and self-worth.


Aim to get 6-8 hours of sleep each night. Being rested will both help you maintain a positive attitude and keep you engaged when talking to women.Eat a healthy diet that includes plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
There are many benefits to working out regularly. Regular exercise will help you build stamina, gain strength, and even help you improve your outlook on life. That adds up to increased confidence, which you'll need to overcome your fear of women.Try a variety of exercises like swimming, biking, jogging, and lifting weights. Start slowly with whatever workout you settle on and increase the intensity of your sessions each day. For instance, when you begin, run a mile each day, then after a week increase your distance to two miles each day.
 Being able to converse easily with many people from different walks of life is a skill which can be learned. Practice talking to a friend, then increase your audience size to larger groups of three or four so you can effectively hold listeners’ attention in bars or parties.Learn to tell jokes. Making people laugh is a great way to break the ice. People gravitate towards those who can crack a good joke. If you’re skilled at telling jokes, you’ll easily make a positive impression on women and will have no reason to fear talking to them.
Focus on the topic at hand, not on your own perception of yourself. Don’t worry about how you look, what may or may not be between your teeth, or how your hair is combed. Being engaged, not distracted, when in conversation with a woman will make you less anxious during the exchange.

