 The quality of your epilator matters. Pick a well-known, well-reviewed brand that you know you can trust. A cheap epilator may not work as well and it may be more painful to use. Since your epilator will last a long time (and you won't have to buy wax and fancy razors) it's worth springing for a good one.


Look for epilators in beauty supply stores. For an even better selection, check online stores. Pick an epilator with plenty of good reviews.
If your epilator is cordless, be sure to charge it completely before you begin. You don't want to be stuck with a job half finished when your epilator dies.;
, Epilators work best when your hairs are just a few millimeters long. If your hairs are too long, they can get tangled in the epilator; too short, and there's not enough for the spinning heads to grab as you work. Shaving a few days beforehand is the best way to ensure that your hairs are all the same length and ready to epilate., Once you get used to the process, you can probably do it in half an hour or so. For the first session, though, you'll want to give yourself plenty of time. The process is definitely slower than shaving, but the results will last much longer.


Many people like to epilate at night. Your legs will be red and a little swollen when you're finished. If you epilate at night, they'll return to normal by morning.
It's best not to epilate the day you have a big event or date, unless you're planning to wear tights or pants. Do it the day before so your legs won't be red and swollen when you go out.
 This is optional, but many find it helps to take an over the counter painkiller (according to the recommended dosage) to take the edge off. Epilating feels a lot like waxing; it hurts at first, but eventually you get used to the feeling and may even come to enjoy it.
 Getting rid of dry skin will prevent ingrown hairs from occurring later. Take a warm shower and exfoliate your skin using a loofah or body scrub. Rub your skin in a circular motion to gently slough away the dead skin.
 Some people like to epilate their legs when they're in the shower, feeling the heat from the shower makes the process less painful. Others prefer to epilate dry, since this allows the epilator to get a firm grasp on the hairs and do its work more effectively.


If this is your first time, you might want to epilate wet to keep your skin moist and warm the whole time. Try epilating in a shallow warm bath (just make sure you don't drop your epilator!). Use shower gel on your legs to help the epilator glide more easily.
If you want to do it dry, make sure your skin is completely dry. The drier your hairs, the better the epilator will be able to grip them; damp hairs will get slippery and sticky, making the process harder. After exfoliating, dry your legs and sprinkle them with baby powder before you begin., Many epilators come with two settings: low and high. When you're first starting out, use the low setting so you can get used to the feeling of epilating. Once you're familiar with the sensation, you can switch to the high setting and speed up the process.
 This is the least sensitive area on your leg, so it's a good place to start so you can get used to the feeling of epilating. Avoid starting near your ankles or right over bones, since these areas are more painful to epilate. Save the most sensitive spots for last, since by then your body will be accustomed to the feeling.
 Pass it lightly over your skin in a circular motion over the area where you want to remove hair. The spinning heads will grasp your hairs and pull them out. It will take about thirty seconds to finish epilating any given area.


Run the epilator against the grain of your hair growth. Check each section of your leg closely to see which direction the hair is growing before you epilate.
To make it easier for the epilator to grasp your hairs, run your hand against the grain of growth to make the hairs stand up.
You will definitely feel a pinch, and your legs may bleed a little. If you need to stop and take a break, there's nothing wrong with that.
 Epilators function best when they're used at a slow pace. Be patient as you epilate each patch of skin, going over it a few times to make sure you get all the hair. If you try to go to fast, you'll miss hair, which defeats the purpose.
 Switching to a higher setting enables you to go slightly faster and pass over each area fewer times. If the initial sting has passed and you're used to the feeling of hair being pulled out, go ahead and switch.
 Use aloe or a moisturizing cream to soothe your legs, which will be red and irritated for several hours. Once the swelling and redness are gone, your legs will be completely smooth and hair-free.


If your legs are very swollen, you can use an ice pack to reduce swelling when you're finished.If any spots are bleeding, clean the area and apply a bandage.
 If you use your epilator wet, you can rinse it under running water. If you use it dry, clean it with rubbing alcohol or use the cleaning kit it came with. This will prevent the epilator from getting clogged, as well as sanitizing it for the next time you use it.
 Hair grows in stages, so you may notice new growth a few days after your first session. Over the course of a week, you'll want to epilate your legs two or even three times to get all of the hair. After that, you'll be able to enjoy smooth legs for several weeks before you have to epilate again., If you see new hair growth come in before you're ready for another full epilating session, it's fine to do a touchup. Use the same process you would during a regular session, and be sure to clean your epilator afterward. After a few months, you'll find that your hair growth slows and touchups are less necessary., Epilators are great for legs, but they can also be used on more sensitive parts of the body. If you enjoy the process and the results you get by epilating your legs, try using your epilator on your arms or your armpits, too.

