 The amount of land you need will help you to eliminate potential farms and to focus your search. If you are planning to make a career out of farming, you will need more land than someone who wants to have a lifestyle farm. Once you know how much land you need you can limit your search to properties that match your needs.Lifestyle farmers, where you are growing crops for your own pleasure, can have as large or small farm as they want.
Sustenance farmers will need 1 to 5 acres of land.
Career farmers will need anywhere from 500 acres if you want to sell hay to 5 acres to grow vegetables.
 Now that you have a good idea of the type and size of farm you want to purchase, you can begin to look at available properties. You may already live in a rural area that is close to farmland, or you may be in an urban area where you will need to relocate in order to farm.


For lifestyle or subsistence farmers, you or another family member may need to be within a certain area so you can commute to another job.
You will need to be close to a market where you can sell your products if you intend to be a career farmer.
Narrow your search to a certain area, but realize that you may have to expand your search if there are not available farm properties in that area.
 You should keep a list of the addresses and list prices of properties that you are interested in. It is important to keep this information organized so you can narrow your search when you find properties that you like.


Drive around the area and look for “For Sale” or “For Sale by Owner” signs.
Search online for local listings for farms.
Speak with farmers that you know to see if they know of anyone who is looking to sell their property.
Look at land auctions and foreclosures.
 Look for a realtor that specializes in country or rural properties. A realtor can help to streamline the process and take some of pressure off of you. A realtor will typically receive 5-7% of the final purchase price as a fee so they have a vested interest in getting you a good deal.


A realtor can also help you identify properties that meet your needs.
You will also need to contact the realtors that represent the properties in an area that you are interested in whenever you are ready to make a bid.
You can also act as your own real estate agent, though this will require more time and research on your part.
 A thriving farm begins with good soil. If the soil on the property is poor, it will be very difficult to grow anything or to feed livestock. You will need to assess the soil quality, the topography of the land, and the fertility of the land.


Fertility goes hand in hand with the soil quality. If the land has been used as a farm for generations, the soil may not have as many nutrients as an un-farmed plot of land would. However, if the land has been diversified, meaning that the previous owners have been rotating crops, the soil may still be good for farming.
Take a small sample of the soil and smell and feel it. Heavy clay is difficult to grow in, sandy soil offers good drainage but might not hold water for crops, and dark and loamy soil is ideal for any type of farming.The topography of the land is also important. It is difficult to grow crops on sloping and steep hills but would be alright for grazing animals. If the land is filled with trees, it will be expensive to clear cut the area.
 Before you draw up an offer, you need to check the local zoning laws to see whether you can farm or build a farmhouse on the land. You will need to contact the state or county to get a copy of the zoning codes to see whether you can build and develop a farm on the land.The realtor should be familiar with zoning laws, but you should do this due diligence and not make assumptions about your realtor’s knowledge., This is especially true if the plot of land that you are considering buying has not already been used as a farm. Farm work requires access to water, sewer, electricity, and heat. You will probably want access to Internet or cable, especially if you are considering living on the property.


You will need to contact local utility companies to see if this plot is within their service area. If it is not, it can be very costly to have utilities installed., A piece of land might look perfect, but there can be significant issues lying below the surface. It is important to hire a surveyor to come and evaluate the land. You will need to have the following assessed: soil type, water tables, drainage, and slope or gradient of the land. These factors can determine whether the land is suitable for farming.
 Before you make an offer on a piece of land, you need to make sure you have all the information that you need. You should consult with your lawyer or real estate agent about any contingencies attached to your bid, whether you will get the mineral or water rights to the land, and if there are any protective covenants on the land.If you intend to build a home, barn, or other structure on the property you will need to speak with the town’s Building and Planning Departments to see if there are limitations on construction. For instance, some areas put a restriction on the size or number of rooms allowed in a building.

