 When you have a cold, make sure to stay hydrated. Try to drink nine to 13 eight ounce glasses of water each day. To help ease a sore throat, try drinking the water warm.


The amount of water you need varies depending on your gender, age, height, weight, and other factors. However, the general guidelines will suit you well and keep you hydrated, especially while you are sick.
Add honey to your water, which can help fight some infections.Also put lemon in the water for a source of Vitamin C.
 Honey may help to reduce the likelihood of catching a cold. Consuming honey may also help you feel better when you have a cold. Eat a tablespoon a day when you are sick.


You can also add it to tea, hot water, or on top of your food., Eat frequent small meals of solid, easily digestible food. This provides a constant supply of energy which aids your immune system. You want your food’s nutrition to help you immune system, not provide energy for activities.


Make sure to limit the amount of activity you do. Even if your energy level rises due to the food, rest., To help boost your immunity, add quality proteins to your meals, like fish and skinless poultry. Chicken noodle soup is a great choice because it will give you some quality protein as well as other nutrients that may help boost the immune system and act as antiviral agents.


Also add other nutrient-rich ingredients to the soup, such as brown rice and vegetables. It is believed that chicken soup helps reduce the production of mucus and boosts the immune system.Eggs are also a great source of protein. Try eating an omelet. The eggs not only provide protein, but also contain zinc, which can help boost the immune system. Eggs are also easily digestible. Try adding spinach or mushrooms, which contain important nutrients. Add a pinch of cayenne pepper to the omelet to help break up the mucus and increase drainage., Antioxidants are believed to help boost your immune system.Red peppers, oranges, berries, and leafy green vegetables provide rich sources of antioxidants.
 There has been some research that suggests that probiotics, also known as good bacteria, can help fight and prevent colds. Much like it helps infections in the intestines, it is believed that it helps with other infections as well. To get probiotics, eat yogurt with active Lactobacillus cultures.


You can also take probiotics supplements., There are many vitamins and minerals to help boost your immune system. These can be eaten in foods or taken as supplements. These include:


Vitamin A and beta-carotenes, which can be found in carrots, squash and sweet potatoes.B complex vitamins, such as riboflavin and Vitamin B6, which boost the immune system. Leafy green vegetables are good sources of B vitamins.
Vitamin E, which is an antioxidant. Avocados are a good source of Vitamin E.
Vitamin C from food sources, such as citrus fruits and citrus juices as well as tropical fruit like papaya, pineapple.
Zinc. Limit your zinc intake to 15 to 25mg per day. Don’t use zinc-containing nasal sprays because these have been associated with loss of the sense of smell.
Selenium, which is an essential mineral. Limit your intake to 100 mg per day., Take a day off from work or school. Spend the day lying around the house doing nothing. Don't clean, do work, exercise, or exert yourself. Resting helps you get better faster, and you won’t risk infecting anyone else.

