 Mindfulness is a way of focusing on the present moment. This offers an array of benefits to a recovering addict of any kind, like stopping you from thinking about the past and helping you remain grateful for where you are now. There are many ways to practice mindfulness. You can practice techniques like deep breathing, meditation, and yoga. They may feel unnatural at first, but as you practice you will get better at calming your mind and relaxing your body. Some of the benefits involved include things like:Mindfulness reduces stress.
Mindfulness keeps your focus on the present.
Mindfulness elevates your mood.
 Looking back on your former behaviors in a favorable light can be dangerous. Instead of referring to your time before recovery as something like ‘The Good Ol’ Days,’ be sure to remember the negative impact that the addiction had on your life. These negative effects are why you went down the road of recovery in the first place.Things like damaged relationships, poor finances, and lack of self-esteem are examples of the negative impact of addiction.
Try writing down all of the negative things that have resulted from your addiction. Then, read over this any time you start feeling nostalgic about your addiction.
 Staying healthy is imperative to a successful recovery. This doesn’t mean that you can’t have a dessert now and then, but you do want to include plenty of fruits, vegetables, and water in your diet. Your body and mind feel better when you are healthy, which will help you avoid your addictive behaviors.Try to avoid foods like:

Sugary drinks (soda, juice, etc.)
Processed grains (white bread, white flour, white rice, etc.)
Foods high in unhealthy fats (fried food, whole fat dairy, etc.)


Make a point to include foods like:

Fruits (apples, bananas, citrus, etc)
Vegetables (carrots, spinach, broccoli, etc.)
Lean meats (chicken, salmon, etc.)
Foods high in healthy fats (salmon, avocado, etc.)


If you are recovering from a food addiction, you will have to be even more careful about the things you choose to eat. In this case, even the occasional dessert could put you at a high risk for relapse.
 Exercise keeps your body fit and releases endorphins that make you feel good. This will elevate your mood and your self-esteem. Spending time exercising will also keep you busy and reduce the risk of falling back into your old habits out of boredom.It’s an added bonus if you can spend time exercising with friends (or make friends exercising).
Choose an exercise you like. You can do anything from running to weight lifting. You can also do low impact exercises like swimming.
 Whether the work is paid or volunteer, it will give you a sense of purpose and commitment. Keeping a regular work schedule also keeps you busy and gets you out into the community where you can make new friends. Look for things that you enjoy doing for work. This way, you will look forward to (or at least not dread) going to work.Avoid jobs that force you to confront the object of your addiction (e.g. recovering alcoholics shouldn’t work in a bar).
Look for jobs that give you a sense of purpose to help you avoid craving your addiction (e.g. take a job that allows you to help people in poverty or others battling addiction).
Nonprofit and charity organizations often accept volunteers even if they are not hiring staff. This can be a good way to find meaningful activities, and in some cases may lead to a job down the road. Keep in mind that you might have to work in addition to volunteering.
 Addictions have a way of seeping into every aspect of life. They dictate your behavior as well as your social circle. Ending an addiction can leave you feeling like you just have to sit home by yourself all the time. The truth is that you can and should go out and do new things. This allows you to find things that you enjoy in place of your old habits, and you can make some new friends.If you have made friends in sobriety, schedule frequent outings with them that do not revolve around your addiction. Being with a group of people who have had similar experiences will help to strengthen you and keep you sober.
There are many activities that you can do that cost little or no money. For example, you could go to a museum or an art gallery. You could also go watch movies or take a hike in nature.

