 A hands-free leash is a leash that has a belt, instead of a loop, at the end. You wear the belt around your waist with your dog’s leash attached to the belt. In general the process for walking your dog is the same.There are two great benefits for using a hands-free leash. One is the obvious, you’re hands are free. This makes it easier to reward your dog for good behaviour, and swing your arms if you’re walking quickly or running. Two is that the main point of resistance to your dog is the middle of your body, right near your centre of gravity. This makes you significantly more stable than holding the leash in your hands.
 When you go to the pet store to buy a leash, you’ll notice they come in every material, length and colour you can imagine. The colour you choose is completely up to you! The length should be based on the type of activity you’ll be performing with your dog. And the material should be based on personal comfort and expense.If you’re taking your dog for a loose leash walk, a leash that has the ability to uncoil and recoil is very useful. Instead of folding pieces of the leash in your hands, you can simply click a button and allow your dog to uncoil the rope. These leashes, however, are not designed for heel walks, or walks where there are a lot of obstacles for a rope to get caught on (including people and other dogs).
Leashes can be made of metal chains, leather or nylon. Here are some things you may want to consider when choose the material of a leash:

Metal - looks cool, but is heavy. Can prevent a dog from attempting to bite the leash.
Leather - expensive, but easy to hold and use. The leather may not be as flexible in cold weather.
Nylon - the least expensive, and has the most variety. Stands up after constant exposure to different weather conditions. But can be hard on the hands.
 Many dog owners enjoy bringing their dogs when going for a run, a bike ride, or rollerblading. This offers great exercise to both you and your dog, and should hopefully tire your dog out faster!Remember to control your dog throughout the run. Since it is a run, don’t allow your dog to stop unless you do. You both should be able to maintain the same, steady pace.
 Your dog should have more slack on the leash while walking, than while standing still. They should always feel comfortable in their leash and collar to avoid injury and misbehaviour. When walking, your dog should be immediately to your side (which side will depend on what’s more comfortable to you). Your dog should not walk behind or in front of you.If you allow your dog to walk behind you on a leash, there’s a great chance you’ll pull too hard on the leash in order to force the dog to keep up with you.
 Your right hand should be holding the end of the leash, with your thumb through the loop and excess leash folded in your hand. Your left hand should be holding another section of the leash, closer to your dog. Your left hand should be down near your left thigh. When it’s time to stop, simply pull backwards with your left hand.There should be some slack in the leash between your two hands AND between your left hand and your dog.
When you’re ready to move again, start walking forward. Your left arm will naturally pull on the leash and signal your dog it’s time to go. Don’t yank on the leash.
 One of the worst situations most owners encounter when taking their dog for a walk is what happens when another person or another dog walk by. You dog may walk perfectly if there’s no one around, but the moment there’s a distraction, your dog may completely forget everything they've learned. That’s why it’s important to train your dog to ignore distractions while on a walk.When practicing, use a friend or family member as the distraction, rather than practicing on unsuspecting strangers.
While learning to ignore distractions, you may find the use of a head halter beneficial. A head halter has a nylon strap that goes around your dog’s snout. And the leash connects to the halter under your dog’s chin. Both of these added features provide you with more control of what your dog is looking at. Teaching your dog to ignore a distraction has a lot to do with making your dog pay attention to you, and only you.There are several methods you can teach your dog:Avoidance - Sometimes the problem isn’t your dog, but maybe the dog coming in the opposite direction. Instead of walking past the oncoming dog, train your dog to reverse directions.
The L Pattern - The L pattern method can be used to position your dog off to the side of the path you’re on, facing away from the path. If you see something distracting coming towards you, turn your dog to the left or right. Walk your dog just off the path and use the sit command. Keep your dog sitting there - looking at you - until the distraction has gone by.
Repeated Sits - When you see a distraction coming towards, regardless of whether they’ll pass on your left or right side, repeated sit trains your dog to sit and face you. Your dog remains sitting until the distraction has passed. Depending on the situation, you can train your dog to sit facing away from the oncoming distraction, or facing the distraction with their head tilted away, looking at you.
Speed Up - Most methods require that you stop your dog while the distraction is near, and wait to resume your walk after the distraction has passed. An alternative is to simply pick up the pace when the distraction approaches, and slow down again after the distraction passes.



