 There are certain chemicals and man-made devices that are advertised for their abilities to keep predators away. They can help you ward off fisher cats.


One option is to purchase predator urine. For example, coyotes, wolves, eagles, owls, bobcats, and mountain lions secrete smells that might scare a fisher cat off. You can purchase the urine of stronger predators than the fisher cat online or in many hunting or outdoors stores. You can usually buy a bottle of it for under $20. Sometimes it comes in scent tags.
Apply the predator urine near your chicken coop to help keep the fisher cat and other nuisances away. They will smell the urine, fear there is a stronger predator in the area, and leave. Create a perimeter with the scent tags or bottled scent.
A similar device you can buy online and in some stores is a night guard black box with a solar panel at the top. It flashes a single blinking red light which is designed to simulate a red predator eye and you should hang it above the coop door.
 What exactly is a fisher cat, and how does it differ from, say, a house cat or a raccoon? They are relatives of the marten.They aren’t really cats at all.


Fisher cats are also called pecan cats or black cats. They are large, dark colored, and furry. Technically, they belong to the weasel family.The adult males weigh 7 to 12 pounds. They can grow to 40 inches long. Their tails are very long and distinctive, stretching out 13 to 15 inches. Fisher cats have short legs. Their ears are small, and their tails are furry. Some are dark brown, but others are black. One way to recognize them is through their long fur.
Fisher cats have large feet with five sharp toes. They use these toes to climb tries, kill prey, or navigate across snow. They make frightening screaming sounds that people sometimes mistake for human beings being harmed., These actions may be outlawed in some states, and you don't want to do anything that's not allowed. Laws will vary from state-to-state.


Consider contacting a pest management professional. Such professionals are trained in how to find and get rid of the fisher cats before they do greater damage.
These are nasty, vicious little creatures, and it can be dangerous to try to trap a fisher cat on your own if you don't know what you are doing, especially when it comes to removing it.
Contact your local government or wildlife conservation office. They will be familiar with all of the rules and regulations specific to your area.
 Fisher cats are smart and they will learn from failed attempts. They have more escape routes to avoid traps because they can climb trees, which is part of what makes them so dangerous.


As a trap location, set your trap outside a hollow tree, crevice or bush where they den. Or set it along their trails. Fisher cats require a cage trap that is 32 X 10 X 12.75 (in inches) with a door size that is 10 X 12. When using a coil spring, they require a 4 ½-inch door.
When using a body grip trap, they need to be 4 ¼ by 7 inches (17.8 cm) in width and length, and 4 ¼ by 7 ¼.Use cage and foothold traps along their trails. In the winter, they are more likely to be in trees, so use a leaning pole set. Body grip traps have rotating jaws that capture the animals. Foothold traps capture them and hold them alive.
 When trapping the fisher cat, it’s important to remember they like meat. Thus, trapping the fisher cat can be a rather unpleasant process because of the bait you need to use.


A skinned but whole beaver carcass is good bait. Other meat – rabbits, mice and squirrels - can also work as bait to draw in a fisher cat.
Fishers also like skunk and fish oil, and, thus, they may be lured into a trap that has it. Live bait is also something to consider. Cover the trap with small leafy branches so they don’t see it when they go for the bait.

