 There are a number of conditions that can indicate the pH of your hair. It is important to establish a general pH before you can balance it to the healthy level.


If you have problems with flaky, itchy, dry scalp, eczema, fungi or bacteria on your scalp, it is likely that your scalp and hair are too alkali. Usually, this means that you are using a product that has a high pH above 7, and it is stripping away your naturally acidic sebum that fights bacteria. Lower pH shampoos may also cause less frizzing and breakage. This is why a shampoo with a pH of 6 or 7 should be used.If you have permanently dyed or relaxed hair, your hair was first treated with a highly alkali substance to expose and change the hair's cuticle, and then, it was "neutralized" with a highly acidic substance to flatten the cuticle again. This is a damaging process and slightly acidic hair products are needed to keep the hair cuticle lying flat.
If you have curly hair, then your cuticle is already partially open. It is especially important for people with curly hair to return their hair to a slightly acidic pH level, since the open cuticle prevents natural acidic sebum to keep the entire hair at a pH level between 4.5 and 5.5.
If you have straight hair, you should use hair-care products that are pH balanced, but may not need to apply extra products because the sebum moves through your hair, creating a natural pH balance.;
, If they do not say they are pH balanced for your hair, then they should be tested to see how they affect your hair. A pH between 4 to 7 works well on hair.


Buy test strips online or from beauty supply stores. Pour your liquid product into a glass, stick the test strip into the glass for the amount of time the strip directions indicate. Remove the strip and compare it to the diagram to find the pH of the product. Discontinue the use of any product outside of the 4 to 7 pH range.
 Rinse your hair. This will return your hair to a neutral, rather than acidic pH level. Water has a pH level of 7, so it is more alkali than your hair.
 You can pour aloe vera juice in a bottle and mist it over your hair. This will also close the cuticle and remove frizz.


You can also use apple cider vinegar. It has a pH level of about 3. It should be diluted with water until it has a pH level of 4. Many people prefer aloe vera gel because the vinegar smell is too strong. If you rinse your hair after using the natural acid, the water will deactivate the acid.
 Use a homemade leave-in conditioner composed of the following recipe.


Pour 2 tbsp. (30 ml) of a silicone-free conditioner, 2 tbsp. (30 ml) of whole-leaf aloe vera juice and 2 tsp. (10 ml) of jojoba oil into a bowl. Mix well with a spoon and use a pH test strip to ensure the pH is not under 4.5.
Apply the mixture to damp, washed hair. Allow it to dry and style as usual.

