

Smuggling Kitty into work won't be a good idea if your cat is a proud and independent roamer who has activities you don't even have a clue about for most of the day and/or night. If he is the type to hop in and out of the cat door regularly, he is going to find being confined in a small bag a day of nightmares and the yowling will definitely let the cat out of the bag even if the clawing doesn't.
Alternatively, if your cat is quiet and often comfortable sitting near you for long periods of time, he may the an ideal stealth cat for the office.;
, Is your cat a seasoned traveler? Does he mind car or public transportation travel? Is he even allowed on public transportation? Are you strong enough to carry him on your bike or by foot? These are all very valid considerations.


If the last experience your cat had of going in a cat carrier involved going to the vet, seeing rabid, dribbling dogs nosing him and he urinated all over himself, then perhaps give this whole idea a miss. On the other hand, if he's the model of good behavior and loves travelling, you're on your way!

, Is it too hot, too cold, too wet or too windy to be carrying your cat around? Use your own good sense of judgement as to whether the weather is an issue for carting around your feline pal, especially if you're subjecting him to non-car travel. In particular, remember that cats are prone to heatstroke, so don't place him in any situation where this could be a problem.
 Preferably, choose a day when you can get away earlier than usual, so that your feline pal is only there a few hours.
 This will enable you to ascertain the best way to get your cat into the office and away from everyone. Mentally review your boss’s schedule in order to determine if there are any opportunities where you might get caught. For the cautious cat smuggler, try the following tips:


Know the layout of your office so that you know precisely, where your boss will be sitting in relation to your area – in particular, know his or her line of sight to your desk or workspace.
Evaluate your workspace or office area to determine where you will keep the cat while you're working at your desk. Map out where he’ll sit and the best place to keep him concealed from the boss and any nosy co-workers.
Review any obstacles or hurdles you might face, such as a meeting or your lunch plans.
Look over your schedule to identify the best day for your cat to come to work. Days that you have to work late or have numerous meetings are likely days to avoid because your cat will be frisky and bored after long hours.
 Buy or find a ventilated bag, preferably one that will conceal your animal and allow you to bring cat food, treats, quiet toys, a soft blanket and even a travel litter box.


Make sure that the bag is not a designated cat or animal carrier - the cat will certainly be out of the proverbial bag if you sneak the cat in using a cat carrier. That is, unless you're able to cloak the carrier and stash it in a corner behind the filing cabinet.
 That way, everyone will be used to seeing you carry "your new" bag and not suspect anything out of the ordinary.
 Even if you typically don’t harness or leash your cat, you'll need a system to keep him nearby. Get the cat used to wearing the harness and leash a few days prior to sneaking him into work.
 Stuff the food, harness, leash, toys, litter and blanket into side or surrounding pockets. If your travel litter box will fit, add the box, but be sure you can still fit the cat into the bag the next morning.
 A squashed cat is not the target of your mission. Any items that will not fit into the bag comfortably (when your cat is inside) should be either left at home or could be transferred to your purse or possibly to another bag, made to look like "all that extra work you did at home last night". However, be careful because bringing too many bags into the office may draw attention toward you - the idea is to bring one bag containing the cat for the total sneak attack.


If questioned, say you have to return a lot of library books after work.
 Do a test run by packing the bag and then add the cat. The cat may need some practice being inside the bag so give him time to adjust and see the bag as a safe place.


This is a good time to discover your cat's suitability or otherwise to participate in this venture. If he yowls persistently and claws you frantically, he's telling you something loud and clear.
Don't just leave him in the bag. Walk around with him in the bag and try travel with him too. You need to know what he's capable of before carrying out operation cat sneak.
 Give him quality food in a decent amount so that he isn’t starving and meowing for food when you arrive at work.
 This is vital to avoid him having an accident in the bag. This may entail spending a good 10 minutes or so enticing him in the vicinity of the litter box. If you're up to smuggling him in, you're up to this part of the procedure too.
 He needs to know you still love him and that this upheaval is a temporary state of affairs.
 By shortening the amount of time your cat is in the bag, you are also lessening the amount of trauma (and meowing).


A cat that won't go into the bag frontward will be easier backed into the bag. Needless to say though, if you're having this much trouble getting him in, perhaps it's not the right day or time to be doing this.
 If you act like you have nothing to hide, no one will suspect that you do! Remember – your co-workers have seen you carry the same bag before so they have no reason to suspect you have brought in your cat. After all, it's not really the first thing coworkers imagine when another co-worker arrives at work – "Oh, Alice must have a cat in her bag."

, Walk briskly to your desk and avoid any water cooler chit chat. When you get to your desk, close your office door or if you are in a cubicle, slide the cat bag underneath your desk into a position that's as well hidden as possible. Put your usual bag up against the front to hide the cat's bag, or use files, the recycling bin or a printer paper box to provide cover.
 Pull out any work you typically do first thing in the morning. Reassure your cat that all is good and give him time to settle before moving him again.
 Clearly, if you've packed his worldly belongings into the bag, you need to remove those as a minimum because he needs to stay comfortable. The fear from the new surroundings, noises, smells and the whole indignity of being taken in to work might be too much for him and he could express his displeasure through yowling, biting, scratching and urinating. If you think it's okay to let him out, the following steps explain what to do next.
 Determine if he even wants to leave. He may want to stay cocooned inside the cozy carrier for a good part of the morning – if that's the case, then let him. He's better off quiet and undisturbed than being petrified.
 Put the harness and leash on the cat before he leaves the bag. That way you won’t risk him running out of your workspace. If he wants to sit underneath your desk wrap loop of the leash around your ankle so he stays close and no one can see you have a leash attached to you.
,,, This will allow you to escape crowds or peak hour traffic, all things that could potentially cause kitty stress.
 Shut down your computer and put away all the files, etc. Place your cat back in just before you're ready to leave. Wish your coworkers a cheerful farewell and head on out of there. Mission accomplished! You've successfully sneaked your cat into work for a day!

