


The first-generation Mustangs were manufactured from 1964 to 1973, and they were referred to as the "original pony car."
If you are looking for a "Pony Interior," the vehicle will have a running ponies design on the front seat. It also has armrests, woodgrain appliqué accents as well as a round gauge cluster.
The 1966 was the best selling convertible model.
Mustangs prior to 1979 in Germany are referred to as the T-5, or the pre-production name of the vehicle, because of copyright issues in that country.
Vehicles from 1967-1968 and older will give you a larger cargo and seating area.
Revisions to the cars in the 1970s made them heavier vehicles.
Whatever year you choose, you can select a hardtop, sports roof or convertible model.;
, Begin with the classified section of your newspaper by scoping out the advertising section as well as the personal classifieds. Purchasing your Mustang locally will be a tremendous cost saver in terms of delivery or shipping.
 These can typically be found at gas stations or convenience stores, and you should look for them in the racks located by the doors or sometimes in wall racks along the outside windows.
 Use an online search engine to help find just the right vehicle for you.


ClassicMustang.com can help you with a specific search. They take special orders on vehicles in good condition.
You can find vintage Mustangs from any era at http://mustangclassifieds.com/. Start your search by year, and then browse by price, exterior color, interior color, engine and transmission types.

http://mustangtraderonline.com/. is another online resource to help you with your source.
, The Kelley Blue Book is a trusted vehicle valuation source that can help you settle on an asking price.
 The sources that you will find for vintage vehicles are typically only the middleman, and you will need to contact the person selling the vehicle directly.


Determine if the price is negotiable, and if so start with a price that is lower than asking. This will allow you some wiggle room on negotiations.
Discuss the shipping or delivery details for the vehicle. The seller can take the reigns and ship or deliver the car him or herself, of depending on the distance and the arrangements, you may have to fly to his or her location and then fly back.
