 When you're designing your own home gym, space to move around is perhaps the most important quality. If you're constantly bumping into equipment or having to move things around, you're not going to get as much benefit from your workout.Since many CrossFit workouts are timed, you won't be able to complete the workout as it's meant to be done if you constantly have to stop and move things around.
Walk through some basic routines and mark out the floor space you're going to need. Then add in your equipment around that space.
 Particularly if you have limited floor space, the message boards on the official CrossFit website include tips and images from other CrossFitters that will help you make the most of the space you have available.Some posts include photos of other CrossFitters' home gyms so you can get some ideas, as well as tips for how to store equipment vertically on walls so you don't take up so much precious floorspace.
 Since approximately 80 percent of the CrossFit WODs that aren't bodyweight-only involve using weights, a bar and some weights should be one of the first pieces of equipment you get for your home gym.Don't worry about buying a bench, since you won't really use it in CrossFit. You just need to make sure you have a rack for the bar. The rack doesn't have to be fancy, just something that will enable you to load the bar at shoulder height for heavy squats.
You also don't need to worry about getting heavier weights in the beginning, especially if you're just getting started with CrossFit. Just buy weights a couple sizes up from what you're capable of lifting now.
 Various styles of pull-ups are a staple of many CrossFit WODs, so a pull-up bar is essential if you want to start CrossFit at home. If you don't have a lot of space, you can always mount it in a doorway., Rings are used in several different CrossFit WODs, although they won't get used as much as the weights and the pull-up bar. All the same, they're worth getting since they're relatively inexpensive and don't take up too much space., Kettlebells are used relatively frequently in CrossFit, and most home gyms will automatically have a good set of dumbbells. If you're running low on floorspace, these pieces of equipment can be stored on racks mounted on the wall.Focus on keeping your home gym clean and efficient, so that everything is visible and can be retrieved easily and put away easily. Rid the area of anything unrelated to working out, such as automotive accessories or laundry.
 Not only should your home gym have the right workout equipment, it also should be functional. Leave tools such as a clock, tape, chalk, and a fan in your gym at all times.Get some rubber flooring to protect your joints and help prevent injury. You don't want to do your workouts on the cement floor of a garage.
Clocks or stopwatches are essential for timed workouts. Keep these and other tools neatly stored away in a bin when not in use.
You also might want to get a whiteboard so you can write your WOD on the wall just like they do in CrossFit boxes.

