 Whether you wear your short hair curly or straight, you can add extra style by pinning it in a variety of positions.With bobby pins, you can twist your locks or set them up or back.


Get a good supply of bobby pins in different lengths. They can fall out easily and you'll need different lengths depending on how much hair you're pulling back.
Spray dry shampoo or texture spray on your bobby pins so they are less likely to slip out of your hair.
Remember that bobby pins should be used with the wavy side facing your scalp since the ridges are there to grip your hair and lock everything in place., Brush your bangs, or the hair closest to your face, out towards the ceiling and pull them back on the top of your head, leaving a little poof. Just tease the section of hair from temple to temple, and then push it against where you normally part your hair to increase lift.Secure the bangs with bobby pins or a barrette.
 Once you've created and pinned a poof with your bangs, you can create a messy but stylish updo with the rest of your hair. Simply grab 1- to 2-inch sections of hair, twist them, and secure them in random places with bobby pins. Insert the pins into your hair and rotate them the opposite direction of your hair twist in order to hide the pin.To achieve a tighter style and hide you pins, just point the open end of the pin against the direction that your hair is pulled. Then rotate the pin so the open end is now facing the same direction as the hair, and push it in toward your head to secure it.The pins will not only pull your hair tighter but also be unnoticeable beneath your tresses.
 If you have enough length, pull your hair into a very small "deer tail" at the back. Secure it in place with a large clip or several bobby pins underneath it.
 If you don't have enough hair to braid it, try twisting it instead. Simply remove the fringe off your face by gradually winding small sections of it. Pin the coiled strands in place with bobby pins., Part your hair to one side, then brush the shorter half behind your ear before carefully securing it with bobby pins. Add volume to the opposite side by backcombing your roots with a comb and applying hairspray to set the style in place. For extra texture, curl your hair with a curling iron before styling it., No matter how you pin your hair, the ribbons will add style and cuteness. You can even add a goth or punk twist to your hairstyle with black or purple designs.