 To start, you will need to toast your sesame seeds. You should use a dry pan over medium heat to toast your seeds.Toast the seeds until they brown slightly. Do not cook them until they burn.;
, Your butter needs to be softened to make benne cakes. There are many ways to soften your butter for baking.You can slice your butter into small chunks. This encourages it to soften faster.
You can place the butter in a Ziploc bag and pound it with a rolling pin.
It can take awhile for butter to soften, so set it out for about an hour before you make your benne cakes.
 In a mixing bowl, add your flour, baking powder, and salt. Use a fork or spoon to mix all the dry ingredients together. Set them aside for now., Add the butter and brown sugar to a large mixing bowl. Use a wooden spoon to cream them together until you have a smooth, even consistency.To cream butter and sugar, you gently mash the butter and run the spoon downward, slowly incorporating the sugar.
 After the butter and sugar are creamed, measure out your vanilla. Add this and the egg and lemon juice to the batter. Use your mixing spoon to stir the ingredients together until everything is evenly mixed., Add the dry ingredients you set aside earlier. It can sometimes help to add the dry ingredients in small intervals, as this can prevent the dough from getting to dry. Once the dry ingredients are evenly mixed, you can stir in the sesame seeds., Use parchment paper to line the cookie sheet or use cooking oil to lightly spray a cookie sheet. This will prevent your cookies from sticking. Don't add too much cooking spray. A light layer is enough., Benne cookies are drop cookies. This means you use a rounded teaspoon to scoop up the dough. From there, gently drop the cookies onto the plate.Keep the cookies about two inches apart.
 Your benne cookie should be baked at 325 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 163 degrees Celsius) for 15 minutes. The edges should be browned when they're done. You may need to cook your benne cookies for a bit longer if the do not look done after 15 minutes.Cool your cookies on an iron cooling rack before serving.

