 Come to class with a list of questions that will introduce students to the topic of the day. Based on their answers, you will have an idea of how much students already know. The information garnered from student answers will help shape the following lecture to what students already do and do not know, which will cut down on repetitive information., After covering a topic in lecture, break students into smaller groups to discuss among themselves or facilitate a larger group discussion to emphasize the students’ ideas and assess comprehension.


Facilitate, don’t dominate discussion. This is a time for students to process material and interact. Instead of falling back into lecture, direct questions to the students and encourage them to respond and listen to each other.For smaller group discussion, give students a few minutes to brainstorm questions about the lecture on their own. Then put them into pairs to share their questions and to collectively generate a list of things they learned and would like to know more about., This strategy makes sure students are paying attention. More importantly, it gives students a chance to process what they just learned to ensure more retention, and it gives the teacher a chance to assess comprehension.


Impromptu writing assignments should be low-stakes. Count these assignments as participation grades or make them a small percentage of their overall grade.The emphasis should be on students’ learning comprehension, not just their grades.
If you are asking students to participate through these assignments, it is important to participate with them by answering any questions they may bring up or guiding them if they want to explore a topic further.
 Sometimes topics and subjects can seem abstract, and students have a hard time understanding why they should care. If you can show how the class subject matter relates to the real world in a concrete way, students will be more invested in the class material.Something newsworthy happens every day, and these events can be a great way to demonstrate to students how what they learn in school plays out in real life. For example, a breakthrough in science or technology can relate to the basic building blocks of science education or a current political event may be related to a historical event.
Take time find out what students already know about a subject or what interests them about particular topics. This information can help you find places to connect lesson plans and academic subjects with activities and materials that students are already prone to enjoy., Field trips allow students to experience learning in a less structured environment than the classroom, which can stimulate students’ curiosity. While textbooks and regular class lessons present material in an abstract way, field trips help students envision textbook material in a more comprehensive, concrete way.Each museum has a different theme ranging from science to art to different periods of history. Find out what museums are available in your area as you plan your curriculum in order to make sure your field trips relate to topics as you cover them.
To make it an immersive educational experience, coordinate with museum staff, inquire about tour packages, and clearly lay out goals and expectations for student learning ahead of time.
After the field trip, facilitate a question and answer session, hold a classroom discussion, or give students a low-stakes writing prompt asking them to explain what they learned and liked about the the trip.

