 Due to differences in climates and individuals, it's difficult to predict your exact needs. As a starting estimate, expect to sweat out 500–700 mL (17–24 oz) every hour while walking at 35ºC (95ºF), or 700–900 mL per hour of walking at 40ºC (104ºF).Drink enough water to make up for this amount, and pay attention to your urine. If your urine is mostly clear, you are well hydrated. If it is dark or has a strong smell, you need more water.


Aim for the lower range of this estimate if you are in the shade, and the higher range when walking in the sun. You will not need as much water while sitting.
Most people underestimate the amount of water they need. Rely on solid measurements or urine color, not on how thirsty you feel.;
, Bring more water than you need, in several containers. Store the excess back in your vehicle or shelter. If possible, store it somewhere away from direct sunlight, which can make water unpleasantly hot, and eventually wear down plastic containers.
 Sipping water may prevent the water from reaching your vital organs. Drink at least a few swallows at a time to ensure effective hydration.Drinking too much water on an empty stomach can lead to vomiting. If you think this may happen, start with a swallow or two. Wait a few minutes for your stomach to settle, then drink some more.
 Trying to save your water will just make the symptoms of dehydration set in sooner. Even in an emergency situation, drink enough water to stay hydrated whenever possible. Although drinking will trigger your body to urinate, most of it is water you would have lost anyway., You will also lose sodium and potassium as you sweat, which can decrease water retention and eventually cause serious health problems.Snack occasionally on food that contains salt, as well as potassium-rich foods such as bananas, dried apricots, or nuts.If your sweat does not taste salty, or does not sting when it falls into your eye, you need more salt.
Salt only helps water retention if you are hydrated enough to take advantage of this effect. If you are dehydrated, large amounts of salt can make the problem worse., Any exposed skin encourages perspiration due to rapid evaporation. Wear a hat and lightweight, long-sleeved shirt and trousers., In most deserts, especially in summer, conditions are brutally hot from about 10 am to 4 pm. One of the most effective ways to conserve water is to stay in shade during this time, away from wind. Do not exert yourself during this time.In an emergency situation, walk during the night instead of the day.
 In an emergency, conserve water by eating as little as possible. You can survive much longer without food than water, and digestion takes water out of your system.