 Before you start this method, make sure to gather your materials. You will need the following:A plastic container, such as a small Tupperware container
Eye makeup remover
Tweezers
Tissues
An eyelash comb

, As usual, you should wash your hands before you begin to prevent getting bacteria on your fake eyelashes. Make sure you wash for at least 20 seconds, using clean water and antibacterial soap. Do not forget to clean under your fingernails, between your fingers, and the backs of your hands. When you're done, rinse and dry with a clean towel., Make sure to remove your fake eyelashes when you finish washing your hands. You should remove eyelashes with the pads of your fingers instead of your fingertips or tweezers. Grasp the eyelashes between your thumb and forefinger and pull the band inwards. The lashes should come off fairly easily., Simply place the lashes in the container. Lay them on their sides., Add about a tablespoon of makeup remover to the container. If your container is larger, you may need to use more. Use enough that your lashes can comfortably soak in the container., Choose a safe place where the container will not be disturbed by children or pets. Make sure you do not leave the container out for more than 5 minutes. Any longer than this can damage the lashes., After 5 minutes have passed, gently pluck the lashes out of the container. Set them down on a clean piece of paper towel. Make sure the paper towel is sitting on a clean, flat surface., Pick up the lashes with your forefinger and thumb. Use tweezers to remove any bits of glue from the band. Remember to only pull with the tweezers and never pull at the lashes. Pulling at the lashes can cause them to tear., Rinse out your container thoroughly and then add more makeup remover. Do not add as much as before. Add just enough that there's a thin layer of remover at the bottom of the container., Take your tweezers. Use them to drag your lashes back and forth inside the container. Move the lashes from the left side of the container to the right. Then, flip the lashes over and repeat this on the other side., Keep emptying the container, adding new remover, and dragging the lashes back and forth with the tweezers. Continue doing this until the remover runs dry when you drag the lashes through. This is a sign the eyelashes are completely clean., Once your eyelashes are clean, set them aside in a safe place to dry. It's a good idea to place your fake eyelashes on something like a paper towel. Make sure they're in a safe place, where they won't be disturbed by children or pets., Take an eyelash comb and run it through your lashes. Do not skip this step. Combing out the lashes once after cleaning helps them retain their shape.