 Strike up a conversation with someone you wouldn’t normally talk to. If you’re typically shy, taking this big step can not only give you confidence, but could help you gain a new friend. A perfect situation for this opportunity is when you’re standing in line, sitting in the waiting room, or taking a ride on a train or bus.


Before you speak, realize that they are just another person, just like you. They are no better than you are and would probably like to speak with you. Stick to neutral topics like the weather, or whatever is going on around you.
For instance, while you’re waiting for your cup of Joe, you could say, “Wow, this line is really long. People must really need their coffee today.”If you find yourself in a longer conversation with a stranger and you're not sure what to say, just start asking the person general questions about themselves. Most people enjoy talking about themselves, as long as it's not too personal. Ask about their career, hobbies, if they're from the area, and so on. You might say something like, "Do you work near here?"

, If you want to make friends or learn how to become more comfortable socializing, consider joining a group or club of only a few people. Choose something that interests you, like books or sports, and look for a group that is based on this subject.


Talking about something you know and like can give you the confidence you need to put yourself out there and find others who enjoy the same things you do.
To avoid putting yourself in a situation you don’t like, tailor your group experience to fit your needs. For instance, bring a friend, get there right as the meeting starts if you want to avoid small talk, and hang out together afterwards., Introverts are usually some pretty talented people. If you want to work on putting yourself out there, put some of your skills on display. The positive reaction you’re likely to receive can offer you encouragement that may make you feel more comfortable with showing others just how valuable you are.


For instance, you could join a local art show, poetry reading, or singing event, like karaoke. Allowing others to see your skills is a good way to network and find others who enjoy the same interests you do., Standing out at work can be difficult for an introvert. You likely don’t want to make a name for yourself as the most outgoing employee, but you can stand out by fixing problems.


Use your knack for thinking and come up with a solution to a problem that your boss or other employees have talked about. Doing so can give you the recognition you deserve, in a way that you feel comfortable with.
If speaking up during a meeting isn’t your style, talk to your boss one-on-one afterwards, or send an email about your proposal. You could say, “I’ve been thinking about that problem you brought up during our last meeting, and I think I have a solution to it.”Consider reading books that directly discuss being a businessperson and an introvert. These books will help you build your network, business, and clientele.

