 Preparing for your schoolwork will help you cope with the stress from your bad test score.Plan to study for your next exam over a long period of time instead of waiting until the night before the test. Having more regular and shorter study sessions will help you understand the material thoroughly, and it will boost your confidence. It will also give you enough time to ask questions if you don’t understand something completely., If you make and stick to a study schedule, it will become a part of your regular routine. Before you know it, studying during these scheduled times will feel like second nature!You will feel more productive and less stressed once you establish a routine.


Decide how many days per week you should spend studying and find free time in your schedule. For example, if you have free time in the evenings on some weekdays, set aside a couple of hours after dinner to focus on your work. If you're a morning person, set aside some time each day after breakfast to review your class notes.
 Make sure that the television is turned off and that your phone is put away before you begin studying. It is easy to get distracted by the sounds of your favorite show or by text messages from your friends. These distractions shift your focus from your schoolwork, and they make it more difficult to pay attention to your studies.


If you work better in a quiet environment, visit your local library or study hall at school to avoid interruptions and study in peace., Being a part of a study group is an effective way to improve your next test score. Comparing your class notes with your peers can help fill in some of the information you may have missed in class. Your peers may offer a helpful perspective on a tricky topic or share their own successful study tips. Plus, study groups can motivate and support you as you prepare for your next exam. You’ll learn a lot, have a lot of fun, and be ready to take on the next exam with confidence!, Many students benefit from one-on-one instruction and may feel more at ease when asking questions or tackling complex subjects. Consider hiring a tutor to help enhance your understanding of a particular topic or to help you prepare for a standardized exam. Your tutor can help you work through your weaker areas and stay focused on the subject.Talk to your school administrators to see if they can direct you to tutoring programs in your area.

