 Clean the body with palm wine to remove any dirt or debris. Next, rinse the sticky palm wine away with water from the Nile river. This water is considered sacred and will purify the Pharaoh’s body., Make an incision on the Pharaoh’s side, just under the rib cage. Remove the stomach, intestines, liver, and lungs. Set these sacred organs aside. Next, use a hook to remove the brain through the nose. Discard this organ., Place the sacred organs in ornate, decorative jars. Fill these jars with embalming fluid or natron, a naturally occurring combination of baking soda and salt. This will preserve the organs for use in the afterlife. The heads of the jars depict:


Imsety
Happy the baboon-headed god
Duamutef the jackal-headed god
Qebehsenuef the falcon-headed god, Palm wine can act as an antiseptic when used as a cleaning solution. Washing the body again with this wine will kill any bacteria that might disrupt the embalming process.
 Place the Pharaoh’s body in a recessed trough on a layer of natron. Insert several sachets of natron inside the body cavity. Next, pour more natron over the body until it’s completely covered. Let the body embalm for forty days.Natron will draw out all of the liquid in the body to embalm it. Without bodily liquids, the Pharaoh can’t decay.
 First, cover the Pharaoh in a royal funeral shroud. Next, wrap the Pharaoh with strips of fine linen. While wrapping, insert amulets and jewelry into the strips. You can also cast spells and chant incantations during this process.


Depending on the time period, some Pharaohs also have their names written on each linen strip., Each Pharaoh has a death mask made of gold. These masks help the spirit identify the body in death. Gently lay the death mask over the Pharaoh’s wrapped head to complete the mummification.Many less wealthy Egyptians used death masks. However, these masks were made of wood or plaster.
 First, gently lay the Pharaoh in the painted and prepared sarcophagus, being careful not to disturb the death mask. After the sarcophagus is closed, the Pharaoh can be placed in his tomb. Set the sacred organ jars around the sarcophagus and seal the tomb.


Depending on the wishes of the Pharaoh, servants, gold, chariots, and other worldly goods may be entombed with him.

