 Likewise, identify what you are doing well. You'll want to keep on doing those good things, or do them even better.;
, For example, if you don't show your parents enough love, make the effort every morning to give both of your parents a hug and tell them that you love them. Resolve any issues with your family and friends. Realize that you may be wrong and owe someone an apology.
 Get close to them and be yourself around them. For example: Go to the mall and shop with them now and again, or ask your mom to go have a coffee with you at the nearest cafe. This bonding can strengthen your relationship.
 That way you'll have a clean space where you can let your thoughts run free, and be sure to help your parents when they need it the most whether it's doing the dishes or cleaning the attic, little things help.
 Take a shower or bath, shampoo and condition, and moisturize. Keeping yourself together not only makes you feel good about yourself but it allows your parents to see the better side of you.
 Don't overdo your accessories or makeup!

, If you don't listen to them, they will think you are disrespectful. Even if it's something you're dreading (taking out the trash, finishing your homework), it will help you to become a better person in the end. Remember that parents have the power of authority and money in the house, and you will be most likely to get what you want if you're a good daughter.
 Doing nice things gives you a warm feeling inside and makes you feel more optimistic.
 However, it is important to remember that you have to be true to yourself and know when it's too much; don't wear yourself thin.
 Stay calm. The last thing you want is to have a fight. When both parties have decided what to solve, tell them you love them. Give them a hug and say goodbye. Then take a walk or something so your mom or dad will think about what he or she has just agreed on.
 Watch their favorite TV show together, eat dinner together, watch movies, and play board games. Don't let them feel like their little girl is pulling away.
 Whether some girl pulled your hair in class or pushed you over or you have a little sibling who just won't give you space kindly brush them off - your parents will appreciate your calm behavior.
 It is good to tell the truth, even when you don't want to.
 They are your well wishers.

