 A primer is just a light makeup you apply to your eyelids before eye shadow. It can help keep your eye shadow in place, which is good for metallic eye shadows since they are more likely to come off. Plus, it can really make the color and shimmer pop.Apply the primer across the the top of your eyelid, going all the way up to your eyebrow.;
, If you sweep across the top of your eyelid, you'll end up with glitter all across your face. Instead, gently press down on the eyelid with a padded brush, so you press the eye shadow into the skin, holding it in place.You can also use a flat brush to apply metallics., With your next color, press it along the eye line, moving from where you ended the lighter color to the outer corner of your eye. Press it into this line, keeping towards the eye, then move upward after you've finished adding color in this area., You may take your eye shadow above your crease at times, and that's fine. However, with metallics, it's best to stay down lower, at least with the main color. Covering the crease with a metallic just makes it stand out more., For a more sophisticated look, try a shimmer rather than one that has large pieces of glitter.Of course, for a fun night out on the town, including a funky dance club, you may want to opt for the glittery kind instead.
 For lighter, skins tones, pick a platinum, silver, or rose gold. For more olive-colored skin, try gold, rose gold, or bronze. Darker skin tones can get away with any of these shades.Rose gold goes well with any skin tone.
 Because metallics tend to stand out more, using more than two colors at once can make them seem like too much. Stick to one or two colors to make your metallic eye shadow seem more up-to-date., Using a lighter metallic color, such as a sparkling white, on the inner corner of the eye helps make your eyes look brighter. It also makes them look a bit wider, opening them. Start in the corner, and press it in with a small padded brush. Go a third of the way across the top of your eye.You can also just apply metallics to the corner of your eye, such as a bit of gold in the corner, and leave the rest of your eyelids bare or choose a matte color., Another way to add a bit of metallic pop without going all out is to just add it on top of another color. Once you've added your other color, brush a bit of your metallic color into the middle of your upper lid, blending it in just a bit., Because metallics stand out so much, try using a less glamorous matte shade with it, particularly a more neutral color. You can use the matte shade to help soften the edges by blending the metallic in., You can also make your metallic shadow the dominant color. Start at the base of the eye lid at the lash line, near the inner corner. Press it in along the line, then press it upward until you reach the crease. You can also add a dash on your lower lid.You can also run a highlighter color just under your brow line before adding in your main color up to your crease. The main color should be darker than the highlighter.