 Going too long between meals can make you feel irritable and tired. Stay energized by eating something, even a small snack, every three to four hours., Bananas, brown rice, and spinach are all super-foods that can help boost your energy levels and help you sleep better at night.Add more citrus fruits, leafy greens, beans, chicken and eggs to your diet to boost your B vitamin levels. Deficiencies in B vitamins can trigger depression.
Avoid sugar and refined carbs. Put down the sugary snacks, baked goods, or comfort foods like pasta or French fries. These “feel-good” foods can quickly lead to a crash in your mood and energy.
Of course, you don’t have to cut out all carbs. Foods such as baked potatoes, whole-wheat pasta, oatmeal, and whole grain breads will boost your serotonin levels (the chemicals in your brain that make you feel good) without a crash.
 Some depression studies show that chromium picolinate reduces your carbohydrate cravings, eases mood swings, and boosts energy. It’s also important to get a lot of vitamin B so your energy levels stay up throughout the day.Ask your doctor about chromium supplements.
You can buy vitamin B supplements over the counter at your local drugstore.
 Scientist haven’t quite figured out exactly why exercise is such a strong antidepressant. But physical activity can trigger new cell growth in your brain, increase your endorphins, reduce stress, and relieve muscle tension. All good things if you’re trying to fight off depression or anxiety.Aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise a day. Start small, with short 10-minute bursts of activity.
This doesn’t mean you have to sign up for a gym membership and buy some fancy workout gear. Instead, make small adjustments to your routine so you get at least 10 minutes of physical activity a day. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Park your car farther away from work and walk. Take your pet for a long walk. Walk while you’re talking on the phone.
Once you feel comfortable with 30 minutes of light activity, try to find a workout partner and take an exercise class together at the gym. Or challenge yourself to run a certain distance, instead of walk.
 When we feel down, we tend to oversleep or under sleep. But it’s important for your body to get a consistent 8 hour sleep every night so it can recharge and re energize. Try healthy sleep habits like:Going to bed at the same time every night. Choose a time when you start to feel tired and let yourself go to sleep. Try not to break your sleep routine on the weekends when it may be tempting to stay up late.
Wake up at the same time every day. If you’re getting enough sleep, you should wake up naturally without an alarm. Try to maintain a regular wake-time even on weekends.
If you need to make up for a few lost hours of sleep, take a daytime nap. But limit it to 30 minutes. Avoid sleeping in late as this can disturb your natural sleep-wake rhythm and lead to insomnia or throw your sleep pattern out of whack.
Turn all screens off at least one hour before you go to bed. This can really help to prepare your brain for sleep and shut down. Send your last text one hour before bedtime or watch your favorite tv program and then read for an hour before bed.
Avoid falling asleep before your bedtime, especially after dinner. If you’ve had a big meal for dinner and are starting to feel sleepy, do something mildly stimulating like washing to dishes, calling a friend, or picking out your outfit for the next day. Don’t give in to after-dinner drowsiness!

