 Before you paint the tray, or add any embellishments, you need to clean it. Start by wiping the tray down with a damp cloth. Dry it off with a towel, then wipe it down with some rubbing alcohol. This will help remove any oils that might prevent paint/glue from sticking.
 You don't have to do all of the steps listed in this method; some of them may not even work for the type of tray you have. Figure out what sort of look you are going for first, then choose one or two of the ideas listed below.
 Use some coarse-grit sandpaper (suck as P80 grit) to lightly buff the surface of the tray. This will dull down the paint and reveal some of the wood underneath. Keep buffing until you get the look you want.If your tray isn't painted, paint it first using matte wood or latex paint.Consider adding some wood stain after sanding your tray. Be sure to seal it in afterwards!, You can use store-bought wood stain or make your own using vinegar, coffee, and steel wool. This is a great alternative to using paint that allows the wood's natural texture to shine through. It is great if you want a natural-looking finish.


Most stains need to be sealed. Choose a matte sealer for a more rustic look, and a glossy one for a fancier one.
 You can use regular paint or spray paint. Let the paint dry, then add another coat or two, if needed. Be sure to let each coat of paint dry completely before adding a new one.


It would be a good idea to seal the paint in afterwards with an acrylic sealer.
 If your tray is already the color you want, but is still looking a little dull, consider painting some designs using stencils. Place the stencil where you want it to go, then secure it with painter's tape. Apply paint over it using a foam brush. Peel the stencil off, then let the paint dry.
 Cut some scrapbooking paper down to fit the shelves on your tray. Apply a coat of decoupage to the shelves, then press the paper down onto it. Smooth out any air bubbles, then let it dry 15 to 20 minutes. Apply another coat of decoupage and let it dry.Cut down some more scrapbooking into individual designs and add it on top for a more interesting look.
 If your trays have thick sides, consider adding some trim. Great ideas include rhinestones, ribbon, lace, etc. Use hot glue to apply the trims, then pull away any threads left by the glue. Make sure that the trims match the tray's style and your room décor.

