 If you have something stuck in your eye, it may be causing that eye to water. Do not try to pull a foreign object out of your eye with your fingers or tweezers. To remove a foreign object from your eye, you will need to wash your eye.


To wash your eye, use clean hands to hold your eye open under a gentle stream of lukewarm running water. You can also do this in the shower by allowing the water to hit your forehead and holding your eye open as the water runs down your face. Or, you can wash your eye with an eyewash station or an eyecup.Don’t rub your eyes if you think you have something stuck in them. Rubbing your eyes when you have a particles stuck in them may cause damage to your eye.;
, It may sound counterintuitive to use artificial tears for watery eyes, but you can actually use eye drops to stop watery eyes. Eye drops work well when your eyes are watering because of excessive dryness. Eye drops will help to moisten and lubricate the eyes, which will lead to a decreased production of tears. To use eye drops:Extend your head back and pull down your lower lid. Hold the eye drop bottle an inch or two away from your eyes. Do not allow the bottle tip to touch your eyes.
Apply three drops (or as many as your doctor prescribes) to your eyes by squeezing the bottle and letting one drop hit your eye at a time. Use artificial tears every four hours or as needed.
 If your eyes just won’t seem to stop watering, try removing your contact lenses. Contacts can make watery eyes worse while also potentially preventing eye drops from working. Talk to your ophthalmologist if you think your contacts might be to blame for your watery eyes.Follow your eye doctor’s instructions for keeping your contact lenses clean. If you use disposable contact lenses, never wear them more than once. Always dispose of them after use.
Never sleep with your contact lenses in unless your eye doctor says it is okay.
Avoid wearing your contact lenses when swimming or showering.
 Warm compresses help to remove crust from the eyes while also working to loosen up any toxins that might be blocking your tear ducts. They also help to reduce the redness and irritation that often comes with watery eyes. Run a washcloth under warm to hot water, squeeze out the excess water, and then lay the washcloth across your eyes. Lie down and keep the cloth there for five to 10 minutes. 