 Keep careful track of the inventory of materials you have on hand in the hospital for future use. Avoid overstocking items that have limited lifespans, as these will need to be disposed of.Perform quarterly inventory checks to look for items that are close to the end of their lifespans.
A computerized inventory system will make this task much easier.
Consider limiting access to materials to prevent waste.
Be careful to always store materials according to the manufacturer's recommendations to avoid damaging the product.;
, Recycling as many materials as possible will go a long way in helping you reduce waste. Make sure your staff knows what products are recyclable and how to recycle them.Whenever possible, store materials in reusable containers that can be refilled by your distributor.
Some distributors will allow you to return containers used to store radioactive isotopes.
You can sell items like metal drums, wood pallets, and used and spoiled film to recyclers.
Certain chemicals, such as formaldehyde, can be reused.
Consider purchasing refillable ink cartridges for your printers.
If you do not have sufficient volume of recyclable materials, consider working with other local hospitals to create a shared recycling area.
Consider composting waste from your cafeteria, and even using compostable plates., Some materials create more waste than others, so be sure to consider the environmental impact of all of the materials used by the hospital. It may not always be possible to use a greener alternative, but do so whenever you can. Some materials to avoid whenever feasible are:


Aerosol cans
Non-rechargeable batteries
Any construction materials (flooring, countertops, etc.) that are not resistant to solvents
Cleaning products that contain zinc, tributyl tin, phenolics, or chromium
Oil-based paints
Chlorinated solvents
Equipment that contains mercury

, Do a thorough review of all routine procedures performed in your hospital and look for areas where material usage can be decreased. For example, employees may be filling containers with more of certain solutions than necessary.In some cases, you may be able to solve this problem with training, but in other cases you may need to reevaluate the size of the containers provided.
 Be sure your equipment is not using more materials than necessary by inspecting it routinely. Look for leaks and anything else that may cause inefficiency., It may seem like a small change, but having janitors clean with microfiber mops instead of traditional loop mops will reduce your usage of water and cleaning chemicals, while also decreasing the risk of cross-contamination.