 Get a large piece of Styrofoam board for every four guests. Paint each board a different color, solid red or blue, for example. Now, use a bread knife to cut the boards into strange shaped pieces. For 4-5 year olds, three pieces is enough. 6-8 year olds can handle four or five, and from there on up, six or seven pieces should work.;
, Have a "narrator." When s/he yells "Fried shrimp!" the kids lay on their backs if they can and wiggle their fingers. When the narrator says, "Seasick!" everyone grabs a partner. Their partner puts their hands out like the railing on the boat and the other person reaches their head over the "railing" and barfs. Be sure to remind them not to get too energetic. If someone does not have a partner they're out. When the narrator calls, "Shore!" the players run to their right. If someone runs left he/she's out. If the narrator calls "Ship!" the remaining players run to their left. If a child runs right he/she's out. When a narrator says, "Captain's Coming!" Have the children put the sides of their hands on their foreheads, and stay still. When an adult shouts anything else for example, "Seasick!" the kids stay still. If anyone moves before the adult says, "Yaarg!" they're out. The last 5 remaining players win.
 from all the boards around the backyard. Designate each team an area to assemble their puzzle. Three members will work on assembly while one person can run out and get the other pieces. The first team to find and assemble their entire puzzle wins.
 Set up a circle of numbers on the ground and have everyone stand on a number. Begin playing festive music and have everyone walk from number to number. Draw a number from a hat and then stop the music. Whoever is standing on that number when the music stops is the winner! I have played this game at many school carnivals where the prize is a cake. But, you can give away something different.
 Play music and while the music plays all the player's move around. As soon as the music stops all the players need to stop and become a statue. Whoever moves is out of the game. Keep playing the music as long as you want and then give all the participants a nice gift.
 This is yet another fun game. All you need to do is make an easy bean bag using double layer of poster board glued together and a large box. Then use a large box as a base, and attach the poster board to one side of it. Before attaching the poster board, paint a design on it, make one or more hole. The kids will have lot of fun throwing those bean bags. If you want you can even give bean bags as party favors.
 Make a paper airplane for each child. Be sure and weigh down the nose (use a paper clip.) so that the plane will fly straight. Put each child’s name on a plane. Have the children line up across a wall. Tell them to throw their planes when you count to three. The child that tosses their plane the farthest wins the game.



Be sure to have 2 beach-balls, 2 goals, open space & Foam weapons. Each team needs 1 or more people on defense (goalies are optional), the rest on offense. The two balls in the middle of the two sides.
The defenders and goalies can kick to block a goal or use their racket/foam weapon. The only thing they can't do is use their hands or block goals with their bodies. If a defender uses their belly to block a ball it is a point for the other team. People cannot use their hands at all, and cannot score a goal with a kick.
If someone scores a goal it counts as 1 point. The first side to win a certain amount of points wins- such as 10, 15, 20 etc.
 It is great for all ages. It requires 2 teams of 8 people or more, 2 goals and 1 beach-ball.You can kick, dribble, punch etc. the ball into the goals WITHOUT HOLDING THE BALL. If someone holds the ball they do 10 jumping jacks instead of going out. Each score in the goal is 1 point. When a certain amount of time is over the team with the most points wins.

