 You can use baby shampoo to soften a doll's hair. Pick a cup or bowl that's big enough to hold all of your doll's hair. The temperature of the water should be colder if your doll has curly hair. Hot or warm water can cause curls to loosen.
 Once your bowl or cup is full of water, stir in a quarter teaspoon of baby shampoo. Mix the shampoo into the water until it has dissolved completely.








Do not substitute regular shampoo for baby shampoo. Baby shampoo is mild enough to be safe for use on doll hair. If you do not have baby shampoo, try to buy some. You also may be able to get away with using a mild form of shampoo, like shampoo for sensitive skin or shampoo for hair that's been dyed recently.
 Once the bath is prepared, place the doll's hair in the water. Swirl the hair around until it's wet. Then, work in the shampoo using your fingers. Keep massaging the doll's hair until you work up a small lather.
 Once the doll's hair is shampooed, set the doll aside for about 10 minutes. This gives the shampoo a chance to soften the hair. This will help remove any tangles and leave the hair soft and shiny. Set the doll aside in a safe place where it's unlikely to be disturbed., After 10 minutes have passed, rinse the doll's hair. Empty the shampoo bowl, rinse it out, and then fill it with clean water. Rinse the doll's hair in the bowl until the water becomes soapy from the shampoo. Rinse the bowl again and repeat this process two more times.








Make sure you get all the shampoo out. If the water still becomes soapy on the third rinse, run the doll's hair under tap water until all the shampoo is removed. Leaving shampoo in the doll's hair longterm could cause damage.
 Once the hair is rinsed, you need to dry it out slightly. You should not brush hair when it's wet. You want to wait until it's damp to brush. To dry, you can hang the doll upside down and let the hair air dry a little. You can also pat the hair somewhat dry with a towel.Once again, do not use a hairdryer as this can damage your doll's hair.
 Once the hair is damp, start the brushing process. For a smaller doll, use a fine-toothed comb. For a larger doll, go for a wide-toothed wig brush or any wide-toothed brush.









Brush slowly to avoid breaking or damaging the hair.On dolls with long hair, work out big tangles with your fingers.

