 Were they living in the wild, animal meats would be the staple of cats’ diets, and they are one of the best natural foods that you can serve your cat. Cats will eat nearly all types of meat, including beef and pork. However, cooked poultry (chicken or turkey) is best for your cat.When you first serve your cat cooked poultry, give it a small to moderate amount of meat, in case it doesn’t like the flavor. Start by giving your cat about ¼ cup (2 ounces) of meat.
Avoid giving your cat meat with a lot of fatty tissue. Although cats will eat the fat, it provides them with little protein and gives no dietary benefits. Too much fat with a single meal can also give your cat diarrhea.
 Salmon is rich in healthy fats and protein, and will make a healthy complement to your cat’s diet. Sprinkle a small handful of salmon on top of your cat’s food at dinnertime. Salmon is often found in wet commercial cat foods, so if you give your cat extra salmon, you’ll simply be increasing the amount of a protein they’re already receiving.
 Both of these fish are healthy for cats to eat, and will not carry high levels of mercury, which carnivorous fish like tuna or swordfish have been known to carry. Most types of fish are high in nutrients and will give your cat proteins and vitamins that they need to stay healthy.Make sure to only feed your cat cooked fish, as raw fish can carry illnesses. For example, raw freshwater fish may contain tapeworm eggs, and raw oily fish contain thiaminase, which breaks down thiamine, a vitamin that your cat’s body needs.
As with the salmon, you can sprinkle a small handful of cooked cod or flounder on top of your cat’s food with their dinner.
 Eggs can function as a high-protein dietary supplement for house cats. Cats will likely scarf down any eggs that you set in front of them, but should only be served fully-cooked eggs. Prepare eggs by hard boiling or scrambling them.Avoid giving cats raw eggs, or eggs that are partially raw. This includes soft-boiled, fried, or poached eggs.


Although eggs are primarily thought of as a food for human consumption, they are high in protein and would constitute part of a cat’s natural diet, were it living in the wild.

