 Locate the app icon on your home screen or app drawer, and tap on it to launch the app.


If you don’t have Live Wallpaper Maker yet, download it from Google Play.
You will be taken to the main screen of the app, which should be blank.
 Tap “Photo” from the buttons at the bottom, and from the Photos Settings menu that appears, tap “Select Photos.” Your Gallery will open.


Tap the photos you want to use as the background for your live wallpaper. You can select one, for a single background, or more, for backgrounds that transition between photos. Tap “OK” at the top right when you’re done, and you will be taken back to the Photos Settings menu.
Adjust the screen fit of the photo(s) by tapping the drop-down arrow of the Screen Fit option in the Photos Settings menu, and tapping on either “Fit Screen Width,” “Fit Screen Height,” or “Fit Screen Width & Height.”
Change the photo effect by tapping the Photo Effect drop-down option and selecting from “None,” “Slide,” “Disappear while rotating,” or “Zoom out.”
You can also change the photo show time by tapping the drop-down arrow for the option and selecting the time you want the photo to appear. The options range from 0.1 to 60 seconds.
When you’re satisfied with the background image settings, tap “OK” at the bottom of the Photos Settings window. You will be taken back to the main screen, which now displays the photo(s) you selected.
 Tap “Items” at the bottom of the main screen, and you will see several animation items in a bar at the bottom. Scroll right or left on the bar to view all the items. Tap on the item you want to use and it will appear on the screen above the bar. Continue tapping the item to add more.


To move items around, tap the item on the screen and drag it to a new location.
To adjust the opacity of the items by tapping the menu (3-bar) icon at the top left of the screen and selecting “Opacity.” Drag the slider that appears left to decrease the opacity or right to increase it.
Adjust the item size by opening the menu and selecting “Size.” A slider will appear; decrease the item size by sliding the bar left or increase it by sliding the bar right.
The same can be done to the item animation speed: open the menu and select “Speed.” Slide the bar of the slider left to decrease animation speed or slide it right to increase the speed.
To delete an item, tap the eraser icon (next to the menu icon), and then tap on the item you want to delete.
When you’re done setting items, tap “OK” at the top right of the screen. The items will be added to your wall photo.
 If you want to add words to your live wallpaper, tap the text icon (T) at the bottom of the main screen. Enter the words you want to appear in your wallpaper on the text field that pops up. Tap “OK” to go to the text editing screen.


Adjust the font style by tapping the menu (3-bar) icon at the top left of the editing screen and selecting “Font.” A list of fonts will be displayed. Tap on a font to use it.
Adjust the text size by opening the menu and selecting “Size.” A slider will appear; decrease the item size by sliding the bar left or increase it by sliding the bar right.
If you want to change the text color, open the menu and select “Color.” Tap the color you want to use and then tap “OK” to apply it.
You can also change the direction the text will animate. Do this by opening the menu and selecting “Direction.” There are many options to choose from; tap on one to apply the direction to your text.
To add more text, tap the pencil icon with a + located at the top. To delete a text, tap the eraser icon (next to the menu icon), and then tap on the text you want to delete.
When you’re done adding text, tap “OK” at the top right of the screen. The words will be added to your wall photo.
 Once you’re done with all the modifications and are happy with the wallpaper, tap “Save” on the preview (main) screen and then “OK.” Your new live wallpaper will be saved to your Gallery.
 Exit Live Wallpaper Maker and go to your device’s home screen. Long-press the screen to open the Home Screen menu.


Select “Wallpaper” and then “Live Wallpapers” from the menu, and list of live wallpapers will appear. Select “Live Wallpaper Maker” from the list to open all the wallpapers you created using the app.
Scroll left to right to view your live wallpapers. When you’ve found the one you want to use, tap “Set wallpaper” at the bottom. When you go back to your device’s home screen, you will see the live wallpaper you created!

