 To remove any stain from the mattress, you'll have to be able to access the mattress directly. Remove pillows, comforters, duvets, sheets, and anything else from the bed that’s covering the mattress.Set pillows and decorative items aside so you don’t trip on them while you're working.


Pre-treat sheets, pillow cases, comforters, and other washable bedding with an enzyme cleaner or stain remover if there's blood on them. Let the cleaner soak for about 15 minutes, and then wash the items in the washing machine.;
, Soak a clean cloth in cold water. Wring out as much excess water as possible so the cloth is cold and damp. Press the cold cloth into the blood stain and blot the area to saturate the stain. Do not rub, as this can rub the stain deeper into the mattress fibers.Use cold water only, as hot water can set the stain and make it even harder to remove.
 When you’ve saturated the stain with water, use a clean dry towel and blot the area to soak up excess blood. Continue blotting until the area is dry and no more blood is coming off on the dry towel.Do not rub with the towel to avoid pushing the stain deeper in.
 Rinse your damp cloth with cold water. Wring out the cloth to remove excess water. Blot the stain again to saturate it. Then, switch to a fresh dry cloth and blot up as much water and blood as you can until the area is dry.


Keep alternating between soaking and blotting until the dry cloth comes away clean., There are a number of cleaning solutions you can try to clean blood stains from a mattress. Oxygenated bleach or a commercial enzyme cleaner is your best bet, because these cleaners are specifically designed to break down proteins in organic matter like blood.Other cleaning solutions you can try include:


½ cup (118 ml) of liquid detergent mixed with 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of water, and whisked until frothy and foamy.One part baking soda mixed with two parts cold water.½ cup (55 g) cornstarch mixed into a paste with 1 tablespoon (19 g) of salt and ¼ cup (59 ml) of hydrogen peroxide.
1 tablespoon (15 ml) of ammonia mixed with 1 cup (235 ml) of cold water.
1 tablespoon (13 g) of meat tenderizer mixed into a paste with 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of cold water.
 For liquid cleaners, dip a clean cloth into your cleaner and wring out the excess. Blot the stain with the cleaner until it’s saturated. For pastes, use a knife or your finger to apply enough cleaning paste to the stain to cover it completely.Memory foam mattresses especially shouldn’t get wet at all, so only apply as much cleaner as necessary to saturate the stain.Don’t spray liquids directly onto a mattress. Mattresses are very absorbent, and if liquid doesn’t dry properly, it can break down the mattress fibers or cause mold problems.
 This will give the cleaner time to penetrate the stain and break down the proteins, making the blood easier to clean up., After 30 minutes, use a clean toothbrush to scrub the stain and work in the cleaner. You can also use a clean cloth to blot the area again. As you scrub or blot, the stain should start to break up and disappear., Soak a fresh cloth with cold water. Wring out the excess. Dab the area that you just cleaned with the cloth to remove any excess cleaner and leftover blood that may still be in the mattress.


Continue blotting until all traces of the paste, cleaner, and blood are gone., With a fresh, dry towel, blot the area one last time to remove as much excess moisture from the mattress as possible. Lay the towel over the area you cleaned, and press down with both hands to apply pressure to the area and absorb the moisture.
 Once the stain is gone, leave the air mattress bare so it can air dry for several hours, or ideally overnight. This will ensure there's no moisture trapped in the mattress, and protect the mattress from mold. To speed up the drying time, you can:


Aim a standing fan at the mattress and turn it on high.Open curtains to let sunlight dry the mattress.
Open a window to increase the fresh air in the room.
Take the mattress outside to dry in the sun and fresh air for a few hours.
Use a wet/dry vacuum to suck up water., When the mattress is completely dry, vacuum the entire surface to remove excess dirt and other particles. Regular cleaning will help keep your mattress like new for longer. Use the upholstery attachment, and vacuum the top, bottom, sides, and seams of the mattress.
 Mattress covers are waterproof covers that protect the mattress from spills, stains, and other accidents. When you spill something on the mattress, for instance, the cover wicks away the moisture and prevents the mattress from getting wet.Mattress pads are easy to clean. If you spill or have an accident, clean the cover according to the care instructions. Some pads will be machine washable, and others can be cleaned with a damp cloth.
 When the mattress is dry, clean, and outfitted with a protector, put on the fitted sheet that you washed, followed by any other sheets, covers, and pillows that you normally use on the bed. The sheets will also help to protect the mattress from sweat, dirt, and other debris as you sleep.

