 The best way is to start small if you don't have a lot of financial resources.;
,, You don't necessarily have to have 5 different kinds of sage, just make sure you have the basics. And remember that there are many medicinal herbs that can't be overlooked if you're selling plants. Herbs are nice, especially the annual kind, because people will come back over and over for the same plants. Herbs never get old. You always need them to spice up a dish, so it's not like the newest flower on the market that may fizzle next year.
 Plus some plants are better made from cuttings or rooting.


You'll have to do the research on the plants you choose to provide. The customers will want to know how to grow and use the herb at home so be prepared. Some varieties will cross-pollinate with others so make sure you really space them out or only grow one kind of herb at a time. There's plenty of information on the internet about growing times and needs of the various plants.
 However, this can be very expensive and not a good way to start small.
 You'll need plenty of dirt and containers to put them in if you're selling the plants themselves. For seeds you can buy small envelopes and make labels off of your computer. For the herbs themselves you can sell them fresh or dried. You'll need packaging and you'll also want to make sure that you provide them freshly cut to your customers. This isn't the best way to market your herbs, but it can be done. Some restaurants need regular shipments of fresh parsley for their dishes. If you're going to do this you need to make sure you have a heated greenhouse for the winter months and a couple of years in to know that you can provide the need or you may lose a customer forever.
 Plant markers can be bought, but they're expensive. You can buy plant markers and print them on your computer. Or if you're doing it extremely cheap and as a side thing you can use plastic wear handles. I prefer these to Popsicle sticks because after many waterings the wood will give up even the most permanent marker. And if you don't know what the plant is you won't sell much. Something else to do for the customer is to give them a print out about the plant, the care and the uses, since most people don't want to buy something they don't know about. That way you can get the newbies that want to try herbs but are afraid to invest the money.
 You can provide fresh or dried flowers to your local florists. While these are not herbs, if you're growing and have the room this is a good way to expand yourself.
 You'll sell a few of the lesser-knowns and draw in more customers with the broader selection without taking up too much space on your tables.
 There are plenty of ways to get your stuff sold. Just remember word of mouth is good. Initial advertising is absolutely necessary. If you can advertise by word of mouth you'll SAVE a little money. But you'll reach the most people by newspapers, fliers, and signs posted around town.

