 If you push your foot down on the pedal in a car with ABS, you will feel the brake pulsating under your foot, sometimes violently. Don't be afraid of this or let go -- that just means the brakes are doing their job. Depress your brake pedal with rapidly, but not instantly. This is essential to maximize the braking potential of your car. The goal is to bring the vehicle's tires just shy of breaking traction. It is important, though, to avoid "squeezing" down on the brakes if your car has ABS.









The key is to apply the brakes quickly and deeply, while applying pressure with the left foot against the footrest to stabilize the body.
As the car's speed is being scrubbed off, you can progressively and gently ease off of the brakes to keep them at the point of maximal efficiency.;
, Gentle turning while braking can help you avoid a collision. However, don't ever swerve or jerk the steering wheel, as this can cause the vehicle to go out of control. It is not uncommon for people to swerve to miss a small animal and end up colliding with a tree or another car. In some circumstances, such as if a child jumps in front of your car, it is prudent to turn while you apply your brakes. You should practice this in a safe environment so you'll get an idea of how the vehicle will react. Here are some different ways to brake your car:









Brake-turning. Turning the wheel into the corner while still lightly on the brakes. This causes the car to lean forward, pressing the front tires to the ground, giving them more grip for steering. This a basic technique, and no corner should be made without it.

Trail braking. This is a method of feathering the brakes while turning into the corner and it will provide the best and safest control over the vehicle as it is leaning on the front tires, allowing for more traction to those tires.

An emergency stop. If a need to stop quickly is due, you should not fear using the brakes, even mid-corner: With ABS, depress the pedal all the way down. Without ABS, brake moderately hard (70%) while taking off a bit of steering.
 The transmission is design to accelerate the vehicle not slow it down. The design of the load points on the transmission gears are not designed for this. It is not a component of the braking system. If you operate a tractor trailer, it is a different story. They are equipped with air brakes and engine brake for a reason that is irrelevant for cars. However, it is a good practice to use engine braking for maintaining or decreasing speed on long downhill stretches.









The heat generated is absorbed by the engine and removed efficiently by its coolant, radiator, and fan, which prevents the brakes from overheating so they will be most effective when needed for maximum braking.
 It's very difficult to steer away from something that you're looking at directly, and many people have a tendency to focus on what they are worried about colliding with. Instead, concentrate on where you want the car to go (to the side of the object) and pay attention to how the car feels—whether you're at OSP or locking up.








