 Pickup is very subjective, as you meet so many different people who all have vastly different personalities, mental interpretations of things, humor - the list goes on. For example, suppose telling a vulgar joke to a girl, Martha, makes her laugh and telling the same joke to another girl, Anna, creeps her out. Does this mean the Martha is cooler than Anna? Maybe or maybe not. There could be countless reasons for their different reactions. A few of them could be:


Your personality and sense of humor resonates better with Martha.
Anna: could be in a bad mood, she didn't like you, she didn't like your physical appearance, she likes taller guys, you could smell bad, she doesn't like to crack vulgar jokes with random strangers, she's insecure or has irrational beliefs, you were not confident enough, you didn't groom well, you are not wearing good clothes, she's a 'no' girl and the list goes on.
You have no control over other people's reactions, actions, personality, mood, etc., and if you worried about it, you will just suffer. Even your own thoughts and emotions are not in your control, they just come and go. Read Become Mentally Flexible and Surrender to the Present Moment for more depth.
So work on the key practices or habits, as mentioned in the article and related articles, that are in your direct control. For example: dressing well, grooming and smelling good, speaking with confidence and assertiveness, analyzing your audio recordings, having fun, keeping a strong eye-contact, stopping girls properly, keeping an analysis journal, being non-reactive, making a deep connection, body posture, etc.
 Practicing pickup as an experiment means you can try new things as test cases and just observe their outcome like a good scientist, without any emotional or mental interpretation. Then the true unconditioned interpretation will come naturally, and you will clearly see what works and what doesn't work for you. According to the Tao Te Ching, "A good scientist has freed himself of concepts and keeps his mind open to what is."


For example, if you learned that 'maintaining strong eye contact during interaction builds attraction', then don't just reject or accept it right away. Use it as an experiment test case. Maintain a strong eye contact in all of your approaches and just truly observe the outcome. Like a good scientist, don't get identified with the outcome. That would be more ego. This may go on for some days or be over after only a few approaches. It will depend on your personality, your openness to try new things, your humility and learning curve. Like a successful scientific discovery is adapted by people on a larger scale, adapt what you discover into your game.
"When I keep a strong eye contact, girls seem to be pretty attracted to me. So if I keep doing 'that', I will get the same or similar results all the time". This would be just another mind made concept made in a futile attempt to understand the world through your mental constructs. It's fine to use concepts in the beginning or may be time to time, but as you go along you should have no clinging to concepts, as they fragment the reality. Read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth on this.
"The scientist's religious feeling takes the form of a rapturous amazement at the harmony of natural laws, which reveals an intelligence of such superiority that in comparison with it, all systematic thinking of human being is an utterly insignificant reflection. This feeling is the guiding principle of my work" Albert Einstein.
 Different people may have different self-limiting core beliefs that have a vast impact on their actions, personality, etc. These beliefs may exist because of a person's conditioning, misinterpretations, experiences in the past, environment, physical looks etc. A vast majority of the times these beliefs or thought patterns are wrong or flawed. So it's an enlightening practice to test the validity of the beliefs by gathering evidence to see if they are erroneous or not and become free of them.


Suppose you have a negative belief or thought, that comes before approaching an attractive girl, that says 'What's the point? she's going to reject me anyway'. Then test the validity of this belief via experimentation. Which means, when you approach the girl simply observe if its really the case. Don't just stop after approaching a few girls. As mentioned above, it depends on your personality, openness, etc. Also keep in mind: seeing people through concepts or beliefs on the basis of their looks, is like missing 'not so often' opportunities to meet some genuinely cool people.
To add more evidence, think of any experiences when girls have been receptive and interested in you. When the evidence(the truth) suggests otherwise, that's what helps to dissolve these self-limiting beliefs. It's like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).Read Eradicate and Stop Negative Thoughts for more.
Warning: Be aware of the unconscious expectation before testing the beliefs or you may end up in a state of scotoma.Scotoma means a state when mind sees what it wants to see and ignores any evidence that contradicts the belief. For example: if a girl rejects you and you say "See, I told you she will reject me". This means there was an unconscious expectation attached to it. This implies that mind is more open to evidence that would support the belief. Again, like a good scientist, be very honest and just observe without any attachment or expectation. Or just remain aware as the background presence and let the thoughts come and go. Read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.
Affirmations. It is very fruitful practice to replace negative beliefs with affirmations. For example: whenever a negative thought comes like "she's too hot for me", replace it immediately with something like "I deserve it.". As it helps to have a balance between relationship, health and wealth to back these affirmations. As you will read in the second step of section 6.
 While analyzing your recordings, an unbiased third person wouldn't care whether you do good or bad, he/she would just observe. There is a strong identification in the word 'I' and it's forms. 'I failed the test' or 'She failed the test': which would be more distressing?


Alternatively, you can simply ask the girls if they find anything about you that could be improved. You will be surprised how many of them tell you. However just because they have a vagina doesn't automatically make them 'know it all' about dating and pickup.
 After practicing pickup, jot down the 'good' things and things 'you need to improve', in a journal. You cannot always record yourself so keeping a journal can be quite yielding to become more aware of the 'mistakes' and 'good things' you have been doing during your interactions. Or you can just audio record your mental notes. Read notes in the image for a better idea.
 As mentioned, everyone's different, have different personalities, passions, interpretations etc. So it helps a lot to go to places where there is a higher possibility of finding like minded people. For example: If you are really into video games then chances of meeting like-minded people will be higher at a video game arcade as compared to an outdoor club. Similarly if you are into books then chances of meeting like-minded people will be higher at a book club rather than a bar.


Of course, this doesn't mean that you shouldn't go to places like bars, outdoor club etc. As you can still meet cool people there as people have more than one interest, but chances will not be that high.

