 When you're just starting to exercise with sensitive joints, walking is the best way to get in the habit of staying active. Start with short, five-minute walks and work your way up gradually to longer walks that cover greater distances.Either walking outside or indoors on a treadmill is equally beneficial. If you're walking outdoors, look for a relatively flat surface without a lot of hills. That will put less stress on your joints.
If you're walking for fitness, work your way up to a 30-minute walk every day. If you don't have a half-hour to set aside for exercise, try splitting it into two 15-minute walks – one in the morning and one in the early evening.
 If you have access to a pool, you might sign up for a swimming, water aerobics, or similar class. Water exercises are low-impact and safe if you have sensitive joints, and the weight of the water provides resistance so you also get a strength-training component.Large fitness centers typically have pools and offer a variety of swimming and water exercise classes. The benefit of using an indoor pool at a fitness center is that you can continue your water exercise year round.
Community pools frequently offer various water aerobics classes as well, particularly in the warmer months.
 Cycling indoors on a stationary bicycle is good exercise if your hips, knees, or ankles are stiff or sensitive. You can do cycling instead of walking, or use it to supplement your walking regimen for variety.Make sure your seat is adjusted properly, and don't add resistance until you can pedal easily and are confident that your muscles are well warmed up.
Cycling indoors generally is better for your joints than outdoor cycling, where you may have to start and stop quickly and there also is a balance component.
 If you're a member of a gym, chances are it has a rowing machine. While your legs do some work in stabilizing your body, the bulk of the work on a rowing machine is done by your arms, shoulders, back, and core.Using a rowing machine can add variety to your fitness routine, especially since it focuses on your upper body.
Rotate your fitness exercises just as you do strength training. For example, if on Monday you do an upper-body strength-training routine, and you do cardio or fitness exercises on Tuesday, choose walking or cycling for Tuesday so your upper body gets rest. Use the rowing machine after a lower-body strength-training day.
 Ultimately, you want to incorporate some form of cardio or basic fitness exercise into your life at least three times a week. If you're on a walking regimen, you may choose to go for a walk every day.If you've just started exercising, start with one day a week for 10 to 15 minutes, then work up slowly until you can do 30 minutes three days a week.
If you're doing strength training as well, alternate strength training and fitness exercise. A basic week might look something like this:

Monday: Upper body strength training
Tuesday: Cycling
Wednesday: Lower body strength training
Thursday: Rowing machine
Friday: Back/core strength training
Saturday: Walking
Sunday: Full rest



, The connective tissue surrounding your joints and muscles, called "fascia," can get dry and brittle, exacerbating joint pain. Using a foam roller allows normal blood flow to return and the restoration of healthy tissue so your joints are more supported.Most gyms have foam rollers. You also can buy one relatively inexpensively online to use by yourself at home.
For example, to loosen tight hamstrings and calves that might be causing knee or ankle pain, sit on the floor with one leg extended, placing the foam roller under your upper thigh. Bend the other leg at the knee so your foot is flat on the floor. Placing your hands behind you for support, slowly roll down the roller until you feel a tender spot, then return to the starting position and repeat.

