 This can disrupt natural fish behavior and food chains. Fish have plenty of food in the reefs, and don’t need help. If you’re goal is to see the fish more closely, learn how to blend in with the environment, so that the fish aren’t startled by your presence., Disturbing the fish and other marine life harms the ecology of coral reefs. It can disrupt feeding patterns, mating behavior, among other important biological functions. It’s best not to chase, scare, or handle the fish in any way., Fish-safe and biodegradable sunscreen is a must when snorkeling. Snorkeling involves coming in close contact with a lot of marine life, and fish-safe sunscreen helps protect that sea life.Try to find a sunscreen that is labeled as fish-safe and reef-safe, as well as biodegradable. Also, avoid the following ingredients, many of which contribute to the harm of coral reefs, and are often problematic for humans as well:cyclopentasiloxane
cyclomethicone
benzophenone-3 (oxybenzone)
homosalate
microbeads
nano particles
octocrylene
octinoxate
parabens
octyl methoxycinnamate
methylisothiazolinone
formaldehyde
diazolidinyl urea
quaternium-15
DMDM hydantoin
hydroxymethylglycinate
phthalates
sodium lauryl and laureth sulfate
zinc oxide.
 One the best ways you can help the environment and the marine life is by removing trash when you go snorkeling. Trash is a big problem for ocean health, so every little bit helps. Be careful not to damage the coral when removing trash. Only remove recognizable normal trash.Keep the following guidelines in mind when removing trash:If you are unsure of an item’s identity, don’t touch. Rather, report it to local authorities.
You should not touch human remains or potential hazardous materials when removing trash. Instead, call 911 to report the remains or hazardous materials.
If you discover a large piece of wreckage or other large item, call 911 to report it. If the item poses a navigational hazard, contact the Coast Guard immediately. You can do this through VHF-FM Ch. 16 or 2182 MHz by radio or 510-437-3701 by phone. You should not move the wreckage.

