 One source of anxiety that might translate into fear that keeps you up at night are persistent thoughts about how much sleep you’re getting.Believe it or not, anxiety and fear associated with sleep is a form of performance anxiety.
Don’t allow yourself to continue thinking about what time it is, what time you have to wake up, or anything related to the quality of the rest you’ve been getting.
When these thoughts arise, push them away by thinking about someone or something you enjoy.
Recognize that the fear of sleep, like most anxieties, is based on your perspective.;
, If you’re dealing with a constant source of anxiety in your life, your mind may be translating an inability to relax into a fear of going to bed or falling asleep. Close your eyes and breathe deeply.Taking deep breaths will help calm and center your mind, driving away fear and anxiety.
Remind yourself that it’s normal and okay to be uncertain, even fearful from time to time, and to have nights where you might not sleep as well as others.
If you expect or worry about a disruption during the night, prepare yourself for it mentally by counting on it occurring.
As you’re falling asleep, visualize yourself asleep, being woken up, rolling over, and falling back asleep.
 One of the old standbys is counting backward from one hundred. Keep your eyes closed. See how low you can get.Picture a beautiful outdoor vista you’ve seen or would like to see someday. Imagine the associated sounds and smells. Feel the breeze on your skin.
Imagine yourself sitting calmly in your favorite fantasy realm.
Try softly playing the audio of the setting you're envisioning. Avoid audio with words or other distractions elements. Look for an ambient, calming sound, like waves on the shore or rain falling.
Soft, zen music is great too. An extra benefit of noise is the distraction it provides from frightening thoughts.
Write in a journal before you go to bed. Writing can help you clear your mind by organizing your thoughts and expressing what your feeling externally., While nightmares are common in childhood, adults experiences them as well. If looking to rid yourself of nightmares, distract yourself with what you enjoy.Provide yourself with sources of positive emotions to diminish the chances fear seeps into your thoughts while you sleep.
After around 6:00 PM, only expose yourself to things that make you happy and comfortable.
 Whether you love them or hate them, don’t watch horrific video entertainment before bed. This has less to do with fear in particular than it does with excitability in general.Intense movies up your heart rate, blood pressure, and respiration whether they spook you or not. This is part driven by the novelty of the experience; our minds are interested by (and linger on) things we’re not used to seeing.
Even for movie-watching stoics, psychological arousal lingers in your brain following and intense movie.
Even if you don’t feel frightened, your emotional and energy levels are perked by intense entertainment. And, of course, if you are frightened, it’ll be all the more challenging to fall asleep!
See the wikiHow on how to get a scary movie off your mind.
 The increase in imagination during preschool, coupled with the recognition that bad things sometimes happen to people lead to nighttime distress for many children.There are several helpful steps you can take to prepare a child for more restful sleep.


Give the child a comfort object, such as a stuffed animal or blanket.
Read a positive, cheerful book to the child before bed, maybe even one you know the child enjoys.When your child wakes up from a nightmare, assure them immediately that they are safe.
Talk about fun things the shadows in the child’s room looks like. This will increase their comfort with the space in which they sleep.
If a child brings up disturbing thoughts after a nightmare, speak about them specifically during the day.
Avoid consistently allowing your child to sleep in your bed, as this may lead to a dependence on doing so.
For more specific tips, see the wikiHow on how to help children who suffer from frequent nightmares.
 Both children and adults should see a healthcare professional if trouble sleeping because of fear does not subside. There are doctors who specialize in sleep, and many hospitals even have labs dedicated to treating sleep issues!


Mental health professionals in particular can help tailor a plan specific to your needs.
Fear and sadness are quite similar. Talking about both with someone may not only help you sleep better, but feel better during the day as well!
It may purely be a physical ailment that’s leading you to feel uncomfortable (and maybe fear the way you’re feeling). In this case, a doctor may be able to quickly get you back to sleeping comfortably.

