 If you want to successfully catch a jumping spider, you need to make sure you know what they look like. Take some time to familiarize yourself with this spider's unique features. That way, you'll know exactly what you are looking for. Jumping spiders:Have eight eyes. Two large eyes and two small eyes on its face, and two similar pairs on top of its head.
May be very colorful. Males might have bands or stripes of vibrant jewel tones on their bodies.
Have fangs.
Can appear to be furry or fuzzy.;
, Keep your eyes peeled for jumping spiders anytime you are in your yard or garden. These creatures prey on common insects, so they are found in a wide variety of environments. Jumping spiders live in many climates, from tropical jungles to temperate forests.It is important to know that jumping spiders do not build webs like many other species of spiders.
The jumping spider tracks its prey on foot. Look for them jumping or walking in the grass, or hopping from plant to plant.
 You may get lucky and simply spy a jumping spider as it crosses your path. However, in most cases you will need to make a concerted effort to track one down. A beating stick can help you urge a jumping spider out into the open.Use a medium length stick as your beater. Carry it with you as you hunt for spiders.
Use the stick to whack vegetation. For example, when you pass a clump of bushes, gently strike the plants.
The vibration should cause any hidden spiders to jump out. Be careful not to hit too hard. You don't want to harm any animals who are hiding.
 You will need something to contain your spider(s) once you catch one. Vials are an excellent choice. You can carry several vials with you. Look for ones that are at least 2 inches long, so your spider will have plenty of room.Either glass or plastic vials will work. Just make sure they come with lids.
A glass jar or plastic container will also work. Just make sure to wash and dry them thoroughly before hunting for spiders.
 The jumping spider is not thought to be dangerous. However, it is important to note that most experts agree that the venom of these creatures needs to be more thoroughly studied. In short, it is not certain that these spiders are not venomous.Use the lid of your jar to gently nudge the spider into the jar. You could also wear thick gloves as an extra layer of safety.

