 If you don't walk your path, no one else can or will do it for you — why should they? You can and must innovate, create and do your stuff your way. "Chance" is involved in random-luck, but improving your luck is never about relying upon pure random-chance.



Venture: this luck requires positive, proactive effort, and nurturing your ideas. No venture, no gain! No input, no processing, no output! No "get-up-and-go" and not moving ideas up and outward to make or boost events to develop and happen, then no luck.

Avoid useless, purposeless risks. You can't control chance events, but you can take action to improve your situation. Believe that things happen because of how you approach life.;
, Write it down, and make this your luck "blueprint." Use the proverbial back of a napkin or scrap of paper (even with the usual coffee stains) — whatever is available right now. When preparing your blueprint, consider the following:


Title your blueprint 'Make Luck for ______' (one of your areas of interest). If it is messy, that's fine as it'll take shape in time. These ideas can seem like ordinary things, or things that will be time-consuming and difficult but that apply to your future "luck" needs in that area.
List ideas for your chosen goal, and write down every big thing you can think of on that topic. Don't spend too much time on your plan right now — you can take the time to polish it later.
Copy your blueprint over to something more substantial later if you're using scrap paper.
 Deadlines make daily progress more likely. Aim to make progress in little goals or short-term goals, be they hourly, daily or weekly ones. Make your own action plan, and follow through on it. Polish your plans as you go and try to remain open to new opportunities.


Think of prerequisites. This means the required order of your goals, such as doing 101A before 102B, if it matters. This may require placing a number of your goals in a logical sequence.
Write descriptions of the categories of your goals. Categories can work better than writing thousands of short term goals that don't seem to be linked. Consider adding smaller steps within each goal so you can see the linear process more clearly.
 Work through your doubts, and muse and meditate about goal-related matters.


Be ready for new ideas. As soon as inspiration hits, find a way to write it down. If you don't record it, later you'll probably wonder, "What was that great idea...?" If you do not focus on a reasonably dynamic idea to develop and to actualize, then that kills this luck (but if you have and believe in your ideas, you can then make positive changes at many levels).
 No matter where you are (or where you'd rather be), you can move beyond simply existing. Pump up your goals any way that you can.


Realize that lucky people focus on 'getting it done, and go beyond simply making do.
Don't wait without good reason — recognize that perpetual procrastination until something better just comes along amounts to making excuses.
 Use connections with other people to help accomplish your goals. Go beyond making an effort and shift into innovating and trying new ways to get things done.


Partner up. Both Bill Gates and Steve Jobs had a technical expert as a startup-partner. Partnering with someone who is able in areas where you are not relieves you of your own limitations and makes more room for your strengths to shine.
Don't ever presume you need to create your luck alone — others can be great support as you seek your luck. (Just be sure to reciprocate in kind — this isn't a one-way sense of support.)
Be ready when opportunity arrives.This is the real secret behind making the most of "luck" — people spend a lot of time preparing themselves rather than simply sitting about hoping, and it can take a lot of time initially.
 When you know what will improve your life or the lives of others around you, you create your own direction and strive forward. With this sense of direction in place, you can now seek and find what you're looking for, pursuing your blueprint goals, able to focus on what is in your plan, path or way.


Build up your experience. For example, gain the experience or expertise yourself through study and observation. Or, speed things up by finding a mentor who can help guide you along the path you've chosen — someone with real-world experience.
Observe how others work without imposing on them. Creative people need some latitude and time to get ideas together and to get going. Be a good listener, rely on using good humor, and make time for relaxation together. Arguing with people who have as strong a vision or set of goals as you is inevitable, so make room for agreement too and never be unreasonable in insisting on your own way. Flex but be sure to push for your worthy innovations and improvements.
Be a self-made "genius". For example, to play several musical instruments, realize that you must practice every day, for years, and never stop, for thousands of hours. The same may be true for academic talents: devote yourself fully and recognize that true improvement takes time.
Learn to do public speaking; even if you don't stand before a crowd, it can help you to become persuasive and get in shape in all areas that matter.
 Believe in yourself. Don't say, "I never had talent". People who think like that usually are wishful, but didn't really try enough things, or keep at them for long enough.


Happiness and joy are choices. Choose joy. Happiness can come by choosing to be inspired and investing and using your time wisely. Have fun by doing your work. Put on more genuine smiles, and avoid the fake or pasted-on grin.
Learn to love "hateful" things: Love your work — practice, study, keep records of your business/or notes on your learning.
 Remember: some popular singers make it with a poor voice, some celebrities make it without being the most beautiful, the most talented or the most connected. It's because they are persistent and they believe in what they're doing, through and through. Ultimately, the key to seizing luck is to finish what you start or to work it into a new way to try again.

