 It will only annoy her and stress you. Yes, teens do need boundaries and discipline, but you will get along better with your teenage daughter if you pick your battles. Don't punish or lecture your daughter over the smallest of situations.Address issues that involve her safety and wellbeing. For example, set rules for her curfew, grades, and online behavior.
Let small things go, like an unmade bed on a hectic morning. It’s not worth the time or the argument.
Instead of arguing, let her experience the natural consequences of her actions.
For example, instead of arguing about her painting her nails in bed, let her experience the natural consequence — trying to clean nail polish off of her sheets.
 But on the occasional weekend, do an activity with your daughter that you both like.This quality time will give you all a chance to talk. It will also give you the opportunity to learn more about the young woman she is becoming. Ask her what her interests are and try to plan some activities around that.


It could mean going out to eat together, attending a sporting event, volunteering for a cause you both believe in, or just watching a show.
You may have to insist on this time together. Your daughter will most likely want to spend most of her time with her friends.
For example, you might say, “I know how much fun you have with your friends, but this time together is important to me. It’s also a part of us getting along.”
Set aside your preconceived notions of what parent-daughter time will look like. You might think getting pedicures sounds like fun and is a good way to bond, but maybe your daughter is more into comic books and playing video games. Be prepared to expand your horizons and support her interests.
 As your daughter gets older, she will want, and need, more privacy. Although you are her parent, you will get along with her better if you respect the fact that there are parts of her life that are private to her.


Let your daughter know you are respecting her privacy. Say something like: "I want you to know that I trust you and respect your privacy. I trust that if there is something going on or you need my help or need to talk that you will come to me about it. I will always check in with you, but I won't invade your space/privacy to do that."
Knock before her entering her room if her door is shut.
Don’t pry into your daughter’s journal or diary. Instead, talk to her about what you want to know.
An exception to this is if you fear that your daughter is in danger of some kind. In that case, privacy is less than important than her safety. Do what is necessary to keep your teenager safe.For example, if you suspect your daughter may be cutting herself, it’s okay to enter her room without knocking to keep her safe.
 The teenage years can be a very sensitive for a girl when it comes to her looks. Insecurities that she may have never had before pop up, especially as her body goes through some major changes. Although you want her to look her best, try to avoid scrutinizing her choice of hairstyle, clothes, or general fashion sense.Only offer your opinion on her outfit or appearance if she asks. And even then, choose your words carefully.
For example, if she asks how you like her new hairstyle, you could say, “It’s a very different look for you. I’ll have to get used to it, but if you like it, I love it.”
If your daughter is wearing something that is completely inappropriate either for her age or for the occasion, then you should speak up.
For instance, you might try, “Honey, that’s a great outfit, but not necessarily appropriate for opening night at a play.”

, If she thinks you don't care about her or don't love her, she may usually do rebellious things (like smoking) to get your attention. You can get along with your teenage daughter if you make sure to love her and be there for her when times are good and when they are rough.Give her hug every now and then. She may act like she doesn’t want it, but more than likely she really, really does.
Encourage her and support her interests. When possible attend events that she is involved in like sports events, art presentations, or music recitals.
Take an interest in her daily life and her friends. She may not tell you everything, but it's a good practice to let her know you care.

