


Conduct a search on a professional website, such as Microsoft, Save-Word-Templates or Word-Templates-Online, for a template that meets your requirements. Selecting the appropriate template for the job reduces the number of alterations to be made on the template from the start.
For example, if you are using Save-word-templates; a number of files will appear. Depending on the booklet topic, click on the parent file or download button at http://www.savewordtemplates.net/booklet-template.html to download the template that meets your professional requirements.;
,


Some fields in the template should be customized to suit the specific user purposes, such as a product name, deadline, and job title among other information. Customize the selected template by changing the clip art and graphics such as company logo, to suit the user preferences including position, size and other specific likes. Where the format allows for font change, text format, color scheme and paper layout, do so to suit user preferences.
You may sometimes find that some clauses are too restrictive or that entire articles do not apply to the user’s situation. These parts may be removed, however you must make sure that they do not affect the validity and structure of the entire agreement.



Let’s use the example of a business plan booklet for a start-up. After filling in the Business name, contact details and other information, Click on the “Save” button. If you are saving in Microsoft word format, simply use the "File > Save As" function of the word processor you are using inside the software.
After saving, any additional changes can be done easily by using the "Find and Replace All" button in the saved ms word document saved. However, using the "Saved-Template” makes it easy to automatically customize the document by filling in all the user specific information and update the whole booklet. Remember to save the document as a template for future use.



The saved template is good for use in subsequent jobs. For example, if the booklet being made is a Newspaper or magazine, one of many pieces filled in a template makes good and coordinated effort and saves a lot of time going through one after another for quality checkup.
Saved template can be used anytime for customization of new services on your booklet and printing. Use the "File > Print" or "Ctrl + P" function of word to printing of your booklet. If you need a preview before printing then follow "File > Print > Print Preview". Templates are not software, they are just documents created by professions who may not be software programmers. However, they make work easier, faster and more convenient simply because the user focuses on crucial information and leaves the formatting to be done by the template and the entire booklet is done.

