 Rope is one of the easiest things to improvise a dog lead out of. Just tie the rope or string through the clip of your dog’s harness. Make a simple knot by crossing the loose end of the rope over the long end, then pulling it through the loop. Your dog will never know the difference.The best rope will not be too thick. Rope with a diameter of about one centimeter (half an inch) is ideal.
Make a loop for the handle on an improvised lead of rope. Fold about 10 centimeters (four inches) of the lead over onto itself. Tie a loop in the rope or string, then cross the loose end over the main length once again, making a second loop. Pull it taut.;
, String, compared with rope, is thinner and therefore weaker. Select a thicker string if possible, especially if you have a strong dog who might break the improvised lead when they pull. If all you have is thin string, twine several equally-long pieces of it together.For instance, you might take three or four strings about eight feet (2.4 meters) long, then twist them along their lengths into a kind of rope-like braid.
With your string dog lead in hand, loop one end through the clip of your dog’s harness. Cross the loose end over the main length of the lead and pull it through the loop to secure it.
 If you have a belt that is sufficiently long (about six to eight feet, or about two to 2.5 meters), you could easily press it into service as a makeshift belt. Simply pull the end of the belt that has the clip or buckle on it through the dog’s harness, then fasten it.The best belts for this improvised dog lead will have a buckle the releases with a small button at the top, or those that snap closed.
The main disadvantage of using a belt is that you cannot make a looped handle. Wrap the end of the belt not attached to your dog’s harness around your hand if you need a better grip.
 An improvised dog lead made of nylon tights will probably not last long, but it will do in a pinch. Simply pull one leg of the tights through the clip on your dog’s harness, then tie the legs together at the ankles. The lead will essentially be just one big loop.