 The Somali's long fur and dense undercoat requires frequent brushing to keep it clean and tangle free. While you don't have to brush it every single day, brushing the cat every other day will minimize the chance of tangles developing.


Use a long-toothed metal comb or a fine-toothed brush to brush your cat. These can get to the cat's dense undercoat, removing fur that would otherwise end up matting or getting on your furniture or around your home.;
, It is important that you trim your cat's nails on a regular basis. To trim your cat's nails, take one of the cat's paws in one hand and the nail clippers, either the ones made for pets or ones made for humans, in the other hand. Clip off only the tip of the nails, as cutting the nails back too far increases the risk of hitting the quick, the vein inside the nail.Keeping your cat's nails trimmed minimizes the risk of them scratching up your furniture but it also minimizes the chance of them snagging a nail and injuring their paws.
If you can only get to a few nails at a time don't worry about it. Gradually work on clipping the cat's nails a few at a time until they have all been clipped.
 Inspect your cat's ears weekly and look for redness or dirt and grime. If you find that your cat's ears are dirty or irritated, clean them with a soft cotton rag and a cleaner that is approved for cleaning cat's ears.Cleaners made for cleaning cat ears can be found at most pet supply stores. Be sure to follow the directions on the packaging when using this type of product.
If you are unsure what product to use, discuss it with your veterinarian. They may be able to suggest a product that they like and they may even carry it in their office.
 In order to keep your cat healthy, you need to feed it a high quality food that mainly consists of animal tissue. Cats are carnivores, so eating things other than animals is not good for a cat. Look at the labels of all potential cat foods and make sure that at least the first few ingredients are some type of animal or animal byproduct. Also make sure that they are certified as safe by looking for a certification stamp on the packaging, such as a AAFCO certification stamp in the United States.If you are having a hard time figuring out what food to feed your cat, discuss your options with your veterinarian. They may have some suggestions what will take your cat's specific dietary needs into consideration.
Remember that along with quality food, your cat needs constant access to water as well.
Treats should be given sparingly to your cat. They are best given when training a cat, and even then you should only give your cat a few.
 Somali cats are prone to periodontal disease, so you need to care for their teeth by brushing them regularly. Use a pet toothbrush and a toothpaste that is approved for use on cats. These products are usually available at any large pet supply store. Additionally, you should schedule occasional teeth cleanings with your vet for a for complete dental treatment.Brushing a cat's teeth can be difficult. It can take a long time for a cat to accept this activity. If you are raising a kitten, start brushing its teeth early, so that as the cat grows up it is used to getting its teeth brushed.
 Every cat needs and deserves quality veterinary care that includes an annual exam and treatment for injuries and illnesses. Be sure to take your Somali cat in for its annual exam so that the veterinarian can assess your cat's general health and so that they can give it preventative treatments, such as vaccines.


Since there are some genetic health issues that a Somali cat can inherit, make sure your vet checks for these. They include pyruvate kinase deficiency (an enzyme deficiency that can lead to anemia), renal amyloidosis (a kidney disease), myasthenia gravis (a neuromuscular condition), and retinal atrophy (a progressive eye disease that can lead to blindness)., In order to limit pet overpopulation, and to keep your cat healthy, it is important to get it fixed. For female cats, desexing your cat can reduce their chance of developing mammary cancer later in life. For male cats, desexing limits the chances of spraying and of developing reproductive system cancers.Talk to your vet about when the procedure should be done. It is usually done when the cat is between three to six months old.
 In order to keep your cat happy you will need to give it a clean and accessible place to go to the bathroom. Place the litter box in a location that the cat can easily get to and give it a scoop daily. Replace the litter completely every week or two, depending on how dirty it gets.Use a type of litter box and litter that the cat likes. If the cat is refusing to use its litter box, try replacing the type of litter you are using first. If that doesn't work, get a box that is shaped differently.
Some experts suggest having one more litter box than you have cats. This means that if you only have one cat, try to keep two litter boxes. Spread them out across rooms and levels of your home so that your cat has a place nearby whenever they need to relive themselves.
 Somali cats are very intelligent and affectionate cats, which means that they love spending quality time with their people. Try training your Somali to fetch its toys, to open boxes or doors, or just to leap after a string you flick around in front of it for play time. Whatever you do, your Somali will be happy about the stimulating time spent with you.These cats should not be left alone for long periods of time every day. If you do, you are likely to come home to open cupboards and other doors. This is a sign that your cat may be bored.
 Somali cats are generally very intelligent and they love to investigate their surroundings. To try and dissuade them from getting into cupboards and opening doors, it's a good idea to give these cats lots of interactive toys to play with. This could include puzzle toys, cat trees, balls, and toy mice.Don't forget to give your cat a scratching post or pad as well. Allowing your cat to focus its scratching on one of these, rather than your furniture, is important for your relationship with your cat.
Cats also enjoy climbing and perching, so provide them with some vertical space. Pick up a tall cat tree or some cat shelves from your local pet store.

