 Curtains affect the overall impact of a room in a big way, so you must think about the room’s current stylistic theme. Airy, modern spaces work best with thin, simple curtains. Formal rooms should be accented with layered panels or thick materials. Think about the current impact of the room and how you want the curtains to tie into that.


For example, if the décor in a room is already busy, think about pulling a single background color out of your statement wallpaper design. Then use that as a monochrome curtain theme.
Curtains should always tie into the design of the room., Avoid thick, heavy curtains in small rooms, which will make them feel cramped. Big, airy spaces look great with elegant floor-to-ceiling designs. Think about the functionality of each room and make sure the curtains make sense in that space. Don’t use the same window treatment in every room – each space is unique and should be customized.For instance, your bedroom and kitchen shouldn’t have the same curtains. Kitchens generally need more light than a bedroom and the fabric should be one you can wash frequently, like cotton.
Bedroom curtains can be chosen for more aesthetic reasons, with less emphasis on light and durability., The top treatment says a lot about the aesthetics of a room, so it should be chosen with the final ambiance of the space in mind. For contemporary rooms, consider a back-tab ripple fold. Grommet tops also accent a modern room well.Pinch pleats look great and they best complement traditional décor. Goblet pleats accent formal rooms with elegance. Smocked headers can add a dramatic and elaborate flair to sophisticated décor.If you’re unsure, consider the rod pocket. It’s is one of the most basic headers, and it compliments a variety of styles.There are many other header options available, so make sure to explore them all. Ultimately, go with something that ties into your room’s style.
 The details of the room, the fabric, the color, the curtain type, the length – all of these elements are incredibly important when choosing window treatments for your home. Making a choice can be daunting. However, don’t forget to also consider your own personal taste!


The décor of your home, including the curtains, is an individual aesthetic choice that reflects your personal style.
Most important of all, your window treatment choices should be visually appealing to you.

