 You will need an Alabama marriage license if you plan to get married in Alabama, but if you are a resident of Alabama and plan to get married elsewhere, you should get a license from the state in which you intend to be wed. Alabama does grant marriage licenses to non-residents and non-citizens; so you can travel to the state for your wedding, if you are out of state. Both remarriage and the marriage of teens between the ages of 16 and 18 are permitted, but subject to additional regulation. Some other classes of marriages are prohibited.


Alabama does not permit marriages with aunts, uncles, fathers, or mothers. However, it is one of twenty states in which the marriage of first cousins is permitted.;
, There is a mandatory grace period between the time of your divorce and the purchase of another marriage license. The exception is if you are remarrying your former spouse, which is permitted at all times. To verify that you are not married you should bring a divorce decree when you go to the probate office, especially if you are recently divorced.
 Alabama permits the marriage of minors as young as 16, but until 18 parental permission is required. Permission of both parents is necessary, even if one parent is the sole, legal guardian. Permission can be granted in person or through a legally executed affidavit.


For the sake of this procedure, one’s parents are the individuals originally listed on one’s birth certificate. Permission is not required if parental rights have been terminated.This requirement is waived if one has already been married.
 Ask the clerk about their hours of operation and the cost of the license. The fees typically range from $40 to $80.Be certain to ask which forms of payment the office accepts.


The marriage license does not need to be from the county in which the wedding is held. Feel free to pick up the license at whatever location is most convenient.
Some of the offices stop issuing marriage licenses 30 minutes before closing in order to allow sufficient time for completing the proper paperwork.
 Virtually any form of government-issued identification will suffice. That includes a driver’s license, passport, military ID, birth certificate, green card, and some IDs issued by foreign governments. Technically the identification does not need to include a photo. However, the procedure for acquiring a marriage license without a photo ID is more difficult.If you lack photo identification you will need an affidavit confirming your identity and age. Sometimes the affidavit can be signed by the applicant, other times a third party is required.
 Both parties will need to give their full names, addresses, dates of birth, race, Social Security numbers, and full names of parents.You will want to provide full, legal names, not nicknames. If previously married, you will need the number of past marriages and the dates they ended.You can receive a marriage license without a Social Security number, but you will need to contact the Social Security Administration to get a letter proving that you have never used a Social Security number.
Some counties might require additional information like education level and an address to which the certificate can be married., Both parties will need to be present and competent to receive a license. To be considered competent one must be sober. Ask the clerk for a marriage license application and present your appropriate identification. Complete the form and pay the fees. Receive your marriage license.


Payment methods and rates vary from county to county. Typically cash and credit card are accepted. However, if you are paying with credit card, you might be assessed an additional fee of $2, depending on the county.You will need a witness with you when you sign your marriage license. Consider bringing along someone in the family or a member of the wedding party.
You will want to have decided on the married name of both parties before arriving at the probate office. If you plan to change your name, this will be included on the license application. However, listing a new name on the license will not complete the process of changing your name.To do this you will need to contact the Social Security Administration and then the DMV., A marriage license in Alabama is only valid for thirty days after its issuance. One should have an officiant ready to sign the license within that period. An appropriate officiants is either a judge or a licensed minister. Afterward, return the license, signed by an officiant, to the probate office and receive a certified marriage certificate.


One can become a minister with The Universal Life Church online. This is an easy way to get the credentials to become an efficient. This is particularly useful in instances where one might want a friend or family member to act as the officiant at the wedding.