 Excessive tightness in your muscles can increase soreness. Try stretching exercises to loosen up a bit. Stretching exercises help avoid further muscle tightening, and relieve the muscles of their soreness.Stretching exercises have been shown to be beneficial for your joints during pregnancy.Your joints loosen as your body expands to accommodate the growing baby, so stretching them can keep them feeling healthier with less pain during this time of change.;
, The ideal total weight gain for the entire term of your pregnancy is usually 25 to 35 pounds. Many women are overweight in pregnancy, so it is important to talk to your doctor about a healthy amount of weight gain (an amount that adequately supports your baby's growth while not being excessive.)


The heavier you are (and note here we are talking about excessive, not normal, pregnancy weight gain), the greater the force of gravity is on your body. Gravity causes more stress to your muscles as you move, and can contribute to muscle soreness.
If you are in doubt, speak to your family doctor or obstetrician about the amount of weight gain that is ideal for you during your pregnancy.
Continue aerobic (fat-burning) exercise during pregnancy, as this can prevent excessive weight gain. Although you will need to consume approximately 300 extra calories per day for your growing baby, many women gain too much weight during pregnancy so keeping up an exercise routine can be helpful in this regard.
Aerobic exercise includes things such as walking, jogging, swimming, cycling, or other activities that get your heart rate up for 20–30 minutes. Try to do this at least three times a week.
If excessive weight gain is an issue for you, exercising more will diminish your weight, which will help to reduce muscle soreness resulting from pregnancy., While maintaining regular aerobic exercise is important, staying away from overly vigorous exercise is a good idea.You don't want to exhaust yourself or push too hard during pregnancy as this can make you even more sore.


It is best to take things slower and easier during pregnancy. If you are fond of going to the gym, running, and cycling, then try switching to a more mild form of exercise like yoga or pilates to reduce strain on your muscles.
Swimming can be a good exercise, because it is very low impact.
 Massage promotes good blood circulation and oxygen distribution to your sore muscles. This can speed up the repair of the damaged tissue. Oxygen is essential for maintaining cellular integrity, function, and repair when tissues are injured., Applying an ice pack for the first 24 hours of muscle soreness can help you minimize inflammation, through constricting the blood vessels. This will ease discomfort by reducing the nerves’ ability to send pain signals to the brain.


To do this, place ice cubes in a towel and apply on top of the affected area for 20 minutes.
 Applying a heating pad to sore muscles can be helpful as well. The key is to use cold (ice) for the first 24 – 48 after the onset of any sore muscle(s), and to use heat for more chronic and ongoing muscle soreness., If none of the lifestyle or nutritional strategies have worked to help with your sore muscles, taking painkillers can relieve pain related to sore muscles during pregnancy. Common over-the-counter medicines such as Tylenol (Acetaminophen) can help to relieve pain.


Speak to your doctor about which pain medications are most appropriate and safe for you to take during your pregnancy.

