 With each food pyramid that the USDA comes up with, fruits and vegetables (mostly vegetables) keep getting more and more emphasized. Your diet should consist mostly of the colorful stuff, along with lean protein and dairy. If all of your meals have fruit and/or vegetables (potatoes don't count!) as a main contender, you're doing it right.


When it comes to nature's delicious gifts, the leafier and more colorful, the better. Potatoes and other starchy vegetables aren't nearly as good for and are loaded up with carbs -- and are made worse when they're fried in oil or slathered in butter. Make it a point to eat the entire rainbow every day.;
, Protein is also an essential part of our diets. It builds and strengthens your muscles and keeps your appetite suppressed -- which means you won't be reaching for that late night Death by Chocolate, ruining the efforts you've made all day.


And as for dairy, eat a normal amount. It's a good source of calcium.Don't overdo it, though. Those dairy-is-super-important messages you've been hearing are more indicative of the power of the dairy industry than anything; there's actually little correlation between osteoporosis and the like and significant correlation between high dairy consumption and prostate and ovarian cancer.Don't be afraid of the saturated fats. These fats, which were previously thought to be bad for you aren't actually bad.In fact, low-fat products can contain added sugars.One acceptable low-fat dairy product is greek yogurt which is high in protein.However, don't be afraid of the fat content in dairy.
 The benefits of water are practically endless. Your skin clears up, your organs get flushed out, toxins get rid of, you lose weight, and you feel more energized. And when you're drinking water, you're not drinking sugary, calorie-riffic drinks, hitting that temporary caffeine buzz and drinking empty calories. Win, win, win, win, win.


Research says that if you up your water intake by around a liter a day, the weight will start slowly coming off -- with no other effort.Men should drink around 3 liters (0.8 US gal) and women around 2., If there's one reason the obesity epidemic is, indeed, an epidemic, it's because of the fact that packaged, refined grains are some of the most easily accessibly foods on the planet. You can grab that cookie, piece of Wonderbread, or bag of chips and walk out the door. Sure, it's convenient now -- but it wreaks havoc later.


The more and more processed something is, the fewer nutrients it has. And the whiter it is, too -- all the color has been taken out. So if it comes in a package or if it's as white as a poodle on Christmas morning, put it down. It's just simple sugars that are gonna spike your insulin and lead to excess fat storage.
 It's not that certain foods need to be avoided per se; it's that they need to be avoided in excess. And, unfortunately, we live in a society that wants everything supersized. If you weigh your food, you'll be able to see just what an appropriate size is. For example, a 3-ounce serving of meat is just the size of a deck of cards. How often do you go to your favorite restaurant and it takes up the entire plate?!


Weighing your food can be a pain in the rear -- so knock it all out at once! Take your favorite healthy snack -- nuts, dried fruit, etc. -- and package up some portion-controlled bites for the entire week. Then on your way out the door you can grab that snack and know you won't ruin your entire day by what was a healthy snack turning into absent-mindedly finishing that jar of peanuts.
 On the outside, it seems like a quick way to cut calories. And while in the morning you'll be in a calorie deficit, research shows that you'll more than make up for it later, scarfing down a much bigger lunch. What's more, you'll be sluggish the entire morning, looking for that energy come lunchtime. Make an effort to squeeze in time for a decent breakfast.


And "decent" here does not mean 4 donuts and a vanilla Frappuccino™. If only. In fact, foods like that can leave you hankering for real food, resulting in you just eating more. Instead, go for protein to fill you up -- egg (whites), lean meat, oatmeal, and a bit of peanut butter or a banana.
 It's hard enough to control what we keep in our own kitchens, but being at the will of the cafeteria at work or school makes things infinitely more difficult. If you can, bring your own food from home. For 5 minutes in the morning, you won't feel the afternoon sugar crash of your traditional Tuesday Snickers and Mountain Dew luncheon.


If at all possible, get involved in your work or school's health program. Do they offer healthy, mindful alternatives in the cafeteria? Do they encourage physical activity? If not, tell them to get on it! Their employees or students will be healthier, happier, and -- in their interest -- take fewer sick days, require fewer expenses, and workplace morale will skyrocket. What's not to like?

, The average American spends 34 hours a week watching TV, and that's not even including in front of your phone, tablet or computer. You know what you're doing when you're in front of a screen? Not moving and being productive, that's for sure!


Start by cutting out just 30 minutes of TV or computer usage every day. See the things you can get done! You might actually be happier, too.Not only will you not be sitting down, lazily, comparing your life to the amazing ones you see on Facebook, but you'll be getting up and getting stuff done. Even if it's just doing the laundry, it's something!

, Let's not beat around the bush because it's about the farthest thing away from rocket science: exercise is good for you, helps keep the weight off, and can improve your mood. Ideally you want to get around 30 minutes of moderate exercise every day, but whatever you're capable of is a step in the right direction.


You don't have to sign up for the gym or go buy running shoes and start saving up for your inevitable knee replacement. Make exercise a part of your lifestyle instead of something you have to go out of your way to do. Take hikes, go swimming, sign up for a league. When exercise isn't work, it's enjoyable and you do more of it. There's no reason you can't keep it fun and natural.
 When you start out on the wrong path at an early age, it's infinitely harder to get back on the right track. So start your children out right! Making sure they make good decisions will help you make your own good decisions, too. Here are some basics:


Be a good role model. If your children see you scarfing a bag of Fritos, they'll do the same. Show them that eating healthily is just a normal, everyday thing. If you don't want the Fritos, they'll be less inclined to want the Fritos, too.
Be encouraging. That is, encourage physical activity, drinking water, and eating only when they're hungry. Offer to do active things with them or get them a glass of water when you're thirsty. Eat meals together so they're not eating alone (and more often). But don't use bad foods as a reward -- they'll make the association that they're more desirable.
For babies, breastfeed six months or longer. Studies show that children who are breastfed for this amount of time are 20-40% less likely to be overweight.That's a pretty staggering statistic.
 If it's at all possible for your lifestyle, keep the car in the garage. Not only will you be saving the environment, you'll be getting to point B the healthiest way you can. Riding your bike or walking to wherever you need to go gets you out in the fresh air, burning calories, and still gets you where you need to be.
 This is pretty much the most perfect diet ever: sleep more, lose weight. It's not only because when we're sleeping we're not eating, it's because sleep regulates the hormones leptin and ghrelin.This is basically code for sleep keeping you from being hungry and allowing you to feel full. Amazing!


Have you ever pulled an all-nighter and the next day, whatever you do, you cannot drink enough coffee, eat enough pizza, or just get going? That's leptin and ghrelin at work. Your hormones are all sorts of off-kilter.
 To prevent lifelong obesity, partaking in diets or current trends isn't going get you the long term results you're looking for. Being healthy has to be a way of life -- no options, no ifs, ands, or buts about it. It just has to be how you live. So instead of focusing on that number on the scale, focus on your habits. The rest will then fall into place.


That being said, do weigh yourself once in a while. Studies show that being aware of your weight leads to better, healthier decisions. And you'll know what works and what doesn't.No surprises there!

, Unfortunately, some people are just more predisposed to being heavy. Others have conditions (thyroid, namely) that guarantee a hefty number on the scale for the rest of their lives. There's metabolism and genes and a whole cacophony of weight-fighting battles that make everything more difficult than it already is. If it's an intense struggle for you, some other force could be at play.


If you eat right and exercise and the weight still isn't coming off, go to your doctor. Your health is at stake here! You may be able to start a medication that can normalize your hormones and get you going on the right path. You may also find out about a condition you have that you weren't aware of, ultimately saving your life. Never leave your health up to chance!

, We all have them. 10 pm hits and we want that pizza, we're stress-eating because of work or a relationship, or we're super tired in the morning and pound that full-fat latte. What's your fix? Your guilty pleasures? What beats down on your self-control until you can't not cave to the temptations? If you know what gets your appetite out of control, you can avoid it. What are your food traps?


The most common food traps are eating when we're bored or stressed. If you can be mindful of when you're eating and why, that's half the battle. If you know this is an issue for you, why not start keeping a food journal?

, In other words, don't stock the candies, refined grains, and other villains in the house. When they're not there, you won't eat them! You'll be forced to eat what you have available -- and you'll start craving what's there. Remove the temptation and you remove the bad choices.


Don't just stick to good foods. You want to think of the drinks, too. All too often we drink away those calories, not realizing that it counts just as much as food, even though we're not full. Keep the soda to a minimum and concentrate on water and tea.
 In other words, make every day a chance to find small opportunities to live healthier. Take the stairs. Park far away. Wash your own car. Remodel the kitchen yourself. Take your work lunch for a walk. 5 minutes here and there can really make the difference!


And once you get used to staying "active" on a normal basis, that urge to feel lazy will go away. You'll no longer groan at the idea of tending the garden or organizing your shelves. Getting up and getting things done is just par for your healthy, lively course.
 This packs a powerful punch: not only will you be saving money, but you'll be saving calories, portion sizes, and knowing exactly what goes into every bite. You'll also be removing temptation from ordering that drink, appetizer, and dessert. And did we mention the whole being-able-to-cook thing?


Arm yourself with a dozen or so healthy recipes. When cooking healthy is easy and delicious, you'll find that you make no excuses to do it. You'll be able to bang out dinner in no time flat and you'll be honing your skills!

, Not only will it make you happier and more content with your life if you're relaxed, but you'll have more control over your health, too. Higher cortisol levels knock the rest of your hormones off balance and it all leads to making poorer life choices. Feeling lazy, exercising less, and opting for Chinese take-out over cooking a healthy dinner, to name a few. Take this as an excuse to have "me" time!


If you haven't gotten on the meditation or yoga bandwagon, give one or both a try. Just 15 minutes a day can make the other 1425 minutes in your day infinitely better.

