 Try to get your child to rest as much as possible. Let your child watch her favorite TV show or movie, give her some magazines or a book, or let her listen to music. Make sure she is comfortable on the couch or her bed.Your child should stay home from school to reduce her interaction with others. Not only will it allow her to rest, but also keep her from spreading the germs to other children at school.;
, Set up a humidifier or set bowls of water around the room to humidify the air. This can help your child breathe better and break up congestion.Make sure to change the water every day and clean it according to the directions.
 A saltwater nasal spray can be used to help your child get through the flu. Saline nasal sprays can be made at home and used as often as needed without worries since they are safe for both children and infants.Start by boiling eight ounces of water and allow it to cool until it is very warm.
Add ¼ teaspoon of salt to the eight ounces of water. Mix well. You can use sea salt or table salt. If your child is allergic to iodine, make sure to use non-iodized salt.
If you wish, you can also add ½ teaspoon of baking soda and mix well. The baking soda will adjust the pH of the solution to make it less likely to sting a sore nose.
Pour the solution into a clean spray bottle. Spray one or two squirts into each nostril as needed.
For infants and small children, wait two to three minutes. Then, tilt the baby’s head back slightly and use the soft, rubber-bulb syringe to gently remove nasal secretions. Just squeeze about ¼ of the air out of the bulb. Only insert the tip of the bulb into the child’s nose. Avoid touching the inside of the nostril. Wipe the bulb off on a tissue and discard the tissue. Use a new tissue for each nostril to minimize contamination and the spread of an infection. Wash your hands before and after each treatment.Repeat this only two to three times a day.
Pour any leftover solution into a covered container and refrigerate. When you get ready to use it again, remember to warm up the refrigerated solution. When you are ready to use it, make sure it's just warm, not hot. After two days, throw out any unused solution.
 Another way to prevent getting the flu is to use masks when going out in groups or in public where someone might have the flu. A mask can help prevent germs from infecting you and your children.If your child has the flu and needs to go out in public, have your child wear a mask to protect others also.


You may consider wearing masks to schools, offices, shopping malls, and grocery stores.
 The most important thing you may be able to do for your child is to comfort her. It is pretty miserable having the flu, and sometimes the best thing a parent can do is to understand, let your child know you understand how miserable she is, and reassure her that she will feel better soon.