 Read more on the solar cell they are interested in using and read up on panel design techniques. Basically the solar cells must be mounted inside a housing which has to be sealed from the elements to prevent dust and condensation from forming on the cells which will reduce the power output severely.;
, If you are designing for a specific device, read the label on your device or its power supply; this will specify the voltage and watts required to charge your device. If you are trying to design a charger for multiply devices, you must use the maximum voltage and wattage of the most power hungry device in your target group. - it will require a sizable panel to charge multiple device simultaneously. If this is your goal, design the charger to produce 110 or 220, whichever is your normal power line voltage. Then just use the standard chargers and plug them into the panel - this will save you a lot of design time for making multiple d.c. voltages available for different devices, it will also give you more flexibility in adding future device.
 Different battery chemistries require different charging techniques. This wiki explains some of this: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trickle_charging.
 if each cell is .5 volts and you tie 24 cells together like this, you will have a panel that is wired in series and produces 12 volts (24 x .5) - this does not multiply wattage/amperage, only voltage. So if your cells output .5 volts and 10 watts, your panel will output 12 volts and 10 watts. To increase wattage you tie multiply panels together using parallel wiring, in parallel wiring you tie the "+" wires from the other panels together and the "-" wires together with the "-" wires from the other panels - do not tie the plus and minus together or you will short out your panels. So if you tie two panels together (each panel is wired in series) in parallel, you will now have an output of 12 volts and 20 watts. You use this technique to combine cells into panels to produce your desired output voltage/amperage/wattage per your spec.
