 You’ll need to search for a will or other probate records by name. Get their first and last name, at a minimum. Also look for their middle initial or middle name. Ask people who knew the deceased if they knew their full legal name.

Some people use nicknames. For example, “Jen” is probably short for “Jennifer” and “John” is often short for “Johnathan”—but not always.;
, This is easy if you knew the person. If you aren’t 100% sure, you can look through newspapers and try to find a death notice. Other people may need to search the Social Security Death Index.The Death Index provides information for those who died after 1936 and who had a Social Security number.
You can search the death index for free at different genealogy websites. Some will charge you money, so look around to find a free option.
 Probate records are kept in different courts around the country. There is no one central repository, so you need to find out the county where the deceased last resided. You can find this information from the Social Security Death Index., Once you know where the deceased person died, you should contact the probate court in that county. Ask how you can view probate records. They’re public records, but each court might have a slightly different process for obtaining access., There should be a file for the deceased. Give the clerk as much information as possible, such as the deceased’s full name. The clerk will look up and find the file for you.In larger courthouses, there might be computer databases you can search yourself. You’ll need to find the file number, which you then submit to the clerk.
 The will should be near the front of the file, since the executor started the probate process by filing the will with the court. Other records may be scattered throughout the file, so go through it carefully to find what you need., There might be a coin-operated photocopier in the clerk’s office. Ask if you can make copies and how. You may need to use your smart phone to take pictures of the pages.

Don’t try to walk out of the courthouse with the case file.

