 Don't get frustrated as you won't think clearly and will probably just end up rushing shots and shooting blindly. Laugh at your mistakes. Laugh at your enemy. This helps a lot. You might also try keeping a glass of cola nearby, sipping it every now and then.;
, Banshees and Scorpion tanks both have weak spots on them. If they're in a Scorpion, you'll want to shoot at the cockpit (you'll notice the targeting reticle flash to red). If a Banshee is buggering you, shoot at the two feet hanging out the back as the pilot turns to get another shot at you. For players on foot, just snipe them anywhere (if you're not playing host, aim a little in front of them). Who needs head-shots? As soon as you've targeted them, double-click, and you've nailed them.
 Frags recommended when being rushed by a Warthog or swooping Banshee as they explode more quickly. You can also use plasma grenades to stick an oncoming vehicle. You may have been run over, but soon enough you'll respawn in time to watch them explode and possibly snipe them as they respawn.
 If you're tired of being blown away all the time by a tank, sneak into one of your own and go for it! Now you've got a 50% chance of killing them. Don't get too excited and rush it though.


Use buildings and bumpy terrain to your advantage, especially on Blood Gulch. Try to stay on lower ground than your opponent. Trust me, it helps. If you do manage to kill them, get even with them! Kill their spawn for a little bit, maybe two or three times max. Anymore and you're an official hypocrite.
Killing Tank Spawn Killers in Blood Gulch is especially tough. If you're on a blue team and tanks are on the hill spawn killing, take cover behind the small hill in front of blue base (don't worry, tank rounds shoot straight, not over the hill). Switch to pistol, peek above the hill enough to take aim, and shoot the tank driver.
 When they try to run you over with a Scorpion, don't run away. That's exactly what they're expecting you to do. Run towards them. Chances are that they'll think you've got something tricky up your sleeve and panic! This is your chance to stick them with a plasma grenade or snipe them.
 You're too good for them! Why waste your time with them? You've got better things to do.

