 Sometimes, you'll be taken aback by a crowded place, with no warning that there was going to be a crowd at all. Other times, you just flat-out can't avoid the crowd for whatever reason - maybe it's "rush hour" at your current location. Because of this, it's important to have coping mechanisms for when you do have to deal with crowds. Some examples of coping mechanisms are:


Humming or singing to yourself quietly
Playing with a fidget or stim toy (for autistic people, stimming may also provide some help)
Wearing earplugs or headphones to drown out the noise
Focusing on visual stimuli (e.g. looking at a phone screen)

Deep breathing or meditating
;
, In order to avoid a crowded area in the first place, you're going to have to have a rough idea of how many people tend to gather at the area in question. For example, concerts are typically jam-packed with people who are all loud and you're almost guaranteed to get jostled around. On the flip side, somewhere like a bookstore or a library is much quieter and the people in it are less likely to be in clusters. All environments are different.


If you're in an environment such as school or work, it's more likely to be crowded at some times than others. Try to use the less crowded times to get where you need to go.
Avoid extremely crowded and chaotic environments (e.g. stores on Black Friday). These areas will most likely trigger a panic attack, sensory overload, or both.
 When you can't avoid a situation where there's going to be a crowd, taking steps to minimize your exposure to said crowd can do a lot. Show up a little early to school, before the crowd arrives, or arrive a little late to the party, when people will already be settled and you can have more time to talk to the host directly (although this may be a bit loud). Minimizing your time in a crowd can help you cope a lot.
 When you're going to a place that may be crowded, a way of dealing with the potential crowd is to plan what you're going to do when you get there so you can get from Point A to Point B with minimal problems. For example, if you're at work and you need to drop off papers, restock a room, and get to a meeting room, try planning to do all of those tasks without wandering around, unsure of what to do.
 Try to locate exits as soon as possible, before a crowd comes in. (It may be beneficial to have a map of the place, if possible.) When you walk into a place, always look for a place to get out. Do your best to know about at least two: the one you came in through and another door that you know leads to outside or a quieter place.


Some places, such as classrooms or office buildings, may only have one door (and thus, only one exit). In these cases, you may just have to try and get to the door before or after everyone else does.
Don't open a door without knowing where it leads; you might end up finding only a utility closet, or even worse, walk in on someone in the bathroom!

, Chances are, there's somebody "in charge" where you're at. Try asking them about what places are quietest, and where exits are located - if they're giving you a tour of the place or are your designated guide, that's even better. Most people who know the area better than you do will be happy to tell you where the quieter locations are.


If you don't smoke, try to avoid going outside to the smoking area, especially if you're sensitive to smell. Secondhand smoke, aside from smelling bad and getting on your clothes, is bad for your lungs.
Public bathrooms, especially ones in schools, may smell fairly bad. You may want to consider a different area if the bathroom is public, or is extremely crowded.
 At a point when it's quiet, search around to find alternate routes that would allow you to get somewhere quieter. That way, if there's a crowd when you don't expect one, you can get out of the situation faster. Oftentimes, there are alternate routes to important places, so try utilizing one of these routes when you know there's a crowd.
 Obviously, if you don't come to the area all that often or if the area isn't yours, you may not be able to create a quiet area for yourself. However, at a place such as work or school, it may be possible to create a quiet spot for yourself where you can go if there's a crowd. Make sure the quiet place is actually located in a quiet area, has plenty of things for you to mess around with while you calm down, and is easily accessible - you shouldn't have to be forcing yourself under your desk if you can't fit there.


If you go to school and the school administration won't allow you to make a quiet spot, point out that the spot could be used for other students who need it (e.g. other students who are also frightened by crowds, disabled students, etc.).
At work, a boss might not let you disappear to a quiet area if there's a lot to do. In these cases, use other coping mechanisms unless you really have no other choice but to use the area; you don't want to lose your job.

