 When you're sick, your body works hard to get you better. This drains all of your energy from your body, meaning you will be more tired than usual. This also means you need to rest more, since your body is working so hard. If you try doing more than you have to, you can make your flu last longer and make your symptoms worse.


At least eight hours of sleep per night is ideal, but you will probably need even more when you're sick. Sleep in and take naps throughout the day.Take time off of work or school so you can get adequate rest.
 Keeping your body temperature up will help speed up your recovery. Make sure that you turn on the heat in your house, so that it is warm enough for you. You can also stay warm by wearing a fuzzy robe, by staying under the covers, or by using a portable heater.


Dry heat can bother your nose and throat, causing them to dry out even more and making your symptoms worse. Try using a humidifier in the room where you spend most of your time. This will add moisture back into the air, which can ease coughing and congestion., When you are sick, you need to rest. It is the only way to regain your strength and let your body recuperate. If you go into work or school while you are sick, you will be spreading your germs to those around you. Also, when you are sick with the flu, your immune system is weaker. This means you might pick up other illnesses from those around you and you could be sick longer.Ask your doctor for a note to excuse you from work or school for a few days.
 Blowing your nose a lot and sweating due to fever and increased environmental heat causes you to lose hydration. This can worsen flu symptoms and cause more symptoms, such as headaches and a dry, irritated throat. Try to drink more fluids than average when you're sick. You can drink decaffeinated hot tea, an electrolyte solution like PediaLyte, diluted sports drinks, eat soups and water-heavy fruit and vegetables such as watermelon, tomato, cucumber, and pineapple, or drink more juice and water.


Avoid sugary sodas because soda acts as a diuretic, which causes you to urinate more and lose water. Drink ginger ale if you have an upset stomach, but drink more water.To check for dehydration, examine your urine. Very pale yellow or almost clear means you’re well-hydrated. When urine is dark yellow, you may be dehydrated and you should drink more water., There is no way to cure the flu after getting it, so you will just have to ride it out. Once you have the flu, symptoms generally last seven to 10 days. If your symptoms last more than two weeks, make sure that you contact your doctor. You should also contact your doctor if you have:


Difficulty breathing or chest pain
Sudden dizziness or confusion
Severe or persistent vomiting
Seizures
Flu-like symptoms that improve but then return with fever and worse cough
Change in mental status in a young child (i.e. more drowsy than usual/not waking up to stimulation like normal)

