 You need to make sure your relationship is in the right place before you go from dating to a committed relationship. You need to decide if the two of you are ready to go to this next step. There are some criteria that you can look at to see if you are ready for the next step. Questions you can ask yourself are:


Do we hand out on a frequent basis (more than once a week)?
Do we talk to one another outside of our dates?
Do you both initiate conversations and dates?
Do we enjoy being around each other when we are together?
Have you met one another’s friends?, Communication is key to any relationship. Before you make the transition between dating to a relationship, you need to discuss some things with your partner about where the dating is going, if your partner wants to change the status of your interactions as well, and if your partner is ready for the next step.


Try to avoid having a ‘’talk’’, meaning you should try to bring it up lightly or at a comfortable moment. Don’t bombard your partner with a “Where are we going?” speech.
You should also ask what your partner expects out of a relationship so you know if you fulfill the requirements., Sometimes, being in a relationship can sneak up on you without realizing it. This is common if you are comfortable with your partner and just haven’t verbalized it yet. If this is the case, you just need to tell your partner that you want to make things official. Some signs that you are already in a relationship are:


You date each other exclusively
You spend every weekend together without having to ask
Your partner has seen you at your best and worst
You’ve fought and made it through to the other side
You’ve talked honestly about your exes
You’re really good friends with each other’s friends
You stay in more often than you go out on dates, There are many reasons to want to start being in an official relationship with your partner. Feeling ready for the next step, wanting to be with the other person more, and wanting to connect with the other person are common reasons people being a relationship.


You should not begin a relationship, however, if you are feeling pressured into by your partner or because all your friends are doing it.
Also never enter into a relationship to save things between you and your partner.
If you move to this step too early, you may end up ruining your relationship.