 Whether you are training for your fourth marathon or just starting out, you might benefit from working with a trainer.A trainer can help you create an effective program based on your goals and fitness level. A good trainer can also help you train safely so that you can avoid the perils of over-training.Find a reputable trainer. Ask friends or neighbors if they have anyone they can recommend.
Ask for a free consultation. You want to make sure that you and your trainer are compatible. Ask to see a sample workout before making a commitment.
A trainer can be a great way to change up your workouts. A fitness pro probably knows a lot of new exercises and routines that can change the way you train.
 Training with others provides great motivation. If you workout with a group, you will be held accountable for finishing your workouts. And your buddies will likely notice if you are working out too hard. If you have a habit of over-training, ask other members of your group to help keep you on track.Look for a local running group. There are many different kinds, from beginners to competitive distance runners.
Look for a gym that offers small group training. If you are lifting weights, doing it with others can inspire you to set a new personal record.
Take a class. Group exercise classes are a great way to add variety to your training routine. Try a boxing class or a boot camp style class.
 If you are serious about fitness, it's a good idea to learn more about the body and how to keep it healthy. You can find some great information about the right amount of training, and what constitutes too much. Start doing some research about the type of training you are interested in. For example, if you are a runner, look for a magazine to subscribe to.Running magazines will have a lot of great information about effective training plans. They will also offer tips on how to avoid over-training.Join an online group. There are many communities devoted to encouraging and supporting fitness. Consider downloading the Fitocracy app.Look into the latest scientific research. For example, new studies show that interval training is very effective, no matter your goals.
 Your doctor can be a great fitness resource for you. Whether you are designing a new training program or tweaking an existing one, your physician can offer some practical advice. He will be able to take your individual health into account when offering suggestions. If you do over-train, your doctor can also help you deal with injuries. He can help you figure out how long you need to rest and whether you need treatment.
Ask your doctor to help you figure out your physical limits. For example, maybe you enjoy running several miles a day, but your knees are acting up.
Your doctor can help you figure out when you are just sore from a workout or when you have an injury that needs attention.

