 People are drawn to confidence and they are drawn to princesses because of their confidence. Kate Middleton is attractive for multiple reasons, one of which is her confidence. Emulate her confidence as well as her fashion.


Walk upright with your shoulders back and your head upright. Imagine that a string is in the middle of your chest pulling gently upwards without over arching your back.
Meet people's gazes when you're out and about and smile. A princess cultivates a lovely smile.
Fake your confidence if you don't feel confident. You can trick your brain into being confident if you act like you are. Start small, for example like smiling at people you don't know, and work your way up.
 Many princesses, both past and present, have been on the forefront of social change and the betterment of society. If you want to be like a princess, this is an important component.Be like Princess Ameera Al-Taweel of Saudi Arabia who has pushed for equal rights for women, women's empowerment in the Arab world.
Be like Princess Mary Elizabeth of Denmark who has been on the forefront of working towards poverty alleviation.
 A princess is elegant in her manners, as well as in her attire. Cultivating elegance is key to presenting as a princess. Grace Kelly was known for her elegance, poise, and serenity of personality.


Cultivate poise. Observe the way you walk: avoid strutting like a supermodel, or striding like a man. You want to have perfect posture and carriage in how you walk and sit.
Never be in a hurry. You can move quickly without running, or appearing upset or rushed. Avoid slamming doors, running, clomping your feet on the ground, and so on.
Serenity is important. You can't allow things to upset you or knock you off balance. When confronted with a situation that you don't expect, take several deep breaths and think before you act.
 Part of cultivating a serene and elegant personality, is to be prepared for anything that is sprung on you. Even if you weren't expecting something, meeting it with equanimity is important.Dress for the occasion. While you want to always cultivate elegance, a princess isn't going to wear a full-length ballgown to a tea party, or when you go for a walk. Make sure you're dressing appropriately.
Also be well-groomed. You never know who you're going to run into. Princesses never just run to the store in their sweatpants.
Be well-mannered to everyone and every situation. No matter how people treat you, be polite in return. You don't have to take abuse. Instead, meet that abuse with a calm explanation of why that behavior is inappropriate.
 Not only do princesses tend to set their own trends (like Princess Diana), they don't fall into the trap of trying to follow every new fashion trend. Simply keep your look timeless, understated, and elegant.


If you do incorporate the latest trends into your wardrobe do so in a subtle manner.
 No princess uses the same designer. They want to mix up who they wear so that they can showcase different designers, especially ones who are up and coming.


Try to get your clothing tailored to you, even if you buy it from a second-hand shop or a regular (non-designer) clothing shop.

