 If you have been struggling with some aspect of your job, then you may want to talk to your boss about how you have been feeling and ask for advice. Make sure it is someone you can trust. Some superiors may be more approachable than others. If you are unsure, ask a coworker that you trust about which supervisor they feel to be most trustworthy or approachable in this case.Clearly state what you need from them. For example, if you are struggling with some aspect of your job, try asking something like, “I am having a hard time with _______. Do you have any suggestions?”

, If you are not be enjoying your job because you feel like you deserve to be making more money, then consider asking for a raise. You will need to arrange a time to talk to your boss about getting a raise. Try asking something like, “I was hoping we could meet sometime to talk about my performance. Is that something that we could do?” To increase your chances of getting a raise, you will need to:Prepare for the conversation by gathering evidence about why you deserve a raise. For example, how have you contributed to the company’s success? What have you accomplished that is noteworthy
Practice what you plan to say. Before you meet with your boss, practice your pitch several times until it sounds natural and confident.
Avoid threatening to quit or complaining about poor work conditions. Focus on the positive things that you have done and use these things to support your request for a raise.
Have a backup plan in case you get a no answer. If your boss declines your request for a raise, try to negotiate for something else that you would like, such as stock options or more flexible work hours.
 Sometimes doing the same thing all of the time can become mundane and you might feel like you need a new challenge. If this happens, then try asking your boss if there are any opportunities for advancement or training that you can apply for. Even if nothing is available right away, asking about these opportunities will show your boss that you have ambition and you may be considered for a future opportunity.


Try saying something like, “I am interested in staying with this company for a long time and I would like to continue to grow with the company. Are there any opportunities for advancement or training that I might be eligible to apply for?”

, Sometimes attempting to get benefit or wage increase can be impossible by yourself. By organizing in groups, employees in a similar position can force employers to change. This is the principle behind a union and it can help with satisfaction when negotiating increases.Check online to see if there is already a union you can join.
Consult your local laws regarding the formation of unions if you wish to form a new union.
 Sometimes the best thing you can do is to get a new job. Before you decide to leave your current job, take some time to think about whether or not this is the right choice. There are lots of things to consider before you make the decision to quit your current job. You may want to make a list of the pros and cons of your current job to help you make your final decision. Some things to consider include:availability of other jobs
the effects of your current job on your physical and/or emotional health
feelings about your coworkers and boss
feelings about the company
sense of fulfillment in your current job

