 It is also possible that people who don’t pick up after their dogs are unaware of your neighborhood’s rules on the subject. When you ask them to pick up after their dog, be sure to let them know that this is a practice all dog owners in your community are expected to perform. It is not optional.You could say, “We take picking up after our dogs very seriously in this area. Everyone is held accountable for picking up after their pet and we, as a community, help enforce this policy. If this issue remains a problem, you could face a fine and nobody here wants it to come to that.”

, Another reason people might think it is okay to leave their dog’s feces on the ground is that they believe it will break down naturally. This is not the case, however. Dog waste can actually take months or years to break down, and when it does it can deposit loads of toxins and bacteria into the soil.If you find someone who is not picking up after their dog, open up a conversation with them and discuss some of the reasons this is an unhealthy practice.


Another common misconception people have about dog poop is that, like cow poop, it can be used as a fertilizer. They might also believe that the next rain will break down the feces and wash away any dangerous bacteria it carries. The fact is, the safest way to dispose of dog waste is to bag it and throw it away, every time., Leaving your dog’s waste on the ground carries some serious health risks for both people and dogs. Unfortunately, many dog owners may not be aware of these risks, and therefore, don’t understand the implications of not picking up after their pet. Let them know how leaving feces on the ground can impact their health, their family’s health, and the health of their dog.


One gram of dog waste contains 23 million fecal bacteria.A dog can track a variety of dangerous pathogens into the home by stepping in their own waste. These pathogens can include a number of things like E. coli, giardia, and tapeworms., Dog waste that is not taken care of can also affect the environment. It contains toxins that seep into the soil as they decompose, ultimately affecting our fresh water supply. Once again, dog owners may not be aware of the severity of the effects that not picking up after their dog can cause.


Water filtration systems are not designed to filter out dog waste. Eventually, it will make its way into our rivers, lakes, oceans, and our drinking water.
The Environmental Protection Agency warns that dog waste is as harmful to our environment as chemical and oil spills. The pathogens contained in dog waste can make local waters unusable and can cause serious illnesses in people.