 Get a duffle bag or plastic bin and put the following items inside: a flashlight and batteries, a whistle for signaling, cash, a dust mask, manual can opener, local maps, wrench or pliers, garbage bags and moist towelettes. Customize this kit as needed by including items for specific individuals, such as diapers for any infants.After any emergency situation, make sure to go back and re-stock any items that you used. Also, reassess the items that you’ve included to determine if they were worthwhile or could be replaced.Various disaster preparation agencies, such as FEMA, have lengthy kit packing lists that you can modify to suit your purposes and needs.
Don’t forget to include any pet items, such as cat food, in your kit as well.
 This will give you peace of mind and will help you treat any minor injuries sustained during an outage. Include the following items, at minimum: latex gloves, dressings and bandages, tweezers, scissors, antibiotic and burn ointment, saline solution, thermometer, pain relief medication, anti-diarrhea medications, and extra prescription medications.Go through this kit on a monthly basis and discard any medications that have expired.
 Avoid being in the dark and hungry by fully stocking your fridge in advance and knowing how long the food inside will stay edible. Refrigerators will generally keep their contents cool for up to four hours and a freezer will keep food safe to consume for up to 48 hours if fully stocked, 24 hours if only half-full.Filling your freezer up with ice is a great way to keep the temp down and preserve food longer. Either purchase ice bags or store plastic water-filled containers until they freeze.
As you take food out, test the temperatures with a digital thermometer to ensure food safety before eating., Many gas stations now use electricity to power their pumps, so they will be out-of-commission in the event of a broad power outage. Prepare in advance for this by keeping your car tank at least half-full. Storing containers of gasoline in a safe spot in your garage is another way to keep your car running.Just make sure to never run your car indoors or in any closed area or you risk carbon monoxide poisoning.
 In periods of intense heat or cold, losing power may mean that you need to leave your home and seek shelter elsewhere. If you think this situation might apply to your family, contact local emergency officials to see where shelters would be located in the event of an outage. Also, add weather preparation materials, such as extra blankets, into your home emergency kit., Passing the time without electronic devices might seem difficult at first, but there are actually many ways to stay entertained. Keep a supply of card and board games handy. Pull out a jigsaw puzzle or two. Go through and read those books that you’ve been meaning to catch up on.