 Rather than wallow in self-pity over your rejection by the Mormon church, consider the options that are available to you from other religions or belief systems, ones that have not (yet) excommunicated you. There are over twenty major world religions in the world, most of which contain dozens, hundreds, or even thousands of sects; and there are many smaller faiths. You could find another religion which worships the same god under different rituals, or you could find another god or gods entirely, or a religion with none at all. However, if you truly believe the LDS faith to be true, hold to that faith. It may take time, but you can eventually be re-baptized and return to full membership.;
, Rather than lament the loss of spiritual and social practices which seem vital to your way of life, remember that the seeking of truth is at the core of Church principles (and life). This seeking never ends, whatever one's religious status/membership. Walking away from a Church disciplinary council does not change that your ability to know truth. Opening the envelope containing the letter that officially declares you are no longer a member of the church, delineating denied access to heretofore sacred ordinances of worship, does not take away your power of inner direction and choice. This is the time to embrace fully the scriptural declarative, "Know the truth and the truth shall set you free." If depression seems to sap the strength for the search, merely the desire for truth will allow it to find the seeker. This, in turn, will fuel those "gut feelings" of intuitive, functional understanding so vital, now that religious habits and opportunities seem mind and heart-numbingly void.
 Church leadership--yes, the very folks who decreed the excommunication status--almost without exception urge the "wayward soul" to keep coming to church. A seasoned Latter-Day Saint ecclesiastical leader (an experienced Stake President) confessed to an excommunicated Saint (a former Mormon Church member) that he has often envied the excommunicated members who "come back" (are re-baptized into church membership again later). "They seem to know something the rest of us don't. They have a deeper, more profound understanding of something Godly than I am able to grasp. Their experience has somehow enhanced, not diminished, their faith."

, Employ forgiveness at all times, in all situations, and with all people; begin with yourself. Sincere, deep forgiveness is practical power available to everyone through desire. If the very being whom the Church takes its name from (Jesus Christ) can look down from the torture instrument from whence he hung, bodily life ebbing away, and forgive his tormentors, then this must be the greatest truth of all--forgiveness heals categorically. After all, his own death was not lasting, and countless stories (in art and life) through all cultures, religions and generations attest to the power of forgiveness. Deep, often overwhelming hurt may attend an excommunicant. The might of forgiveness is the only sure healing balm for that hurting. (Study atonement teachings.)

, An almost unknown teacher of teachers during the Civil War era, Emma Curtis Hopkins, remained constant in exhorting her pupils regarding truth, God and healing. "Look up," she said, meaning it literally, inwardly, religiously and philosophically. Even equations of quantum physics now appear to point scientifically to the literal power of our thinking to create our world. Stop blaming God, a neighbor, a former spouse, the boss, the church, a rock in the path or even yourself for woe and "look up."

, After excommunication is no time to stop talking with God. Meanwhile, meet regularly with the congregational (ward) spiritual leader (the Bishop) and, if desired, a higher church authority (the stake president). Whether God or man, convey in honesty; Do not hold back. Like you, church leaders are also enlisted in truth seeking, which is not limited to scripture study, prayer and church/temple going, but found in dedicated service to their fellow brothers and sisters--regardless of church status. Obligation to growth in yourself is discovered through a trust in others' too. These religious leaders' obligation to one seeking counsel with or from them is guided by a profound charter: love, abiding in paramount respect for one's freedom to choose.
 Ask the bishop if an appropriate church sponsored confidential 12-step-like program exists in the area. If so, the atmosphere and conviviality may resonate with you. If none exist, speaking in confidence to someone who is known to have gone "successfully" through the disciplinary processes of excommunication may help. If a woman, spiritual leaders may recommend confiding in the congregation's Relief Society president. Either gender might arrange for an appointment with a professional Church Family Services Counselor (a nominal fee may apply). Remaining silent with nary a trusted human to share your despair and/or anger is to risk further self-destructive despair and anger. Excommunication can feel tragic enough while in the experience. It can readily be compounded by further tragedy if feeling utterly abandoned, isolated, or guilt-ridden. Turn to inspired, comforting sources of care and understanding in humanity as well as deity.
 As a child of God, as one who is of Deity and will be Deity, as one who has a Home on High and will one day return to that Home, create thoughts from that pureness of identity. Make this a moment-to-moment thing through desire. Place on the mirror the following: "I am an immortal spirit. I have been created in the image of God. I am His child, and He loves me." Read this first thing in the morning and last thing at night. Also, meditate morning and night for just a few minutes in the feeling of gratitude in the heart. Make it a wordless feeling. Roll that feeling (literally heart-felt) into the desire to be aware/experience God's Love while offering Love to God/Heavenly Father. Rest in this. Literally, and heart felt, rest in this feeling/sensation within. This is the surest way to remember deep within true identity that has nothing whatsoever to do with time, space and earth travails. This is perhaps the most powerful step in overcoming what is seeming anguish, loss and disorientation while seemingly on this planet earth.

