 You will be folding the fabric in half to make your final bag. Be sure to add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to the height and width for seam allowances. Try to use a sturdy fabric, such as canvas, cotton, or linen.
 When folding the hems, make sure that you are folding towards the wrong side of the fabric. Secure the folds with sewing pins, and press them flat with an iron.
 If you don't know how to sew, you can use iron-on hem tape or even fabric glue.
 Secure the side edges with sewing pins. Leave the top, hemmed edges alone.
 If you don't know how to sew, you can use iron-on hem tape, fabric glue, or even staples. For a nicer finish, consider serging the side seams. If you don't have a serger, use the zigzag stitch on your sewing machine instead.
 If you used fabric glue, be sure to let it dry first. At this point, you have the body of your bag done.
 Cut a long strip of fabric to the length you want, but twice the width; be sure to include a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance. How long you cut the strip is up to you. You can cut one long strip to make a shoulder strap, or two short strips to make handles.









The strap or handle does not have to match your bag. You can use a contrasting color to make your bag look more interesting.
 Secure the long edge with sewing pins. Don't iron it, as you will be turning it inside out.
 If you;d like, you can serge the side using a serger or the zigzag stitch on your sewing machine. Do not sew the narrow ends yet.
 Clip a safety pin to one of the narrow ends. Tuck the safety pin into the strip, then guide it through to the other side. Once you have the strip turned inside out, take the safety pin off.
 Secure the fold with some sewing pins, and press it flat with an iron. Sew the narrow edges shut, then remove the pins. If you don't know how to sew, you can simply glue the edges shut using fabric glue.
 If you made a shoulder strap, attach each end to the top of each side seam. If you made handles, attach each one to the front and back of the back. You can glue them on using fabric glue, or hand-stitch them on.









Consider adding a pretty button, flower, or other embellishment to the bottom of each strap or handle to hide the joint.
 Cut a 1 by 1 inch (2.54 by 2.54 centimeters) piece of Velcro. Find the center of the front and back hem. Glue each piece of Velcro to the inside of your bag, right against the top edge of the hem. Wait until the glue dries, then press the Velcro together to close the bag.
 You can embroider designs, sew on beads, or even paint a picture using fabric paint. If you are painting something on, be sure to stick a piece of cardboard inside the bag. This will keep the paint from transferring to the back of the bag.

