 Although you may have the perfect end-table or countertop in mind for your houseplant, you may need to rearrange things a bit depending on each plant’s individual needs. Find a location with good light, away from heat vents, air conditioners, radiators, and televisions. Do not place the plant between curtains and a window, since this makes temperature regulation difficult.South-facing windows provide the most light in the Northern Hemisphere, while north-facing windows provide the most shade. Switch these recommendations if you live in the Southern Hemisphere. East- or west-facing windows provide moderate sunlight in all regions.
Avoid placing your plant in a location where children or pets could easily knock it over.;
, Water is often the primary reason for a plant's death – either too much of it, or not enough. Make sure that your plant is getting plenty of moisture, depending on its type. For the most part, you want to make sure that the soil in your plants’ container is moist at all times, but not soaking; the soil should never be so dry it is crumbling.









Some plants, like succulents and cacti, require very infrequent waterings every few weeks.
In the winter months when the air is dryer, mist your plants with a spray bottle or use a humidifier to provide them with extra moisture without bogging down their roots in watery soil.
 Over time, your plants can become sickly and poor-looking as the result of dust buildup and insect pest infections. You can prevent health issues with your plants by cleaning them with a soft rag and organic insecticide soap every few months. If you notice that your plants seem particularly dusty or ill looking, take extra care and clean them a bit more often, moving them to a new location if necessary.


Don’t use a duster to clean your plants, as these can transfer bacterial pests from place to place and infect your plants all at once.
If insecticide isn’t your thing, you can gently wash your plants off with lukewarm water and the sprayer-head of your sink or shower.
 Occasionally it is helpful to fertilize your potted plants. You can purchase water-soluble fertilizers to mix in your watering can and apply as you water. Slow release fertilizers give you a little less control, but only need to be applied once or twice in a growing season.The choice of fertilizer depends on the plant species and its stage of growth.
 Although your plants are potted and indoors, that doesn’t prevent them from growing to a large size and becoming ill at times. Use a small pair of gardening shears to trim off excess growth and to cut away sick parts of the plant. This will not only keep your plant looking healthier, but also prevent them from turning into huge overgrown messes that take up massive amounts of space in your home.