 PCOS produces a variety of symptoms. These symptoms may vary between women. Not all women will have all symptoms. The symptoms of PCOS are often similar to other medical conditions, such as thyroid disease and Cushing’s syndrome. You should consult with your physician to ensure the correct diagnosis is made.Common symptoms of PCOS include:irregular menstrual cycles
acne
irregular hair growth in typically “male” locations such as the chest, back, and face
hair thinning or male-pattern baldness
obesity or weight gain, especially with weight around your waist
infertility
pain in the pelvic area
Your doctor will be able to determine symptoms that you cannot, such as androgen levels in the blood or high cholesterol levels.
 Several studies have shown that women with PCOS have a higher prevalence of depression than those who do not.PCOS is also linked to higher levels of anxiety and panic attacks in women.Depression and anxiety have many causes, most of which are complex. The presence of depression or anxiety alone is not enough to indicate PCOS. However, you should see a doctor immediately if you experience symptoms of depression or anxiety.


Symptoms of depression vary between women. Women with depressive disorders do not necessarily have all these symptoms. However, common signs of clinical depression include:Persistent feelings of sadness, emptiness, or worthlessness
Feelings of hopelessness
Irritability
Fatigue and low energy
Changes to appetite
Changes in sleep habits
Trouble concentrating and remembering
Loss of interest in things or activities you used to enjoy
Suicidal thoughts or actions


Symptoms of anxiety may also vary. You may not experience all of these symptoms. However, common signs of an anxiety disorder (as opposed to occasionally feeling anxious) include:Feelings of panic, uneasiness, or fear
Changes in sleep habits
Difficulty concentrating
Physical symptoms such as heart palpitations, dry mouth, muscle tension, nausea, and dizziness
Fidgeting or restlessness
Shortness of breath, or difficulty catching your breath


Women with PCOS may also be more likely to suffer from an eating disorder., If you have been having unprotected sex (i.e., not using any form of birth control) for more than one year and have been unable to conceive, you should consult with your doctor.Many conditions and factors can cause infertility, so infertility alone does not mean you have PCOS. However, PCOS is often a culprit.
About 30% of infertility problems are due to male infertility. Another 30% are due to female infertility. The remaining cases have unclear causes or may be a result of both partners’ infertility.