 Generally, to preheat your oven to 300°F (148.9°C), it should take about 15 minutes, though this time might vary depending on your oven. It's a good idea to start preheating first and foremost. This way you can prepare your squash seeds while the oven heats., Take a sharp knife and cut the squash so that you have access to the innards in the bulb of the gourd. The shape of your squash will dictate the best cut. In most cases, halving the gourd down or across the center will be sufficient. Then:Use a spoon or your hand to tear out the seeds of the squash. These will likely be slimy with gourd guts. Place the seeds in your colander.
Once you have removed as many seeds from the squash as you desire, run cool water over the seeds in the colander to clean them.
Use your fingers to remove any remaining gourd innards from the seeds. Then shake the colander firmly over a sink or drain to remove excess water., Many kinds of gourd seeds, including squash, cook faster on the inside of the seed than the outside. This can cause your seeds to blacken on the inside and negatively impact their flavor. Boiling will help your seeds cook evenly.


After goo and pulp have been removed from your seeds, boil them in salted water for 10 minutes.
While the seeds boil, clean your colander of any pulp or squash innards. When the seeds finish boiling, strain the water from the seeds with your cleaned colander., Lay out enough paper towel to accommodate your seeds on a flat, clean surface of your counter. Then, take your colander and carefully upend the seeds on the paper towel. After that:


Take some more paper towel and pat the seeds dry. Some seeds may stick to the paper towel. Pick or knock these free with your fingers or a utensil.
You can prevent seeds or seasoning from dirtying your baking sheet by lining the bottom of your baking pan with either aluminum foil or parchment paper., Once your seeds are dry, take a ¾ measuring cup and count how many of these are filled by your squash seeds. Remember this number, as you'll soon be using it to calculate the amount of oil you need., Now that you've measured how many seeds you'll be making, you're ready to season them. For every ¾ cup of seeds, add 1 teaspoon of oil and several pinches of salt to the seeds.If you prefer your squash seeds to be on the saltier side, you may want to use as much as half a teaspoon of salt in your seasoning.Those who dislike strong, salty flavors may want to only use a single pinch of salt to season the seeds.
 Much like you would toss a salad to evenly distribute its ingredients, so too should you mix your seeds so the seasoning is evenly spread throughout. Once the seeds are mixed:


Use your hands or a utensil, like a spatula, to spread the seeds in a single layer on the pan.
Seeds that are stacked or overlap may emerge from the roasting process slightly under cooked. , At this point, your oven should be preheated and ready to roast your seeds. Take the sheet and insert it into your oven. You'll need to watch your seeds as they cook. Ideally, just as the seeds begin to brown, they should be removed from the oven.


For most ovens, it will take about 20 to 25 minutes for the seeds to start browning. However, hot weather or an overheated kitchen can decrease this time.
To ensure a consistent roasting of your seeds, take your spatula and stir the seeds after 10 minutes have passed., Right after you remove the seeds from your oven, they'll be extremely hot. Use an oven mitt or pot holder to take hold of the baking sheet and remove it from the oven. Once the seeds are cool, they're ready to eat or be stored for later consumption.


After removing your baking sheet from the oven, be sure to put it on a heat resistant surface, like a pot holder or your stove top, to prevent heat damage to your counter top.
Store roasted seeds in an airtight container for an increased seed shelf life. In a refrigerator, these can last up to 2 months, though at room temperature, your seeds will begin spoiling at about a week., This variation will require a layer of parchment paper along the bottom of your baking sheet. Where you would normally add salt when preparing your roasted seeds, add little to no salt instead. Otherwise, roast your seeds in the traditional fashion previously described. After the seeds have roasted:


Allow the seeds to cool. When the seeds have cooled enough to be touched with your hand, add a small amount of brown sugar or maple syrup to the seeds.
Add other spices to create a dynamic taste. Sweetened seeds are great with spices like cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, or a combination of these.
Mix the seeds to evenly distribute your sweetener and any other spices you've added. After that, roast the seeds for another 10 minutes or so, until the sugar starts to melt., This variation follows the same process as the sweetened squash seeds. All you need to do is swap some ingredients. Layer the bottom of your baking sheet with parchment paper, skip or drastically reduce the salt you add, roast your seeds and then:


Wait for the seeds to cool to the point you can touch them. After that, add a little bit of honey and small amount of sriracha or chili flakes.
Spice your seeds to bring out the flavor. Spices like cumin or curry powder will add more spiciness to your seeds.Mix the seeds to evenly distribute the seasonings and spices throughout them. Lastly, roast the seeds for another 10 minutes or so, until the honey starts to glaze., Line the bottom of your baking sheet with parchment paper. This will prevent herbs and spices from sticking to your baking pan. Skip or drastically reduce the salt you add, and then, before you roast the seeds:


Add oil, herbs, and/or spices, like chopped rosemary, dried oregano, smoked paprika, chili powder, and cumin.
Season and spice the seeds sparingly. Especially if you're using many herbs and spices, these can easily become overpowering.
Mix the seeds so that your seasonings and spices are spread evenly throughout them.
Watch the seeds carefully while they roast. Sometimes, the herbs and spices will brown too quickly. In this case, you'll want to reduce the heat of your oven.,