 End your relationship while honoring your friendship by letting them know exactly why you’ve made this decision. If needed, write a letter or email, either before or after talking with them directly, to express all the points you wish to make clearly so nothing is left unsaid:


“Now that I’m seeing So-and-So, I feel like I’m only being half-hearted with them because I still think of you as more than just a friend.”
“I’m not ready for a serious relationship, but it feels like that is where we ended up, and it wouldn’t be fair keep going just because it seems like that is the only way for us to stay friends at all.”
“I said at the start that I was fine with ‘no strings attached’ because I truly thought I was fine with it, but now I realize you mean much more to me than that, and I can’t go back to the way things were without pretending to be okay with that, too.”

, Use straight-to-the-point words to make it absolutely clear that things are over. Resist feeling obligated or being manipulated into providing some sort of exception that might lead to the resumption of benefits. Respect their feelings and avoid being hurtful (unless they really warrant it), but avoid sugar-coating the situation and leading them on with false hope.


If they continue to pursue benefits after you have told them that things are over, write them a text or email to restate your decision, using no uncertain terms, so that it is right there, in plain language, for them to see, without providing them a chance to argue the point., If your FWB refuses to accept the change in your status, reinforce your decision to move on by cutting off all ties. Unfriend them on social media. Take their phone number out of your phone. Delete old emails, voicemails, and other correspondence. Focus on a bright new future rather than dwell on the past.If you share the same circle of friends, make a point of seeing your other friends separately, especially if your ex-FWB continues to pester you at every given opportunity.


Exes often try to remain friends because one or both hope to reconnect some day.It may seem cold, but if you truly want to avoid relapsing with your FWB ever again, the best way is to commit to a life without them.

