 Grooming is a great way to show your horse you love him. Grooming your horse every day is ideal, as well as before and after you ride him. Keep in mind that grooming is not a ‘one size fits all’ activity, so you will need to learn what grooming tools your own horse prefers, as well as how he likes for them to be used on his body.Grooming your horse is also a good way to detect any abnormalities on your horse’s body that may need further medical attention.There are many available grooming tools, such as hoof picks, combs (curry combs, mane and tail combs), brushes (dandy brush, body brush), and cloths (towel or polishing).A curry comb is used to remove dirt and debris in your horse's coat and/or skin. Move it in small and gentle swirls on your horse's body. The mane and tail comb should be used very gently on your horse's mane and tail to prevent pulling too much hair out.A dandy brush is used in a flicking motion to flick dirt off of your horse's coat.The body brush can be used all over your horse's body,but you should pay attention to his sensitive spots.
Learning what grooming tools to use on your horse, and how, may take a period of trial and error.
When you groom your horse, start on one side of him. With slow and gentle strokes, begin grooming at the top of his neck and work your down to his tail. Switch sides and repeat.Be attentive to your horse’s body language (e.g., muscle tensing, stepping back)—he will let you know if there are areas of his body where he does not want to be groomed.
Talking to your horse in a calm voice can help him feel comfortable with you grooming him.
Consider talking with an equine groomer or your equine veterinarian if you feel unsure about grooming your horse properly.;
, Massaging your horse strengthens your bond with him and has many benefits, including soothing his sore muscles,, improving his circulation and muscle tone,, and calming his nervous system.There are a variety of equine massage methods. Whichever method you choose, your horse will likely appreciate your effort to massage him.


An easy way to massage your horse is to use broad strokes with the palm of your hand and massage him in the direction of his muscles.Use your own body weight to apply pressure as you massage him, but make sure not to push him. Pay attention to your horse to know how much pressure he is comfortable with.A basic understanding of equine anatomy will help you give your horse a better massage. Talk to your equine veterinarian to learn more about equine anatomy.
Do not massage your horse if he has certain medical conditions, such as a fungal skin infection or nerve irritation.Talk with your veterinarian to find out if your horse's medical condition makes a massage impractical.
 Even if your horse loves when you touch with him your hands, he should also become comfortable with other objects touching him. Practice gently rubbing him with a saddle, ropes, and bridles.In essence, rub him with any object that you would regularly use on him.


The more time you spend getting him comfortable he is with different objects on his body, the more he will trust you.As with other ways of touching him, read your horse’s body language as you rub him with different objects.

