 In order to stay positive through arthritis pain, you need to stay informed about your condition. This includes reading the most current medical literature on your type of arthritis and talking regularly with your healthcare providers about therapeutic interventions. A good place to begin is the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases., Taking control of your arthritis means putting together a group of experts that can help you navigate your pain and stay positive. This team can include an arthritis specialist, a primary care practitioner, and even a mental health professional if you are suffering from associated depression or anxiety.Your team will depend on your needs. You might see a rheumatologist to help identify the kind of arthritis you have, for example. You might also need to work with an orthopedic surgeon, an osteopathic physician, a podiatrist (for foot issues), or physical and occupational therapists.
Your team should listen and ask questions about your pain, how treatments are working, your mental health, and your feelings about specific approaches to dealing with your arthritis.
Ideally your healthcare team will communicate with one another to provide the best possible treatments for your arthritis symptoms, including pain.
 Managing your pain and condition in a positive way means you will need to become your own advocate. Stay up to date on current research, and always ask questions about any tests or treatments your doctor orders as well as alternative treatments. Ask for a record of all tests and medical files after each visit, and keep a chronological medical file at home.Being your own advocate means keeping track of doctors’ appointments, medical records, laboratory tests, prescriptions, and possible drug interactions.
 It’s important to have a good support structure in place when you are dealing with arthritis. You can learn from the experiences of others, and you can also teach others what you have learned on your journey. These connections can help you stay positive. Try looking for a support group in your area or search online for one., Over the course of your illness you will encounter multiple healthcare professionals, friends, family members, acquaintances, and co-workers. Many of these people will not fully understand your illness or how it is affecting you as an individual. If you experience pain, feel a treatment is not working, or realize you need to make a lifestyle change because of your illness, trust your body and yourself.

