 There are several different types of oral laxatives you may want to try. They relieve constipation in different ways and have different side effects. They work by triggering muscle contractions or softening your stool. You may want to take an oral laxative if you want something that works slightly slower than a rectal option or if you don’t want to insert it in your anus.The following types of oral laxatives may work best for you:


Oral osmotics, such as Milk of Magnesia or Miralax. These draw water into the colon and allow easier stool passage. They may have side effects such as bloating, cramping, and gas.
Oral bulk formers such as Benefiber, Citrucel and Metamucil. These absorb water to form a soft, bulky stool for normal intestinal contraction. They may have side effects such as bloating, gas, or cramping.
Oral stool softeners such as Colace and Surfak. These add moisture to your stool and provide strain-free bowel movements. They may cause electrolyte imbalances, especially if used longer-term. These types of medications have fewer side effects, but they are also less effective than other types of laxatives.
Oral stimulants such as Dulcolax and Senokot. These trigger your intestinal muscles to contract and evacuate stool. They may have side effects such as burping, cramping, and nausea.;
, Rectal laxatives are often used as enemas or suppositories to stimulate a bowel movement in a short period of time. Some companies that make oral laxatives also make rectal versions. Some common rectal laxatives include Colace, Dulcolax Bowel Cleansing Kit, Fleet Glycerin, and The Magic Bullet.All rectal laxatives may cause cramping, rectal irritation, and stomach discomfort.You may want to try:Hyperosmotic laxatives such as glycerin (polyethylene glycol) and sodium phosphate. These draw water into the bowel and increase its action.Lubricants such as mineral oil. These coat the bowel to make your stool more slippery. This makes evacuating your bowels easier.Stimulants, or contact laxatives, such as bisacodyl and senna. These increase muscle contractions that help move the stool mass out of your bowel.These are the harshest type of laxatives.Emollients, or stool softeners, such as docusate. These help prevent dry and hard stool masses that allow you to evacuate your bowels without straining., Some companies offer products that combine different types of laxatives. One example is a stimulant and a stool softener. Combinations may be more effective than a simple oral or rectal laxative. They are also more likely to cause side effects. Consider combined laxative if you are badly constipated.