 Before you make the decision to study in France, you should become a francophile. Study the language, view their art and watch their movies, in order to be sure you want to live in their culture.;
, It will be difficult not to speak the language perfectly and you may lose touch with friends. Think it through very carefully before broaching the subject with parents or authority figures.


In order to have a positive experience on an exchange program, make sure you are open-minded, adaptable, flexible, curious and have a good sense of humor. You must also be willing to make mistakes and learn from them.
 Most exchange programs are made for minors, and they will require your parents' permission and most likely their payment to allow you to go. Explain to them what a year abroad would mean to you and how thoughtfully you have considered the exchange.
 She may know of programs that she would recommend. There are many programs that are highly regarded. Ask if she facilitates exchanges to France herself, as some French departments have connections to teachers or high schools in France.


Some of the more famous programs that facilitate high school French home stay programs are Two Worlds United, at twoworldsunited.com, Pax Academic Exchange, at pax.org/france, A.F.S International Programs, at afsusa.org, and ASSE, at asse.com. Understand that most of these organizations are for-profit businesses and they will require payment for arranging your stay as well as other payments you will need to make to the family, for airline tickets and for additional expenses.
 Studying abroad in France means using the Euro. This currency is currently evaluated about 1/3 above the United States dollar, so this means you will need to work, raise money through fundraisers or ask for money from parents to pay thousands of dollars for a semester, summer or year abroad.
 You may be required to put a deposit down and then make occasional payments. This will also give you a chance to communicate with your host family and school and develop a relationship with them.


Some exchange student organizations are more for information and may require only a few payments. If this is the case, make sure it is a trustworthy organization before signing up.






Understand that you may not have a choice as to where you stay in France. Some students may idealize Paris, Cannes or another part of the country, but exchange programs place students where they can find homes. You may be far away from the most famous cities in France.
 Go to exchangestudentworld.com to get a feel for what to expect when you travel abroad. Discuss taking advanced French lessons or being tutored in French before you go, so you can be ready.


There is a very in-depth article on what to expect on a French exchange program at epinions.com/content_4740718724?sb=1

, You may become ineligible for your program if your grades drop any further than this. Some programs require an even higher GPA, the passage of written or oral exams or a recommendation by a French teacher.
 Some companies will do this for you.
 Skype and Google Hangout are great options. This will be especially important in the first few months, when staying in a new country can be lonely.


You will need a computer or tablet in order to facilitate Skype and Google Hangout. You may also choose to bring a laptop model in order to help with your studies in France. Choose 1 that has a microphone and a web camera, so that you can see your friends and family and they can see you.
 This may become 1 of your most prized possessions as you grow older, since you are likely to grow and change as a person during that year in ways you had never imagined. This is also a great way to let out thoughts and frustrations during your stay.
 You may make the decision to have them stay in the same place as your homestay and get to know the people you stayed with, or you can take a trip around France or Europe. Sharing this experience helps people to be more empathetic and excited about the changes you've gone through during your stay.

