 A bucket with a shallow level of warm, dechlorinated brackish water works. When removing the heater, always pull the electrical plug first and then wait 15 minutes before removing it from the water.


If the electrical plug to an appliance is wet, do not pull it out, until you dry it.
 Take out the filter cartridge and set it aside in a container of tank water. This will keep some beneficial bacteria. Rinse the heater, filter, and air tube/stone (if using) in running water. Rub with a cleaning pad or your hands to clean out filth. Pat dry or let air dry.


Make sure that water doesn't drip from the appliances to their plugs. If you do get water on the electrical plugs, let them air dry to dry out fully. Do not plug in and use when wet.
Only wash the main body of the appliance.
 Cleaning the decorations is the same as described in step three of "Doing a Partial Clean". The sand, however, can't just be soaked and rinsed. Suck up waste using the siphon/turkey baster to get rid of the easy waste first. Drain off as much water as you can. Place the sand in a bucket and fill the bucket with tap water. Swish the sand around inside the bucket to clean it, then drain off the water. Repeat until the water does not have any floating bits of waste.


You can replace some of the old sand if you want, and it is recommended that every few months that you do so.
 First rinse out any sand. If you feel that the tank needs a thorough disinfection, let a 10% bleach solution sit inside for 10 minutes. If there is a hard water stain/salt stain but you don't want to use bleach, spray the walls of the tank with vinegar and let it sit for five to ten minutes. Scrub every corner of the tank if necessary, and rinse out. Let the tank dry outside until the bleach/vinegar smell is gone and it is completely free of water. If you can't do outside, you can place it in a well-ventilated room.
 Add the sand first. If you have a big decoration, you can add that in next, so when you place the water in, you can pour it on the decoration (as not to disturb the sand). If you have delicate decorations, add them after adding water. Add the water, and then the filter, heater, etc. For the heater, place the body in the water for 15 minutes before plugging it in. Wait for the heater to warm the water if you used colder water, then add in anything else (decorations, plants). Finally, add the crabs in.


Make sure your water is treated and brackish.

