 Learning about horses doesn't just mean reading about them online. Ideally, your equine education should include some in-person learning as well. If you actually get to interact with horses, all the better. A smart first step is to get in touch with someone who works with horses. This can be a veterinarian, a rancher, a breeder, or even a mounted police officer — each will have plenty of experience with the animals and should be able to answer basic questions (or at least point you in the direction of the correct resources.)


Since the amount and number of horse professionals you'll have access to can vary greatly depending on where you live, it's a good idea to use the AQHA's trainer finder tool, which searches the association's database for names of horse professionals near you., Horses aren't monolithic — there are many different breeds; each of which is bred for its own purpose. If you are looking for information about a specific breed, try getting in touch with that breed's association. Many may even be willing to send you a packet of information that can include photos, posters, history, information guides, breed standards, membership info, and more. Major breed associations include:


The AQHA (mentioned above)Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association (TOBA)Racking Horse Breeders Association of America (RHBAA)American Saddlebred Horse Association (ASHA), Stables and equestrian centers are a good choice for answering questions about horses. Since these sorts of businesses usually allow paying customers to ride horses, they're probably more than accustomed to handling beginners' questions. While it's usually easiest to find equestrian centers in rural areas, even major urban centers often have some horse-centered businesses along their outskirts.


To find a stable or equestrian center near you, try using a business directory program like find.mapmuse.com or Yelp., Tack shops are places that sell horse-related supplies. Staff at the tack shop should be ready and willing to answer any sort of questions a newcomer might have. Local tack shops are also often the center of the horse community in their area, so many will have a notice board or a schedule of local events which can allow you to stay up-to-speed on the latest opportunities to be around horses.


Again, it's usually easiest to find tack shops with online business directories like Yelp. You might also try using your local white pages.
 Perhaps the single best way to learn about horses is to actually spend time around them. While paying for horse rides can be quite expensive, volunteering at a horse charity or equestrian society allows you to spend time around your favorite animals for free. If you're lucky, you might even be able to get an internship that can give you valuable connections and work experience — this will generally be easiest if you're a student or you've just graduated.


One organization that offers horse-related internships is the Equine Research Foundation (though these are open mainly to students.)There are many, many more at local stables, equestrian centers, vet's offices, and so on, so don't be afraid to reach out to businesses in your area about the possibility.
 If you're interested in studying horses in an academic setting, there are few places better than a university library. Most colleges' biology departments should have large collections of publications having to do with natural organisms, which can easily include information on horses. In addition, many university libraries allow students to access online databases of academic articles for research purposes.


Some universities are better than others when it comes to providing information about horses. In general, schools with a focus on biology and/or agriculture often have some of the best resources available. For instance, Texas A&M University has its own equine science department.