 Icing your problem area is the quickest (and cheapest) way to reduce the swelling that causes redness. Ice will reduce the size of your pimples, reduce the pain associated with your blemish, and even shorten the duration of a breakout.Ensure your skin is clean and freshly washed.
Wrap the ice cube in a washcloth. You should never apply ice directly to your skin.
Place the wrapped ice directly upon your breakout and hold for a minute.
Give your skin a five-minute break, then reapply as needed for an additional minute.;
, Lemon juice fights inflammation and has antibacterial properties. The surface of your skin is healthiest when it's slightly acidic — and your skin's ideal pH is roughly equivalent to the pH of lemon juice.Apply for 15 to 30 minutes, then rinse thoroughly.
Use caution in applying lemon juice if you have sensitive skin.
This treatment is not recommended for people with darker skin tones. Lemon juice stimulates the melanocytes, or pigment-producing cells, in your skin to produce protective antioxidants. Darker skinned individuals have more melanocytes, which means their skin produces more antioxidants. As a result, application of lemon juice can produce skin spots, especially when the skin is then exposed to sun.
 Unfortunately, the concealing qualities of milk of magnesia are only truly effective if your skin happens to be the same tone as the milk. If this happens to be the case, this inexpensive cover up is worth pursuing — if not, you'll want to try something else., While this treatment should not be used on widespread acne, you can quickly minimize the appearance of smaller outbreaks by applying toothpaste to the affected area. Let the toothpaste sit on the affected area for at least an hour before rinsing (you may even try leaving it on overnight)., Honey is a natural antibiotic and can reduce the inflammation that causes redness. You can use honey straight from the jar as a facial mask, washing it off after about 30 minutes. It can also be used as a spot treatment.


Consider diluting honey with water and applying as a "honey toner" for overnight treatment. Thinly apply this "toner" and allow it to dry slightly before going to bed., The drops you use for eye redness can also reduce the red appearance of your acne. Apply with a cotton swab or cotton ball and leave the solution on for about 30 minutes before rinsing., Note that applying makeup over active breakouts may cause additional clogging of your pores, so when possible it's best to avoid using concealer as a solution. When you need to reduce redness in a hurry, however, concealer is a quick and easy way to do so — just be sure to wash your face once you get home.


Green concealer does a good job of canceling out redness and can then be hidden by using foundation in your natural skin tone. Bear in mind that oily skin can sometimes cause concealer layers to separate, rendering the green visible.
You may also use gold concealer on white skin tones or brown concealer for Asian, brown, and black skin tones. Again, cover the concealer layer with foundation in your natural skin tone.