 Android has come a long way creating a plethora of opportunities for business, career, communication and health care. As compared to other OS such as Windows and Apple, Android offers flexibility, usability and easy navigation procedures. The massive success of Android has not only created a new path to the Apps but it is much more than in its advantages encouraging smart phone users to go for Android OS.;
, Android apps can be developed in multiple environments and there are no stipulations. A beginner has a lot of scope to opt for Android app learning with the basic knowledge of Java.


Both for commercial and service oriented purposes, apps are now being developed and there is huge requirement of apps developers. Learning on a quick pace will not only fetch sound knowledge base of Android app development but learner can gain a lot of exposure to the app development and can apply this experience in bigger projects of app development.
 Online video lessons are ideal for all beginners. Such tutorials will get you started with SDK and ADT and learn about Eclipse, IDE and other app development tools. After attending theory video lessons, you can work on a small project. With some programs, you can even gain certification for your efforts.
 Live online learning sessions are more interactive based and similar to class room coaching. Your tutor should be able to clarify all your queries and offer you complete assistance and support to develop your first app. Save time and study easily is one the most preferred ways to learn about Android App development and one of the best advantage is, you can listen to the tutor lecture from your laptop, smart phone or a tablet even when you are on a holiday or in travel. The more you spend time on the video class, the better is the learning to gain quality and accurate learning.
 Attending online lessons, working on a project independently and successful certification is the final result for a beginner to take-off a career as an Android app developer. In fact this is the just the beginning as Google will continue to launch updated versions in Android OS.
 There are online sources that provide you with free theory lessons and give you examples of how to develop Android apps. If you are good at Java basics, you can easily get on with online lessons.

