 Work on getting to know yourself by setting some time aside for quiet reflection. Consider your talents, hobbies, interests, and other factors that make you unique. Think about the core values that shape who you are, like honesty, loyalty, or being responsible., Commit yourself to making decisions that are consistent with who you are instead of just trying to please others. Do things that you love and that you feel help identify who you are instead of doing things so people will think you're cool.


Play your favorite sport, sing, dance, volunteer for your favorite cause, or do whatever makes you feel like you are expressing your true self.
 As you get to know yourself, do your best to make sure what you post on social media is consistent with your sense of self. We often post images and statuses that we know aren’t truly representative of ourselves, but might make us look cool. However, creating a distance between who we believe ourselves to be and how we represent ourselves is a key aspect of low self-esteem.Avoid creating multiple social media accounts for different groups of friends. This can create an even more fractured sense of self.
 If you start to feel bad about yourself, take some to think about aspects that you love and appreciate. Grab a pen and a notepad or piece of paper, and make a list of everything you’re grateful for in life.For example, list your traits or talents that you’re thankful to have. Make a list of necessities that you couldn’t live without, like your home, health, and the most important people in your life. Write down your favorite things about the world around you, like your favorite season, favorite animals, places you love to go, or how it feels when the sun shines on your face.
 Don’t undervalue yourself or think negative thoughts about your interactions. Try not to see things in all-or-nothing terms, and try not to blow things out of proportion.For example, if someone doesn’t text or email you back, don’t think to yourself, “What did I do wrong? It’s been an hour since I texted them - they must hate me!” Instead, give yourself and other people the benefit of the doubt, and don’t see something like receiving a text or “like” as a measure of who you are.
Along with practicing positive thinking, avoid treating mistakes as personal failures. Try to keep a balanced perspective, and turn negative self-criticism into constructive opportunities for self-improvement.