 Before you head off to Sicily, spend some time thinking about what type of experience you'd like to have. Are you interested in seeing beautiful cities and villages? Are you interested in Italian culture (museums, temples, ruins)? Are you an outdoorsy person, interested in biking, hiking, or camping? Spend some time daydreaming about what you want do in Sicily. Keep in mind the length of your stay.Pick up an Italian/Sicilian travel guide and read about the options available.
Search the internet for additional information.
Keep your budget in mind when you are choosing what you will do in Sicily.
 Sicily is known for its rich culture and long history. You can experience the beautiful culture of this great isle by visiting different Sicilian cities. Each city will offer local cuisine and entertainment. You will need to rent a car or travel by train between destinations.Some options include:


The city of Enna, 1,000 meters (3,280.8 ft) high city, or the highest city of Europe
The village of Erice, a little medieval town.
The city of Palermo, the capital of Sicily.
The city of Catania, with churches and museums.
 Sicily's allure comes, in part, from its ancient roots and long turbulent history. Explore the history of Sicily's development by visiting temples, ruins, and ancient theaters. Book a guided tour (these can fill quickly) or set off on your own!See the temples of Segesta with some excellent Greek ruins.
The city of Agrigento, on the southwest coast has beautiful Greek temples.
The little village of Taormina contains a beautiful Roman-Greek theatre.
Tours can cost anywhere from 100 euros to several thousand, depending on the number of sites you plan to visit, and whether or not transportation is provided.
 Along with its romantic energy, Sicily is known for its delicious wine. In fact, Sicily is quickly becoming one of the most popular Italian locations for wine and food. Consider joining a guided wine tour, or exploring the region on your own.Visit the town of Marsala--the heart of wine-production--and indulge.
Travel through western Sicily, where 70% of Sicily's wine production occurs, by way of Route 624, called the "wine road extraordinaire."
The costs of tours vary widely, depending on their length, number of locations, and whether or not transportation is provided. Wine tours may be as low as 200 euros or as high as several thousand.

