 Developing your own photos takes a considerable amount of resources, including several chemicals and solutions, a darkroom, and (if using film) an enlarger. Film and photo paper from a pinhole camera can be taken in to a photography store and developed just like any other type of film. If you choose to develop your film yourself, however, read on to find out what you'll need., The basics of film developing include three solutions: developer, stop bath, and fixer.
 In addition to a darkroom, you will need developer solution, fixer solution, water, tongs, towels, a sheet of glass, and a safe light in you dark room. Your darkroom must be completely black other than having the safe light on.


You can also use orange LED halloween bulbs as safe lights.
You will also need three plastic dish washing tubs. Fill one with about two inches of developer, the second with about two inches of water (called a stop bath) to stop the developing process, and the third with fixer solution.
 Only do so once you are in a darkroom lit only by a safelight. White light will destroy your photo.
 If you used photo paper in your camera instead of film, skip this step. Otherwise, place your negative on the negative slide, turn the enlarger on, and choose the appropriate f/stop for your photo.


You may want to create a contact sheet to test out different f/stops before settling on an f/stop. Do so by covering the paper with a piece of black cardstock and gradually uncovering it while changing the f/stop in order to create strips of different brightness.
 Once you have transferred the negative image to photo paper, place it in the developer using a pair of tongs. Watch as the image appears on the paper and take the image out of the solution using tongs as soon as it is as dark as you want it to be.


Gently rock the tray back and forth to spread the solution over the photo paper.
Keep in mind that the image will appear a bit darker in white light once you are outside of the darkroom.
 The stop bath should consist of room temperature water.
, Allow the photo to hang dry completely or dry with a hair dryer.