 Whether you can’t find any brick-and-mortar shops in your area that sell kids’ swag, or you’re short on time, consider selling online. Services like thredUP and swap.com accept children’s clothing and can save you valuable time. They send you a pre-paid bag so that you can mail your items back whenever you have a spare minute.Be sure to pay ahead of time if you want any rejected items returned to you. Some shops charge a flat shipping fee for this return service, while others tack on an additional surcharge.
 Online portals like eBay are more time-consuming, but you can still make good money without leaving the comfort of your own home. It's also the best option if you have any collectible or vintage items, as interested buyers are much more likely to frequent online forums for specialty clothing than they are to go to a consignment shop.


When signing up for your account, you'll be prompted to register for PayPal or link up an existing PayPal account. As a seller, you'll have to pay a percentage on each transaction, so be prepared to foot the bill on things you didn't have to as a buyer.If you already have an eBay account from which you buy and sell other goods, consider changing your user name or seller profile to reflect the fact that you're now offering children's clothing., Selling on eBay means that you’ll be responsible for photographing, describing, and pricing each piece of clothing. The photo is particularly important, as potential buyers are unlikely to take risks on items they can't see clearly.Also take care when composing your item descriptions. For example, never say an item is in perfect condition or omit a product flaw, such as a faint stain or tear. Even if you think it's a minor problem, your buyer could feel cheated and leave you negative feedback., If you don't like the idea of paying a cut of your sales to eBay, consider using your Instagram account to sell your kids' worn clothes. Simply post photos of any items and have followers bid on them in the comments section.While auctions aren't prohibited on Instagram, they're also not expressly encouraged or facilitated. This means that you'll have to figure out a way to broker your transactions outside of the app.
For example, many sellers have the winning bidder leave their email address in the comments, and then the seller can send a money request through PayPal.

