 You can pick flowers from outdoors or buy them at a local greenhouse. Choose flowers with smaller petals, like forget-me-nots, as smaller petals will fit on your eggs better. While colors in a pastel shade fit well with the spring theme, you can choose any colors you prefer to decorate your eggs.
 Be gentle to avoid damaging the petals. One by one, remove the petals from the stems of the flower. Set them somewhere safe, like on a paper towel or plate, and until you're ready to press them.If you accidentally break a petal's leaves apart, don't worry. You can reconstruct it later while you're decorating your egg.
 You want your flowers to lie flat on the eggs. Use a flower press to press your petals. This is a wooden device with screws on all four corners. Lay your petals on one slab of wood and tighten the screws to press your flowers. The longer you leave your flowers, the better pressed and preserved they can be. You can leave your flowers in the press for a few hours or up to two weeks.If you do not have a flower press, press your flowers between the pages of a heavy book, like an encyclopedia, instead of a flower press.
 Eggs should be boiled before you paint them. After boiling your eggs, let them cool and then run them under tap water. Turn your eggs as necessary to gently scrub down all sides of the shell. Cleaner eggs are easier to decorate and will look neater overall.You can pat eggs dry with a paper towel or let them air dry.
 Take your flower petals. Gently dab PVA glue onto the backs of the flowers. Use the brush that came with your glue and apply the glue using very light sweeping or dabbing motions.Go very slowly here. This will help prevent your flowers from becoming damaged during the gluing process.
 Be very gentle with your flowers as you press them onto the eggs. Create whatever patterns you want using your flower petals. Add as many flowers as necessary to fully decorate your egg.For example, you can have a circle of flowers going around the middle of the egg.
If you have a lot of petals, try completely covering the egg in petals. This works best for flowers with slightly bigger petals.
 If any petals fell apart during the pressing process, you can reassemble them on the egg. Place the petals back together on the egg, gluing them one at a time, to recreate your flower.You do not have to reassemble flowers if you do not want to. For a more spontaneous design, you can try placing individual petals throughout the egg's surface instead of reassembling the entire flower.
 Once your petals are glued on in the design you want, take some modge podge. Use the brush or the utensil that came with the modge podge to gently coat your egg. This will flatten the petals and help secure them to the egg. Use only a light layer. This will prevent the modge podge from being visible when you're done., Set your eggs somewhere where they will not be disturbed. Leave them there to air dry. Times will vary depending on the amount of petals you used. To speed up drying, place the eggs in the sun to dry., Display the eggs as part of an Easter decoration. You can place your eggs in an Easter basket and use it as a centerpiece. You can also put your eggs in candle holders. Use your imagination and display your eggs as you see fit., Eggs will go bad if you leave them out indefinitely. To increase the shelf life of your decorated eggs, place them in their original carton and refrigerate them before and after displaying them for an Easter event.As Easter eggs are often left out for long periods, avoid eating eggs you decorated.

