 Feeling compassion for someone who is struggling can be easier when you understand more about what that individual is struggling with.


Consider asking the sufferer to explain what he or she is going through, but do so in a way that doesn't apply any additional pressure. For instance, you might say, “If you ever feel like talking about everything that's going on, I would like to learn more about what you're going through and would be more than willing to listen.”
You can also research the situation in more general terms. For example, if a loved one has been diagnosed with depression, consider reading articles and books about the illness so that you can come to understand a little more about the way it works.;
, When another person is in pain, do not ignore that pain or try to look away from it. Observing that pain firsthand will usually allow you to develop more sincere compassion for the person experiencing it.Suffering makes most people uncomfortable, so it can be easy to turn a blind eye to it. Instead of running to escape that discomfort, let your discomfort inspire you to act in a way that can help remove the suffering that causes it.
 Ask yourself how you would likely feel if you were in the other person's situation. You may not be able to gain a complete understanding, but even developing some idea of what the other person may feel can help evoke greater sympathy in you.


If you've never experienced the exact same pain, use your memory of a similar experience to try imagining how great the other person's present grief is.
For instance, you may not know how it feels when a spouse, parent, child, or sibling passes away, so sympathizing with someone who has lost a loved one to death may seem difficult. Think about a time when you experienced a loss of your own, even if it wasn't something as serious—your childhood best friend moving, a messy break-up or divorce—and think of how it might be if that feeling of loss were even more severe.
 Depending on the circumstances, the person in pain may lash out at you during his or her time of need. You don't need to take any and all abuse that comes your way, but understand that the other person may not mean anything personal when acting that way.


Remember that your loved one's pain is about them, not you. If your attempts at comforting him or her don't seem to make a difference, do not get angry about it.
This doesn't mean that you should neglect your own emotional needs, of course. If you receive nothing but verbal abuse throughout the ordeal, there may come a time when you need to take a step back for the sake of your own sanity. Do so without making any accusations or hurtful remarks, though.
 Sympathy allows you to feel compassion and support toward someone who is suffering, while empathy allows you to understand and share another person's grief.You can feel sympathetic without feeling empathetic. If you have never experienced the sort of pain your loved one is suffering through or cannot fathom why someone grieves as severely as he or she does, don't worry about it. What you lack is empathy, not sympathy.
If you are unable to understand or feel the grief your loved one feels, you can still recognize that the grief exists and nurture a desire to support him or her through it. As long as you can do that much, you are technically sympathizing with the distressed party.
 Tell the other person that you know he or she is hurting right now. You may not understand exactly how the pain feels, but simply acknowledging that the pain exists can show support.In general, nearly any statement that shows support while acknowledging the grief that's present can be helpful. Consider any of the following statements:

"I'm sorry for your pain."
"You're in my thoughts/prayers."
"This must be difficult for you."



, When something hurts, it hurts, and being told that it shouldn't hurt as much as it does can actually make a suffering person feel worse.


Avoid saying things like, "I know how you feel." Every person's grief is different, and speaking as though this isn't the case can evoke a sense of bitterness or isolation in the person grieving.
Similarly, avoid statements like "You'll feel better soon" or "This isn't a big deal." You may think that you're encouraging the other person to look forward at the future, but criticizing one's grief or pressuring someone to get over it can cause more harm than good.
 Directly express your desire to support the person who is suffering. Don't say anything you don't mean, but don't let the other person remain in the dark about the sympathy you feel or him or her.


A simple “I love you,” “I'm on your side,” or “I'm here to listen if you want to talk” can mean a lot to someone in the midst of his or her grief. Having an ally often makes it easier to push through difficult circumstances.
Use words that offer reassurance. For example, if someone with depression feels unworthy of being loved, say something like, "I love you for who you are and I am not going to abandon you." Frequent reassurance can help calm otherwise unruly grief and anxiety., There are times when the only thing you can say will sound like nothing more than a cliché, and that's okay. On the other hand, there are also times when you need to push past those cliches and say something a little more personal.


The exact “right words” will vary on a case by case basis.
When sympathizing with someone who lost a loved one, for instance, you might get personal by sharing pleasant stories about the deceased individual or by describing your own experiences regarding a similar loss. Make sure that the losses are truly similar, though; do not compare the death of a spouse to the death of your dog.
 Don't run away from the other person and resist any efforts that he or she may exert to drive you away. Stay with the other person through the mess so that he or she can recognize your sincerity.


If your loved one needs space, though, don't push yourself on him or her. Say that you respect his or her desire for alone time, but before you leave, make sure the other party knows that you are willing to return when needed. Check in periodically, too, just in case your loved one is in need of some company but felt too awkward or embarrassed to call for you.
 When the suffering individual reaches out to you, respond back. Do not ignore a cry for help, even if it comes at an inconvenient time.


No matter how it may seem, when someone reaches out to you, that person is seeking a connection. If your loved one didn't want to connect, he or she would've remained silent.
Respond in as positive a manner as possible. Sound sincere and take the necessary time to sit down and address the emotions your loved one is revealing to you.
 Showing support is just as important as speaking support. Instead of asking to help in a general way, though, it would be much better to ask about helping with something specific.Avoid saying something general like, "Call me if you need anything." You might be sincere, but a vague statement like this places the burden of reaching out on the shoulders of the sufferer.
Instead, a better option would be to say something like, "I could help by (watching the kids, hanging out with you, bringing you a meal, etc.)." Mention a specific task you would like to help with and follow up a few days later by calling them to ask when a convenient time might be.
There are plenty of concrete things you can offer to help with. You can clean the house, cook a meal, watch someone's children, or offer to take care of any other ordinary household task during a tough time. On the other hand, you may also show support simply by offering to sit with them, play games, or see a movie.
Regardless of what you choose to do, make sure that it is something the other person is open to. Do not force your goodwill on someone who would rather have space.
 Touch is a powerful tool used to convey affection and support. When appropriate, offer support in the form of a hug or casual touch.


Touch utilizes a tangible sense to convey support. By reaching out to touch someone, you are delivering a well-rounded message of support that is physical as well as psychological.
When sympathizing with a loved one, you can use touch in the form of a hug, a kiss, a pat on the head, or a squeeze of the hand.
When dealing with an acquaintance or relative stranger, most people will feel comfortable enough with a quick pat on the arm in between the shoulder and elbow. Anything more personal may make the other person more uncomfortable, though.
 You probably won't be able to fix the other party's problem. Only worry about doing what you can do and try not to stress out about the things you cannot do for the other person.


This also means knowing your own emotional limits. Support your suffering loved one, but don't let your desire to support him or her consume your life. If you completely wear yourself out, you won't be able to help anyone.

