 When federal antitrust laws are at issue, you will need to report to a federal agency. One of the main federal enforcement agencies is the FTC's Bureau of Competition. The Bureau of Competition has the power to investigate complaints and bring federal lawsuits against alleged lawbreakers. The FTC will handle most of the administrative complaints and complaints that lead to civil litigation. They will consult with the DOJ's Antitrust Division before opening any investigation.To start the FTC complaint process, visit the Competition Bureau's reporting website., The FTC Bureau of Competition does not have a form for reporting alleged antitrust violations. Therefore, you will need to create your own complaint. Your FTC complaint must describe your concern in detail. Do not forget to provide your personal information, which should include your phone number. Additionally, it should answer the following questions:What entity is engaging in the conduct you believe violates federal antitrust law?
How do you believe the entity is violating federal antitrust laws (i.e., are they price fixing)?
How do you fit in (i.e., are you a consumer, employee, competitor)?

, Once you have drafted your report, it needs to be mailed or emailed to the FTC. If you are mailing your report, send it to the Office of Policy and Coordination, Room CC-5422, Bureau of Competition, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20580. If you are emailing your report, send it to antitrust@ftc.gov.


Be aware that sending an email is not secure. Therefore, if you have any confidential information that will accompany your report, you need to send it through the regular mail and mark it as "confidential".Once you report alleged price fixing at the federal level, your job will usually be done. In most cases, the FTC will review your report and decide how to proceed on their own. If your report is valid, the FTC or another agency will conduct their own investigation and collect their own evidence to use in an enforcement action.

