 Here they are (and some details):

Rush: Players must defend or destroy pairs of M-COM stations(bases) for as long as the attacking reinforcements (respawns) run out. An M-COM station can be destroyed by planting a charge, using conventional weapons or when a building is collapsed down on it.






Conquest: Players must capture and hold flags for as long as the enemy reinforcements hold out. Every kill makes the enemy lose one ticket, and enemy reinforcements decrease when a team controls more than half of the flags on the map. Vehicles unlock as control points are held.






Squad Rush: Rush mode played with only two opposing squads and two a M-COM station.






Squad Deathmatch: Four squads and one Infantry Fighting Vehicle (light tanks) roam the map. First squad to fifty kills wins.
 This class is the default infantry, it excels for fighting other infantry at medium to long range and comes with several attachments such as the grenade, smoke and under-barrel shotgun, as well as the capability to refill ammo.

Engineer. This class is your vehicle support/anti vehicle. This class comes equipped with silenced SMG's, a drill for healing vehicles, and rocket launchers or anti-tank mines for destroying them.

Medic fills the roll of this games support class, you get a LMG (light machine gun) used for providing covering and suppressing fire, healing kits used to heal friendlies and defibrillators that can revive your down teammates. When using this class it's best to stay a little back of the front lines, and be smart about picking people up.

Recon this class is based around reconnaissance. Use your spotting scope and motion sensor grenades to spot enemies near your vicinity and keep an eye on enemies that are advancing on the objective.
 If you do not work with your squad, you will not last very long, as this is what the games based around - Teamwork.;
, Teamwork is absolutely crucial to your success, so you should stay together with your team.
 Press the Back or Select buttons when looking down at an enemy. This will instantly reveal his position to your teammates and you get a +20Spot Assist for doing so.

