 A great way to encourage an individual voter to cast a ballot is through a personal appeal. In the context of a campaign, personal contacts are made through phone calls and door knocking. These are most effective when the same person visits or calls on multiple occasions.In this sense, a personal appeal means an appeal to a specific person and not people in general. So you’re targeting Kim Kardashian (a specific person), and not the wives of rappers (a general group of people).
 Walking through the logistical steps the voter will take to cast a ballot is proven to make voting more likely. Don’t just ask if a person is going to vote and let it go at that. Make a plan with them and walk through it beforehand. Make sure to ask the following questions:Whether they are voting in person, early, or absentee.
If they know where their polling place is located and they have transportation to the poll.
Whether an absentee voter has already requested an absentee ballot. If not, do they know when the deadline to request an absentee ballot is?

, You want potential voters to become habitual voters, and one of the easiest and most effective ways you can do that is by making them identify as a voter. People want to identify as contentious, considerate citizens. Use that to your advantage. When you appeal to them, emphasize the identity of being a voter rather than doing the voting.For example, instead of: “Mr. Smith, are you planning on voting this cycle?” Say, “Mr. Smith, how important is it to you to be a voter in 2016?”

, For decades, campaign professionals told voters that turnout would be low—so they really needed their vote this time around. It’s much more effective to say the opposite. Turnout will be very high, so the campaign needs their vote to counteract the other side. For example, say: “The Democrats are coming out in force this Election Day. They know we can win this thing, so they’re trying to put their turnout machine into high gear. We need every vote we can get. Will you commit to being a voter this Election Day?

, This strategy works, but a lot of people find it distasteful. While there’s no record of how a person voted, there is a record of whether they voted at all, and you can use that record to your advantage .Since you don’t know how someone voted, target irregular voters in a heavily partisan areas. Then you bring up their history of nonvoting in a mailer and connect it to a loss for your party .
For example, “You only vote once every five years, and in the past, your failure to do your civic duty allowed the Devil himself to win election to this seat. The Devil’s voting record has been a complete disaster. Are you going to stand aside while this district goes down in flames?.”

