 Every block of wall needs to be placed on a secure footing, which is made from concrete. Footing should be poured twice as deep as the thickness of the wall and twice as wide. Measure out how large you want the wall. If you're using 8” blocks, then your footing should be at least 16" wide. Footing is formed by using a frame of 2x4s and wooden stakes., Double the width of the concrete block with two strips of 2x4s. Hold the 2x4s in place using wooden stakes along the outer wall. The 2x4s should be positioned so that they're secured by the stakes.
 You can use concrete that you mix on-site or get concrete delivered to you. If you are going to mix your concrete on-site, purchase bags of concrete from your local home improvement store. You buy bags ranging from 60-80 lbs. Pour your concrete into a wheelbarrow, bucket, or plastic tub. Pour a small quantity of water into the concrete powder. Use a hoe to start blending the water and powder. When all of the water has been absorbed, add a little more water. Continue to add small amounts of water until your concrete is thick and smooth.

If your concrete is clumpy, it needs more water.
If you concrete is runny, then it has too much water and will not be strong enough. You will need to add more dry concrete to the mixture.
Use a bucket to add the water, not your garden hose. It's too hard to control the amount of water that comes out of a garden hose.
You can also use a small mixer to stir the concrete. If you don't have one, they are available for rent at many home improvement and hardware stores.
Use water to wash off any concrete that gets on your skin.
Wash your tools immediately after finishing to avoid having the concrete dry on them.
If your job will require more than 30 bags of concrete, it's best to order a delivery of pre-mixed concrete from a truck., This will secure your potential wall firmly to the base. Fill the frame up to the edge. Level the freshly poured concrete by running a 2x4 across the top. This will spread the concrete in an even manner. Fill any spots that are low with additional concrete., Before you can begin building, you'll need to give the concrete ample time to dry. If you expect the footing to hold a substantial amount of weight, wait up to three days for it to dry.