 You don't want to go after a complete loser now, do you? You'll never be happy with the guy even if you do end up nabbing him at the end - so do your homework! Watch the kind of crowd he hangs around with, take notice of any rumors surrounding him, know how he treats his women (or women in general). If he seems to be worth it, go to the next step.;
, Think about changing your hair color/getting a new cut, or another minor detail, like wearing a new stand-out scarf. It'll make sure that he takes note of your existence if he hasn't before.
 Guys all love a good-looking girl, don't you? It doesn't matter whether you are a gorgeous Kate Moss lookalike or not - but what is important is that you make an effort on your appearance, which signifies self-respect. Wear a little lip gloss, iron your best jeans, use a bit of gloss serum in your newly-coloured hair. Remember, less is more - natural radiance is the key here. Guys are attracted to girls who've got game - have fun, be nice to others... and above all, be yourself!

, When you next see him walking towards you, catch his eye and hold his gaze for three seconds, smiling slightly all the while and doing your best to seem accidentally attractive. Holding a guy's gaze for three seconds signals sexual interest - so work it to your advantage! What's there to be embarrassed about? You're looking your best!

, Place yourself in situations where he'll have the chance to interact with you. Join something that he's involved in as well, or hang out near a place where you know he'll be during break or after school. It's also advantageous to place yourself in a situation where he'll possibly be on his own, as he won't feel so weird talking to you.
 Still haven't had the chance to talk to him yet? Or has he not shown the slightest bit of interest? It's time to pluck up the courage, girl! (And it's not nearly as hard as you think.) If you don't want to ruin your chances by screwing it up the first time you speak to him, create a bit of leeway by getting to know one of his friends first - and then maybe he'll start joining in on your conversations! (or perhaps you can drag him into it.)

, Then flash him a great smile.
, If you have co-ed gym, do a cartwheel, a split, or something to show off a bit. Wear some short, flattering shorts in gym. Try to make sure you're on his team.
,, Have reasons to touch his arm and hair.

