 Social connection is vital as you age. Make an effort to stay in contact with family and friends. Arrange times for family to visit you, and engage in activities with friends. Find other upbeat individuals and spend time with them. Make an effort to meet new people and build friendships through classes, activities, and hobbies.Make social events a priority by having regular meetups with friends and family. For example, have karaoke, bowling, or movie nights. Have rotating dinner parties with friends each week.
If you are not able to see people in person, then arrange to talk to them via phone, Skype, or FaceTime.;
, Especially if you fear feeling isolated, volunteering can be a great way to meet people and converse with others. Volunteering can also be fulfilling and add depth and meaning to your life. Meet other volunteers and contribute to something that feels meaningful to you.Find an opportunity to give back that feels meaningful to you, such as volunteering at the library, an after-school program, animal sanctuary, or spiritual center.
Look online for volunteer opportunities, check out bulletins at local community spaces (like the library), and ask your friends to see if they know of places that are looking for volunteers.
 As you reach older age, you may experience more and more loss. Yet, loss can help you see what is important and precious to you. Through loss, you learn to enjoy what you have for however long you have it.Find the things, experiences, and people you feel grateful for and express that gratitude. Savor meaningful moments when you have them and say “thank you” often.


Start a gratitude journal or write three good things that happened during your day. By focusing on things that went well in your day, you can stay more upbeat and positive toward your daily experiences.Try writing a couple of “thank you” notes to people who have helped you out or lifted your spirits.
 Being optimistic about the future can help you stay upbeat as you age. While some people feel like old age means losing your abilities, think about gaining opportunities to do and see things you’ve never done before. See the positives in other people and your own experiences by not dwelling on negative experiences.Having a positive outlook can affect more positive outcomes during aging and mental function.Try to see the silver lining in situations and events. For example, if you need to start a new medication, be grateful that you have medications to help you stay healthy.
Ask friends and family to hold you accountable with maintaining a positive attitude. For example, if they notice you express displeasure about something, then they could prompt you to find something positive to say.
 Pick up an old hobby or try something new. Find enjoyment in your activities to have something to look forward to every day and as a way to create something. Finding meaning in enjoyable activities can keep you upbeat and looking forward to each day. For example, if you used to play bridge every day, start up a bridge group to keep playing and enjoying your time with other friends. Pick up a hobby such as pottery, glass blowing, or learn a new language.
Start traveling or going to museums or spend time in nature by going on walks.
Be sure to schedule in enjoyable activities and don’t just leave them up to chance. Scheduling them in will help to ensure that you actually get a chance to do them.
 Set some goals for yourself and aim to achieve them. Having something to work toward and complete can create a feeling of mastery and accomplishment. Think about something you want to accomplish or experience, and figure out how to go after it. For example, if you’ve always dreamed of attending live theater, find a show, invite some friends, and have a night of fun. Having goals and pursuing them can contribute to feeling fulfilled and prideful in your life.Your goals can be big or small. Perhaps you have a goal to travel the world or complete a painting. Whatever you choose, take steps to achieve your goals and find satisfaction in the steps along the way.
After you complete a goal, be sure to take time to commemorate it in some way.
 Keep your spirits up by laughing regularly. Find humor in difficult times and situations, laugh at life’s absurdities, and maintain a light heart.Even when things are looking down, find something to lift your spirits or make you laugh. Try calling up a friend and watching a funny movie, going to see a play, or watching a stand-up comedy routine.


When things start to feel difficult, look for a way to lighten the mood. For example, if you lose your glasses, laugh at the irony of looking for the very thing that helps you see.
Keep a collection of items or written memories to help you reflect on things that make you laugh or smile.
 If you tend to worry often, give it up. While it’s normal to be cautious as you age, excessive fears can keep you from living and enjoying life. Worries can keep you from living in the moment and enjoying yourself.Take a deep breath and say to yourself, “I can’t control everything, but I can choose to enjoy each moment.”

, Retiring without having a plan for how you will fill your time often leads to cognitive decline, depression, and deterioration of health. Find activities that stimulate you and challenge you. Keeping your brain active can help you to stay sharp and alert. Maintain a part-time job, read books, do crossword puzzles, or practice sudoku puzzles. Engage in debates or learn one new thing each day. Continue to learn new things and have new experiences.Doing something novel can help you engage your brain in different ways and keep you sharp.
 Being fit can help your body stay healthy and can help you continue moving with ease. Exercise can help maintain your mind, body, and vitality. Go for walks, join an exercise class, lift weights, or do water aerobics.Walking is a great, low-impact way of exercising. Grab a pair of comfortable shoes and take a walk around your neighborhood or local nature preserve.
 One way to stay upbeat is to fuel your body in order to function optimally. Eat nutritious foods, limit alcohol, and cut out smoking.Get adequate rest and take naps during the day if necessary. Staying physically healthy can help keep you feeling good.


Schedule regular medical check-ups to stay on top of your health.
 Find some healthy outlets for stress, such as relaxation. Practicing relaxation for 30 minutes each day can help keep depression away and help to stabilize your moods.Find relaxation methods that feel good and that you want to do every day. Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation.
 Getting enough sleep is crucial for all around good health, but it is one of the things that may become disturbed as you age. Be sure to maintain a regular sleep schedule as you age and aim for between seven and nine hours of sleep every night. Some things you can do to improve your sleep include:Going to sleep and waking at the same time every day.
Keeping your bedroom dark, cool, and inviting.
Avoiding caffeine and alcohol close to bedtime. These substances can both disrupt your sleep.
Using your bed for sleep and sex only. Do not eat, work, or watch TV in your bed.
Shutting off electronics at least one to two hours before bedtime. The light from your smart phone, tablet, TV, and computer can keep you up at night.

