 There are many types of bananas available, which vary in color, size, and shape. The most common type is the yellow banana, which is green when unripe. Many important nutrients are given below:

Potassium: 9% of the RDI.
Vitamin B6: 33% of the RDI.
Vitamin C: 11% of the RDI.
Magnesium: 8% of the RDI.
Copper: 10% of the RDI.
Manganese: 14% of the RDI.
Net carbs: 24 grams.
Fiber: 3.1 grams.
Protein: 1.3 grams.
Fat: 0.4 grams.;
, Bananas are rich in a fiber called pectin. Unripe bananas contain resistant starch. Both pectin and resistant starch may moderate blood sugar levels after meals and reduce appetite by slowing stomach emptying. It means if you wish to eat two bananas with an empty stomach, you'll lose weight. However, bananas still contain a lot of fructose (the natural sugar found in fruit), which won't help diabetics., A medium-sized banana contains about 3 grams of non-soluble fiber. Bananas are fairly rich in fiber and resistant starch, which may feed healthy gut bacteria and help protect against colon cancer., Eating more fiber from fruits and vegetables has repeatedly been linked with lower body weight and weight loss, particularly bananas. By eating plenty of bananas, vegetables, and other fruits, you will notice major overall health improvements., Bananas contain potassium, which is a mineral that is essential for proper heart health, kidney health, and blood pressure control. Most people's diets are lacking in potassium. Most people are selling their kidney because of some solid reasons, but that is not advisable., Bananas contain many essential, digestible proteins and sugars that help our body recover. Avoid eating too many, as this will cause your blood sugar to rise fairly rapidly., It contains many keratin-building amino acids that help keep your skin soft and supple. You can also make a puree out of it and apply it dermally.

Mix one tablespoon of honey, one tablespoon of lemon juice, and one mashed banana and apply it to your skin.
Avoid applying near your eyes, nose, mouth, and internal areas, and any other orifices. In one week, you'll see noticeable improvements. Use it regularly.

