 Arthritic dogs have trouble getting around. Therefore, it's important you keep your dog's food low to the ground in a spot your dog can easily reach.Avoid putting the food in a room that must be accessed via stairs or ledges. Arthritic dogs have trouble getting up and down stairs.;
, A raised food bowl is a bowl that's raised slightly above the ground. This prevents your dog from feeling strained from leaning its head down to eat. Remember, arthritis greatly limits your dog's mobility, so the less it has to move, the better.If you can't find a raised food bowl, try setting a regular food bowl on a small coffee table or cardboard box that's on your dog's level.
 If you feed your dog in the kitchen, there's a risk of your dog slipping on linoleum or tile floors. Dogs can also slip on hardwood floors. A slip or a fall can cause an arthritic dog great discomfort. To help reduce this risk, put down runners or rugs in areas where your dog eats.You can also feed your dog on a carpeted floor, but this can get messy if your dog is a sloppy eater.
 Cold and wet environments can trigger joint pain. It's a good idea to feed an arthritic dog in an area of your home that's dry and warm. Avoid areas near doors or windows, as these can cause drafts., If a dog has arthritis, this can affect your dog's weight. Due to decreased mobility, many arthritic dogs become overweight. You should make an appointment with your veterinarian if you're concerned your dog's weight is becoming an issue.Your veterinarian can weigh your dog and let you know if your dog is a healthy weight for its height and breed.
If your dog is at a good weight, your vet can recommend a feeding and exercise routine to maintain your dog's weight. If your dog needs to lose weight, your vet can help you figure out how to safely get your dog down to a healthy weight.
 It's important to keep your dog physically active. This helps your dog maintain a good weight. However, you do not want to push an arthritic dog too hard. This can worsen the symptoms of arthritis.Dogs, especially younger dogs, will often want to keep playing even if they are feeling pain. It's important you watch for subtle signs of pain, like light limping, and discourage your dog from playing when its arthritis flares up.
Pay attention to how your dog responds to different types of exercises. If certain activities tend to make your dog slow down or limp, you will want to opt for different types of exercises.
Arthritis is a progressive disease. Younger dogs will be able to tolerate more exercise than older dogs. As your dog ages, it will naturally slow down. Adjust the amount of exercise as your dog ages.
 Things like walking and swimming are better for arthritic dogs. High impact activities, like running, can worsen symptoms. Stick to a light daily walk over a daily jog, for example, to keep your dog comfortable and happy.Aim for about 15 to 20 minutes of exercise a day., If your dog is overweight, a diet is usually necessary. This should be used in conjunction with an exercise routine. Arthritic pain will lessen greatly if you get your dog down to a healthy weight. This can keep your dog healthy while eating and engaging in other activities.Always consult a vet before putting a dog on a diet. You want to make sure you're not restricting your dog's food intake to an unhealthy degree. Your vet may also be able to recommend diet-friendly dog food that's safe for a dog with arthritis.
 Omega-3 fatty acids can help reduce inflammation and prevent cartilage damage associated with arthritis. You should seek a dog food that's rich in omega-3 acids to help your dog feel more comfortable. Talk to your vet about the right kind of diet for your dog.Many dog foods are enhanced with omega-3 acids. The omega-3 acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) is particularly helpful in treating dogs with arthritis, so ask your vet about a dog food rich in EPA.
 Many owners supplement their dog's diet with These supplements contain vitamins and minerals believed to help ease joint pain and slow the symptoms of arthritis. Talk to your vet if you want to add supplements to your dog's diet.Your vet will want to make sure that supplements are safe for your dog's age, health, and breed. They may want to run blood work before recommending supplements.
While many supplements can be purchased without a prescription, never put your dog on supplements without consulting a vet first. Supplements could interfered with existing medication and may not be safe for all dogs.
 If your dog is still uncomfortable, it main need prescription medication for its arthritis. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the most common medications, but your vet may also try meds like Rimadyl and Metacam.All medications come with side effects, and a dog on arthritis medication should be safely monitored for side effects.
It can take awhile to find a safe combination of medications for your dog. Your vet will want to see your dog regularly when your dog is first taking meds. You may have to pay for frequent exams and blood work.

