 Adults should learn literacy in many of the same ways as a child would. These are basic building blocks and should not be skipped, just because they are simplistic. Streamline the learning process by giving your students the most basic skills so that they will be prepared for the more complex ones.
 Because there is such a social stigma attached to adult illiteracy, you will absolutely have to develop trust with your students. Do not judge them, do not make them feel stupid, do not criticize them for mistakes and be patient with them at all times.


Most of all, show them that you make mistakes too. Show them when you don’t know things. Let them see you look a word up in a dictionary, to find its spelling or meaning. Let them see you ask for help when you need it, such as if you are unsure of the grammar of a sentence. Modeling behavior in this way will show your students that not knowing something is not a sign of stupidity or weakness of character.
 Build their self confidence. Illiterate adults are often ashamed of themselves for not knowing how to read or write. Building their confidence will encourage them to take risks without fear of mistake or rejection. Doing that is essential to the learning process. When your students do well, tell them so. When your student makes a mistake, emphasize any way in which they were right or acting logically before showing them how to do it correctly.
 People who love something will always put more work into it and do it better at it than those who are doing something they don’t like. Give your students a reason to love what they are doing. Men might enjoy being able to read sports stories or game descriptions, where women might enjoy reading about beauty tips or how to make their own clothes and accessories.
 Slowly move them from the basic skills to the higher levels, as outlined in the teen section. With time they will reach a skill level appropriate with their age. This will significantly improve their work prospects as well as their confidence.

