 Cut open fruit and squeeze juice into ice cube trays to make popsicles or add to meals for additional flavoring.


Use frozen lime juice to preserve guacamole or any other dishes with avocado to keep it from spoiling.
Frozen lemon juice can be added to fish before baking for a delicious citrusy taste.
Frozen orange juice popsicles are a great way for kids to get their much-needed serving of vitamin C.
 Pickling is a great way to preserve and even enhance the taste of citrus fruit. Oranges, lemons and limes are often packed into an airtight jar and are pickled using salt and water.


Rinse the lemons and dry them before you begin. Using a shape knife, make a lengthwise cut in the lemon. You do not want to cut all the way through — your aim is to create slits into which you can pack salt and spices, not to chop the lemon up. Make four incisions like this.Fill the sliced openings with Kosher, pickling or sea salt at about one tablespoon per lemon. Put the lemon into a clean quart-sized Mason jar. Continue to add salted lemons until the the jar is almost full, mashing them down so they fit.At this point you may add some spices and/or herbs such as cinnamon, cloves or bay leaves.
Seal the jars tightly and wait at least 3 weeks before eating they can be kept up to 6 months
Pickled fruit is usually paired with fish, in salads and with rice., Canning can preserve citrus fruits for up to nine months.A quart jar can hold the segments of about 3 large oranges or 4 lemons.


To can a citrus fruit, remove peel, seeds and membrane from the fruit and break the fruit up by its segments (pieces).Bring to a boil six cups of water, along with sugar, sugar syrup or fruit juice.
Fill your up your jar with the citrus fruit.
Once the mixture has come to a boil, carefully pour it into the jar, over the fruit. Do not allow the mixture to cool before pouring.
Seal the jar and submerge it in a hot, boiling water bath for 10 minutes.
After boiling, lift the jar from the water and allow it to cool.

