 Whether you are just now having flashbacks of what happened or whether you can recall the abuse in vivid detail; It can be easy to try to convince yourself it didn’t happen or that you are remembering things incorrectly.In fact, admitting to yourself that you were sexually abused as a child can be the hardest part about healing from it.


Sometimes particular places, sounds, smells, phrases, or words can trigger repressed memories of the abuse. The memories may be incomplete or confusing.
Start keeping a journal. Your first entry might be simply writing, “I was sexually abused as a child.” You may want to write about what happened and/or how you feel.
When you feel ready, look in the mirror and tell yourself, “I am a survivor of childhood sexual abuse.” This may be hard to do, but it will help you heal.;
, You may have mixed feelings about what happened, yourself, your abuser, and the people that were in your life when it was happening. Using mindfulness techniques to help you process your feelings without allowing them to consume you will help you heal.In order to accept your feelings, you have to label or name what you are feeling without judgment.For example, you might say to yourself, “I am feeling scared. It’s not a good feeling or bad feeling. It’s just a feeling.”
Separate yourself from your feelings. You are more than your thoughts, feelings, and memories of your childhood sexual abuse.
Don’t try to force the feelings to go away, just be mindful of the process your mind and body go through as the feelings pass.
 Survivors of childhood sexual abuse often feel ashamed.You may feel that what happened was your fault, that you could have prevented it, or that you somehow deserved it.This is definitely not the case. No matter what a child does, they don’t deserve to be abused. You can’t heal if you blame yourself.


Although you may feel guilty, don’t let that feeling turn into negative self-talk like, “It’s my fault” or “It happened because I…”
Accept that guilt is a normal response to childhood sexual abuse, but it does not mean you are actually guilty of doing anything wrong.
Instead, say to yourself, “I am not to blame for being sexually abused. My guilty feelings are just feelings that will go away as I heal from this.”
Be mindful of the feeling, separate yourself from it, and then move on from it.

