 You can meditate wherever you feel comfortable.Find a relaxing and calm place to meditate. It is helpful if it is relatively quiet and there are few distractions. You may choose to meditate in your bedroom, living room or at a local park.


You can also go to a local meditation center. There are both secular and religious centers with a focus on meditation. Many meditation centers will have times when you can drop in and meditate with other people, as well as classes and other events.
If you want to meditate someplace with other people, the Center for Mindfulness has a list of meditation centers: People meditate in airports, parks, hospitals and other places. Once you have learned to meditate, you can meditate in many different places. To start, it is best to find someplace quiet and relaxing.;
, Do a few stretches before you start meditating. You can choose a few simple stretches to perform prior to sitting on your meditation cushion or chair. Try two or three of the following stretches before meditating:


Do a cow pose. Put your knees on the ground and your hands on the ground in front of you. Inhale and drop your spine and belly to the ground. At the same time, lift your chest upwards.Do the cat pose. You can do this stretch after the cow pose. Put your knees on the ground and your hands on the ground in front of you. As you exhale, drop your head to the ground and lift your back up to the ceiling.Stretch your shoulders. Stand up with your arms to the side. Your arms should be at a ninety-degree angle to your torso. As you inhale, roll your arms so that your palms face the ceiling. Then, as you exhale, roll your arms the other way so that they are facing backwards.Shrug your shoulders. As you inhale, lift your shoulders up high as if you were trying to reach the ceiling. Hold for one second. As you exhale, let your shoulders drop down. Repeat three times., Prior to meditating, it is helpful to decide how long you want to practice. There is no rule for how long you need to meditate. Try meditating for five minutes to see how it feels. If you like it and have more time, try meditating for ten or fifteen minutes the next time you practice.Although experienced meditators will meditate for days, weeks and even months at a time, you can get many of the benefits of meditation by practicing for short periods every day.
Try meditating for five minutes every day and then work your way up to longer periods of meditation.
 Set the timer on your watch or the meditation application on your phone. You should also choose the sound you want to play at the conclusion of your meditation session, which could be music, a bell or a simple buzzer.If you are using a timer on your watch, simply set it for the time you have decided to meditate.
If you are using a meditation app, you may have a choice of relaxing sounds to mark the beginning and ending of your meditation session.
There are a range of apps for meditation, which can be downloaded for free to your smart phone. You might want to try Smiling Mind or Take a Break! You might also try Stop, Breathe, and Think, which allows you to find a guided meditation based on your current emotions., You may choose to sit with your feet on the ground in front of you in a normal chair. Alternately, you can choose a traditional meditation posture such as cross legged on a meditation cushion. Regardless of the posture you choose, you should sit with a straight spine, an open chest and a relaxed body. If the posture feels uncomfortable, you might want to shift postures until you find a comfortable way of sitting.


If you are just starting to meditate and have not received instruction, it might be easiest to sit in a chair. Find a chair that is comfortable but not too relaxed. For instance, you might want to sit on a kitchen chair and avoid the La-Z-Boy in the living room. Put both of your feet firmly on the ground in front of you and place your hands palm down on your thighs.
You can sit on a meditation cushion with your feet cross legged. You do not have to assume a lotus pose. Simply sit on the cushion with your feet crossed in front of you. Keep your back straight.
 If you have practiced yoga or martial arts, you may prefer half-lotus, full-lotus or kneeling. These are traditional meditation postures that are used in yoga and other traditions. If you have learned these poses in yoga class or elsewhere, you may wish to meditate in these postures. However, if you have not tried them, you may want to use a chair or simply sit cross legged on a cushion.


Exercise caution if you have never tried the half or full lotus positions. If you have a bad knee or back, you might want to avoid them.
In the full lotus position, you are sitting cross legged with your feet on opposing thighs. Start by sitting on the floor with both of your legs extended in front of you. Start by pulling your right knee into your chest. Then, put your right ankle on top of your left hip. Bend your left knee and hug it into your chest. Then, put your left ankle on top of your right shin. Pull your knees close together. Rest your hands on your knees with your palms facing up.In the half lotus position, you are sitting cross legged with one foot on the opposing thigh. Sitting cross legged on the ground, carefully lift one leg and put it on the opposite thigh. Let your hip bones lower to the ground and lengthen your back so that you are sitting up straight. Relax your face and jaw.