 Understand that the contents of your neighbor’s bulk storage might not reflect your personal concerns. If you have a sweet tooth and plenty of storage space, feel free to stock up on less essential items like cocoa powder for baking brownies. But if you are prepping for long-term survival in the event of a disaster, or if you are simply feeding a very large family, prioritize foods that match the caloric and nutritional needs for all concerned., Before committing yourself to, say, 25 pounds of oats, research recipes based on bulk foods. Only buy enough ingredients at first to cook a single meal for you and your family. Test each recipe to make sure that this is something that you will look forward to eating again and again.Be aware that even dry “non-perishable” items like flour can still spoil over time.Avoid wasting money and space on items that you aren’t going to use very often.
 Then, for each recipe, create a second list that breaks down which bulk foods are used, and how much. Once you are finished, add up the totals for each bulk good. Determine how much you will need of one given product in order to make all of your recipes.


Also factor in how frequently you plan to make each recipe. For instance, if you plan on making cornbread every week, you will want to buy very large amounts of major ingredients like flour and cornmeal. But if you only make it once and a while (and don’t use much flour or cornmeal for anything else), save storage space for more in-demand items.
Use this list when shopping for containers, too, so you can buy the appropriate size and fill your storage space more effectively.
 Be aware that tastes change. Anticipate growing sick of this or that recipe while discovering brand new ones at the same time. Only buy a conservative amount of each item in a single shopping trip, rather than buying an excessive amount at once.If you’re prepping against disaster, taste may be less of a concern than simply stocking up for survival purposes.
Otherwise, only plan to buy enough to last you the next three months.
 Keep your receipts. Track your purchases every quarter. Determine which items you are using the most and restocking the most frequently. Use this information to refine your system in order to:Target which items are worth comparative-shopping at other retailers so you can save more money.
Reorganize which containers you are using for which items to better utilize space.
Stock up on ingredients that you will enjoy eating for years to come once the zombies cripple society.

