 So, to get the number of your crush, the only way to do it right is simply ask. If they're popular, they might be used to it. But the only way to get it is ask, however frightening it might be. So if you can't do that, it's best to abandon this article and go to one titled 'How to Get Your Crush's Number'. See Warnings for more information.;
, The first sentence of this step might be simple, and quite frankly it is simple. If a parent answers, say "May I Talk to (insert crush's name here)?" If they ask who you are, the safest answer is "A friend from school." If they still persist and ask questions, answer them as honestly and sweetly as possible. DO NOT hang up if they get annoying. This is the off switch for ever contacting a guy or girl.
 but don't leave it at that! If this is your first time calling, or even your second or third, that's a conversation stopper! Say, "Hey, (crush's name)! It's me, (your name)... remember, you gave me your number at school today." Usually this will start a conversation, but if it doesn't and he/she just says, "Oh... hey..." start a topic on something you know about them. "So... how did your basketball team do this week?" or "So, did you get that homework from Ms. L done? I still can't seem to figure out problem 5." Although talking about homework is only if the conversation is in real danger.
 I like calling people, I guess." and then laugh. Then, if they are silent, or just say "Oh." then reply, "So, what's up with you?" RED LIGHT! If THEY say "What's up with you?" do not reply, "Nothing." that can stop a conversation. If you really can't think of anything, then say "Nothing" but quickly counter with, "What's up with you?". But if they say nothing as well, that can lead to a real problem, so stop the problem before you start it and when they say "What's up?" say, "I'm alright, just finished working on 'painting my bedroom' before I called." that can start a conversation.
 if there is a holiday break coming up. Or, "Hey, do you have a (facebook, twitter, myspace, etc.) account?". Only ask this if you want to remain in contact with them AND if you have that same account that you ask them if they have.
 Wait until you guys are comfortable with each other on the phone and talk like friends. If that's the second phone call, fine. If that's the twenty-third phone call, also fine. Take as little or as much time as you need.
 if they say got to go, then ask them, "So, I'll talk to you tomorrow maybe?" their replies to these tell you if they want to talk. DON'T CALL if they sound like they'll be busy. And don't call every night. Maybe wait a space of two or three nights between calls unless they specifically tell you to call on a special day. But don't make your calling regular, like, 'Day One, Day Two, Day Three- Call! Day One, Day Two, Day Three- Call!'. Mix and match how much you call a bit.

