 Add 5 cups (1 l) of vegetable oil to a heavy-bottomed saucepan. Place a deep frying temperature in the pan, and heat the oil over medium heat until the temperature reaches 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). If you don’t have a deep frying temperature, a candy thermometer will also work to monitor the oil’s temperature.
If you don’t have a thermometer that can withstand high temperatures, toss a small cube of bread into the oil. The oil is hot enough if the bread browns in 3 minutes.
Be careful around the hot oil. It can bubble and splatter if it gets too hot.;
, Add 6 large, beaten egg whites to a medium bowl. Set a second medium bowl beside it, and fill it with 3 cups (270 g) of panko breadcrumbs.You can substitute regular bread crumbs for the panko if you prefer.
 For the fries, you’ll need 4 large carrots that have been peeled and cut into 3-inch (8-cm) long by ½-inch (13-mm) thick sticks. Coat the sticks with the egg whites and then dip them in the breadcrumbs until they are completely covered.After you dip the carrot sticks in the egg whites, make sure to allow the excess to drip back into the bowl.
Have a plate or cookie sheet lined with parchment paper ready so you place the carrot fries on it before you fry them.
 Once the fries are coated with the breadcrumbs, add them to the hot oil in batches. Allow the carrots to fry until they become a deep brown color, which should take 3 to 4 minutes.Use a wooden spoon to move the fries around as they’re frying to ensure that they cook evenly and don’t wind up stuck together.
 When the fries are finished frying, use a slotted spoons to carefully remove them from the oil. Place them on a plate that’s lined with paper towel to absorb the excess oil., To plate the carrot fries, transfer them to a platter. Add some salt and pepper to taste and serve.You can serve the carrot fries with your favorite fry dipping sauce, but because the carrots are sweet, you may prefer to serve them with a spicy or tart dip, such as a chipotle ketchup or lemon yogurt dip.

