 This is required in order to be able to download music videos from YouTube for offline viewing. These are the only types of videos you can save for offline viewing using this method. If you want to save a different type of YouTube video, use one of the following methods.You'll get a YouTube Music Key with a Google Play Music All Access subscriptions, which costs $10 USD per month.;
, Offline viewing is only available in the most recent versions of the YouTube app. Not all areas have access to offline viewing, as the feature is gradually rolling out. If this method doesn't work yet, try the method below for your specific operating system.
 To save a video, you'll need to be connected to a network first. Once the video has been saved for offline viewing, you'll be able to disconnect and watch it offline. If you do not have access to a Wi-Fi connection, you can use data connection if your device supports it.
 Open YouTube by tapping on its icon. It looks like a red rectangle with rounded corners with a white Play icon in the middle of it.
 YouTube has a search function that is accessed by tapping on the search button in the upper right corner of the main app screen. Type the name of the video in the text field that will appear, and then tap on the relevant search keyword that appears at the bottom of the text field.


You may also use the side panel, accessed by swiping inward from the left edge at the main app screen, to browse through your subscriptions if you wish to search that way. Tap “My subscriptions” in the left panel to browse the recent uploads by the channels you've subscribed to. You can also use the “History” in the side panel to look through your recently watched videos.
You can only save music videos using this method.
 The search will yield results displayed on the screen, whose titles and thumbnails you will see. Tap on the video you wish to save.
 At the lower right of the video stream window, you will see a downward pointing arrow icon. Tap this to select the quality that you want to save the video in. Higher quality will take longer to save.


If you don't see this button, YouTube does not support offline viewing in your region. You'll need to use one of the methods outlined above instead.
 After selecting the quality, tap the “OK” button at the lower right corner of the quality selection pop-up. You can also tap the “Remember my settings” box so that YouTube will download at the same selected quality every time. Another pop-up will come out telling you that the video is downloading and accessible through the “Offline” button in the side panel. Tap on Dismiss in the bottom of the pop-up box.


For the video to become available, you will have to wait until it is finished downloading. A notification will appear, telling you the progress of the video download. This information can also be found in the Offline menu on the YouTube app.
 When you’re out and without an Internet connection, launch the YouTube app and bring up the left side panel by swiping inward from the left edge on the app main screen. Tap the “Offline” button in the side panel, and then choose the video you saved. The video will then play straight from your phone's memory.

