 Say, for example, that you have a picture of an elephant in the desert. Your goal is to remove the background so that you can add a new one behind the elephant, but the quick selection tools keep erasing part of the elephant as well. Luckily, you have several other tools and techniques for difficult areas.
 The Lasso Tool just follows you mouse, making a full selection after you trace it back to the beginning. While this is difficult to use for larger images, it is a great way to get precise selections. Zoom in, then use Ctrl/Cmd-Click to add small sections or use Alt/Opt-Click to remove small sections, that the bulk tools like Quick Selection missed., This tool easily selects large swaths of similar colors, like grass, sky, or a wall. However, if the image you want to keep is similar in color to the background it will not work. To use it:


Click on "Select" from the top menu
Choose "Color Range"
Use the eye dropper to select what color you "want" chosen. You can find specific colors also by choosing them from the "Select Color" menu at the top., The pen tool is the easiest, most robust selection tool. As expected, however, it takes some time to learn. Simply click around the image to drop points, and the program will connect the dots. Click and hold the pen tool in the toolbox and select "Free Form Pen" for curved lines. When you've finished, right-click the line, and click Make Selection. This turns your line into a selection, which you can then copy out of the background.


If you mess up a point, simply Ctrl/Cmd-Click it to adjust it later on.
Alt/Opt-Click removes a point from the line.
Shift-Clicking draws a perfectly straight horizontal or vertical line from your last point., Layer masks are powerful tools that let you adjust the image, but still keep all the original image information. To use one:


Select the area you want to remove using the techniques above.
In the layer pallet, click "Add a Mask." It looks like a rectangle with a circle in it, and is near the bottom of the layer pallet.
Click on the black and white thumbnail that appears in the pallet. Now, use the Paintbrush or Pencil to fine tune the image by drawing over the layer mask. Any black marks you add "erase" the background. Draw over the mask in white to make the image "reappear."