 Choose a toothbrush with soft bristles to avoid injuring your gums. In most studies, other features of the toothbrush beside the do not make a major difference. Some studies and dentists recommend electric toothbrushes for certain types of patients, but an ordinary toothbrush is fine for most people.A manual toothbrush provides good protection against bacteria and a complete clean of teeth surfaces if it's used properly.


Round-tipped bristles may provide more protection for sensitive gums.;
, Pick a toothpaste with fluoride, which helps fight the bacteria that cause gum recession. If the label lists the RDA, a measurement of abrasiveness, pick a toothbrush with a low value. An RDA below 70 is considered gentle, but you'll wear down less of your teeth the lower you go.


Many labels do not display the RDA. Either look up the product's RDA online, or just stay away from whitening toothpastes, which tend to be the most abrasive.
Some studies suggest that toothpaste made from hydrogen peroxide and baking soda may damage your teeth if you use them daily and frequently.Also, toothpastes that have salt in them are abrasive for your enamel.
 Harsh brushing can do more harm than good. Place your toothbrush at a 45ยบ angle against the gum line, pressing only hard enough to touch the tips against your teeth, not the bristle sides. Brush with small, vertical motions followed by circular strokes, not side-to-side strokes making sure you brush the entire surface of each tooth.Bacteria can live on the tongue as well. Brush it for 30 seconds, or use a special tongue scraper., Research suggests that starting with a dry brush will lead to much healthier gums if the tip of the brush has been disinfected prior to using it. Otherwise, bacteria stuck in the bristles can harm your gums. Start on the inside lower teeth and brush until all your teeth feel clean., After dry brushing, rinse the brush and add a pea-sized dollop of toothpaste. Use the same technique to brush your teeth a second time.


Most dentists recommend you brush your teeth twice a day.
 Research shows that most people do not benefit from self-flossing, but do benefit if flossed by a dental professional.In other words, proper technique is everything. Floss once a day with the following method:Cut off a 45 cm (18 inch) section of floss and wind it around your middle fingers.
Hold a 2.5 to 5cm (1 to 2 inch) section between your forefingers and your thumbs.
Gently guide the floss between your teeth, rubbing up and down.
Bring the floss beneath the gumline, curving it to press against the tooth, not the gums. Keep moving until you feel resistance. Remember to floss two tooth surfaces at a time. This step is essential for removing the plaque that causes gum recession.
 You may want to ask your dentist for advice first, as the wrong mouthwash can cause more harm than good. Mouth wash containing Listerine, the prescription-only Chlorhexidine mouthwash, or (to a lesser extent) fluoride will remove some of the plaque that leads to gum recession.However, the high alcohol content in most mouthwash can cause dry mouth, burning sensations, or even mouth ulcers, which may cause intense pain and you may not want to brush your teeth or eat for a while. Stained teeth and altered taste sensations are common as well when you overuse chlorhexidine mouthwash.To take most mouthwashes, swish liquid in mouth for thirty seconds and spit out. Do not rinse, eat, or smoke for thirty minutes afterward, for maximum effect.

