 You'll want to purchase jeans that have adjustable waistbands, or leggings. Jeans with a bootleg are both flattering and stylish, and there are also maternity skinny jeans that are stretchy and comfortable.For pregnancies in the summer, a pair of cargo pants is another option that may be more appropriate in some climates.;
, Maternity clothes are meant to flatter a pregnant woman's body and be comfortable at the same time.Avoid wearing baggy shirts with tons of fabric, and stick with more flowing ones that accentuate your figure.Try to find ones with a fitted bodice or an empire cut, that emphasize your shape.
 Similar to shirts, dresses with a fitted bodice or an empire cut definitely flatter a pregnant woman's figure. Don't lose your personal style just because you're pregnant. If you normally wear tops with fun prints and vibrant colors, do the same during your pregnancy!

, When you're pregnant, your feet may swell, so it's important to buy new, comfortable shoes that fit your feet. Your feet may go back to their normal size after pregnancy, so don't purchase expensive shoes, because you may only be wearing them for a few months during your pregnancy. You can buy cheap flats and sandals that are also super cute at stores like Payless, but make sure they are also supportive.Slip-ons are perfect for when it becomes hard to bend over.Put insoles in any shoes that don't give you the proper support.Avoid wearing high heels during pregnancy, as it could lead to pain and a potential slip and fall.
 You'll want to feel comfortable while you're pregnant, and this means being comfortable with what you're wearing. Add maternity pieces to your wardrobe that show off your personal style, not ones that change it.Don’t feel like you have to dress in dreary black to look smaller. Let your wardrobe mirror this happy time in your life with colors that accentuate the glow of your skin.
 Gone are the days when maternity clothes had wild polka dots and other patterns meant to camouflage a woman’s growing figure. If you normally wear solids, then you should stick to your personal style. However, if you are someone who loves floral patterns, pair some bold-print tunics with leggings.
 These types of shirts and dresses accentuate your figure, whether you're pregnant or not. It's the perfect piece to keep you looking feminine and stylish throughout your pregnancy.Show off your fun side, and try wearing a wrap top in bold colors or prints.
 This is a flattering option that doesn’t leave you looking shapeless. The empire waist wraps around your upper midriff emphasizing your cleavage. Furthermore, you might even be able to keep wearing these dresses after the baby is born.
 Show off your new figure with a dress that hugs your curves. It's best to wear dark colors in these types of dresses.Try a black cotton dress that accentuates your curves, topped with a few simple accessories.
 Now's the time to show off your bust by wearing low-cut shirts and V-neck sweaters.V-neck shirts show off a pregnant woman's figure, and look especially flattering on them. This is optional, of course, if you prefer to dress more modestly.
 Chunky necklaces and bracelets or a big bag (that might double as a trendy diaper bag) can really make a fashion statement, and they are things you can continue to wear post-pregnancy. Don't forget cool scarves to keep you looking on point., No matter what outfit you choose, the fabric needs to be breathable so you don't get overheated. This will prevent sweating, and in turn, prevent a heat rash from developing on your skin.Some breathable fabrics include cotton, linen and wool.
 You can wear solid shorts or capris in fun colors like pink, green, or blue, or neutrals. To match, wear a short-sleeved shirt with an empire waist and a fun print. The shorts and capris you choose should be stretchy, and come with a maternity waist.


Pregnant women are prone to becoming overheated due to increased blood in their body.Especially in the later months of your pregnancy, you may feel hotter than you normally do, so it’s better to wear cool clothes and layer them with fashionable sweaters or jackets.
 Maxi dresses are the perfect feminine outfit to wear anywhere. The flowing cut of a maxi-dress is comfortable, stylish and will keep you cool. Maxi dresses come in all kinds of stylish prints and solids, so take your pick!

, Choose a basic color that you can mix and match with several tops, and is professional enough to wear to work with a blazer. A pencil skirt that goes down to your knees is very professional-looking, and can also be super comfortable if it's made of stretchy fabric. Wearing shorter skirts will also keep you cool when you want to avoid getting too hot.

