 Preferably the same number of people on each team. Choose a team to go first.;
, Each person writes the name of one famous person on each of their paper pieces. The famous person can be anyone alive or dead, celebrity, scientist, historical figure, fictional character, political figure, author, etc. Fold paper in half.



ROUND ONE: Team One picks a player to go first. Player #**1 draws a celebrity from the container and has one minute to try to get their team members to guess who the celebrity is by giving clues according to the following ROUND ONE RULE: Player can use any words to describe the celebrity BUT cannot say the celebrity's name in any form. Player can also give other clues about the celebrity (without having to mimic) but once again, cannot say the celebrity's name in any form.








For example, if the celebrity I selected was Jello Biafra, I could either sing a Dead Kennedys song, or I could say "my first name sounds like a dessert treat".


Once the team has guessed it (preferably before the minute is up) the Player #1 keeps the paper for tallying later and can now pick another paper and give clues for that celebrity. No passing is allowed. Player must continue to give clues and remain on the celebrity chosen until the Team guesses it or time expires. If, by mistake the Player accidentally says the celebrity's name, the Team forfeits and play goes to the other Team.


ROUND ONE: Team Two picks a player to go first and follows the same rules as above in step 4. That player gets a full minute to get through as many celebrity names as they can.
ROUND ONE: Continue to go back and forth between Team One and Team Two with new team members each time until all names have been used up from the container. ROUND ONE ends when all celebrity names have been used up. Both Teams should tally the total number of celebrity names they have and write them down on a sheet of paper.



ROUND TWO: Begins wherever ROUND ONE left off in terms of the Team and the next Player. ROUND TWO RULE: Players get one minute to give clues for the celebrity name they draw, however, clues must be ONE WORD ONLY, there is no body gesturing or facial clues allowed.

For example, if I want to describe Cher, I could say Sonny.
The key to this round is choosing the one best word to say to help your team members figure out who you are trying to describe. Success in this round is also about paying attention in ROUND ONE. If you can remember who all of the celebrities were in ROUND ONE this will help you guess successfully in ROUND TWO. Players can continue to choose names as they get their teams to guess successfully, and as long as they continue to have time left on the timer.


ROUND TWO: Play continues back and forth between Teams as in Step 6 above. ROUND TWO ends when all celebrity names are used up. Both Teams should tally the total number of celebrity names they have and write them down on a sheet of paper.



ROUND THREE: Begins wherever ROUND TWO left off in terms of the Team and the next Player. ROUND THREE RULE: No words or sounds are allowed to be spoken at all. Players can only mimic and gesture to give clues. Play continues back and forth until all celebrity names are chosen. Both Teams should tally the total number of celebrity names they have and write them down on a sheet of paper at the end of ROUND THREE.



THE WINNING TEAM: will have the highest number on their tally list

