 Monitor the number of people who are entering the raffle each day. If registration for the raffle is low, you know you have to do more promotion in order to raise the number of people entering., As the raffle goes on, evaluate the metrics of your Facebook page, sales, or whatever goal you initially set out on accomplishing for the raffle. If you see a big boost in these numbers, the raffle is achieving your goal. If you see little to no change in the things you wanted to promote, you know your raffle isn't working as intended., Popular vloggers, bloggers, or social media accounts will have a large audience that regularly listens to them. First, reach out to your partners to see if they can promote your page. Then, reach out to internet personalities who you know have used your products in the past and ask them if they can help promote your raffle.You may have to set up a payment arrangement to some influencers.
 Facebook advertisements are also another great way to promote your raffle. Go to your page and scroll down to the raffle posting. On the bottom of the post, there should be a button that says "Boost Post." Click the button and fill out the information for your target demographic to launch your advertising campaign.

You can later click "Ads Manager" on the left-side of your homepage to track the success of your ad.The more money you spend on the post, the greater the engagement will be.
 Most raffle apps will have an automated function that will choose a winner for you. Email is the most effective way to reach someone and will create a record of correspondence with the winner if there's a problem or conflict that occurs. Include the way that the winner will redeem their prize. Typically this requires you getting their mailing address or sending them a link that allows them to redeem it., Once the raffle is completed, create a post announcing the winner. Contact the winner of the raffle and ask if you can get a photograph of them with their prize. This will notify other entrants that the raffle is over and can be used as additional promotion for your company.If customers see a happy raffle winner, they will be more likely to partake in future raffles and promotions.

