 Most people swear quite often. Even though it is deemed inappropriate in polite society, swearing can make people feel empowered and provide a needed catharsis.If someone is swearing at you or someone else, you should rightly be offended. If someone is swearing for emphasis, or swearing to express general frustration with a certain experience, there is usually no reason to be upset. Sometimes, in a moment of anger, people utilize cuss words. Whatever the case, try to empathize with the person’s situation and learn to accept non-aggressive swearing as a normal part of human speech., Tourette’s syndrome (TS) is a neurological disorder whose symptoms include involuntary movements and vocalizations (tics).Some people vocalize by spitting out curse words at irregular intervals. If you hear someone cursing who also demonstrates evidence TS, you can safely conclude that their foul language is connected to their condition. In this case, it is important to understand that their cursing is involuntary and not brought on by any immediate cause.


Other symptoms of TS include grimacing, touching a certain part of the face, sniffing deeply, shrugging, or blinking hard. These movements are often repeated again and again, but could occur in isolation.
About 100,000 people in the US have TS.
 In many cities around the country, swearing in public is actually a violation of the law.If you hear someone cursing in public, call your local police department’s non-emergency number or get the attention of a police officer to let them know about the foul language being spewed in public.

Usually there will be a ticket and a fine for the individual who was cursing. The amount of the fine varies by locality, but some can range up to $500.
 The FCC is the government agency tasked with keeping various communications mediums free of profanity. If you hear a talk show host using inappropriate language, or are subjected to profanity over the phone, you can file a complaint with the FCC.You can submit your complaint by mail, email, fax, or phone. All you need to file the complaint is the call sign of the station or name of the individual, the city and state where the phone call or broadcast originated, and the date and time of the offending broadcast or phone call.


The quickest way to file a complaint is to visit https://consumercomplaints.fcc.gov/hc/en-us and click on “File Complaint” under either TV or radio.
You do not need to provide a recording or transcript of the program or call.However, you can send one, though it will not be returned.