 Some nightstands have unique features like docking stations to charge your phone and outlets to power your electronic equipment. Other, more traditional nightstands don't have any of these features and just serve as a flat table or drawer. Determine whether your nightstand will just act as a table, or will serve a more functional purpose in your room.If you just need a nightstand to put your wallet, keys, or alarm clock, consider getting a simple nightstand with no drawers or additional features.;
, There are a variety of reasons to have a nightstand, but it's important to know what it will eventually come to hold. Large lamps may not fit on smaller nightstands, and heavier objects will need a sturdy nightstand to sit on. If you don't plan on putting much weight on your nightstand, and you intend to use it to hold your keys, cell phone, books, or wallet, then you can consider getting a lighter weight nightstand. Also, consider whether you'll be putting hot or cold beverages on your nightstand because they can create water rings or heat stains on the wood's surface.If you have hot or cold beverages often, consider getting a glass or metal alloy nightstand.
 Some nightstands have shelves while others have drawers. Determine how much storage you have in your room already and if you require more space to put things. If you do, you may want to invest in a nightstand that has bigger drawers and more storage space. If you don't need much storage, however, then your nightstand can be more simple and doesn't need to have drawers.Take a look at your room and see if you have things on the floor, or boxes piled up. If you do, it may be a sign you could use the extra storage.
If you don't have a bookshelf but read regularly, consider getting a nightstand with a drawer.
 Choose a nightstand that has colors that will compliment the room that you're putting it in. Pick a color that will either compliment or contrast the colors of the other furniture in your room. You can do this by getting a nightstand that matches the color of your sheets or headboard. If you are trying to contrast colors, choose complementary colors, or colors that sit opposite of each other on the color wheel.For instance, if you have sleek white furniture, you could go for a sleek white nightstand so that it blends in and matches the rest of your room.
If your room is mostly black, you can get a white nightstand to complement the darker tones.
If you have a plain and dull room, you can try to brighten your space with a brightly colored nightstand.
 There are rustic wood nightstands, sleek metal or glass nightstands, and contemporary style nightstands. You can either find a nightstand that matches and blends with your current furniture, or a nightstand that intentionally stands out as a unique and eye-grabbing piece of your room.If you are getting two nightstands for both sides of the bed, make sure that they match.Contemporary nightstands use smooth, clean lines and usually have a sleek finish.Nightstands can be made of wood, metal alloys, glass, or stone.
 Scenarios at home will determine how durable your nightstand has to be. For instance, if you have pets or small children, there's a greater chance of your nightstand getting bumped, scuffed, or scratched. In this case, you may want to purchase a brass or glass nightstand that is more resistant to scratches. If there isn't a high likelihood it will be damaged, you can choose a fine wood or a material that is more fragile.
 Your nightstand should look like it naturally flows with the room and belongs with other pieces of furniture. You can achieve this look by getting a nightstand that matches with other pieces of furniture in your room, like your bed frame or wardrobe. Take a look at the style of your nightstand and the style of your room and make sure that they don't clash.


For instance, if you have rustic wood furniture, a metal alloy nightstand may stick out and look tacky.
If you decorate with light and bright colors, make sure that your nightstand matches the rest of your furniture and is also bright.
If you have a black and white room, getting a pastel colored nightstand may make it stand out.
 Nightstands will differ in cost depending on the material they are made of and based on their manufacturer. Browse different nightstands and narrow down your choices to ones that you can afford. If you can't afford the type or style of the nightstand that you want, try to find an alternative made of a cheaper material.


For instance, if you can't afford a mahogany nightstand, consider downgrading to a birch and apply a darker finish on it.Average nightstands can cost anywhere from $50 to over $200., Use a tape measure to make sure that the nightstand you want to get isn't too big or too small for its intended space. Measure the width and length of the space that you plan on putting your nightstand in. Once you get your measurements, compare them with the dimensions for the nightstand that you want to get.


Leaving at least two to three inches of space around your nightstand will allow you to move around and access drawers easily.
 In addition to measuring the area that it will take up, measure the height from the top of your mattress to the bottom of the floor. You'll want to make sure that you get a nightstand that is tall enough so that you can quickly grab things on it while laying in bed.Take this measurement and compare it to the height of the nightstands that you are looking at.
 Before you purchase your nightstand, you'll want to make sure that the dimensions allow you to put it in it's intended space. You can do this by using a tape measure to measure the width of your door frames and halls and comparing it to the dimensions of the nightstand.


Sometimes you can tilt the nightstand and fit it through tight spaces.
Get help from someone else when lifting heavy furniture.

