


Use 2.5 to 3 cups of water to 1 cup of amaranth.
Simmer it in a covered pan for approximately 20 minutes.
All the water should absorb and the grains should be fluffy when finished.
You can also toast the amaranth in butter and add some of it into a rice pilaf with rice and other grains.;
, Amaranth works well because the texture and size are not far off from these pastas or grains. You will want to use slightly less water to cook the amaranth to help it retain its structure.


Make whole grain rolls with amaranth. Amaranth is a nice addition to whole grain breads. It can either be used whole or as flour.

Using it whole, it will add texture and nuttiness to the bread.
If using the flour, you can substitute 5% to 30% of the regular flour with amaranth flour, and the only other change you need to make to the recipe would be a slight increase in water.
It also works well as gluten free flour. When making gluten free rolls, you will need to substitute all the regular flour for amaranth flour, increase the water and add xanthan gum and a starch to help the bread bake correctly.



Amaranth can be simmered in juice for a sweet flavor.
Add nuts, spices and fruit for a healthy and sweet breakfast.
 Amaranth flour can be added to thicken up soups or cooked amaranth can be added for flavor and texture.
 This is just like rice pudding. You can follow a rice pudding recipe and just substitute the amaranth for rice.



Amaranth seeds add a nice crunch to cookies.
The flour can also be used to make gluten free cookies. You only need to substitute the amaranth flour for regular flour when making a gluten free cookie. This will affect the flavor and give a slightly dryer cookie. To help counter these effects, try adding applesauce to your cookie recipe. The applesauce will add some flavor and retain moisture.
 By substituting no more than 30% of the flour with amaranth you can still follow most recipes, with the exception being the amount of water. You may need more water when using amaranth flour because it absorbs more liquid than regular flour.
 Going gluten free in baking requires more changes to recipes because you need a way to build air structure in bread without gluten. The way this is overcome is by using xanthan gum and a starch. When making cookies or baked goods that don’t require much air cell structure, you may be able to substitute 100% of the flour.
 You can toast the seeds before you use it or just add them raw to many bread and cookie recipes. Toasted amaranth seeds go well in items like biscotti because they add flavor and crunch.
 Amaranth will pop easily and creates nice “puffs” that can be eaten alone or added to a snack mix.


To pop the amaranth, add 1 to 2 tablespoons of amaranth to a very hot skillet.
Stir the seeds continuously until they pop and while they are popping.
Once most of the seeds have popped, quickly remove them from the pan to avoid burning them.
Try drizzling honey and cinnamon on popped amaranth for a sweet snack.
 This will boost the nutritional value of the smoothie while giving it a thicker texture and nutty flavor.
