 You can also find them at big box stores like Walmart or Target. Choose a fairly sturdy headband.


If you can't find a pink headband, you can create one yourself. Buy one in another color, or use one you have around the house. Paint it pink. You can also wrap it in pink ribbon, using a glue gun to secure the ribbon.
To wrap the headband, start by gluing the ribbon to one end. Add glue to one side of the ribbon, only going a few inches at a time. Begin wrapping the ribbon along the headband, overlapping slightly as you go. Keep adding glue and wrapping until you reach the other end. Cut off the extra ribbon, and glue the tail in place.;
, When cutting them, fold the felt in half to cut the ears. The bottom of the ears is where the fabric folds and makes a line.Measure 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) along the fold.
Cut a curved line up from one side of the fold. Curve it out and then back in, making it about 4 to 5 inches high. You'll be making a point for the top of the ear.
Move to the other side, and mimic the line you just cut, ending in a point.
If you want, you can also cut a single-layer inner ear out of white felt. Make it the same shape as the bigger ear, but smaller, so it fits inside the boundaries of the outer ear.
 Lay the headband in the fold of each ear. Fold each ear up over the headband so it matches. Rearrange it so the ears are just to the left and right of the center. You'll need a gap that is an inch or two wide in the middle between the ears. Unfold them so you can add glue., That is, where the ears are going to fold up, add glue to the bottom of the headband. Press the inside fold into the glue on the headband. The ears should be held in place, but not glued together at this point.You can also add a piece of sturdy cardboard or plastic to the inside for extra support.Cut out a piece that is slightly smaller than the large ear, and glue it inside the big ear on the inside of the back piece. Leave room around the edges for glue.
 Add glue to the inside of each piece of fabric, and fold them closed.Essentially, you're turning the double piece of fabric into one ear on each side.
 Arrange the piece in the middle of the ear, and then pick it up to glue it in place.
 You can use a larger cup if you are making an adult costume. Cut down from the top until you are an inch or so from the bottom. Turn the scissors to cut around the cup, leaving you with a smaller cup.Alternatively, you can use a toilet paper roll, cut down to an inch or two in height.You can also use a clean, large plastic bottle cap. Paint the cap pink., Add a line of glue across the inside middle of the cup or cap, including going up the sides. Press the elastic across the line, being careful not to get your fingers in the hot glue. You can use a pencil to help press it down. The elastic should be long enough that you can measure it on the person and tie it off later.If you're using a toilet paper roll, cut two pieces of elastic to glue to the insides of the roll. Add a line up one side of the toilet paper roll, inside. Press the elastic along the line. Repeat on the other side.You can also add a ribbon instead of elastic, using the same gluing technique. Just make it long enough to tie., Make it large enough to cover the entire outside of the cup or toilet paper roll and the inside edge, as you will be folding it over at the top.Skip this step for the bottle cap.
 If you're using a toilet paper roll or bottle cap, skip this step. , If it is not laying flat, you can cut wedges out of the circle, like cutting a piece of pie. Then fit the edges together as you glue. Cut a space for the elastic to go through on both sides.Skip this step if you painted a bottle cap.
 Overlap the fabric, being sure to leave space for the elastic to come out., Cut and glue two small black ovals to the front to complete the snout. They should sit vertically rather than horizontally.You can cut out holes instead of adding ovals.You can also add a small button to complete the snout instead of ovals. Pink or black would be the most appropriate. Glue it in the middle., Cut the elastic or ribbon shorter as needed. Tie the elastic in a knot, as it will slip on easily later because it stretches. Leave the ribbon undone until you want to put the costume on the person.
 Cut a spiral shape out of the fabric, starting with a flat piece on one end and ending in a point. You're essentially cutting out two pieces at once so they match., Sew down either side of the fleece pieces to sew them together. Leave the flat piece at the end open., You're placing the edges of the seams on the inside so the tail looks better. You can use a pencil to help.. Some crafters use hemostats for this purpose, by pushing them inside, grabbing the other end of the tail, and then working the fabric over the hemostats.
 Tuck the flat end into the tail, and sew it together., Add matching tights or pants. Don't be afraid to add a little pizzazz, such as striped white and pink pants.
 You can also use pale pink. Make it large, but keep it small enough to fit inside the boundaries of the front of the shirt., Use fabric glue to add the oval to the center of the shirt. You can also sew this piece on.If you want to add some stuffing to your costume, only add glue around the edges. Leave a couple of inches open on one side. Let the glue dry. Stuff the belly. Glue or sew the edge in place., Stitch it to the bottom.
 Find some black, brown, or gray shoes to complete the outfit.

