 One of the best ways to help your dietitian recommend changes in your diet is by describing what you usually eat. This will give them information they can use to advise changes, including specific additions you need to make to improve your diet.Your dietitian will be able to recommend specific additions to your diet, as well as ways of eating foods you like in a healthier way.
 One important topic to discuss with a dietitian is any eating preferences you have. For instance, if you don’t eat meat, other forms of protein become especially important.Your dietitian will help you identify high quality non-meat proteins. When selecting meat substitutes such as soy-based foods, be sure to choose options that are not too high in potassium, sodium, or phosphorus.
 While specific nutritional drinks for those undergoing dialysis can be helpful, only rely on these as a significant component of your diet under the guidance of a dietitian. Meanwhile, protein bars can be helpful meal replacements, but should not make up the majority of your diet.If you are on dialysis and selecting protein bars, choose those that have more than 15 grams of protein but less than 150 mg phosphorus and under 200 mg of both potassium and sodium.
 Depending on your overall health and nutrition, you may need to take nutritional supplements. The need to do so, as well as the type of supplement you should take, will vary depending on your diet and health. As such, follow the guidance of your dietitian in particular.Simply ask something like, “Is there any specific nutritional supplement I should be taking considering my current nutritional levels?”

, Many of the questions your dietitian will ask you are meant to help them identify potential barriers that may be preventing you from getting adequate nutrition. More to the point, your dietitian will recommend different courses of action based on the specific reasons you may not be getting enough protein., Maintaining a healthy diet requires a bit of planning, especially if you are receiving dialysis treatment or have other health complications. Even a very simple food plan can help you ensure you’re eating enough of what you need.Aside from specific hints about what and how to eat, ask for advice regarding how to maintain healthier dietary behavior.
At a minimum, develop and maintain a food plan to help make sure you eat protein with every meal.
 With the guidance of a dietitian, you may need to increase your caloric intake to help your body use the extra protein you’re eating. Your dietitian might even recommend using more butter while cooking, or putting more dressing on your salads.Many dairy products, including milk, contain too much potassium and phosphorus for those on dialysis who have low albumin. As such, these are not recommended sources of fats.

