 When ants eat or come into contact with permethrin, their nervous system is paralyzed and the pests die. Permethrin comes in several forms: concentrated liquid, dust, powder, and aerosol. Before applying permethrin to any potted plant, read the product instructions carefully. If administered improperly, this insecticide can cause harm to humans.


Use the concentrated liquid form on your potted plants. Follow the product instructions to make an effective permethrin solution and apply as instructed.If you, a family member, or pet are sprayed with and ingest permethrin, call a doctor or vet immediately.;
, Ants are drawn to the bait, which contains slow-acting insecticides, by sugars, oils, and proteins. Worker ants bring the poisonous food back to the colony and pass the harmful item directly to the mouths of other worker ants, larvae, and queens. As the poisonous bait is passed from ant to ant or ant to larvae, the colony slowly dwindles.


You can purchase ant bait in stick form and insert it directly into the infested potted plant.
You may also use a reusable bait station. Since this trap is refillable, this method is ideal to eradicate a substantial infestation. Fill the reusable bait station with the insecticide of your choice. Close the station and set it near the base of the plant. Check the bait station frequently so that you can empty and or refill it as needed.Baits are considered the safest form of insecticide. Before using ant baits, however, always read the label to ensure that it is safe to use around children and pets.Purchase baits that include one of the following active ingredients: hydramethylnon, fipronil, boric acid, or avermectin B.
Do not purchase baits that contain cyfluthrin or permethrin. These fast-attacking insecticides will kill the worker ant before it can reach the colony., DE is an organic, mineral-based insecticide. Using an applicator bulb is the safest way to apply diatomaceous earth. Use an applicator bulb to distribute this chalk-like substance around the base and on the soil of the infested potted plant. Within approximately 30 minutes of coming into contact with DE, the ants on the plant will die.


This product is less effective when wet. Reapply this product after watering, rain, or heavy dew.Do not inhale this product.
Store the remaining product inside a sealed bag to limit your exposure to the product., Spray this solution on the plant’s foliage.Remove ants from your plant's foliage by spraying it with water from a hose.